Community financial assistance with respect to the decommissioning of Units 1 to 4 of the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant in Bulgaria - 'Kozloduy Programme' (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Harms, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a Council Regulation on Community financial assistance with respect to the decommissioning of Units 1 to 4 of the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant in Bulgaria - 'Kozloduy Programme' - C7-0289/2009 - 2009/0172(NLE)).
In tomorrow's vote, we will be deciding on further solidarity contributions amounting to some EUR 300 million.
I propose that the money which is no longer directly being spent on decommissioning and waste management, that is, waste strategies for temporary storage, in Kozloduy, and we are talking about some EUR 120 million, at least be partly invested in the planning and preparation of the final disposal solution for highly radioactive waste in Bulgaria.
For the rest, I am pleased that this report will usher in a lively political debate, as it were, with Commissioner Oettinger about the final disposal of nuclear waste in general and one that will hopefully move things forward.
This evening, it concerns extending the financial assistance provided by the EU for decommissioning the reactor units at the Kozloduy power plant in Bulgaria.
As a result, I very much welcome the constructive working atmosphere and I would like to thank you for that.
The subject has been discussed with Mrs Harms, the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and the relevant committees in a very businesslike manner.
Firstly, I would like to mention your support for providing initial financing of EUR 300 million from the European budget, in line with EU interests, and therefore for maintaining safety levels in the nuclear industry.
Secondly, I would like to add that the additional aid should be directed at decommissioning and that the amount required, which at present is EUR 180 million, is reasonable.
I would like to explain the Commission's view on two subjects which are very important to us and which are addressed directly in the report, both in the amendments and in Mrs Harms' explanatory statement.
These include, on the one hand, equal treatment with Lithuania and Slovakia, where corresponding measures funded by the EU will be under way until 2013 and, on the other, other measures to create replacement capacity, including further investments in energy efficiency.
The Commission welcomes the fact that it has Parliament's agreement to support Bulgaria over the next four years with the sum of EUR 300 million.
In addition, we are pleased that Parliament believes that projects in the energy sector deserve our support.
I see the agreement on further financing and its implementation as a sign of the European Union's solidarity with Bulgaria and as an important contribution to nuclear safety in Europe and beyond.
Thank you for your attention.
I am extremely pleased to see that the line which I defended in my draft report has been presented in the final text and that the European Parliament can now give a clear go-ahead to extending financial assistance from the Community for decommissioning Units 1-4 of the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant.
Bulgaria has shown a conscientious attitude in its use of the funds for decommissioning the plant by 2009.
However, we must bear in mind the ultimate objectives of this programme, namely, guaranteed safe decommissioning and fair compensation for Bulgaria, support for the efforts made towards devising a more sustainable energy policy and a demonstration of transparency when managing projects and resources.
I would also like to assure you, Mrs Harms, that Bulgaria does not intend to use these funds for further development of heating plants powered by lignite.
I also wish to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Harms, for the efforts she has invested in discussing this document to ensure that it contains topics which are very important to Europe's citizens.
This decision being tabled today will enable the European Union to put its approach to Bulgaria on the same footing as the approach adopted for two other countries, new European Union Member States, which have assumed and are fulfilling the same commitments.
It is very important to adhere to the same approach because it is our duty to maintain the coherence of the European Union's policy.
The first matter concerns the fate of the waste from the spent nuclear fuel and irradiated elements.
The European Court of Auditors will carry out an audit very soon of these funds, including those in Bulgaria.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, as rapporteur on investments in energy infrastructure and shadow rapporteur on security of gas supply, I am very sensitive to issues of energy security.
This is why I fully support this proposal and our commitment to allocate an additional EUR 300 million to this project.
So far, the Commission has been quite dissatisfied with the information on decommissioning received from Bulgaria.
Mr President, we must bear in mind in today's debate that, over the last ten years, the European Union gave Bulgaria EUR 550 million to close the four units in the Kozloduy complex.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, I fought hard to prevent the premature closure of Units 3 and 4 of Kozloduy.
The effect, as predicted, has been increased use of environmentally unfriendly lignite-fuelled power stations, an increase in electricity prices and a cut in Bulgaria's electricity exports: in other words, both economic and environmental damage.
It is also important to address the issue of compensating for and replacing lost energy capacity.
I take the view that Article 30 of the Accession Treaty is a framework which must not be breached, as legal consultations with the people from the European Commission have demonstrated.
Even if this Accession Treaty or arrangement was used up in 2009, a new arrangement must carry on in the spirit of continuity which is set out in Article 30. (BG) Mr President, we are discussing here this evening the compensation which Bulgaria should receive for closing the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant.
At this point, I would like to address Mr Tremopoulos, who, if I may say, is hardly in a position to speak like this, because it is precisely his country which has just recently received a much bigger amount than Bulgaria is claiming at the moment, due to its blackmail.
Indeed, the problem they have is that they have contributed to the rise in carbon dioxide emissions with the closure of the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant.
There is also an amendment which states that Kozloduy should serve as an example.
The truth is, Mr Stoyanov, that you are hovering on the edge of the improper, the inappropriate, in terms of parliamentary language.
I think that Bulgaria is fully entitled to receive the money it was promised for dismantling this nuclear power plant.
However, I firmly believe that every country is entitled to build nuclear power plants, except that I think that we in the European Union have a collective responsibility and a sense of solidarity with regard to the technologies chosen in the construction of these nuclear power plants.
I agree with the document under discussion and the proposal that EUR 300 million in aid should be granted to Bulgaria for the decommissioning of Units 1 to 4 of the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant over a period of 3 years, while of course strengthening monitoring of how the funds received are spent.
It could be said that this is a show of equal solidarity, as other new Member States - Lithuania and Slovakia - are in a similar situation and have received such financial support.
Units 1 to 4 of the nuclear power plant have been out of operation for some time and it is logical that they should be decommissioned.
It has a significant effect on security of supply in the region and must lead to an increase in CO2 emissions, which should be important, at least to some Members in this Chamber.
It also creates the impression of discrimination against nuclear energy by Parliament, which goes against the principle giving Member States complete freedom in their choice of sources of energy. (RO) The way in which the issue of closing down and then decommissioning the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant will be resolved is not relevant, except in terms of the way Bulgaria itself resolves this issue.
However, as has already been said in this Chamber, the decommissioning process also affects neighbouring countries and may provide a precedent for other countries with similar units approaching the end of their maximum operational life.
There are strict requirements in force in the European Union regulating decommissioning and the carrying out of safety works, and the financial and economic crisis is making it difficult for those Member States decommissioning nuclear power plants to carry out decommissioning and fuel disposal work appropriately and on time.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that the Commission very much welcomes the overall positive approach of the report and the fact that Parliament agrees with the Commission that Bulgaria should receive further support amounting to EUR 300 million up until 2013.
The Commission is also pleased that we can continue to focus on providing support for safe dismantling measures and that Parliament believes that projects in the energy sector deserve our support.
I would like to thank you once again for your work and also Mrs Harms for this report.
Secondly, I would like to point out once again that none of these countries and no other countries in Western Europe or elsewhere in the world have yet found a reliable solution to the problem of the final storage of highly radioactive waste.
This is a task which still faces us, although many countries have now invested billions in this area and have been looking for a reliable solution for 30 years.
Thank you for your attention.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 20 May, at 12.00.
During the accession negotiations in 2005, Bulgaria agreed to shut down reactor units 1-4 at the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant and then to decommission them.
The regulation proposed by the Commission guarantees fair treatment for Bulgaria by granting it financial assistance until 2013 for decommissioning its nuclear power plants, which were measures stipulated by the accession treaties.
