President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) The opinion of the Council on the development of the rule of law in Serbia is presented in the Council conclusions of 14 December 2010.
Please note that the so-called accession criteria laid down in 1993 by the European Council in Copenhagen are decisive considerations with regard to the position of the Council on any enlargements and stabilisation and association agreements.
My colleague has already asked whether the Council can envisage, in this specific case in particular, contacting the government and those responsible on the ground once again.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Mr President, of course, as you have mentioned the broader context and the spirit in which the Council approaches similar issues, what I can tell you is that Serbia's accession is in progress, since it has submitted its accession application, and I believe that we have now entered into a new phase, as Serbia has replied to the questionnaire presented by the European Commission.
These replies were submitted on 31 January.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Small and medium-sized enterprises are vital actors in the European economy.
I would like to remind you that the European Council also took very important decisions with regard to innovation on 4 February.
It is extremely important that we do everything to deal with this problem, because it causes great difficulty for people who are going into this kind of industry. (LT) Mr President, back in 2008, the Council approved the allocation of a EUR 15 billion package from the European Investment Bank, which was supposed to be the main instrument for saving small and medium-sized enterprises during the crisis.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) I would like to answer the question of Mr Georgios Papanikolaou concerning water resources.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there will also be conferences and events on the subject of water during the term of the Hungarian Presidency, such as the conference on the future of European freshwater resources, which will be held between 23 and 25 March in Budapest, in conjunction with the informal meeting of ministers for the environment.
I would add that, in 2007, the Commission noted in its communication entitled 'Addressing the challenge of water scarcity and droughts in the European Union' that it considered that the European Union could provide funds to help create additional water supply infrastructures.
The question is therefore clear: do you intend and are you favourably disposed towards the idea of promoting a debate on direct Community support for water supply schemes in remote areas? (RO) Given that on 3 February Hungary and Romania were appointed Priority Area Coordinators for environmental protection in the Danube region, specifically for restoring and maintaining water quality, I would like to ask you when these coordinators are going to implement this priority action, because this will enable us to guarantee the quality of drinking water.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Thank you very much for the questions, and the questions, too, indicate that this is a very important subject for the European Union, and I believe that we do not spend anywhere near as much time discussing these issues as they deserve.
I believe that this is very important to the people living there, and it is just as important in Southern Italy or Barcelona - we may all remember that there was such a shortage of drinking water in Barcelona that fresh water needed to be transported there by tankers -, and therefore, these all demonstrate that it is vital for us to address these issues.
There are 13 action plans, and as regards the questions you raised here concerning both the drinking water base and sewage treatment, there are so-called action plans for the issues of all kinds of floods and droughts, and each of these is led by two countries.
We did give the process the initial push at the General Affairs Council on 31 June and are intently monitoring how the work is coming along.
Subject: Participation by disabled persons and their representative organisations in decision-making affecting disabled persons The European Disability Strategy 2010-2020, published by the Commission, will affect the lives of 80 million disabled people in the EU.
The Hungarian Presidency intends to submit draft conclusions to the Council in connection with this strategy, with a view to adopting it in the final stage of the Hungarian Presidency in June.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Thank you very much for the supplementary questions.
That is right, but I am going to allow Mr Chountis a supplementary on this question. (EL) Mr President, I do not want the question I tabled to be debated.
