In the case of the present regulation we are discussing based on Article 291 of the Treaty, we are speaking about implementing acts.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, this morning we heard a very good debate on the citizens' initiative and tonight we are discussing the very important topic of comitology.
In addition there are 299 acts which were previously aligned to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, which will now have to be reviewed in the light of the provisions of the Treaty on delegated acts.
If the new comitology regulation is approved today by the European Parliament it will enter into force very soon, already on 1 March 2011, and this is indeed very good news.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Development. - Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Szájer, for his efforts and for his report.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development. - Mr President, I worry that rejecting the inclusion of delegated acts in financial instruments might set a dangerous precedent for other policies.
The forthcoming proposals on the legislative package for regional policy after 2013 might require application of implementing acts, but might also require delegated acts.
The regulation only covers the procedure in the case of Article 291.
Although the final agreement will allow the application of a simple majority voting system for the adoption of anti-dumping measures during a transitional period of 18 months, subsequently the measures will be adopted by qualified majority.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I should like to thank everyone for all the contributions, which reflect how complex an issue we are dealing with.
Concerning the review and our commitment to it in relation to all the relevant acts, we have here an extremely ambitious plan and I have been discussing it with Mr Lehne during our framework agreement discussions: we have 299 plus 153 acts to align.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I should like to thank everyone for their contributions, both now and during the last nine months we have been working on this issue.
