I would like to extend my sympathy to all of the inhabitants of Madeira affected by the disaster.
The Commission is currently examining all possible means for providing EU financial aid to Madeira.
Back in 2003, following the horrific fire disaster, we were able to grant solidarity aid amounting to more than EUR 48 million to Portugal.
The Solidarity Fund was created in 2002 to be able to provide financial assistance at EU level to Member States affected by serious natural disasters.
For Portugal, this currently means that the cost of the damage must exceed EUR 958 million.
The authorities in Portugal should now carry out a swift and thorough assessment of the damage and submit an application to the Commission within ten weeks.
On 6 and 7 March, Mr Hahn will visit Madeira in order to see the damage first hand.
The Commission will discuss the options and possible sensible and necessary programme amendments in the short term with the administrative authorities in Portugal.
Obviously, I join in the feeling of pain and grief that has befallen the families of the 42 victims we now know have died, to whom I offer my condolences and respect for their loss.
There are more than 600 displaced persons who have lost their homes and personal possessions.
Whenever we are called upon to intervene, we have to do so promptly because we cannot ask the people affected to wait, especially when they need us most.
The European Union must provide support in this situation.
This is something that, as the European Union, we need to implement in the regions and therefore also in Madeira. (PT) The disaster on the island of Madeira requires emergency measures and calls for extraordinary financial assistance to be given to this Autonomous Region.
I would therefore call on the Spanish Presidency to relaunch the process of amending the Solidarity Fund, proving in this way that the spirit of real European solidarity remains at the heart of the European project. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, disasters are, of course, also a consequence of global warming.
We could provide a significant amount of help to craftsmen and the services sector in particular.
I therefore ask the Commission to examine whether resources from the Globalisation Adjustment Fund could not be made available immediately. (EL) Mr President, I, too, express my deepest regret at the biblical disaster which has hit Madeira and my undivided support for the Portuguese Government.
The message of solidarity and hope for the people of the Autonomous Region of Madeira after this terrible disaster requires quick measures and simplified and extraordinary procedures to help those whose lives and property have been destroyed.
It is, however, also important that we now urgently provide assistance to Madeira in this tragedy, and the Commission is urged to act without delay, with the greatest of urgency.
Basing it on 6.6% of GDP and EUR 985 million is too high because many of these tragedies are very local, although they can be very devastating.
I would like to believe that both the European Commission and the Portuguese Government will respond more effectively to the natural disaster in Madeira than in previous instances.
I would also like to support my fellow Members who are demanding improvements in the mechanism for providing EU aid in cases of natural disasters so that the aid can be provided effectively and rapidly. (PT) I would also like to offer a message of support to the families and friends of the victims of the tragic events of Saturday on the island of Madeira.
We received international help when we suffered our major avalanche disaster in Galtür.
In the case of Madeira, however, we must also take account of the fact that the economic base of Madeira has been affected due its dependence on tourism, so it has suffered a double blow.
The Directorate-General for Regional Policy and my colleague, Commissioner Hahn, will provide advice and support in this regard.
I would like to assure you once again that the Commission will do everything in its power to help the people and the administration in Madeira to cope with this terrible event.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - (PT) I wish to express my profound sadness and offer my deepest sympathy to the families of the victims of the natural disaster which has struck Madeira.
in writing. - (PT) I would like to express my profound sympathy and solidarity with the people of Madeira, their institutions and the regional government in view of the tragedy of force majeure which occurred on 20 February in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and which caused several dozen deaths, disappearances, displaced persons, injuries and huge material damage.
It is also crucial that the various funds of the European Union be mobilised in a flexible manner, through advance payments, simplified procedures and a higher rate of cofinancing in order to meet the needs of the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
