Respect of national wage and retirement-setting mechanisms (debate) The first item is the Commission statement on respect of national wage and retirement-setting mechanisms.
The S&amp;D Group's question that gave rise to this statement raises honourable Members' concern that certain economic policy conditions set out in the Memorandum of Understanding of the Economic Adjustment Programme for Ireland are in legal conflict with Article 153(5) of the Treaty.
That paragraph excludes the adoption of provisions in the field of pay under Article 153, that is, in the field of social policy.
However, the Economic Adjustment Programme for Ireland is not a social policy programme and is not adopted under Article 153.
The Member State has full ownership of these economic policy conditions and their implementation.
These conditions are commitments of the Member State that are undertaken by the state itself.
Indeed, many of the conditions, such as the minimum wage reduction, were already included in the Irish Government's national recovery plan that was published on 24 November 2010, before the start of the programme.
When evaluating the reduction in one of the highest minimum wages in the European Union - it is, for instance, the second highest in the eurozone - and although there was significant wage adjustment in the economy, with the minimum wage, in common with wages in general in Ireland, falling by 3% in real terms in 2008, followed by a rise of 0.3% in 2009, it should be noted that most of the labour market adjustments took the form of job losses.
In fact, the minimum wage cut only restored the status quo prevailing before 1 January 2007, i.e.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, I would also like to thank the Commissioner.
Fine Gael and Labour are part of the PPE and S&amp;D groups respectively in this Parliament.
We should note that the new government has agreed to reverse the reduction in the minimum wage.
The Commissioner emphasised that all measures are weighed up against their effect on growth, competitiveness and the sustainability of public finances in the long run.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, this memorandum requires an EUR 1 per hour reduction in the minimum wage in Ireland and a review, as we have heard, of the system of collective pay agreements which protect the low paid.
Article 152 requires respect for the autonomy of social partners, not this type of interference, and Article 153 expressly excludes EU action in the field of play.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, the Commissioner is telling us that the Memorandum of Understanding was drawn up under Article 122, part 2.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I understand the urgency of the Commission in addressing the economic crisis and the high levels of debt which are a threat for the stability of the euro.
This policy on the part of the Commission is at complete odds with the idea of this European Union.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, this goes beyond Ireland.
Once again we have a situation where - and I am not alone in thinking this - anti-European sentiment is being fanned by the fact that we are again allowing the wrong policies to be pursued, in this case by imposing this massive package on Ireland.
However, we know from our experience of World Bank and International Monetary Fund programmes - and what we are currently seeing in Ireland is not so very different from this - that in the end, these countries have no choice.
The Irish public deficit, the accumulated budget balance of central and local administrations and, in particular, social security administrations, was estimated at 32% of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2010.
This austerity plan should improve GDP by 10% over the next four years.
Thus, by respecting subsidiarity, the European Union, on the basis of a Memorandum of Understanding drawn up with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), considers that this solvency requires the reduction of the legal minimum wage and an adjustment of pensions, with fiscal measures nonetheless in the mix.
It does not leave the door wide open for the European Union to interfere in areas falling within subsidiarity, making it possible, for example, to impose a European minimum wage, which would be a dangerous thing to do, but rather ensures the protection of the stability of the euro area through a mutual guarantee process.
Of course, it is necessary to help Ireland, like other countries in difficulty, which also protects us, but not at any price, especially that of seeing a State unable to pay off its loans, thus weakening its citizens and citizens throughout the European Union.
I would appeal to the Commission to comply with European law and stop interfering in labour market issues in Ireland.
Indeed, they are the basis of the fact that there has been no violence on the streets in Ireland: it is because the social partners and the government have sat down and made arrangements to adjust the labour market and adjust conditions to ensure that we can have some hope of recovery from the current crisis.
As has already been stated, the Irish Government, of which my party is a member, has already declared that it will reverse the minimum wage cut as agreed in that programme.
You can be certain as well that your attempt to interfere with the Registered Employment Agreements Act, which has been in place for more than 50 years, will not be interfered with, as you hope, because the current government is determined that social partnership will play its traditional role in ensuring that we have industrial peace and progress. (PT) Mr President, the tendency in the EU to increase pressure on the Member States is gathering great pace, under the pretext of the crisis, with a view to devaluing wages and increasing the exploitation of those who work, in order to ensure ever more profits and gains for the economic and financial groups, revealing all the antisocial cruelty of capitalism.
What is already happening in this field in certain countries, such as Portugal, Greece or Ireland, and which is of the utmost seriousness, are salary cuts and pension freezes, even on the lowest pensions and those below the poverty line.
We therefore express our solidarity with the young workers and teachers who are going to protest over the forthcoming weekends, including this Saturday, 12 March, and at the large national demonstration by the General Confederation of Portuguese Workers (CGTP) in Lisbon on 19 March.
On 19 March, the General Confederation of Portuguese Workers will hold a major demonstration, which is planned to take place in Lisbon, against these antisocial policies.
This is surely not what it is all about. (NL) Mr President, very few people in the Netherlands have any idea that we, here in Brussels, are discussing their wages and pensions.
Commissioner, is the Commission going to take steps to change that image and is it going to ensure that it is viewed as an institution which also represents the interests of ordinary people? (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, you have given us a prescription that says two things: firstly, that we should abolish collective agreements and, secondly, that we should reduce the minimum wage still further.
I beg you to include social indicators alongside the economic indicators. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I sometimes have the feeling that you should try out all these solutions on the Commission itself so that you could see what impact you are actually having on Europe.
On 19 October last year, I received a response to a question that I had put to the Commission in which it was explicitly confirmed that minimum wages and wages in general are the responsibility of the Member States.
Commissioner, you gave your opinion on the Memorandum of Understanding with Ireland.
Thus, when taking such decisions and signing such memoranda, it is necessary to thoroughly assess both the legal and social consequences. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner Hahn, the proposals that are now on the table are like putting a large rucksack on the backs of all those who are already finding things difficult enough and telling them they have to run faster with it on.
The impact which a coherent, realistic pensions policy has on public finances needs to be taken into consideration. (RO) Mr President, I understand very well the subsidiarity principle, but I believe that pensions have ceased to be a national concern as they are the subject today of an EU-level debate.
It is important to realise that retirement ages will rise if there are improvements in working life, but they cannot be raised through legislation from above. (LV) Mr President, unfortunately, Ireland is not the only country, and Greece is not the only country either.
The minimum wage has been reduced in Latvia, and it is lower than the subsistence level.
The people are protesting.
Faced with this situation, I welcome the involvement of the trade unions, yesterday in Hungary, for example, or in Brussels on 29 September.
These measures were already presented by the former Irish Government itself in its national recovery plan, together with other fiscal and structural measures aiming at economic stability, growth and job creation.
The legal basis of the economic policy conditions is Article 3(5) of Council Regulation (EU) No 407/2010 establishing a European financial stabilisation mechanism and Article 2(2) of the Council Implementing Decision 2011/77/EU on granting Union financial assistance to Ireland.
Article 152 is a general provision which does not exclude the possible need for specific measures with social consequences.
The provisions of Title 10, social policy, cannot be disregarded.
The measures adopted on the basis of Article 122 for Ireland do not regulate issues.
More generally, the issue of economic policy conditions is not about EU competences in the field of social policy or wages.
The economic policy conditions of the programme are Member State commitments agreed with the EU and the IMF on the measures that the Member States will undertake in exchange for EU/IMF financing.
Written statements (Rule 149) According to Eurostat, in January 2011, the minimum monthly income varied between EUR 123 in Bulgaria, EUR 157 in Romania and EUR 1 758 in Luxembourg.
In 20 of the 27 Member States, the minimum income is set by law or by national inter-sector agreement.
In 11 Member States, the minimum income is between EUR 100 and 400/month, in 5 Member States, it is between EUR 550 and 950/month, and in 6 Member States, it is more than EUR 1 100/month.
The development and consolidation of the internal market provide businesses with access to Europe's 500 million plus consumers.
I regard social dialogue as being particularly important in terms of ensuring social fairness and a decent standard of living for all European citizens.
