Agreements on trade in bananas - Repeal of Council Regulation (EC) No 1964/2005 on the tariff rates for bananas - Agreements on trade in bananas (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the recommendation by Francesca Balzani on behalf of the Committee on International Trade on the draft Council decision on the conclusion of a Geneva Agreement on Trade in Bananas between the European Union and Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru and Venezuela and of an Agreement on Trade in Bananas between the European Union and the United States of America [07782/2010 - C7-0148/2010 - 2010/0057(NLE)], the report by Francesca Balzani on behalf of the Committee on International Trade on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1964/2005 on the tariff rates for bananas - C7-0074/2010 -, the question for oral answer to the Council on the conclusion of a Geneva Agreement on Trade in Bananas by Vital Moreira and Francesca Balzani on behalf of the Committee on International Trade - B7-0007/2011), and the question for oral answer to the Commission on the conclusion of a Geneva Agreement on Trade in Bananas by Vital Moreira and Francesca Balzani on behalf of the Committee on International Trade - B7-0008/2011).
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has been called upon to express its opinion on two agreements that have been signed with the United States and with 11 Latin American countries, which will draw a line under a long and difficult affair.
This system allowed ACP countries to bring this product to the European market without paying any import duty, unlike other countries, which have to pay a duty of EUR 176 per tonne.
At present, these measures, worth EUR 190 million, are to be provided until 2013.
In the first instance, they should provide, as quickly as possible, for an evaluation of the impact that these agreements will have between now and 2020 - quite a long timescale, therefore - on ACP countries and on European producers in the outermost regions, whose economies are closely tied to bananas.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (IT) Madam President, Mrs Balzani, ladies and gentlement, I would like to thank you very much for having given the Presidency-in-Office of the Council and the Council the opportunity to speak on this issue, which is important both from the point of view of international trade and from the point of view of solidarity and development.
The draft regulation stipulates that the Banana Accompanying Measures programme must be evaluated 18 months prior to the programme's expiry.
Concerning the POSEI programme, the Commission submitted a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on 24 September 2010, which lays down individual agricultural measures for the outermost regions of the EU.
New negotiations began in January 2009 with the willing Andean countries, namely Columbia, Ecuador and Peru, in order to reach a multilateral free trade agreement.
The European Commission closed its negotiations with Peru and Columbia on 1 March 2010.
Madam President, Mrs Győri, Mrs Balzani, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am delighted to note that the main aspects and the general orientation of the Commission's proposal on bananas have been supported by the rapporteur.
It is true that the 2009 Geneva Agreements on bananas are very important, and Mrs Balzani emphasised very well the reasons why this is so.
I would like to come back to some of the most important issues raised by the rapporteur and the MEPs in their oral or written questions, as well as those in the motion for a resolution which forms part of the package.
As regards the support given to European Union producers, I am very aware of the essential socioeconomic role of banana production in the European Union regions concerned - particularly the outermost regions - and of concerns about the economic viability of banana production in these regions.
In a recent report on the POSEI system, submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in September 2010, the Commission explains the consequences of the Geneva Agreements and the fact that these consequences have already been integrated into the 2006 reform of the system applicable to bananas.
As regards the distribution of financial resources for the ACP Banana Accompanying Measures, as you know, the draft regulation establishing the BAM was approved by the European Parliament on 21 October, and it lays down conditions for the distribution of these resources.
The draft regulation intended to provide this support for the ACP countries has, moreover, been approved by the European Parliament, and it also defines the allocation criteria for the various beneficiary countries, but in addition provides what you are asking for here - an assessment of the market conditions in these countries, 18 months before the programme expires.
As I have already said, we will carry out an assessment of the effects of the BAM on the ACP countries 18 months before the programme expires.
I am rapporteur for the opinion on this agreement, and I am also rapporteur on the Banana Accompanying Measures, and I will present the report tomorrow at second reading.
This also answers a question by Mrs De Sarnez, who is very concerned about the situation that has just been created for banana producers in overseas départements and in the outermost regions.
Third, as regards the Banana Accompanying Measures - which I will talk about in more detail tomorrow morning - I believe that Parliament has succeeded - and I thank the Commissioner for emphasising this point - in introducing some new things, in particular the impact assessment that will take place 18 months before the programme expires.
That will allow us to look a bit beyond 2013 as well, because I do not believe that the problem in the banana sector will be resolved by 2013.
The motion for a resolution - and I pay tribute for this to our rapporteur - is a well-balanced one, especially since we have taken into account the interests of our partners from the ACP countries, as well as local European banana producers.
Finally, we hope the Commission will take these concerns into account and will take steps to adjust the support package for domestic EU producers earmarked in the POSEI envelope and, if necessary, take other steps in order to ensure that, in parallel to the trend of liberalisation of the global trade in bananas, domestic EU producers are able to remain on the market and foster their traditional activities.
In these countries, the same companies continue to produce bananas.
The measures to support the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries were very important and reducing them would have a serious impact on producers in those countries.
If we approve agreements of this type, we will be acting against the interests, in particular, of the ACP countries, the outermost regions and Ecuador.
They provide a demonstration of how small banana producers, in the ACP countries and the outermost regions, have been taken hostage in the agreements concluded in 2009 in Geneva and in the Doha negotiations which are taking place today, agreements and negotiations which the World Trade Organisation desired and imposed.
The reform of the banana market and the reform of the sugar market are basically expressions of the same inexorable shift towards a large global market, which, unfortunately, is crushing the weakest and most fragile.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Madam President, this banana is the stuff of war - an EU-inspired trade war with America that has lasted 16 years and has now been lost spectacularly.
The EU has now been fined nearly USD 200 million by the World Trade Organisation and been forced to drop its illegal tariffs - all because of the protectionism that lies at the heart of the EU, in this case protection of French colonies.
Most of these subsidies, nearly EUR 300 million a year, go to the outermost regions of the European Union: this is sheer protectionism, over which the EU has had its knuckles rapped many times by the WTO.
I therefore believe that the necessary evaluations should be carried out and it will be confirmed that it is absolutely necessary for the financial details of the agreement to be updated because, inter alia, the Commission already saw the tariff of EUR 176 per tonne itself as low when it was implemented.
Although EUR 200 million has been designated for African and Caribbean banana exporting countries, we need to look at this matter.
I think we need to find a stable, long-term solution to make up for the damage they have suffered from the expansion and opening-up of the markets. (DE) Madam President, after many years of dispute between the European Union on the one hand and the Latin American banana producers on the other, an important step has now been taken thanks to the Agreement on Trade in Bananas.
The European Union must remember its responsibilities towards the ACP countries and the outermost regions and be consistent in its actions.
However, we all also know that there are winners and losers in these agreements, and the outermost regions are the clear losers in these agreements in particular, and are damaged by them.
What I cannot accept is the insistence on arguing, as the Commission did again today, that the 2006 revision of the Programme of Options Specifically Relating to Remoteness and Insularity (POSEI) provided for this situation and that it has, therefore, already compensated producers for what was at stake here, when we know that what was considered in 2006 was a tariff of EUR 176 per tonne, and what we are now looking at is a tariff of EUR 148, EUR 114 or even EUR 75 per tonne.
European producers in Portugal, Spain, Greece, Cyprus and France, who in 2008 supplied the European market with almost 600 000 tonnes, will be hit hard.
In the case of the bilateral agreements negotiated with the Central American countries and certain Latin American countries, we are talking about a different context, since in this area too, the European Union has had offensive interests and has also obtained things in exchange for what it has offered.
Mr Mato Adrover and Mr Teixeira, I can show you the figures.
When I say that in 2006, in addition to the envelope that was provided for POSEI, we made calculations - and I have the figures here - I mean that we provided a tax reduction, reducing it from EUR 176 to EUR 137 in 2009.
We also said that it was possible that, in the Doha negotiations, the results of which were then unknown, those taxes could fall to EUR 79 per tonne.
It is for this reason that, according to the impact assessment, the budget calculated for POSEI in 2006 was much greater than the actual situation in 2006.
I believe that producers in the outermost regions are also European citizens and taxpayers.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Mr President, Mrs Balzani, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I would like to thank the Commissioner for having already addressed several questions and concerns.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the conclusion of the banana agreement will put an end to a trade debate that has been going on for fifteen years, and this is certainly a welcome development.
This outcome will strengthen the EU's negotiating position in international trade talks, especially in the ongoing Doha negotiations of the World Trade Organisation.
These will in turn bring improvements to the banana market and to our European producers, which are impossible without a sound basis such as that provided by finalising these disputes within the WTO, to which the European Union belongs.
in writing. - (RO) On 15 December 2009, the European Union, the United States and a group of Latin American countries signed the agreement on the EU's tariffs for the banana trade.
This is why I welcome the financial aid programme included in the agreement, whereby ACP countries will receive EUR 190 million up until 2013 as support aimed at encouraging competitiveness and the diversification of their production.
