Furthermore, a future quality policy must also be linked to the major potentialities of agriculture which, as in the European case, is modern, dynamic, rich and diversified and can offer not only high quality food products but also services of great value to a constantly evolving society.
Consumers often confuse the geographical indication of where a food product was processed with the place of origin of the agricultural product as such, and are often not aware of how the food chain operates.
I therefore consider that only the compulsory indication of the place of production of the primary products can provide consumers with full information on the quality of the products they are buying, since products are subject to a production cycle which exerts considerable influence on their characteristics in terms of quality and food safety.
I would like to thank my colleagues for the support they gave me in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and I hope that the European Parliament will also give its support during the vote tomorrow.
That is why quality policy in the agri-food sector will be one of the priorities of my mandate, one of my main priorities straight after the common agricultural policy post-2013 reform.
Agri-food quality policy is not only proof that European farmers are responsive to the expectations of European consumers, but it may also pave the way for the European agri-food sector to assert itself on the international market.
If they can make a living from what they produce, they are competitive, and, if they can sell high-value-added products, they are even more competitive, even if, at times, they are small in size.
The debate on how to make this more evident by means of the labelling system is useful and welcome, and the report contributes certain elements and certain ideas along these lines.
I believe that these links between the standards maintained by farmers and labelling quality policy should also be the subject of debates that we are going to hold on the common agricultural policy post-2013.
I believe that we need to develop and evolve our instruments in relation to communication policy, communication both with European farmers and with European consumers, and, above all, at international level.
It is my belief that our quality system can be a good ambassador for our agri-food model, and even for our common agricultural policy.
As you know, the Commission intends to present a legislative package on quality policy by the end of 2010.
Finally, I would like to say let us hope that it never happens again that the European Commission gets ahead of Parliament by prohibiting things such as, for example, marketing standards for fruit and vegetables, that have caused such damage to European free competition.
It is exactly from the perspective of differentiation that we must view quality policy, which is capable of offering a product and of placing on the market a product that differs from that of the competition, a product that can also be sold without precise and specific reference to a price that is lower by comparison to the competition.
I would also like to see some changes in paragraph 16.
Finally, in paragraph 62, there is some criticism here of private certification systems which, in Scotland, have been very successful.
I would also pick up on Amendment 3 - as my colleague did - which deletes the attempt to reintroduce cumbersome and unworkable rules on the direct sale of fruit and vegetables to the consumer.
In this regard, I am happy to see that Mr Scottà dealt with the future of the PGI and PDO systems.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Cioloş, thank you for the encouraging words you have just spoken, and thank you to Mr Scottà for the sensitive work that he has done on this important report.
Whatever happens, these must be retained. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a new phase of reflection has opened in Europe today on the issue of quality, which is intended not only as a guarantee for consumers but, above all, as a stimulus for our producers to be more competitive in a market that is far larger and far more competitive.
Yes, they are a means by which to make the operators of a region and, in particular, farmers, more dynamic.
The resolution that we shall no doubt adopt tomorrow offers you, Commissioner, a greater degree of ambition with regard to this policy of quality products, of products identified by different signs.
European policy must be clearer; it must stop producers from being taken over by certain large industrial or distribution groups, which would clearly like to deprive producers of the benefit of the added value that these products give them.
I should like to respond to our UK fellow Members with regard to paragraph 19 on the fruit and vegetables sector.
The EU quality logo, as an expression of the agreement of our producers on production requirements within the Union, must be reserved exclusively for agricultural products produced in the European Union.
It is therefore important for the European Union to improve its quality policy and, at the same time, improve its information policy.
In the European Union, the majority of aspects relate to food hygiene and safety, health and nutritional value, as well as certain social requirements.
In this context, I think that tighter control must be exercised with regard to those organic products originating from third countries, thereby guaranteeing fair competition between organic products produced in Europe and those from third countries. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, the quality of agricultural products constitutes a priority for consumers by increasing competitiveness for producers and by strengthening the area in which they are produced.
An agricultural product quality policy and a reduction in the European agriculture budget are two incompatible ideas.
We need to be careful that good intentions do not descend into excessive bureaucracy. (PL) Madam President, I would like to call attention to the pertinence of item 9 of the Scottà report, which emphasises that, in the WTO negotiations, the Commission must seek to secure an agreement on the 'non-trade concerns' which will ensure that imported agricultural products meet the same requirements, in the areas of food safety, animal welfare and environmental protection, that are imposed on agricultural products produced inside the European Union.
The problem is that this is probably the 150th time the European Parliament has said that the same requirements should be applied to importers as those applied to producers within the European Union.
I would like to address two points.
We should take that into account in our debate and also in the vote tomorrow. (PT) Certification mechanisms could constitute a contribution to increasing the value of farmers' work, improving their income and promoting quality and food safety.
Until we lay down labelling and certification standards for such products, there is a threat to future EU food quality policy and the health of us all. (PL) Madam President, thanks to the instruments of the common agricultural policy, the agricultural market in the European Union is characterised by the supply of agricultural and food items of high quality.
Consumers must know what they are buying and for what they are paying.
In my view, a protected designation of origin and geographical indication system must be implemented.
There is nothing wrong in knowing that we are eating feta from Greece, white brined cheese from Bulgaria or mozzarella from Italy.
Therefore, it is important that these systems already be clear and easy for our partners to understand so that they can be recognised.
With regard to geographical indications at international level, rest assured that my concern is to ensure that this system is recognised by our partners.
We are therefore going to pursue this approach and, moreover, in my mandate, I want to be able to strengthen the policy for communicating and promoting these quality signs internationally, since quality is an asset and, as such, it can give us a greater presence on the international stage.
The land is that from which we harvest our products and which we must preserve for the future and for those who will have to do the same.
That is why, taking this simple thought as a starting point, I should like to move on to producers, to those who work the land, who must be recognised also by those who subsequently enjoy the commercial produce they find in the supermarket or some other shop.
European agricultural producers have finally gained recognition in European legislation on the quality of their produce linked to the region of production.
The product quality policy can help to increase the competitiveness of European farmers and to maintain economic profits in rural areas in a time of crisis precisely by targeting the quality of agricultural products and high quality foodstuffs.
It must continue to apply without exception that purchasing products from the EU means purchasing high quality products, which are produced on the basis of various European regional traditions while following the highest production standards in terms of food safety.
I also welcome the retention of the systems of registering geographical indications and traditional specialities, as these indications are significant for European agriculture not only from an economic perspective, but also from an environmental and social perspective.
