A sustainable EU policy for the High North (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Gahler, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on a sustainable EU policy for the High North.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of our Arctic neighbours who are following this debate, in my capacity as rapporteur, I am particularly pleased to be able to present to you today the result of over a year's work, carried out in cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs, other colleagues in the EU Arctic Forum, and numerous experts and representatives, some of them from the Artic region itself.
We have achieved a broad consensus and believe that we have formulated a sustainable policy on the High North.
This offer of cooperation is formulated in this way because we, the EU, cannot take action or initiate any activity in the Arctic in our own right.
The EU is an attractive cooperative partner for Arctic states because we have played a pioneering role in the relevant policy areas, such as protection of the environment and the combating of climate change.
We should follow the good examples provided here, for example, in the cooperation between Norway and Russia in the Shtokman Field in the Barents Sea.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, early last year, Vice-President/High Representative Ashton took the initiative of proposing a debate on the Arctic region.
While we acknowledge that our dialogue with all circumpolar Arctic indigenous peoples could be improved, 2010 has witnessed the beginning of a fruitful and wider process of interaction, which we will certainly pursue in the years to come.
When dealing with access to the Arctic and the exploitation of its resources, we must live up to our reputation as a responsible consumer of raw materials and energy resources, adhering to the highest safety and environmental standards.
This report is an important contribution to the gradual building of the European Union's Arctic policy, and I would like to thank Michael Gahler for taking this initiative forward.
The initiative is particularly praiseworthy, as the rapporteur and several other MEPs facilitated an interesting dialogue with Arctic third parties and civil society, in which we participated actively.
These three texts are consistent and offer a responsible and positive message to the Arctic partner countries and the people living across the region.
We would like to participate in the Arctic Council as a permanent observer to share our solid experience in international regional cooperation, and we are particularly grateful for Parliament's endorsement of this endeavour.
The High North report will give the European External Action Service and the Commission a robust stimulus in our external action concerning the Arctic region.
I am genuinely pleased that the European Union's policy towards the High North is one of those areas to which the European Union has turned in relatively good time.
Significantly rich resources - around a quarter of the world's unexplored oil and gas resources, biogenetic and fish resources, minerals - may be found in the Arctic.
It is important that we have a balanced report and the message that the Arctic Council should be reinforced and that the European Union will be more robustly involved there in its capacity as observer.
We think that we have worked excellently together and it is important that the owninitiative report is adopted and that a proposal is made based on it.
The report argues strongly in favour of heavy future investment allowing people in the Arctic region to survive there, and investment in conditions of employment, transport and the environment.
Finally, I want to say that I am also pleased that there is to be investment in research into the Arctic region, and that the report mentions the University of Lapland as a possible centre for this.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, firstly, I would like to express my gratitude and give my sincerest congratulations and compliments to the rapporteur and fellow shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation and understanding.
I would also like to thank my fellow Green Members for their cooperation and contribution.
Even though the Greens justifiably think that we should be even more radical, we are still glad that this report takes our worries and concerns into account, such as the proposals we made to the rapporteur concerning the fact that scientific data clearly demonstrates that the Arctic ecosystem is currently going through massive climate-related changes and that this situation requires a precautionary and scientifically robust approach to be taken to any future development in the Arctic.
There are some sceptics in this room who have stated that the Arctic region does not deserve our attention, but it does, particularly with Iceland likely to become the 28th member of the EU.
The Arctic is 'cool'.
World reactions to these changes are chaotic.
However, this strategy takes a diametrically opposite approach.
It is also an area where the environment is very fragile, especially as a result of pollution from Europe, North America, Russia and China.
Inevitably, there is a certain feeling of unease that British Petroleum of all companies, having caused the oil catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico last year, is now to be allowed to extract resources in this sensitive natural environment, where conditions are far more extreme than in the Gulf.
This is something that needs to be kept in mind both when planning shipping routes and when drilling for oil. (PL) Mr President, I too, of course, would like to thank Mr Gahler for his very good draft resolution and his fruitful cooperation.
Climatic and oceanic processes in the Arctic have a significant effect on climate and environment change, so freedom of research is extremely important for understanding what is going on, not only in the Arctic itself, but more importantly here, where we are.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Gahler for his very careful and detailed report, and indeed for his willingness to compromise.
This has been confirmed by the agreement this weekend between Rosneft and BP - BP of Deepwater.
Mr President, I, too, congratulate Michael Gahler on a well-balanced, excellent report.
The fact of the matter is that Denmark's only connection to the Arctic is via Greenland, which, in a referendum 26 years ago, decided to leave the European Union.
It should be the job of the European Parliament, in particular, to ensure this. (FI) Mr President, this is an important issue, and because Finland is situated in the north, I am familiar with these matters.
They are regions with sovereign rights, which they may exercise to take decisions on their own matters. (RO) Mr President, I would first of all like to congratulate my colleague, Michael Gahler, for the excellent report he presented.
This report encourages the Council and Commission to outline a specific EU Arctic policy, while highlighting that Iceland's possible accession to the European Union would turn the Union into one of the Arctic's coastal entities.
The fact as well that both Iceland and the European Union are currently in the process of devising an Arctic strategy may provide an opportunity to coordinate both policies, among other reasons, with regard to the European Union's application for permanent observer status in the Arctic Council.
In my view, we are in the position to encourage a responsible pre-accession process and a mainly balanced debate in this country about the European Union. (LT) Mr President, I would like to offer my compliments to my fellow Member, Mr Gahler, who, despite coming from southern Germany, has demonstrated a remarkable knowledge and love of the Arctic and the High North.
I believe that the European Union, which always led the way in the fight against climate change, must continue to place more emphasis on the second dimension when harmonising both approaches. (GA) Mr President, the Arctic area is changing significantly as a result of climate change, with ice and snow melting.
The European Parliament is actively involved in ongoing dialogue with elected representatives from the Arctic through the Standing Committee of Parliamentarians of the Arctic region, and as chairman of the SINEEA delegation, I represent the European Parliament on this important body.
The conference was a great success, which enabled the European Parliament to deepen and to strengthen its relationship with the Arctic nations. (HU) Mr President, I do not speak as a Member living at the Arctic Circle either; I only wish to warn everyone that the North Pole does not only hold economic heritage and energy heritage, but it is also one of the greatest examples of our natural heritage.
In addition, the European Union has a sustained interest in the safe development ... (The President cut off the speaker) (FI) Mr President, the riches of the Arctic are not just its huge energy resources and new shipping lanes, but also its indigenous peoples.
I, too, think that the University of Lapland in Rovaniemi is the best place for an Arctic Information Centre. (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, firstly, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur for producing an excellent, balanced report.
Consequently, it is vitally important that the European Union also takes an active role in this and, furthermore, actively endeavours to acquire a role as a permanent observer in the Arctic Council.
Like many of my fellow Members, I am also very pleased that the report makes special mention of an Arctic Information Centre, the skills and expertise of the University of Lapland and the excellent facilities that exist there. (LV) Mr President, I have no doubt that the subject we are discussing today is very significant, and as I see it, this century will witness a struggle - between nations, between governments - to gain benefits from the Arctic.
The first, to my mind, is that I would recommend that the Commission takes care, in the days to come, that the region does not become militarised, for already ... (DA) Mr President, this report contains fine words on climate concerns and environmental considerations, but in reality, it is about the EU's hunt for resources in the Arctic.
The Arctic is an extremely sensitive area with a tradition of cooperation, and the majority of the Arctic countries are simply not members of the EU.
I believe that the best form of protection for the Arctic would be a global climate agreement, but in the meantime, we must draw up more short-term solutions in order to limit the warming of the Arctic.
I would therefore like to call on the Commission to make the necessary amendments to the directive on national emission ceilings for certain pollutants to also include carbon black emissions. (EL) Madam President, I agree with numerous fellow Members, especially Mrs Herczog and Mr Repo, who referred to the environmental importance of this area and the importance of protecting the rights of nationals.
Our voice must always express our values and we must always take action to protect these resources and achieve a low carbon economy. (CS) Madam President, there are three main issues arising in relation to the Arctic.
From Hamburg to Seoul will take 21 days.
It is therefore important to broaden the dialogue so that the Arctic region does not become the arena of a competitive struggle among countries and oil companies, the victims of which would, above all, be local inhabitants and the particularly sensitive Arctic ecosystem.
The report states that in the Arctic region, where the effects of climate change are especially visible, drilling projects will increase over time.
News that major mineral oil company BP and the Russian state-run enterprise Rosneft have drawn up joint plans for extracting oil and gas would not seem to point in the direction of the prudent extraction of commodities - quite the opposite in fact!
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, this has indeed been an interesting debate showing how many important subjects are covered by Arctic cooperation, and how varied are the sensitivities in our society when discussing the Arctic's future.
Both the Commission communication of 2008 and the Council conclusions of 2009 ask the Commission to explore the possibility of establishing a new Arctic Information Centre.
The Commission communication gives priority to environmental protection, and the prominence of this point was maintained in the Council conclusions of 2009.
Fourthly, the European Union and Member States are a leading force for Arctic research in the world, and we are proud of it.
Altogether, through the fifth, sixth and seventh framework programmes, the European Union is investing EUR 200 million in this field.
Fifthly, the Commission adopted in 2010 a communication on offshore drilling, which should guide our actions across the world, including the Arctic region.
Mr President, honourable Members, the Parliament's High North report gives a comprehensive overview of the European Union's activities, responsibilities and interests in the Arctic region.
Commissioner, when I referred to a policy in relation to our neighbours in the High North, I did not wish to imply that you were engaging in a dispute over authority with Baroness Ashton.
Almost all the speeches we have heard have made one thing clear: the challenge confronting us is to demonstrate through our policy that different interests and activities are reconcilable or must be made reconcilable.
If we can apply this principle to the region as a whole through cooperation with local communities, then we will become a role model for other sensitive regions.
What has changed in the political reality is the fact that we do not believe that we can compel people to comply with our wishes, but that we must accept the challenge of achieving all our goals at the same time: we need a high standard in environmental protection, a clamp-down on climate change, a sustainable fisheries policy, secure shipping route development and acceptable development for local communities.
