Situation of civil society and national minorities in Belarus (debate) The next item is the debate on the statement by the Council and the Commission on the situation of civil society and national minorities in Belarus.
Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to speak on this item regarding the situation of civil society and national minorities in Belarus.
I think we need to be clear about one thing: what we are talking about now is not a single incident - it is the actions of a dictatorship and a brutal regime that is denying minority rights as well as the rights of its individual citizens.
Naturally, we must firmly condemn what Belarus is doing to its Polish minority, but we should also relax our policy a little more and operate a less restrictive visa regime.
There is an imbalance in relations between the EU and Belarus: the Union is opening the door for Minsk, but is receiving nothing, basically, in return.
So we ask the Commission to send a clear message and take clear steps. (PL) Mr President, I thank the Council, and also the Commission, for such a quick reaction.
Washington knows this, Moscow knows this, and with the ambiguous reactions to the crisis in Belarus, Minsk knows this, too. (PL) Mr President, As Chair of the European Parliament delegation for relations with Belarus, I often have contact, not only with representatives of the opposition, civil society and non-governmental organisations, but also with representatives of the official authorities.
Theoretically, the European Union should not put pressure on this responsible, sovereign country, because responsibility for the internal situation in the country is borne by its authorities.
However, if Mrs Georgieva, who is, in fact, involved with development every day, is telling us today about what has been proposed, well, I do not know who this might satisfy.
Mr President, there is only one message the European Parliament can send to the government of Belarus, namely, that its repression of the democratic opposition and policy of threats against a minority are simply unacceptable. (PL) Mr President, I listened with great attention to what was said by the Commissioner, Mrs Georgieva, and would like to say that I expect behaviour which is a little more energetic.
Our House should not only react in the traditional fashion with an appropriate resolution, but should take specific action to discipline the Belarusian authorities and should appeal to Mrs Ashton to appoint, on the basis of Article 33 of the Treaty of Lisbon, a special representative to monitor breaches of human rights in Belarus. (PL) Mr President, Mrs Georgieva, it is very good that we are talking about Belarus here in the European Parliament, but talking is not enough.
Today, the European Union - and this is what I would expect from the European Commission - should prepare a strategic plan for supporting the democratic opposition, for supporting civil society and non-governmental organisations, and for supporting free media.
In regarding this partnership as a positive instrument for bringing about change in the Republic of Belarus, consideration must also be given in this mechanism to the position of civil society in this country because of the important role played by civil society in the operation of the rule of law.
The repression which has recently been used against activists of the Polish minority in Belarus is part of a much wider problem.
