Situation in Chile and EU humanitarian aid strategy (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the situation in Chile and the EU's humanitarian aid strategy.
Commissioner Georgieva arrived in Chile yesterday, 10 March, to visit areas affected by the recent earthquake and to follow the work of European humanitarian and civil protection experts there on the ground.
Immediately after arriving in Chile's capital Santiago, Commissioner Georgieva travelled to the area most affected by the earthquake and tsunami, including the coastal region around Constitución, Talca, and Concepción.
Commissioner Georgieva will also represent President Barroso during the inauguration of President Sebastián Piñera in Valparaíso later today.
The massive earthquake and subsequent tsunami that struck Chile in the early hours of Saturday 27 February are a terrible tragedy.
The latest official figures indicate that at least 528 people have been killed, and that number is expected to rise.
ECHO deployed a team of two humanitarian aid experts who arrived in Chile on the morning of Monday, 1 March to carry out needs assessments and to meet with the authorities and potential implementing partners.
An EU civil protection mechanism, a team of six experts, is also now in Chile.
Four are working in the earthquake zone near Concepción, while two are currently based in Santiago to liaise with authorities and coordinate the response of European Union Member States.
The ECHO humanitarian experts and the EU civil protection team are undertaking joint assessments with OCHA and several UN agencies in the most affected areas.
The European Commission's Monitoring and Information Centre was activated immediately, an emergency humanitarian decision was adopted to allocate EUR 3 million to respond to the immediate needs, and experts from the DirectorateGeneral for Humanitarian Aid (DG ECHO) were deployed in the disaster areas to carry out a needs assessment.
Mr President, first of all, on behalf of the delegation within the EU-Chile Joint Parliamentary Committee, I would like to express our solidarity with the Chilean people, Parliament and Government following the disastrous earthquake that occurred on 27 February and the more than two hundred aftershocks that have taken place so far.
Chile has been a source of protection and asylum for us in the past.
We, as the European Union, must do all we can to prevent people who have lost all their belongings, and in many cases members of their family, from falling victim to thieves who prey on their suffering.
They also need our help - and, most importantly, our honesty - in pointing out the wrongdoing from political regimes that ensures that ordinary people continue to live in poverty and in need. (EL) Mr President, the recent huge, catastrophic earthquake in Chile, shortly after the disaster in Haiti, cost the lives of hundreds of people and caused massive damage to the structures of the country, especially in the area of Concepción.
I would remind you that the European Union and Chile signed an association agreement which entered into force in 2005 and which provides for political and economic cooperation and joint action on a global scale.
We are talking about 500 000 - half a million - houses destroyed.
I hope that President Piñera will undertake the reconstruction task efficiently and I would like to congratulate President Bachelet on her management of this crisis.
There will be lessons that we, too, must learn from this, however, namely that in emergencies the veneer of civilisation soon peels and that 24 hours can be too long.
So, to conclude, the European Union - the people, regions and countries of the Union - is standing shoulder to shoulder with Chile in the face of this disaster, and that is how it should be in a civilised and human world.
The response from the EU was to provide EUR 3 million in emergency aid, while European civil protection experts are on the ground assessing the most immediate needs.
Parliament, as well as giving its heartfelt condolences to Chile, is also demonstrating through this debate its commitment to helping to rebuild the country, which was so severely damaged by the earthquake of 27 February.
