Since 2001, military operations inside that country have cost more than EUR 300 billion and several thousand human lives, and at least another EUR 40 billion have been spent on the civilian side: in total, more than 30 times the current Afghan GDP.
There are more victims of maternal mortality alone in Afghanistan than the war: over 20 000 a year as against 2 300.
The answer to this paradox is not simple.
They influence the way the Afghan problem is seen by European citizens, and they do not believe in a military solution in principle, because more than 65 years ago we abandoned the idea that war and occupation of foreign lands is good solution.
In response to these challenges I want to begin by saying, as I have said many times in other places, that the European Union is in Afghanistan for the long term.
We have an assistance programme up to 2013 - and, I am sure, beyond - and we have now increased the baseline of our assistance to EUR 200 million per annum, which is up from EUR 150 million per annum previously.
I have already mentioned in this House the health sector where, for example, 80% of the country now has some form of access to primary health care, compared with less than 10% in 2001.
That said, we know from the UN figures that, compared with 2001, 40 000 fewer babies are dying each year in Afghanistan, and that is due to considerably improved prenatal care.
About 50% of our assistance goes either through national programmes or through trust funds that directly support the Afghan Government.
The action plan brings the instruments that are being deployed collectively and by individual Member States in line with our policy priorities - especially those arising from the Kabul Conference, which I attended in July.
Aligning our efforts and our approach is a key aspect of the plan.
It identifies areas where we as the European Union believe our action will be most effective.
I have met with General David Petraeus three times in recent months and, while much remains to be done, I am confident that the current strategy is beginning to have a real impact.
Indeed, in all the areas we are engaged in - rural development, law enforcement, border management or tackling the narcotics trade - we will work to build up local Afghan institutions, putting the emphasis on promoting the rule of law and governance and on fighting corruption.
This will remain a key aspect of our engagement in Afghanistan, be it in the political support to women MPs in the new Afghan Parliament or through our support to women's participation in local development projects such as the widely-recognised National Solidarity Programme, which we have been funding through the World Bank since 2002.
Firstly, the status quo is no longer a realistic option insofar as the NATO forces are announcing one after another their withdrawal from Afghanistan, yet we do not yet know whether the country is able to guarantee its own security.
This strategy must be given time to work according to the timetable set by President Obama, with 2014 as the deadline for the complete Afghanisation of military and police operations.
Madam President, Baroness Ashton, the European Union is involved in a number of missions in Afghanistan on the basis of United Nations resolutions.
Too many young soldiers from Europe have lost their lives in Afghanistan.
A large number have been seriously injured or are suffering from the mental stress caused by military service.
Thousands of civilian aid workers from Europe risk their lives every day to help to bring about a better future in Afghanistan.
We know that there will not be a military solution and, therefore, we must increase our efforts to bring about a political solution to the conflict, by means of the EU and a common foreign policy.
We need to put in place specific initiatives, in particular at a regional level, to stabilise the situation.
However, the new EU strategy can only be successful if it no longer plays a passive role, but actively involves the neighbouring countries.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (SL) Madam President, thank you for remembering ambassador Richard Holbrooke.
However, it is a problem which will export the fight against international terrorism into the neighbouring countries and regions for as long as fighting in Afghanistan continues.
The report is an incentive for a responsible and creative European Union policy in Afghanistan.
This report offers a very honest, very fair analysis of the shortcomings in the international intervention in Afghanistan since 2001.
The problem of fundamental rights, most importantly women's rights, remains intact.
It is also a disaster for the young men and women forced to join and fight there in the armies of NATO and the United States, of whom perhaps 500 have already been killed this year.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - (NL) Madam President, as rapporteur in charge of drafting the European Union's position on Iran, I have focused, in the resolution on Afghanistan, on the Islamic Republic's role in the Afghan theatre of war.
For this reason, I will put three questions to Madam High Representative and I would like to think, Madam Ashton, that you will answer these in writing.
And I know the names of the 18 brave young men from my constituency who paid with their lives for this madness in the last year alone.
Corporal Simon Hornby, Liverpool; Warrant Officer David Markland, Lancashire; Kingsman Sean Dawson, Stalybridge; Corporal Harvey Holmes, Hyde; Corporal Terry Webster, Chester; Lance Corporal Andrew Breeze, Manchester; Marine Steven Birdsall, Warrington; Marine Paul Warren, Preston; Sergeant Steven Darbyshire, Wigan; Private Alex Isaac, Wirral; Private Douglas Halliday, Wallasey; Colour Sergeant Martyn Horton, Runcorn; Private Thomas Sephton, Warrington; Sergeant David Monkhouse, Cumbria; Sapper Darren Foster, Carlisle; Lance Corporal Jordan Bancroft, Burnley; Kingsman Darren Deady, Bolton; Guardsman Christopher Davies, St Helens.
We will willingly support him in this work. (BG) Madam President, what we are discussing today is probably one of the most important reports on external policy and security for 2010.
By comparison, five days of war cost the same as it would to eliminate poverty, and a week of war costs the same as 6 000 schools.
Since 2002, the European Union and its Member States alone have poured in over EUR 8 billion with no palpable result.
I hope that we can learn from this document in order to improve our action in Afghanistan.
I believe, therefore, that we have grounds for holding a debate on this matter, and I think that recent events have shown that this is not really clear for any of us.
It is clear that a great many soldiers are being killed in Afghanistan - including soldiers from my country, from Poland - far too many of these soldiers are being killed, our strategy is costing too much money, and NATO's strategy is also questionable.
I admired him for Dayton, met him once for a fascinating dinner in Brussels and was very much impressed by him. (NL) Madam President, no strategy that is, primarily, of a military nature stands any chance of succeeding in Afghanistan.
The number of our troops there has grown from 20 000 in 2001 to 150 000 now and, yet, insecurity has only increased.
It is also essential to cut Taliban forces off from their bases in Pakistan and Peshawar.
Funds should be obtained on a regional basis, but authority must be central.
Further break-up of Afghanistan may lead to 'Somalisation' of the country and its division amongst the fighting tribes. (EL) Madam President, the state of Afghanistan is an extremely interesting issue for the international community, not only because there are military forces there, but also because forces have been deployed and will be deployed there in future that will launch terrorist attacks and create problems for the international community.
It therefore needs to be eliminated but, more importantly, as you said, development efforts are needed, efforts in health, in reducing infant mortality; in other words, we need to show these people a model that they will like, that they will love and want for their future quality of life, that they can integrate into their perception of life.
The European Union needs to stay, Baroness Ashton, and your interventions need to be continuous and to keep their European face, precisely as you yourself said. (PT) Madam President, Richard Holbrooke, to whom I also pay a heartfelt tribute, said before he died, "We must end the war in Afghanistan”.
Provided they end their policy of burying their heads in the sand with regard to these fundamental political questions, Europeans within the European Union and NATO may be able to help end the war in Afghanistan, and also the descent into hell in Pakistan. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I join you in remembering Richard Holbrooke.
I hope that the rapporteur sees fit to rethink this point, otherwise I will join my group in voting against the report. (SL) Madam President, I would like to congratulate Mr Arlacchi on his courageous report.
I have no time to go into why we fell into the Bush administration's trap, but it is a fact that our citizens expect us finally to put an end to this madness, which has cost us over EUR 300 billion and countless human lives.
They also expect a political solution and want us to put less confidence in a military solution. (RO) Madam President, I am delighted that a consensus was reached on this report by the political groups within the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
Instability will remain in the region, in spite of the successes achieved in ISAF operations. (RO) Madam President, I would first of all like to say that I support the view presented earlier by my colleague Mr Juvin, and I would like to begin my speech by mentioning that I am sorry that the report does not contain 'European Union' in its title.
This can be attributed to the way in which we have conducted ourselves in this country.
Let us not forget that more than 400 amendments were made to the Arlacchi report. (FR) Madam President, I wish briefly to say three things.
This, unfortunately, has not been the case for 10 years, and it is something that we can witness on a daily basis on the ground.
In particular a transparent financial aid system, the training of domestic police forces, the fight against drug trafficking and the coordination of international aid are the main points of political and military strategy that have been further strengthened.
He is talking about the situation of women and children in that country.
The horror story of Afghanistan has involved the deaths of 346 British soldiers, many more allied soldiers and thousands of innocent Afghans.
The reason is that, sentimentality aside, an intervention lasting 10 years can cast a complete shadow over the effectiveness of the political decision taken on this issue.
I believe that each one of us is responsible to those who elected us for coming up with an answer to this question.
We must have the courage to carry out a regular analysis and evaluation of our actions, admit where we have made mistakes and, when we have made them, we must find other solutions.
After years of intervention in Afghanistan, we see that the Afghans do not understand us, do not want our help, and do not understand our civilisation or our cultural values.
I believe it is really necessary for us to gradually withdraw our armed forces and hand over power to the local administration and local politicians, and then to help the people of Afghanistan through the local politicians in such a way that they can identify with the values of our civilisation and understand us, and then perhaps they will be willing and able to accept our help.
However, precisely because our commitment is a long-term one, I would foresee at least three major challenges.
As I said at the beginning, I believe Afghanistan is important for all of us and for our citizens, and that the European Union must rightly remain a key player.
There is moderate criticism of it, but I believe that an agreement between groups can be found on that.
I thank you, and I also thank Baroness Ashton.
I hope she will take full account of the content of the report, which is a very concrete one and calls for an exit strategy from Afghanistan. (HU) Madam President, I apologise for speaking now, technically, and I am not putting my question to Mr Arlacchi, but would only like to respectfully address a small reminder or question to Madam President.
Written statements (Rule 149) The strategy presented and approved in Lisbon entails a gradual transfer of control over the area, region by region, from ISAF responsibility to Afghan armed forces.
I believe that this strategy must go hand in hand with larger, more high-profile civilian projects, which will support the development of these regions where poverty is ubiquitous and the presence of ISAF and US forces has not brought about any fundamental changes.
Our strategy should take into account both the security of the citizens of Afghanistan and of our representatives, who are working for the development of the country.
in writing. - (DE) The report on a new strategy for Afghanistan presents the absolutely necessary critical picture of the situation in that country.
I welcome the fact that the European Parliament, in contrast to many parliaments in the Member States, is sending out a clear signal with this report that the conflict must be brought to an end and that a change of policy is needed in order to achieve sustainable political, economic and democratic development in Afghanistan.
We must support the fundamental message of this report.
