Emergency autonomous trade preferences for Pakistan (debate) Τhe next item is the report by Vital Moreira, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council introducing emergency autonomous trade preferences for Pakistan - C7-0322/2010 -.
As well as being an accidental rapporteur, I am also a reluctant one because, in truth, I did not vote for this report and have deep objections to its content.
Nevertheless, things are as they are and it falls to me to gallantly accept the duties I have been given.
As we know, this report on the exceptional trade preferences conceded to Pakistan originated with a European Council decision, which mandated the Commission to make a proposal to Parliament and to the Council.
Despite everything, the Commission tabled the proposal before Parliament and the Committee on International Trade, which I chair, decided to go ahead with the debate and vote on this report, of which I am the accidental rapporteur.
The issue, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, has proved rather contentious in Parliament's Committee on International Trade, as regards whether - and this was the pretext for this Commission proposal - we should use trade preferences as a means of emergency aid to a given country; as regards the duration and extension of those trade preferences; and, finally, as regards what conditions would be imposed on the beneficiary, Pakistan in this instance.
Although a majority in the committee voted for the Commission proposal to award Pakistan these exceptional preferences, in fact, the Committee on International Trade also voted for several amendments aimed at limiting the impact of these trade advantages awarded to Pakistan, including, inter alia, the adoption of a safeguard clause, in case imports from Pakistan increase too much because of the reduction or removal of trade tariffs.
In any case, even if our efforts turn out to be in vain, it will, at least, be an excellent opportunity to debate how sensible it is to use exceptional trade advantages as a means of emergency aid - or, as in this case, as a means of political repayment for a given country - and what limits such usage has.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, today we are discussing a legislative proposal for emergency autonomous trade preferences for Pakistan.
I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Committee on International Trade for their hard work and their support for the proposal.
The Commission proposal aims at the introduction of a unilateral and temporary suspension of import duties on 75 export items from Pakistan.
We have set a ceiling on the liberalisation of very sensitive items, and liberalisation would only be of limited duration.
As you know, we are still discussing this issue with other WTO members and hope to come to a solution soon.
These trade measures are not 'stand-alone', and come on top of the significant humanitarian and development assistance - amounting to EUR 480 million - that the EU has granted to Pakistan.
I understand the concerns that may exist in that respect, and you are aware that human rights issues are an integral element of our long-term relationship with Pakistan.
Let me also point out that a compromise reached in the Council on 10 November was based on subjecting seven textile and clothing products to tariff rate quotas rather than full liberalisation.
The reason is because we are currently awaiting a decision on the waiver requested by the European Union from the World Trade Organisation on the topic actually being discussed.
As rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to thank my fellow Members in the Committee on International Trade for adopting the main points which we developed in our opinion.
As human rights are a key aspect of the agreement binding the EU and Pakistan, the autonomous trade preferences proposed must be dependent upon respect for human rights in this country.
I brought this up several times in committee and asked in particular for the person responsible for foreign policy in the European Union, namely our High Representative, to also come to the committee or to Parliament in order to explain why foreign trade should have to be used to pay for this, to present to us in detail the overall strategy of the European Commission and put this in a common context and, in so doing, perhaps convince us that it really does make sense - I will say this again - to allow foreign trade to make a short-term contribution in this regard.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is something wrong about holding a debate in May 2011 on a natural disaster that occurred in summer 2010, a disaster that left 12 million people homeless and destroyed 20% of the country concerned.
We are also asking the Pakistani authorities for something, namely, to be more determined to consider this issue from a bilateral point of view in their relations with India.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, this was the worst natural disaster ever to hit Pakistan.
Commissioner Georgieva was on the scene, and, when I met with Prime Minister Syed Yousaf Raza Gillani, I was certainly able to discuss the EU's response with him.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I, like many others in this House, share the concern for, and the sympathy with, the people affected by the terrible floods in Pakistan.
However, when I look at how the political will has been lacking, how the corporate interests have interfered and how the WTO has procrastinated, what I see before us are recommendations that dilute the original proposals put forward at such short notice by the Commission.
Moreover, it is proposed to seek not only an annual report on a one-year programme but also quarterly reports on the application and implementation of the measures.
My group has repeatedly called on the Commission to put forward a plan B in order to be able to help the people of Pakistan quickly and permanently to rebuild their country.
However, we cannot in all honesty expect approval for our desire to help Pakistan at the expense of one of the poorest countries in the world.
My solution to this problem is therefore as follows: place the focus on direct aid for the reconstruction following the floods and take immediate action instead of losing in the negotiations in Geneva.
I understand that the European Union has already made around EUR 500 million available, which I do not consider to be a trifling sum.
In addition to the commitment of EUR 415 million in emergency aid, the EU now wants to lift duties on a number of products.
For this reason, we have strongly supported all the traditional humanitarian aid measures that have been taken.
The truth is that this will have two harmful consequences: one within the European Union, especially for the southern countries, and for their textile and clothing industries, which are now seriously weakened because of an economic, social and financial crisis unparalleled since they joined the Union; and, secondly, at international level, during World Trade Organisation (WTO) negotiations, where this opening of the largest trade bloc in the world - the European Union - to these potential exports from Pakistan could completely unbalance the negotiations.
We therefore consider it unacceptable to keep this proposal and we think that we will have to vote against it. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, with this proposal for a regulation, we are once again faced with a clear and lamentable exercise in Commission hypocrisy.
Today, the justification is humanitarian aid to Pakistan.
Yesterday, it was helping in the fight against terrorism.
However, it becomes even more serious when these regions are situated in Member States, like Portugal, faced with an extremely serious economic and social crisis, which could shortly be exacerbated by the illegitimate intervention that the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and European Union are preparing.
In any event, the duration and range of concessions should be limited and provision should be made for safeguards, as proposed in the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, we all firmly believe that we must help the people in Pakistan, but the instrument that you are proposing, Commissioner, is the wrong one, for three reasons.
Secondly, I cannot understand how we can now grant these facilitations to a country that plainly does not meet the GSP+ conditions in terms of social and environmental standards and send a signal to other countries, like Bangladesh, which do meet these conditions, that essentially tells them that their efforts are not wanted and it is also possible to achieve this status by other means.
Unfortunately, our response has been very curmudgeonly.
If anything, it is not Pakistan, but China that poses the biggest threat to Europe's textile market. (RO) Mr President, as some of our fellow Members have said, you have noticed the argument that granting special trade preferences to Pakistan would not be an appropriate solution for helping the flood victims, as they do not regard trade as a suitable means of response in such emergencies.
However, by implementing measures to supplement humanitarian aid, we can contribute to Pakistan's economic recovery.
Indeed, international trade and humanitarian aid are not two diametrically opposed activities.
The presence of Osama Bin Laden in Pakistan has now once again exposed Pakistan's ambivalent approach towards fighting terrorism.
So, speaking personally, I am concerned that these emergency trade preferences will appear to reward the Pakistani Government for its lack of action in this respect.
This is a well-meaning measure and, of course, I fully accept that, but it is one we need to consider extremely carefully, given all the things that I have outlined in my brief speech. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, this draft is an attack on the European textile industry, there is no question about that.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all, I would like to apologise for not being present at the beginning of the debate, but I was only just arriving from Brussels by plane and you were - how shall I put it? - in advance of the schedule, which is very laudable, but which resulted in my being a little bit late.
No, this is a proposal that the European Commission has made with respect to the massive flooding in Pakistan, time-bound for two years, with the possibility of its being continued for another year.
That is not up to me to say, but let us say in a very neutral way that what has been said tonight is not necessarily consistent with what has been said in the past.
Mr President, I would like to welcome Commissioner De Gucht, albeit a little late, which we understand, but I think that there is still time to deliver the committee's final position.
As the accidental rapporteur of this report and, once more, against my will, please allow me just two observations.
The first is that this debate has demonstrated as much division on this issue as in the Committee on International Trade itself or even more, and the second is that the merits of the proposals adopted by the Committee on International Trade, some of which the European Commission considers inconclusive ...
There are two things of which Parliament and the Committee on International Trade cannot be accused.
Firstly, of having tried to block this issue, despite it being dependent on a World Trade Organisation (WTO) waiver and, in truth, of voting on an issue that can be rendered toothless by a lack of that waiver.
The Committee on International Trade did not question any of these things as an obstacle to taking the debate into their own hands and voting on this issue, and took on board all these late changes from both the Commission and the Council.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 10 May 2011.
We should also take into account our trading interests and care for them in the long term by establishing their optimal period of validity and the conditions which must be fulfilled by Pakistan.
The flood which affected Pakistan so catastrophically in the summer of 2010 had a disastrous effect on the country's economy.
I support the principle of helping Pakistan boost its economy following the floods in July 2010.
