The only measure that we can take is to ban these stores from operating, after which we need to focus our efforts on halting the online sale of these substances. (EL) Mr President, the continuing crisis in the euro area has brought all of us - European institutions, Member States and political leaders - face to face with our responsibilities.
The failure of our airlines and our airports to deal with a few centimetres of snow in a few Member States caused devastating delay, disruption and despair for travellers.
Unusual snowfalls and uncommonly low temperatures, as predicted in 2009 by the Potsdam Institute, arise from the melting of the Arctic ice cap.
We cannot prevent them, however much we must try to limit them, but we can - and we must - be prepared for them. (PL) Mr President, the special commission investigating the cause of the crash of a Polish aircraft near the Russian town of Smolensk on 10 April last year has published the conclusions of its report in Moscow.
This is a most unsatisfactory state of affairs, and the European Union should look into it. (PT) Mr President, 2010, which was declared the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, is over.
It was a year in which the European Union, with unprecedented cynicism and hypocrisy, implemented policies and guidelines that resulted in the significant increase in poverty and social exclusion that we can see today.
The result is there for everyone to see - Christianity is the most persecuted religion in the world.
It is a shame that, at the end of the European Year for Combating Poverty - in particular, child poverty - Hungary is sending out this kind of signal.
For example, on the border crossing of Rusovce - Kittsee, which is a highway crossing between Slovakia and Austria, the Austrians are imposing a tough speed limit of 30 km/h.
The better ones are those which have been here for a long time now, and the worse ones are those which have only been here since 2004.
It fills me with pride that this Central European Member State is the third amongst the 2004 accession states to have the opportunity to carry out this honourable and responsible mission.
The same was said about granting Kazakhstan the chair of the OSCE in 2010 and holding a major OSCE summit in Astana in December.
That human right was violated in my country for the few Christians attending Christmas mass at the church of Agios Synesios in the occupied village of Rizokarpaso.
The Commission itself cited this in a paper in 2006.
