At the same time - and this was also an important issue for the European Parliament - there is clarity about the transparency requirement.
The package is also due to be applied to a larger part of the fleet, specifically, all vehicles of 3.5 tonnes or above.
This will mean one little box per goods vehicle to cross the whole of Europe, rather than 25 or 26.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr El Khadraoui, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the Hungarian Presidency, we made a promise to work for a strong Europe, one in which people are in the centre.
The objective of the proposal concerning tolls imposed on heavy goods vehicles for using certain infrastructures is to set the charges used in transportation correctly, so that they reflect more accurately the actual costs of air and noise pollution, traffic congestion and climate change effects caused by heavy goods vehicles.
The fair road charge system proposed in the Eurovignette Directive will allow us to use our scarce resources in a more sustainable manner.
The measure is the first step on the road leading towards the internalisation of external costs of all transport methods.
Thank you once more to all those who helped create this compromise, not only the rapporteur, but also the shadow rapporteurs, as well as our legal professionals, for helping to find a solution for the difficult matter of correlation tables.
Secondly, at a time of scarce public funding, the charging for external costs provided by the new directive will generate revenues and make new financial resources available for transport infrastructure.
I have noted your declaration on the correlation table.
The majority of my group will also be endorsing this agreement, as it represents the first steps towards actually introducing the 'polluter pays' principle, and it does so in an intelligent way.
The exemptions for EURO V and EURO VI are also positive, as well as the fact that the Member States have again committed to regulating the interoperability of toll systems, as it is a thorn in our sides that that is still not the case.
We thus did not achieve what we were hoping for in this regard.
I thus hope that a discussion arises between the payers, the road freight sector and the government on the use of this money and efficiency.
I am no enthusiast, but I did defend this in my group because we now have an important principle - the internalisation of external costs - incorporated into European legislation for the first time.
That means that we can make a start on the process of charging for all external costs for all modes of transport in order to improve your economy along with your sustainability.
Unfortunately, many states have not yet implemented the Eurovignette 1 infrastructure payments and, most likely, these same states will be very tardy in implementing Eurovignette 2.
The transport policy of the Member States' transport ministers consists of demanding a sustainable and forward-looking transport policy for the European Union every Sunday while doing everything under the sun during the week to actively prevent such a policy from being realised.
If we look at the matter in purely technical terms, disregarding any other factors, we discover that the highest category roads, in other words, motorways, expressways and category one roads, are best adapted to the operation of heavy goods vehicles.
On the contrary, it focuses only on charging for some external costs, based on the 'polluter pays' principle, and only in the case of the highest category roads, in other words, motorways, expressways, category one roads and dual-carriageways.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for doing such an immense and very important job.
It is good that in the area of transport, we are finally striving to apply the 'polluter pays' principle.
The defences are down, the press do not care and the UK is asleep, so get those unfortunate truckers taxed. (DE) Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur and my fellow Members who were involved for their work.
I therefore hope that those who want costs to be internalised, and who even view this deal as very small progress, will support this compromise here.
We do not want technically different charging systems across Europe - the idea of 27 different systems in future is unacceptable.
The Council needs to be somewhat more flexible in this regard than it was in the past.
Different charges in individual Member States do not. (Applause) (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there has been one major success story in this discussion, and that is the rapporteur.
The Eurovignette Directive that we are debating today is one way that both of these points really can be achieved.
That is a point on which we can all fail to be satisfied.
This is therefore a success, and it will have our backing in the vote today. (Applause) (CS) Mr President, in the directive under discussion, the Commission has put forward the possibility of charging for external costs such as air pollution, noise and traffic congestion, based on an attempt to internalise external costs in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle.
At a time of great economic difficulty such as we are experiencing now, the only purpose of this decision to strike at an economic sector that underpins our market is to make money, even if hardly any of this money is then used for transport infrastructure.
In creating at this precise time - as a rumour, shall we say - the problem of adding even a few centimes - four cents do not appear anything at all to Mrs Durant - right now, when we have just passed through the crisis, or are still in mid-crisis in the case of the cucumber, and due precisely to these irresponsible and false accusations which are without proof, they have dealt a brutal blow to thousands of Spanish families, not just farmers, but also hauliers, because just these few centimes, on thousands of kilometres and products like the Spanish cucumber, will generate a major problem in terms of transporting them to the central market, which is precisely where these accusations originate.
We shall therefore vote for it. (PL) Mr President, Mrs Lichtenberger said that there are some reasonable ministers in the European Union's Member States.
I think this is something which really is controversial. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, transport in Europe is too cheap.
Every lorry causes 60 000 times as much damage as a car but, of course, it is not charged 60 000 times as much.
It mostly applies only on motorways and only to vehicles weighing 12 tonnes or more.
Foreign operators pay nothing to use our roads but UK diesel duty is as much as 23 pence a litre higher, giving competitors a 15% advantage.
Today, however, thanks to the tenacity of our rapporteur - and I should like to pay tribute here to Mr El Khadraoui - and of the shadow rapporteurs in their negotiations with the Council, we have a compromise before us at long last.
Admittedly, this text is far less ambitious than the initial proposal, but it will enable us for the first time to implement the 'polluter pays' principle and to internalise external transport costs such as noise and CO2 emissions.
Another cause for satisfaction is that, with this report by Mr El Khadraoui - and I congratulate him on his tenacity - we are clearly expressing our desire to see the 'polluter pays' principle factored into the costs of road transport.
Leaving aside our rapporteur Mr El Khadraoui's tenacity, on which I congratulated him, Commissioner, the European Commission has once again lost the fight to certain nationalist positions and sentiments. (SV) Mr President, I would like to say a big thank you to the rapporteur for his excellent work on a very difficult subject.
The intention is clearly not that our drivers and hauliers should pay for the noise and environmental impact if we do not, at the same time, introduce measures aimed at solving the problems, such as road treatment and other noise-attenuation measures.
We must continue to work to improve the environment and reduce carbon dioxide levels in Europe, and it is therefore of central importance that we ensure that environmental charges are genuinely used to reduce and eliminate the environmental problems that arise. (Applause) (NL) Mr President, with the decision on the Eurovignette, Europe is taking a step in the right direction in order to be able to apply the 'polluter pays' principle to road transport.
I hope that many EU Member States will adopt this system, including the Netherlands.
I hope that the Commission will bring forward proposals to also charge these costs to other means of transport in a phased manner.
I hope that these incentives will mean that, in future, traffic jams will be avoided and goods vehicle fleets will be renewed.
All in all, we are aware that not all wishes could be satisfied in the negotiations, but these positive aspects that we were able to achieve in the negotiations thanks to Parliament's strength should lead to the desired positive effects.
I also hope that there is not too much bureaucracy in the implementation, as that would harm the whole. (RO) Mr President, the inclusion of a charge based on external costs in the toll charge allows Member States to introduce it for using the trans-European road network, or certain sections of it, as well as any other additional sections of their own motorways which are not part of the trans-European road network.
I think that the income generated from the charge on users of the infrastructure and from the charge based on external costs must be used to support the trans-European road network, improve road safety and provide safe parking areas, which are an absolute necessity for compliance with the applicable social legislation. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree on the need to make goods transport more sustainable, but this result is achieved mainly by investing in infrastructure and gradually renewing the existing fleet.
However, I personally live on a stretch across which over 50 million tonnes of goods a year are transported, and I believe that, alongside people's right to efficient transport, there is also a right for those living alongside to be protected from the impact and effects of this transport.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank honourable Members very much for their comments and I would like to make some remarks.
All users from different countries pay these tolls if they appear on this network.
The first is a fight about principle - who should pay for the use of infrastructures and what specifically they should pay for.
We could say that this is just a drop in the ocean, but I believe - and I am happy that this has been acknowledged by many during the debate - that we have made an extremely important first step towards internalising costs and re-circulating revenues into the sector, even if, as with every compromise, it is not the most perfect one, and I am certain that we will be able to take further steps in the following years.
I would also like to add that this is the result of an adequate compromise and, as Mr Dirk Sterckx has also mentioned, a good and adequate one, although perhaps only a first step in the right direction.
Well, the agreement reached with the European Parliament extends to this problem as well, since it makes it possible for Member States to determine road usage charges in a differentiated manner on the basis of location and time.
As you all know, Member States have the opportunity to levy higher infrastructure charges during peak periods.
This increased differentiation of infrastructure charges gives us an alternative for fighting traffic congestion, and even if we only include air and noise pollution in the calculation of external costs, the differentiation mechanism introduced in the directive can still make an efficient contribution to the reduction of traffic jams typical of European roads.
Furthermore, the agreement reached with the European Parliament also provides incentives in respect of the least polluting vehicles in the Euro 5 and 6 categories, in order to promote the renewal of the vehicle fleet.
It is the first to apply - and I am glad that you have confirmed this in your comments - the 'polluter pays' principle, and launches a lengthy debate and implementation process, which leads to the internalisation of the external costs of all transportation methods.
The transport sector is important for our economy.
At the same time, this method also enables the Member States to generate resources to reinvest in the transport system in order to make it more sustainable so as to actually reduce these external costs.
In this way, we can make our society more liveable, increase the efficiency of the sector and also contribute to a more level playing field between the different modes of transport, so as, in so doing, to also provide greater opportunities for the railways and inland waterways.
The basic and most important issue is the provision which establishes the 'polluter pays' principle, according to which heavy goods vehicles which cause more pollution and are noisier than those fitted with engines which comply with the Euro V or Euro VI standards will be subject to tolls for using road infrastructure.
Furthermore, the Member States will be able to specify the use to be made of revenue generated from tolls collected, but at least 15% will have to be used for financial support for TEN-T projects, in order to increase transport sustainability.
At the same time, a Member State has the right to exempt vehicles under 12 tonnes, an option which I hope Estonia will use.
I therefore welcome the Member States' undertaking to reassign part of this revenue to the TEN-T, a major project designed to guarantee Europe's territorial cohesion and to improve access in regions such as those of the Alps, where the infrastructure is not sufficient to ensure a modal shift from road transport to other forms of transport.
However, we must remember that transport firms, particularly during a crisis, will not be able to afford to change their fleets quickly and buy vehicles which comply with the Euro V and VI standards.
In my opinion, we need to try to achieve a maximum extension of the period during which incentives apply to the ecologically cleanest vehicles.
Transport firms which invest in low-emission technologies must have the right to an appropriate period during which their investments are guaranteed, when they would pay the lowest charges or be exempt.
