Application of the provisions of the Schengen acquis relating to the Schengen Information System in Bulgaria and Romania (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Coelho, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft Council decision on the application of the provisions of the Schengen acquis relating to the Schengen Information System in the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania (06714/2010 - C7-0067/2010 - 2010/0814(NLE)).
The results are therefore a prerequisite for the evaluation process for the Schengen Information System, which involves the transfer of data to these countries.
The conditions for giving the green light to Romania and Bulgaria in the field of data protection have thus been verified.
Finally, Mr President, the review of the Schengen evaluation mechanism.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am quite confident that Bulgaria and Romania will do their utmost to reach the target date for lifting the internal border controls in March 2011.
The Commission, within its competences, will fully support both countries in order for them to successfully pass the Schengen evaluation.
In this context, I would like to take up your proposal and confirm that I will soon, in the autumn, propose a new evaluation mechanism following the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty for the reasons that you stated, Mr Coelho.
I think that both Member States and Parliament should be involved in this mechanism.
I congratulate Mr Coelho and welcome the progress which this report mentions for Bulgaria and Romania.
Both Bulgaria's accession to the European Union and its accession to the Schengen area generate enthusiasm among all of Bulgaria's citizens.
The European Parliament's access to the recommendations in the evaluation reports and the documents on the subsequent actions to take provide a guarantee that the constructive dialogue between us all will continue.
This is good news and will result in the total integration of these two countries within the Schengen framework, which will contribute towards the strengthening of security and prosperity, not just for these countries but for the continent of Europe as a whole.
Finally, we fully join the rapporteur in his concerns about the new Schengen evaluation mechanism.
Both countries have received a favourable assessment from the committee of experts concerning their readiness for the lifting of checks at the EU internal borders, and the shortcomings which were identified should and certainly will be eliminated quickly.
If this happens, it is to be expected that Bulgaria and Romania will be technically ready for connection to SIS II by October 2010, which is in accordance with the current road map.
Yet, at the same time, the system and the Schengen acquis in general also provide the more astute criminal with a broader platform for international crime and corruption.
About 500 000 computers are currently able to access the Schengen Information System.
I sincerely hope that we will reach a solution so that we can carry out our work in normal conditions and make enlightened decisions. (RO) First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Coelho for the exceptional work he has done on this report, which is so important to Romania and Bulgaria, and also make the following clarifications.
Firstly, I am pleased that the Schengen Evaluation Working Group within the Council has evaluated the applications of Bulgaria and Romania positively, and that these countries have eliminated all the problems which stood in the way of making this important achievement.
I wish our friends from Bulgaria and Romania what we experienced with the Czechs and other countries two years ago, also in my country - in Poland - where the barriers were symbolically raised and Schengen became a fact.
As Commissioner Malmström has said, we need a European system of evaluation which involves all the European institutions, the European Commission and the Council, but also Parliament.
That is, we cannot subject external states that wish to enter into Schengen to more demanding evaluation criteria than those which we apply to Member States that are already in Schengen.
According to their preparation schedule, Romania and Bulgaria will be able to join the Schengen Area in the first half of 2011, that is, during the Hungarian Presidency.
According to the current (interim) evaluation, there will be no legal obstacles to Romania and Bulgaria starting technical preparations for integration in this area, as well, in the second half of the year.
I support the rapporteur's evaluation and findings, in particular, that the European Parliament and especially the LIBE Committee members must have access to evaluation reports and relevant information before giving their informed opinion.
The decision will increase security in the region and will grant freedom of travel in Europe without border controls to many more millions of citizens, including Hungarians.
in writing. - (HU) I am glad that the European Council has come to the conclusion that Romania and Bulgaria, the two newest members of the European Union, have met the relevant criteria and that therefore, the Schengen acquis can also be applied in these countries.
