Question 1 will not be taken as the subject to which it refers already appears in the agenda for this part-session.
I would simply like to say that on 7 December 2009, Mr Trichet, the President of the European Central Bank himself said that there are no restrictions to supply for banks to borrow money from the European Central Bank.
Mr Zemke, if that is what your question is about, then you have 30 seconds. (PL) Yes, that is precisely what my question is about.
With respect to Kosovo, the Council has already observed that, in this case, the Member States were deciding in accordance with national practice and international law.
In any case, however, the Council has always taken Kosovo into account in its political relations with the Balkans and there has been a consensus between Member States and governments in this respect, for example, in terms of the liberalisation of visas, which Kosovo should benefit from, as the Council has always understood.
These conclusions were endorsed by the last European Council on 10 and 11 December 2009. (DE) President-in-Office, I have two further specific questions.
I believe it is a stance that will clearly benefit both sides: the European Union, which grants these visas, and these countries, which must naturally also do so on the basis of reciprocity. (DE) Mr President-in-Office, in all the initiatives that the Council is taking in respect of Kosovo, will the views of Serbia and the information it provides also be adequately taken into account?
Irrespective of the territorial issue with regard to Kosovo, Serbia is, of course, a key State in connection with the integration of the Western Balkans into the EU, and one which we should involve in all steps that we take. (EL) Madam President, Mr López Garrido, I appreciate the stance being taken by your country, Spain, which has not recognised the independence of Kosovo, and your recent decision to withdraw Spanish troops which have served in Kosovo to date.
Thus, of course, Serbia is a country which carries obvious weight in the region and which has a European perspective, in our opinion.
Subject: Corporate social responsibility (CSR) At the 'Protect, Respect, Remedy' conference in Stockholm on 10 and 11 November 2009, the current Presidency and the future Spanish Presidency called on the European Union and the Member States to take the lead in CSR.
I must refer to the conference on the social responsibility of businesses which took place in Stockholm on 10 and 11 November 2009.
The conference will study the possibility of including this framework in the list of instruments that the EU and its Member States will be able to use to accomplish their activities, including in the context of a matter alluded to this morning in the presentation of the Spanish Presidency's programme, which is the EU 2020 Strategy.
The problem is that we have to contend with multinational companies; as you said, Europe has to take the lead in corporate social responsibility, but it also has to take the lead as regards the conduct of European companies located outside Europe.
Much of what has been said could have been said 10 or 15 years ago.
I believe that the time has come to discuss this and also what you referred to, but I think that it should be as part of an overall, comprehensive approach to a question that is going to be tackled, probably for the first time, or almost the first time in the high-level group that I referred to and in the conference to be held in March.
Mr Martin, clearly, I think the EU is tackling proper supervision of the financial system at European level, and surely, in this case, we have needed to extricate ourselves from a severe crisis.
I also think that there is room for the proposal made by the second speaker within these directives, which you will be able to debate in this Chamber, for example, in relation to the regulation of hedge funds, which is within the supervision requirements which have been discussed, or something which the current President of the Council of the Union mentioned here this morning, the eradication of tax havens.
All this, these ideas which have been raised, have their place, and will fit perfectly into the debate which will take place in this Chamber over the next few months on reform, as the European Council called it at the time, a complete and actual reform of the supervision of the financial system.
Hence, the Stability Pact and hence, in Maastricht in its time, today Article 123 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union forbids deficits or the granting of credit to cover those deficits by the European Central Bank and the central banks of the Member States whose currency is the euro.
It is probable that then, whilst dependant on the Commission's right of initiative, recommendations will be adopted and, therefore, strategies set out, in such a way that the European Union can express its interest and its involvement in difficult situations or circumstances which certain Member States may experience. (EL) Madam President, Mr López Garrido, you have reminded us of the articles of the treaty that deal with the excessive deficit procedure.
Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union sets it out clearly and there, also, the solidarity of the European Union is expressed: in the joint discussion and joint adoption of objectives with a view to a coordinated economic policy.
That is the most suitable, most in-depth and far-reaching form of a policy of solidarity in the Union. (PL) I would still like to ask a question, because you did say, Minister, that the very serious situation in Greece would be raised at the meeting of the Commission in February this year.
It is true that the crisis in Greece is very serious, but we all well know that it may, unfortunately, spread.
