Annual accounts of certain types of companies as regards micro-entities (debate) The next item is the report by Klaus-Heiner Lehne, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the annual accounts of certain types of companies as regards micro-entities - C6-0074/2009 -.
The last attempt was within the framework of the report by Mrs van den Burg at the end of 2008.
We should adopt this report.
Parliament's resolution is dated 18 December 2008.
At the same time, the High Level Group of Independent Stakeholders on Administrative Burden Reduction, chaired by Mr Stoiber, came out clearly in favour of the proposal, as Mr Lehne said a moment ago.
Finally, the European Economic and Social Committee gave its support to this proposal to simplify accounting procedures.
By creating a single reporting system, this proposal should allow Member States to homogenise the reporting requirements for all micro-entities and make them more consistent.
This new approach should allow a substantial reduction in the costs borne by these entities.
Mr President, we know very well how micro-entities differ from small and medium-sized enterprises, not to mention large economic entities.
The current problem is that the European Commission is delaying in proposing a review of these directives, which is detrimental to our consideration of the issue.
I therefore call on the European Commission to speed up the dialogue on this issue of exemption, which is currently dividing both economic institutions and economic circles in Europe, and to prepare an impact assessment.
Therefore, with regard to the principle of subsidiarity, there should not be any regulation at all at European level.
As I said, we are not against a simplification of the accounting rules for small businesses, particularly because directives and measures have accumulated to such a degree that they need to be reorganised in order to clarify the situation.
I understand from sources in the field that financial administration is often a problem among micro-entities.
EU regulations stifle their growth and, for once, the Commission is doing something sensible with its proposal to exempt micro-enterprises from some accounting regulations.
Small businesses need to have administrative simplification now. (PT) Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating Mr Lehne for the report he has presented to us, for the capacity for dialogue and the openness he has shown on this issue, and for his convictions in defending micro-entities.
This is because, while the measure we are discussing here today has a history, it is especially important in terms of tackling the crisis and because it exempts small enterprises from measures that are expensive, bureaucratic and not essential for transparency.
Small and large enterprises cannot be dealt with in the same way.
I would like to conclude by saying that this is the report that can make an essential step towards not only tackling the crisis, but also towards simplification and fewer costs for small enterprises, which they sorely need. (DE) Mr President, the aim of reducing the administrative burden for micro-entities should, of course, receive our full support, as should the aim of preventing micro-enterprises from being thrown into the same pot as the big players when it comes to financial reporting.
Taken together, they account for 90% of all businesses in Austria which employ fewer than ten workers, just to make the relationship here clear.
Hopefully, we all share the wish to put small business first and therefore, we are in favour of simplifications and less burdens for small and medium-sized enterprises.
The effort - I know this from my work as a lawyer - required in order to provide the necessary records and then analyse them with the help of several colleagues is immense in larger businesses, too.
Thank you. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although they have a growing importance in the European economic landscape, small and medium-sized enterprises still do not have sufficient incentives at their disposal.
However, it also shows that there is much more red tape that we need to get the scissors to in order to meet the 25% target, and the sooner we do it the better. (EL) Mr President, we are in the midst of an economic crisis and it goes without saying that the exemption of micro-entities from their statutory obligation to prepare and publish annual accounts is a welcome measure of support for small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, I agree with the rapporteur on this point.
I think - as Mr Lehne said - that we need this operational sign.
This proposal will offer the possibility of adapting the rules for the publication of financial information at national and regional level.
I clearly heard Mrs Castex mention the other prospect: the commitment to carry out a future general review of the accounting directives.
Our calculations show that, if we manage to relaunch the internal market as President Barroso is attempting to do and - as is fundamental to my mandate - if we manage to make the internal market extremely effective and more fluid, we may find ourselves with additional growth of between 0.5% and 1.5% in Europe.
I clearly heard Mr Karas and Mrs Ranner mention minimum requirements or minimum standards.
The seventh directive also concerns mergers.
I would dare forecast that if we fail to take this decision now, then with a major revision of the fourth and seventh directives, there is an acute risk that small and medium-sized enterprises would go under because they will not really play a role in this debate, because their lobby will also not play a part in this debate.
The EU and the Member States should therefore create a favourable environment for these enterprises.
In Portugal, 356 140 Portuguese enterprises could be covered by this exemption.
I appeal, therefore, to the European Commission to add to the EU 2020 strategy a clear goal in the form of a reduction in the number of EU regulations which hinder businesses.
