Preparations for the European Council meeting (16-17 December 2010) - Establishing a permanent crisis mechanism to safeguard the financial stability of the euro area (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: Council and Commission statements on preparations for the European Council meeting (16-17 December 2010), Oral Question by Mrs Bowles to the Commission, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on establishing a permanent crisis mechanism to safeguard the financial stability of the euro area (B7-0659/2010).
Since the start of the crisis we have demonstrated our determination to take the necessary measures to preserve financial stability and to promote a return to sustainable growth.
In particular, the crisis has highlighted the need for an additional instrument to preserve the stability of the euro area.
The objective is the formal adoption of the decision in March 2011 and its entry into force on 1 January 2013.
Finally, I should like to underline the importance of the new Europe 2020 Strategy for growth and employment, which plays an important role in getting us out of the crisis.
The Belgian Presidency has been committed to moving forward with its implementation, so as to pave the way for sustainable economic recovery.
In addition to these economic issues, I would like to make two further points.
Baroness Ashton will also be called upon to take this approach with other partners, such as Ukraine, Africa, India and Brazil, and to present a report in March 2011 describing the situation regarding her contacts with our partners.
The General Affairs Council welcomed the opinion of the Commission on Montenegro.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, President of the Council, honourable Members, this week's European Council will focus on two main goals: to agree on the key features of a future permanent European Stability Mechanism for the euro area and on the limited Treaty change that will make this mechanism legally waterproof.
We faced two particular issues with Greece and Ireland.
The economic governance package should therefore be seen as the key building block in a system which gives Europeans and the markets confidence that the right structures are in place.
At the same time, public finances must be consolidated.
In many Member States, the current course of fiscal policy weighs heavily on the long-term sustainability of public finances, and requires corrective measures.
Of course, we need to look beyond fiscal consolidation towards promoting growth, and we are sowing the seeds of Europe's future growth through the Europe 2020 Strategy.
Taken seriously, Europe 2020 can direct our local, national and European economies towards tomorrow's sources of growth.
We must also look at our banking system and take the necessary action in order to ensure that banks are in a position to finance the economy appropriately, particularly SMEs.
Another important element of our approach for far-reaching reforms must be a permanent stability mechanism.
After intense consultations, which went very well, we were able to come forward with an outline for this mechanism at the end of last month.
The purpose of the treaty change is very specific.
Everyone agrees that the action taken this year, most obviously for Greece and Ireland, is also in the wider interests of the whole European Union and all its Member States.
I know that these principles are close to the heart of this Parliament.
They are close to my heart too, so I can understand why other ideas have been floated to give form to these principles through other possible mechanisms.
The Commission itself put forward the idea back in 2008 when assessing the first ten years of EMU, but we are in a crisis situation and we already have financial mechanisms to address this crisis, like the European Financial Stability Facility.
Let us do it with a clear sense of our destination and let that destination be clear as well: a strong and stable euro area in an ever closer European Union.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council, which opens this week, is taking place in a particular context: speculative attacks against the euro, the revival of euroscepticism and the beginning of reflections on Europe's finances, while this Parliament is preparing to vote on the 2011 budget.
My first question is this: has Europe ever had a currency as stable as the euro?
Ladies and gentlemen, what we need is a message of confidence that we will overcome the crisis, measures to encourage a return to growth and concrete measures like those taken recently by the Barroso Commission to relaunch the internal market or to make the financial markets more ethical.
We are going to need a lot of courage in the years to come if we want to strengthen our countries in the arena of global competition and if we want to use taxpayers' money in the most effective way possible.
It is for this crucial debate that the European Parliament is calling and it is in these substantive discussions that, as the representatives directly elected by 500 million Europeans, we intend to fully participate, even if this displeases certain governments who wish to deny us this right.
It is not, for us, about power but about contributing to a crucial debate on the future of European construction.
For the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), the debate on Europe's finances must not be allowed to descend into a quarrel between Member States who want their money back.
Because we are coming up to Christmas and the New Year and this Presidency will soon come to an end, I should like to thank the Belgian Presidency for its very good collaboration with Parliament, as well as José Manuel Barroso, who had the courage to undertake to present a document on capital requirements before the end of June.
I believe that we must continue, together, in this direction and that the Heads of State or Government must follow us.
It seriously shakes people's confidence when governments say to them: 'Everything is fine, no problem, we have it all under control' and then suddenly turn around and explain that they need countless billions of euros in aid.
If all the cards are on the table, then it is easier for us to look for solutions.
I wonder where the logic lies in explaining that these are all just temporary measures, because we have everything under control, but we have to include the temporary measures in the treaty, so that they are available in the long term.
It damages confidence when a government subjects its banks to a stress test in the summer and only a few months later realises that it was really a stress test for the euro and not for the banks.
We are in the midst of a crisis of confidence and I must say to you, Mr Barroso, that although what you said this morning may be true, it gives the impression not that we will look for the best solutions and put them in place, but instead that we will discuss the minimum consensus which we can reach on Friday.
This is why I would like to say to the Council that I am in favour of eurobonds.
If there is another suitable measure, then please take it, but you must finally come to an agreement on stabilising the euro internally, because it is strong enough externally.
With regard to the Stability and Growth Pact, which has real sanction mechanisms, Parliament can do its work, because the package is here and we are going to revert to the Commission's initial proposals.
Martin Schultz is right: we have to describe the reality of the crisis and to tell it like it is, but we must also describe the reality of our own political powerlessness and the reasons for this powerlessness.
But now - I think that Guy Verhofstadt asked the real question - what should our strategy be in the coming months?
President of the Commission, put forward a proposal to reform the functions of the Union so as to achieve stability and solidarity with the eurobonds in such a way that there can no longer be any speculation against the debts of certain countries and, with the eurobonds, you have the opportunity to invest at the same time.
It is utterly absurd to say that he needs EUR 1 000 billion without telling us how we are going to mobilise the necessary funds for this necessary economic transformation.
If we wait for Mrs Merkel to make up her mind to take a decision a quarter of an hour before she has to take it, you can be waiting till the end of time.
Europe needs economic reform, public finance discipline, deepening the internal market, changes to labour laws to boost employment, and a package of measures to make a success of the Europe 2020 programme.
These are the key reforms, boldly and rightly set out by President Barroso in the programme for his Commission, but already I fear this opportunity may be slipping from our grasp.
The terrible risk is that, despite the talk about building Europe, it may in fact be undermined, and while hoping for a stronger Europe, the failure to address its underlying economic problems will in fact just make it weaker.
We believe the priorities of the European Council must be to agree a limited number of specific measures, so that eurozone members can help each other through the immediate crisis without imposing any burdens on Member States who have chosen to remain outside, and then to reassert the vital importance of dealing with the long-term crisis which we face: the risk of a permanent collapse in our economic competiveness.
Drastic savings measures will put other countries that are currently at risk, such as Portugal and Spain, in the same position as Greece and Ireland.
Simply readjusting the financial instruments or putting new safety nets in place will not help.
So here we have another summit, another crisis, confidence in the euro ebbing by the week.
And you never know, David Cameron might even keep his promise and hold a referendum in the United Kingdom.
You have not had a government in your own country since June.
It truly is an absolute farce but nobody here dares to admit it because you are all in denial.
Belgium is a microcosm of the entire European Union.
Today I stand here to ask further details following the October Council conclusions, in which the Commission was asked to work towards a limited treaty change required to establish a permanent crisis resolution mechanism.
Then the Euro Group announced that the permanent mechanism would be based on the European financial stability facility and that it might involve the private sector on a case-by-case basis following IMF practice.
A little more fiddling around with Article 136 is not an answer.
Secondly, is the new instrument to be based on an intergovernmental approach, for that is how the EFSF works, or will it in fact be Community-based, which is how we think it should be done?
Parliament and my committee are indeed determined to play their role, all the more so when we have been ahead in the thinking all the way along.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, honourable Members, let me thank Sharon Bowles for her question and also for the draft resolution on the permanent mechanism.
The October European Council invited President Van Rompuy to undertake consultations, together with the Commission, on a limited treaty change required to establish a permanent mechanism for crisis resolution.
It is understood that a limited treaty change implies the use of the simplified revision procedure based on Article 48 of the Treaty.
The constraints of this procedure are that, firstly, it allows only treaty changes of the kind that do not increase the competences conferred on the Union and, secondly, it is limited to changes to Part Three of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which relates to Union policies and internal actions.
It seems that the Member States have a preference for a very limited treaty change which will presumably be placed under Article 136, whose provisions are specific to the euro-area Member States.
Following the European Council decision in October, the Eurogroup agreed at its extraordinary meeting in November on the main principles of a European Stability Mechanism, or ESM.
The future instrument will need to be sufficiently robust and must enjoy strong credibility in the markets.
Despite the intergovernmental nature of the financing arm of the mechanism, the policy conditions will remain firmly grounded in the Treaty so as to ensure full consistency with the common multilateral surveillance framework on which the whole Economic and Monetary Union is in fact based.
It seems, nevertheless, that most Member States have a preference for a transparent and clear framework where non-euro-area Member States would be covered by the balance of payments mechanism while euro-area Member States would be covered by the European Stability Mechanism.
Having said that, it should still be possible to have some non-euro-area Member States associated in a support operation via bilateral contributions, as already applies today, in the case of Ireland, to the United Kingdom, Sweden and Denmark.
Let us recall that, in the context of establishing the financial backstops last 9 May - Schuman Day - and the following night, the Commission made a proposal for a European Financial Stability Mechanism, a Community instrument, which in fact was adopted up to EUR 60 billion, based on loan guarantees by the Union budget under the own-resources decision.
Beyond the Union budget we proposed that this mechanism should be based on loan guarantees provided by the Member States, which would be channelled through this mechanism for countries that were in need of financial assistance because of financial instability over the euro area as a whole.
This was rejected by the Ecofin Council on 9 and 10 May.
Because many Member States considered that this proposal resembled too closely the Eurobond.
So while the issue of eurobonds is certainly a very important matter, we also have to take into account that this proposal was recently rejected by the Council in the May discussions concerning the European Financial Stability Mechanism.
To conclude, let me underline that the future European Stability Mechanism will be part of a comprehensive response to contain the crisis and stabilise the European economy, and the ESM will complement the new framework of reinforced economic governance which will focus first of all on prevention and will substantially reduce the probability of a crisis arising in the future.
That is the whole essential purpose of the new system of economic governance and I am very grateful for your support for the Commission's proposals in this regard. (DE) Mr President, if you listened to the first round of speakers, you would have gained an idea of who was responsible for the crisis of confidence, and it is true that this is what it has now become.
Firstly it was the Commission, secondly the speculators and thirdly the Council and, in particular, Mrs Merkel.
I am not one of those who are constantly worshipping the Commission, but it was the right thing for the Commission to do in 2008 to draw up an accurate inventory, after the euro had been in existence for 10 years.
If we are looking for people to blame, there is one guilty party we must not forget and that is the Member States, which have got themselves up to their necks in debt and which have not made use of the benefits of introducing the euro to implement reforms and to reduce their debt levels, but instead have lived above their means.
I would also like to emphasise that there is a recurring theme among all these Member States.
Regardless of who it was, they have all had social-democratic governments for a long period, some of them up until today.
If we do not talk openly about the main cause of the excessive levels of debt in the Member States, we will not be able to resolve the problems. (The speaker agreed to take a question under the 'blue card' procedure (Rule 149(8) of the Rules of Procedure)). (DE) Mr Langen, you can sit down again now.
The Irish Government made the mistake of giving guarantees without demanding reform of the banking sector.
However, you should not confuse the problems of other states with those of Ireland.
Ireland is a completely different case, because it concerns the second level of the banking crisis and not a structural problem, as in other countries.
It was Karamanlis. (DE) Mr President, after four years of the Karamanlis government ... (Uproar).
No, the structural problems in Greece go back further than that.
With your help there was a two-thirds majority in Parliament in favour of Greece joining the euro area.
I would like to answer the question from Mr Schulz about debts in Germany and in Spain.
If we have to significantly cut our public debt year on year, if we have to avoid deficits above 1%, which the Commission proposes, and if we have to do all of this in a low-growth environment with high unemployment, how can we possibly deliver on the 2020 Strategy?
This is a wrong-headed economic strategy of cost competitiveness and extreme fiscal austerity and it will set Europe on a declining path at a crucial moment in its history.
President Barroso is not here at the moment, but I think he needs to tell the Council that it needs to redefine the political agenda in at least three areas.
Second, we must rebalance the proposed legislation on economic governance.
You can watch the trains go by or you can work.
We do not have a blueprint, we do not claim to have the absolute truth, but I think it is totally unacceptable that the debate is taking place in the Financial Times or in the Zeit and not in the European Parliament.
The first oversimplification consists in saying that eurobonds take responsibility away from the Member States.
In any case, under a eurobond scheme, the Member States will still have to go directly to the markets for some of their debts, and there they will be able to judge the quality of their signature, which will be reflected in the interest rates they will have to pay.
I would like to end with a word to our German friends, especially the CDU.
Although many of us in the UK always thought that the euro was a historic mistake, both for our own country and for Europe as a whole, we of course take no satisfaction in seeing this situation.
There cannot be any justification for further burdens or any sanctions being imposed on those Member States who chose not to make the mistake of joining the eurozone in the first place. (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is exactly a year since the Greek economy started to collapse and Greece got involved in the disastrous memorandum and support mechanism.
One year on, Mr Langen, the country is on the verge of bankruptcy: firstly, social bankruptcy, given that unemployment is set to reach 15% next year, while just yesterday the government passed a bill abolishing collective agreements and today the whole country is on strike and, secondly, economic bankruptcy and, this time the deficit and debt have not been increased by the 'lying Greeks' in PASOK and New Democracy; they have been increased by alchemist Commissioners using Eurostat statistics as they so choose so as to increase the debts of the weak and reduce the debts of the strong.
This is also contained in Article 125 of the Treaty.
This has been seen in referenda: France says no, the Netherlands says no, and Ireland says no.
A common economic policy for Europe will not work.
I went to Mellunmäki in Helsinki to talk about eurobonds, and when I said what they were the women clutched their handbags tightly and the men wondered whether they still had their wallets on them.
People are no longer interested in the squabbling between the socialists and the conservatives, either in my home country or here in the European Parliament.
We must bring forward the next step and admit that we need the courage to write off debts, we must finally make the banks pay, even if it affects our life insurance policies, and we must establish a new European political project which is not burdened with the problems of the Treaty of Lisbon.
We can expect the same thing to happen in my home country.
Ladies and gentlemen, you must wake up to what is happening. (NL) Mr President, in this time of crisis we should not lose sight of the fact that, over the past ten years, the euro has brought us a great deal of prosperity and stability, as well as many jobs.
However, this will require a decisive European summit and a whole lot more in the way of unity.
In this debate, Mr President, 'eurobonds' seems to be the magic word, as if it will make public debt problems disappear like snow melting in the sun.
However, those in this House who are calling for eurobonds should also be aware that these entail significant obligations and a rigorous budgetary discipline which goes much further than the proposals for strengthening the Stability and Growth Pact that are now before us.
Mr President, we must put our energy into the proposals now before us in order to strengthen the foundation under the euro.
We also need a more rule-based approach in the preventive arm of the Stability and Growth Pact, because prevention is better than cure.
We must also ensure a greater level of joint responsibility amongst Member States, not just for the benefits, but also for the obligations and commitment which stem from the Stability and Growth Pact. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in critical situations, Europe has always found a way out of a crisis.
We are launching eurobonds and we are linking this launch with the introduction of the financial transaction tax in the European Union.
It is time for you to act in the interest of the citizens of Europe and in the interest of the Member States, so that we can find our way back to a sensible path of growth.
Perhaps you should do the same thing, so that you can find out what people in Germany are thinking. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the New York Times revelations, investigations are ongoing in the United States into the secret club of nine banks - one of which is European - whose executives meet every Wednesday to agree what action to take on derivatives.
This instrument must necessarily be linked to rigorous and careful budgetary policies in the Member States.
Today's debate hinges on the best way to finance this instrument.
As we are all aware, the private sector was partly responsibile for the crisis in some countries, and in such cases it is right that they should shoulder some responsibility, though their share should be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
In a situation like the present, in which Member States are asked to implement severe budget policies to reduce deficits and debts as well as to pay contributions to participate in the anti-crisis fund, there is a real risk of collapse.
The European economy cannot be revitalised unless, at the same time, we use the strength of the euro on international markets and the resulting improved credit rating to heal it. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, you have heard a very clear message from this Parliament, a request for the Commission to act, to intervene.
I regret to say that the conclusions that we anticipate for the next summit meeting will not produce a solution, above all because the anticipated mechanism for intervening must be adopted unanimously by all Member States, and we need a European dimension, rather than a dimension that allows for all kinds of distortions and some countries to control others.
Commissioner, an in-depth review is required, and the Commission cannot ignore the current debate on eurobonds, and provide no response to the initiatives that various actors are taking in the meantime, namely Juncker, Mário Monti, some elements within this Parliament and think tanks.
In fact, the situation is not under control.
The markets are asking themselves: Who is actually in control in Europe and in the euro area?
What we need are further moves towards integration.
Alongside the monetary union, we need an economic, budgetary and fiscal union.
We also need a strong Commission which has the right and the power to control and monitor this economic union and to impose sanctions automatically, in cases where this is justified.
However, during all of this we must ensure that we have the long-term investment funding that we need, despite all of the justifiable austerity measures, to secure the European Union's competitive ability in the medium and long term.
We must finally tell the citizens the truth.
Robust and transparent economic planning to control profligate government spending and unsustainable debt levels is a vital part of this for all 27 countries.
The eurozone countries have realised the need for a permanent crisis resolution, but there are many questions, some of which are addressed in this Parliament's resolution.
This issue needs to be clarified.
United in adversity, Europeans must also show that they are acting in solidarity when mapping out the way ahead because, if the crisis affected Europe longer than other continents, it is because our economy had already been weakened by ten years of sluggish growth, just l% per year on average.
In Agenda 2020, European leaders came up with a plan to revive our economy, but they did not say how it was going to be financed and controlled or what the incentives or possible sanctions would be.
The word 'solidarity' appears 23 times in the Treaty: let us translate the word into action.
If they want to avoid the worst, Europeans must be united to prepare the best. (SL) Madam President, we Europeans are living with an interesting paradox.
The euro's value against the US dollar has, throughout, to all practical purposes, remained higher than it was when the European currency was established.
However, in defending our currency, are we really going to allow democracy to prove weaker than relatively authoritarian regimes?
We need responsible behaviour, we need five golden rules of responsible behaviour to be enshrined in our policies.
Let us adopt them here in Parliament, let us decide how we are going to measure the level of responsible behaviour and behaviour which benefits the common good promoted by the policies in our Member States.
The tax on financial transactions and eurobonds should therefore be the cornerstone.
There are the well-known methods of budgetary discipline and structural reforms in order to maintain competitiveness.
The second approach to introducing fiscal justice and to making the financial market pay the price for the crisis is precisely to introduce a tax on financial transactions so that it is not employees who, as a result of fiscal injustice, pay the price for this crisis.
Early intervention - as we have heard - not being late and choosing to become strong and not weak would enable us to perform an act of governance that would re-introduce the confidence called for by our President, Martin Schultz. (Applause) (PT) Madam President, the first point that I would like to make clear here, and which is important that we reinforce in this Parliament, is that, contrary to what we sometimes read in the press and in the pronouncements of some European leaders, the euro as a currency has been crucial in our response to the current crisis.
The euro was therefore a stabilising factor, not only for countries within the euro area, but also for the currencies of the countries that have not wanted to belong to the euro area.
The first conclusion concerns the unsustainable imbalances in the financial sector of the European economy and the distortions in its real economy.
From an economic point of view, this means that the European Central Bank needs to be more active in response to speculative assaults on sovereign debt, and in 2011 we need to lay the foundations for a European debt agency that can issue eurobonds.
Likewise, with regard to the Stability and Growth Pact, there needs to be a debate regarding the necessary taxation, the banking tax and the tax on speculation, that is short-term speculative transactions, and on the need for own resources in the European Union.
Parliament therefore needs to confront those that seek to stigmatise some Member States in relation to others, dividing European public opinion and pitting Europeans against each other.
Parliament represents 500 million Europeans from a Union that has 27 Member States, and as on Orwell's farm, there are none more equal than others. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the summit on 16 December.
As it is now only a few days before Christmas, I would like to say: Light a candle of determination and common interest, a candle representing the new seriousness, honesty and confidence in the future of the Europe Union.
Light a candle for a change of political course in Europe, a move from the crisis to competitiveness, from the spirit of Deauville to the political union, from saving to investment and reform, from the monetary union to the political union.
Stop the day-by-day policymaking and put forward a complete concept in response to the crisis which will move us towards political union.
We must call on the Commission to produce a concept for an economic, social and financial union, so that we can take the next step towards integration at the end of next year and really do the job properly. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, tomorrow sees the start of one of the most crucial European Councils in the history of the European Union as a whole and EMU in particular and the question is whether the Heads of State or Government will be up to the job.
It is true that the reasons for the deficits we see in Europe are different.
It is also true that Socialist governments have entered into budget deficit problems because of a deliberate policy of increased spending and increased deficits.
We had this debate in Parliament in the spring of 2009 and we had it in a number of Member States.
Do not forget that the consequences we see in a number of countries are the consequences of the debates we had in national parliaments, and in this Parliament, when some of us argued for increased spending.
First of all my message is very much to you, Mr Schulz, because I want you to remember what you argued here in this Parliament two years ago.
The problem is that some of the Member States have had Socialist governments, and in all these governments, in all these countries, we have seen the deficit going up a result of the policies you advocated.
Madam President, I want to remind colleagues here that I said there are a number of different reasons for the deficit problems we have, but I also said it is true - and neither Mr Schulz nor his colleagues have denied this - that we have seen these problems coming up in all Socialist governments because it was a deliberate policy.
I absolutely agree if we are talking about Ireland for example, that there were huge mistakes, but the interesting thing is that it was a deliberate policy to increase spending and deficits in order to meet the crisis and the problems, and now we see the results.
Then I would ask everybody whether we can take the questions in turn and then ask Mr Hökmark to answer.
Let us not forget my first point, which is - and it is interesting to note that none of my Socialist colleagues have denied this - that all the Socialist governments which implemented Socialist policies have run into deep deficit crisis.
The market predators will never endlessly attack any vulnerable opening, despite the painful austerity measures taken by all Member States.
Fiscal discipline, economic governance and the rescue of the euro will be incomplete without a mutually agreed plan at European level to stimulate growth.
In the past, an American Marshall Plan saved the economy of Europe.
I do not necessarily share in accepting the detail of the plan, but overall figures are supported by Fine Gael.
The underlying economic trends in Ireland are quite good.
The EU is based on a single market but this single market is still not complete.
We need to set up a permanent crisis management mechanism, preferably group-based.
A clear and comprehensible political will and a discourse of truth are the necessary conditions for restoring our citizens' confidence.
Thankfully, we are now bringing that situation under control with the new supervisory architecture which should be coming in on 1 January, the credit rating agencies report which we dealt with last night, and today's permanent financial stability mechanism.
If Mr Barroso were here, I would like to ask him if he can guarantee that a referendum will not be required in Ireland and elsewhere to make the minimum treaty changes he spoke of.
Finally, I want to say to those who have asked that a written declaration be signed by Members that this is a direct attack on corporation tax in Ireland.
This means that sanctioning Member States is not enough when it comes to economic governance.
We should thank Ireland's partners in Europe for their solidarity at this time of crisis - a crisis created largely by incompetent Conservative governments over many years.
That distortion is heightened by the failure of the Commission and the Council to engage with this Parliament on the Memorandum of Understanding with Ireland.
Commissioner Rehn, one of the meanest conditions and obligations in the Memorandum of Understanding is the obligation to cut the minimum wage in Ireland by EUR 2 000 per year.
Everyone here is talking about creating a common financial stability mechanism guaranteed by all eurozone countries, and we expect those who have managed to keep their debts under control to show solidarity with those who have not yet managed to do that.
The European Council is to decide on a permanent crisis mechanism to safeguard the financial stability of the euro area as a whole, backed up of course by treaty amendments.
We are reliably informed that these controls, and of course these treaty changes, will apply to non-eurozone countries too.
The coalition government in the United Kingdom has promised a referendum in the event of any further transfer of power to the European Union.
The European Union is a democratic institution which comprises many Member States.
It is not, therefore, able to act unilaterally in the way that individual states do - I am thinking, here, for example, of China, the United States and other countries.
Against a background where speculators are jeopardising the stability of the single currency on a daily basis by isolating and exerting pressure on Member States, the solution can only be achieved by maintaining solidarity at EU level.
At the same time, we must bear in mind that it is vital for all 27 Member States to be involved in this future mechanism as part of the single market.
The instability of other currencies will always have a considerable impact on the position of the euro. - (PT) Madam President, the next Council meeting is, in fact, very important.
Important in its response to a crisis that is extensive and international, important also in its response to a specific crisis of governments that have not done their homework on time, that have spent too much and that did not carry out the necessary structural reforms.
This is why I have come here to support the need for a stable instrument to defend the euro.
I emphasise the need for a growing role for the European Parliament in the discussion of these matters, with debates like the one we have had here today: spirited, with differences, but defending a stronger European Union and an ever-improved euro. - (LT) Madam President, in truth, I agree with all of the ideas mentioned today on establishing a crisis mechanism and on additional measures that I believe both the European Council and Parliament will debate in the future.
I liked the idea expressed by President Barroso that in this difficult situation we must work together in unison, shoulder to shoulder, and, Commissioner, I would really like to ask you to make every effort to ensure that all countries can participate in this newly established crisis mechanism, regardless of whether or not they are in the euro area.
As we opened our markets when we joined the European Union we pay the same amount of money into the budget and many other things besides. (PT) Madam President, there is no stability mechanism that addresses the greatest causes of instability within the European Union.
This is the message that is echoing in the protests across Europe, and it is time to listen to it. - (DE) Madam President, the citizens' confidence in Europe and in the euro has been seriously damaged by the financial crisis and the political manoeuvring.
The Stability and Growth Pact defines the upper limits for deficits and overall debt.
In the case of the controls, Eurostat must be further reinforced and the sanction mechanisms must be easily implemented and effective.
I regret that you have not used Article 122 which would have allowed us to include all Member States, but we are initiating a political debate insofar as Parliament will be consulted pursuant to Article 48 on the simplified review procedures and I should like to put on the table two political issues.
The second issue relates to parliamentary political control.
Therefore there should logically be some parliamentary political control under appropriate conditions, ones that you should propose to us because it is the role of parliaments, especially the European Parliament, to exercise control over the executive with regard to this provision. (PT) Madam President, making accusations does not solve our problems, and reveals, in some cases, a lack of knowledge of the various situations.
A lot is spoken about the Portuguese situation, but a report this month by the International Monetary Fund concluded that Portugal has been one of the countries putting the most reforms in place to ensure the sustainability of the public finances and social security.
Before the crisis, in 2007, Portugal had economic growth of 2.4% of GDP and a deficit of 2.6%.
Between 2005 and 2010, Portugal was one of the countries that most increased its exports; what we need is more unity, more responsibility and more solidarity so that the markets calm down. (PL) Madam President, we are concentrating on the euro area, but 150 million citizens remain outside this zone, which is one in three citizens of the European Union.
We want to say this very clearly - less of national governments, more of the Union, more of Parliament.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable members, let me first thank you for a very substantive and responsible debate on the European response to the current crisis.
Indeed this latest stage of the financial crisis is proving increasingly systemic in nature, which calls for an equally systemic response from the European Union.
Therefore Europe's policy response must be comprehensive, consistent and determined.
For instance, Spain and Portugal are taking very convincing decisions to this effect now.
Thirdly, we need effective financial backstops, and that is why in May the Union created the European Financial Stability Mechanism and facility for a temporary three-year lifespan.
But certainly we have to continue analytical discussions on such rational alternatives that can help Europe to overcome the systemic crisis by improving the functioning of the bond markets, by facilitating fiscal consolidation through more reasonable borrowing costs, by providing a basis for enhanced budgetary coordination among Member States and by reinforcing the incentives for fiscal prudence in the Member States.
The fourth element of the comprehensive response has to be structural measures, as outlined in the strategy for Europe 2020.
These are indeed necessary for increasing our potential growth and for creating sustainable employment.
We must make the most of our single market, especially in services and energy, make the tax and benefits systems more conducive to employment growth, make more focused investment in knowledge and innovation and simplify our regulatory environment.
It is also a most effective crisis prevention mechanism, as it reinforces long and short-term confidence in the European economy, as well as confidence in the immediate future.
It is very rude and lacking in respect.
Mr Rehn, you do not have to respond to this.
Madam President, Commissioner, honourable Members, I personally find that the Commission has contributed a great number of responses to this extremely instructive debate, all the more so given that Parliament is closely involved in the response to this crisis.
As you know, the Presidency has already made contact with the European Parliament, with those responsible for the matter of economic governance within this Parliament.
Furthermore, the Presidency wishes to achieve the best possible collaboration with this Parliament, especially through informal consultation, before the formal stage of negotiations begins.
In light of the importance of this issue and potential repercussions on the markets, the Presidency, as has been said, has made a commitment to fast-track it, in line with the European Council's wishes.
Furthermore, in order to expedite the work, the Presidency has set up a working group to deal with this issue alone.
The second element on which our Heads of State or Government will focus tomorrow and the day after, is the future permanent crisis management mechanism.
I do understand a number of questions about this mechanism, on the extent of the response to be made to the crisis.
Yesterday at midday, in the company of President Van Rompuy, in the General Affairs Council, many of us still had unanswered questions.
I can testify to you how much the Member States want to respond to this crisis, how aware they are that what is at stake today are the overall European market and the euro, and that it is not simply a question of one country after another.
The response must be a comprehensive one and we must do all we can to reduce the uncertainties hanging over this market.
You know precisely why this must be a simple mechanism on account of the ratifications which must take place in the different Member States; and, finally, to set up this future permanent crisis management mechanism which must also be transparent because it must be unassailable, especially before the Court of Karlsruhe.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 16 December 2010.
I think that in spite of the exceptional situation, decisions which are important for the European Union should be made calmly and with respect for the principle of solidarity and the equal rights of all Member States.
I would also like to endorse the position of the Polish Government on the changes to the way in which the level of public debt is calculated.
Poland and 10 other EU Member States have undertaken reforms of their pension systems, and these reforms are currently generating significant costs for national budgets.
in writing. - The establishment of a permanent crisis mechanism for the EU to strengthen financial stability is a step in the right direction.
The specific situation in the new Member States should also be kept in mind while establishing this mechanism.
These countries should be actively involved in the debate and given the possibility to participate in the mechanism if they are willing to do so.
At the same time, Member States should keep their national tax policies.
Shifting policies towards tax harmonisation or a common consolidated tax base will only further aggravate the gaps in economic development and hamper cohesion.
Member States that create a greater risk by their deficits and debt burden should contribute more to the assets of the crisis mechanism.
Consequently, it is evident that the European Parliament must intervene as colegislator to implement the fundamental reforms that have become necessary to stabilise the economic and monetary union.
A purely intergovernmental solution cannot be the right answer.
in writing. - (DE) I would like to draw the attention of the Council to a problem which is threatening to paralyse the cooperation between the two institutions on the subject of fisheries policy.
in writing. - Let us remind ourselves that the eurozone crisis is mainly a sovereign debt crisis which has been exacerbated by two significant events.
We ignore these two events and treat all countries as if they were a reckless happy-go-lucky group lazing in the Mediterranean sun.
Any mechanism we put in place to deal with crisis prevention and recovery should bear in mind that, in normal times, countries were duly following plans to reduce their deficits and subsequently their debts.
in writing. - (RO) The European Council meeting due to take place on 16-17 December will debate and adopt the measures required to reinforce the economic pillar of the Economic and Monetary Union and consolidate the EU's financial stability.
In this context, we must also examine the measures required to ensure that the European banking system can finance the European economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises.
In 2008, 116 million European citizens were exposed to the risk of poverty and social exclusion.
