University Business Dialogue (debate) The next item is the report by P치l Schmitt, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on university-business dialogue: a new partnership for the modernisation of Europe's universities -.
This report is the result of his intentions, and it was carried in our Committee on Culture and Education by an overwhelming majority, with just a single vote against, for which I should like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs who have contributed to this report, both on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Schmitt.
Madam President, honourable Members, this report is the answer to our communication on the dialogue between universities and business.
In order that the quality of life in Europe can be maintained and improved, workers must be able continuously to update their knowledge and skills, and this is going to be all the more necessary if we take into account Europe's demographic development in these years ahead.
The European Commission has a moderating role here, helping to remove barriers between these two worlds.
In collaboration with the European Training Foundation (ETF), a thematic forum devoted to third countries was held in the premises of the European Parliament in December 2009.
Very recently, on 4 and 5 May, the most recent EU Forum for University Business Dialogue was held in Brussels with the following priorities: cooperation between universities and small and medium-sized enterprises, cooperation between universities and business on innovation, cooperation between universities and business on the quality of education.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs Pack for her participation in the opening meeting of this event.
However, if we are to achieve these objectives, it is true that we also need to recognise the difficulties which our young people are encountering nowadays in the process of transition from study to professional life, which is also being prolonged by the crisis.
There is no time to lose, unemployment is rising and we all have a duty to engage in this dialogue and to integrate this cooperation as quickly as possible.
In this sense, it is important that more attention is paid to the dialogue between our universities and business, and that we try to eliminate the bottlenecks that hamper cooperation.
It is therefore not surprising that education, research and innovation have been given high priority in both the Commission's work programme and the Europe 2020 strategy.
University courses must reflect, to a greater extent, the requirements of the labour market and they must be set up with that in mind, for example, in the form of more business-relevant curricula, which, in turn, the business community should actively help to keep up-to-date.
Work placements are a good example of how university students can gain practical experience and then subsequently bring that experience into their studies.
The scheme could be integrated into the existing Marie Curie programme, possibly within the Industrial Academic Partnership programme, and would help to strengthen the pursuit of the goals of the Bologna process.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to highlight the value of this report in opening up the debate, within our Parliament, on the position and role of universities in Europe.
On the contrary, universities, as places of higher education and training, must also enable learners to become critical, analytical thinkers, because this will enable them to understand the world in which we live and to use their professional skills wisely.
European universities must create the conditions for lifelong learning, contribute to the enrichment of intellectual life and play a central role in the knowledge-based society of today's digital age.
Digital systems are changing us, they are changing the way we act and think, our cognitive skills and, ultimately, our brains.
What we need therefore is a revolution in research and teaching that will adapt to this situation.
We need this cooperation at local, national and international level.
I agree that SMEs are important but I think we are also looking at talking to large corporations and also to the public sector, to government employers at national, regional and at local level, the health sector and really all those who employ people, because it is in that way that we will make sure that we get the level of graduate unemployment down and we give our young people a chance.
This will allow us to benefit from the experience of American universities, which, in my opinion, are the best universities in the world, and it would be good if our universities could benefit from them and, at the same time, share our experience with other countries, such as the countries of the Former Soviet Union.
However, what seems to me, here, to be the most important aspect is to emphasise that in this dialogue between the worlds of business and universities, we should not forget that the university - a school of higher education - is an independent, autonomous institution whose objective is the search for truth - a disinterested search for truth.
This is how universities arose in Italy, Germany, France and Poland, and I think we should not forget that this goal should also guide universities today, while cooperation with business should not hinder or restrict that noble work of searching for truth - the disinterested search for truth. (PT) Madam President, universities are the backbone of Europe; they are probably our best creation.
However, the world of business and business management that we know today is 30 or 40 years old: it dates from since the War.
I leave you with that question. (SK) First, I would like to congratulate our fellow Member, the author of this report, on his election to the new and important role of speaker of the Hungarian Parliament.
I would also like to take this opportunity to express the hope that P치l Schmitt, through his wisdom, broad political outlook, and calm and prudent speeches in this role, will help to make a lasting improvement in Hungary's coexistence with her neighbours.
Where these academics converge is in the agreement that universities remain one of Europe's great innovations and that their continued success is essential to the future social, political and economic success of the European Union.
In addition, universities need to be more receptive to the business world so that they can better adapt their education offering to the labour market's demands.
In Romania last year, a project was launched with European Union funding, which involved 20 faculties receiving new curricula adapted to the labour market's current requirements.
In the current situation, I support the promotion and extension of the Erasmus programmes for young entrepreneurs and for trainees. (RO) I wish to begin by congratulating P치l Schmitt for the coherent and relevant report on the current situation in higher education.
We have a major problem, which is that, at the moment, we are turning out unemployed people in every one of the European Union's 27 Member States rather than young people who are completely geared up for the labour market.
I, too, was in Santiago de Compostela with Se치n Kelly where we visited the local university.
All these things are very important.
We are convinced that in times of economic crisis, when young people have greater problems in finding a job and companies are facing greater competitive pressure, this collaboration represents an added economic and social value that affords it even greater priority.
It is a dialogue and cooperation that must flow in both directions, from supply and from demand, and must extend to national and regional levels in order to identify the best practices, the best policies and the best instruments.
This is a good idea if we want to make the European economy dynamic and truly competitive.
The key for proceeding in this direction is integrating the systems of secondary and tertiary education with the labour market.
Europe can therefore secure its relevance in the international arena if, in science and innovation, it acts in a more unified manner and involves everyone in a position to determine both growth and development.
In this context, systems of appraising universities in order to establish and measure efficiency and quality standards are more than opportune.
It is therefore time to move towards that new dimension of European unity known as the 'fifth freedom', or the free movement of knowledge and talent.
I, too, wish to congratulate the rapporteur. (RO) We must ask ourselves what direction we want our education and research systems to go in.
I think that the business world will not be alone in facing a radical overhaul as a result of the economic and financial crisis.
This will help familiarise students with the rigorous requirements of entrepreneurship and will also make European higher education more attractive globally.
The practical impact must be to offer society added value and provide knowledge and results from the cooperation between universities and companies, thereby generating economic growth and, by extension, a better living for our citizens. (DE) Madam President, thank you very much for allowing me to speak again briefly.
Thirdly, financing by businesses of student work experience placements and scientific research which they have ordered.
Finally, I would like to say that the best investment is an investment in the education of the young generation, and I mean lifelong education. (RO) I partially agree with the rapporteur.
I wish to say that in order to achieve the EU 2020 strategy objectives, we need knowledge and innovation.
It is therefore absolutely necessary to revamp Europe's universities so that they can play a decisive role in society and in an economy based on knowledge and innovation.
I believe that there is broad agreement in this House that the dialogue between universities and the working world and business can be beneficial for everyone involved, for the universities themselves, researchers, lecturers, students, businesses and for society as a whole.
The report provides a good basis for that and is a good source of reference, and for that I am very grateful.
In recent months, research has been undertaken in my country of Lithuania on adapting institutions of higher education to the new needs of the labour market and the creation of opportunities for graduates to find employment as soon as they have completed their higher education.
In other words, universities do not always take market needs into account and the ones worst affected by this are the young people who have just finished their studies.
We want a European Union based on the central role of the individual.
Our young people must be able to rely on a strong, continuing link between the training that they receive at university and a labour market which can offer them employment possibilities consistent with what they learned during their studies.
In the present situation, I think it is important to have more dialogue between universities and entrepreneurs, because improved cooperation will provide greater opportunities for mutual benefit, which later would not just stimulate economic growth but would also be beneficial in a wider social sense, supporting the continuous improvement of a society based on action.
I think that the Member States must also concentrate a lot more on encouraging people to adapt constantly to the changing job market - which is of prime importance for the European Union, especially during the present economic slump - by promoting lifelong learning.
The fact is, skills and knowledge are closely connected and completely interdependent.
