Adequate, sustainable and safe European pension systems (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on 'Towards adequate, sustainable and safe European pension systems'.
What we have found, though, is that we must all move towards a higher retirement age, and that process must take place at Member State level, in conjunction with our social partners.
The Member States that have based their pension systems on the second pillar have been saving, often through joint employer-employee schemes, and, in some cases, in the new Member States, through mixed schemes.
On transferability: in my opinion, an open labour market can only function with more free commuter traffic which does not put employees who exercise that right at a disadvantage.
The Green Paper outlines the key challenges facing the Union in this area, and asked fourteen questions about how work at EU level could help the Member States in ensuring that pensions are adequate, sustainable and safe, while fully respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
The Green Paper takes a holistic approach, because my fellow Commissioners, Rehn and Barnier, and I are convinced that adequate, sustainable and safe pensions call for coordinated, joined-up policies spanning our three areas of responsibility.
However, most Member States have a long way to go and a few others have not even begun with pension reforms.
In addition, so that public pension systems are sustainable, we must ensure that people have the opportunity to continue working up until retirement age.
States must not shirk their obligation to provide adequate pensions for all citizens.
However, I think that EU bodies must show greater concern for European citizens' living conditions.
I think in the report, we are clear that Member States are themselves responsible for making sure that there is adequate pension provision for their citizens.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, I, too, would like to add my voice to that of others who thanked our rapporteur for the very good work that has been done on this report.
More and more people are not working for one company throughout their working life.
We would also welcome the fact that this report contains - if there is going to be a change in pension provision - adequate time for adaptation for people to reconsider their financial futures.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, my group supports the publication of this Green Paper.
The report recognises the importance of Member States sharing best practice and exchanging information, but also emphasises that pensions remain a Member State competence.
It acknowledges that the EU should not legislate on the adequacy of pension levels and retirement ages, but asks - and asks very clearly and very strongly - that Member States regulate in accordance with their own circumstances, taking account of those issues.
EU citizens working around Europe - and I have met many - should not be left disadvantaged by having their pension pots frozen in different Member States.
Our expectations change, but it is vital that we keep up with these changes in our thinking and our policy making.
We would like to state our clear opposition to this path towards European integration, built upon a foundation of antisocial policies which, lamentably, this report endorses, by supporting the European Commission Green Paper, by allowing a link to be made between the legal retirement age and life expectancy, by encouraging people to stay in the job market longer, and by not excluding support for private pension systems even when it is already known that their speculative use by funds and private banks can have severe consequences which leave the elderly, and particularly elderly women, in poverty.
We are against the increase in retirement age and we defend the pensions system integrated in the universal and mutual public social security system, which increases the value of smaller benefits and pensions, respects elderly people and allows them to live with dignity, thereby contributing to the eradication of poverty.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Madam President, in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on 22 November last year, the rapporteur said that pensions were exclusively a competence of the Member State.
The UK National Association of Pension Funds says that this report will make pensions more expensive - by 90% according to actuarial consultants Punter Southall.
Your solution is to push the retirement age up to 67 and to carry out profound reforms of pay-as-you-go pension systems to reduce benefits for insured people.
This is a result of the 463 amendments from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the 211 amendments from the associated Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
Chancellor Merkel and President Sarkozy are rightly in favour of the gradual convergence of the pension systems and the retirement age.
In countries such as France, they have experience of this, but not in other Member States of the European Union.
I obviously want to mention here the reference to a standardised retirement system, at European level, at 67 years of age, which has been created in what was a draft competitiveness pact.
The only solution is to strengthen the reliable public pension systems. (DE) Madam President, the population pyramid in the EU will soon be turned upside down and the over 55 age group will represent the largest proportion of the population.
In addition, we need to create incentives to keep older people in work for as long as possible.
We are coming to the conclusion that reforms of Europe's pension systems, which fall under the competences of the Member States, are essential.
This makes it very clear that pensions are, first and foremost, the responsibility of Member States.
I am pleased that my amendment calling for the implementation of the Employment Directive 2000 to outlaw discrimination on the grounds of age is also included.
The main conclusions which we support are that: decisions on pension systems are political decisions and are fully and exclusively the responsibility of the individual Member States; it is essential to raise the retirement age; the only source of growth in the EU in the coming years will be growth in the productivity of labour; it is a key task to support the employment of older workers, particularly through greater flexibility in employment law relationships and the correct adjustment of pension systems; it is not appropriate to coordinate pension systems and their reform at EU level; we do not support a standardisation of the retirement age across the EU, nor do we support linking it to average life expectancy; we do not support any efforts to unify definitions, for example, the definition of an adequate pension, at Community level. (NL) Madam President, subsidiarity, a matter for individual Member States, and solidarity, those were the two things that the rapporteur kept emphasising about pension policy.
The EU should provide the criteria for the minimum pension.
The EU should persuade Member States to raise the retirement age.
Unfortunately, the Commission and the rapporteur are giving primacy to the internal market and they will only increase the divide between the rich and the poor. (MT) Madam President, I would like to begin by congratulating my colleague, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, for the extraordinary work she has carried out in this report.
The report recognises that in a time in which European Union citizens are particularly vulnerable, it is essential that the Member States ensure that social protection measures, and pensions in particular, are higher and more reliable, thus guaranteeing peace of mind to an ever ageing population, and ensuring that they remain economically independent.
The people, the citizens, must be informed about what changes will be implemented and how these will affect them, in order to enable them to make informed decisions in all cases, and all changes must be made in a citizen-friendly manner.
I would like to emphasise three points that we absolutely must take into account in order to resolve the problem of the solvency of pensions.
The first point is the inequality faced by women of retirement age, because inequality in employment leads to poverty at retirement age.
Finally, that poses the problem of senior citizens, a problem which we must deal with more quickly in our work. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, pensions throughout Europe must provide enough money for people to live on.
However, at a time of economic crisis and demographic change, reforms of national pension systems are becoming unavoidable.
However, we must remember that pensions must be secure and safe, and that they must take into account what we are paid.
We will follow this up in the second half of 2011 with the White Paper, which I mentioned in my earlier intervention, accompanied by a suitable impact assessment.
The Commissioners' Group on pensions already discussed last week possible policy options on how to update and improve the European framework on pensions.
This means that we need to create employment opportunities also for people with disabilities and increase the stability of financial systems.
rapporteur. - (NL) Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to credit my fellow Members who have worked with me on this report: George Cutaş, Barbara Matera and Cornelis de Jong.
That is what we want, and not for a number of Member States - the ten which have written us a letter - to be penalised for having made good provisions for the future, for their pensions.
Madam President, I have already thanked my fellow Members Cutaş, Matera and De Jong, but I would also like to thank Frédéric Daerden, Marianne Harkin, Julie Girling and Jean Lambert, who have spoken on behalf of their respective groups, as well as Danuta Jazłowiecka, the shadow rapporteur from my own party, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), for having made this report what it is.
The vote will take place at midday tomorrow (Wednesday, 16 February 2011).
I would remind those of you who have not had the opportunity to speak that, if you wish, you can submit a written statement not exceeding 200 words which will be annexed to the verbatim report of proceedings, should you wish to keep a record of what you wanted to say if you had been able to do so.
The European Commission's Green Paper presents convincing arguments as to why we need to improve current pension systems.
We must therefore evaluate carefully not only the benefits of these solutions, but also the potential risks, particularly when we are talking about increasing the retirement age or Member States losing influence in pension policy.
Changing demographic indicators and longer life expectancies urge us to develop a new strategy with regard to our pension systems.
While Western European countries are struggling with the problems of increasing current and future costs, new Member States are attempting to set up diversified systems.
I feel it is beneficial that the EU 2020 strategy supports an active, focused labour market policy, which will help increase the employment rate of older workers, women, members of minority groups and the long-term unemployed.
I do not know how it is in other countries, but in the Czech Republic, for example, the projected birth rates drawn up by experts 10 years ago differ so dramatically from the current state of affairs that the assertions of the Green Paper for the 2040-2060 period are, in my opinion, nonsensical.
These reforms include: - discouraging early retirement and retirement through disability on unjustified medical grounds; - increasing the number of people contributing to the public unitary pension system; - gradually raising the normal retirement age for men and women, to 65 for men by 2015, and to 63 for women by 2030.
I was glad to learn that the report on the Commission's Green Paper on adequate, sustainable and safe European pension systems would be added to today's agenda.
