European Ombudsman's activity report for 2009 - Special Report from the European Ombudsman to the European Parliament following the draft recommendation to the European Commission in Complaint 676/2008/RT (According to Rule 205(2), 1st part) - 26th Annual Report on Monitoring the Application of European Union Law (2008) (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the reports on the European Ombudsman and the Application of European Union Law: the report by Mrs Nedelcheva, on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, on the annual report on the European Ombudsman's activities in 2009 (2010/2059 (INI)); the report by Mrs Paliadeli, on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, on the Special Report by the European Ombudsman following his draft recommendation to the European Commission in complaint 676/2008 RT; and the report by Mrs Lichtenberger, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the 26th Annual Report on Monitoring the Application of European Union Law (2008) -.
First of all, there is the legal objective, which entails ensuring that the European institutions show respect for the fundamental right of good administration.
To achieve this objective of full respect for good administration, the Ombudsman must be inflexible when it comes to the institutions.
They allow the Ombudsman to point out cases of blatant bad administration when all means of resolving disputes have been exhausted.
The second objective is moral in nature.
However, I also included a number of recommendations.
The environmental organisation took recourse to the European Ombudsman, who prepared a draft recommendation addressed to the Commission a month later, asking it to reply within three months, in accordance with Article 288 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
This unwarranted delay resulted in a special report to the European Parliament, charging the Commission with refusing to cooperate honestly and in good faith and, at the same time, pointing out the danger in undermining the facility for the two institutions to supervise the Commission.
Between September 2008 and February 2010, the Commission arrived at a decision which had been suggested to it in the Ombudsman's draft recommendation fifteen months earlier.
Mr President, my report on the implementation of Community law is of the utmost importance here in the European Parliament.
However, if implementation in the various national parliaments does not take place or is inefficient, then we, the Members of this House, Parliament itself, and the European Union as a whole, are faced with a major credibility problem.
In this context, it should be stated that we must avoid frustrating our citizens in their concern to see Community law implemented.
I would like to ask you, Commissioner, whether you are prepared to endorse the procedure we propose in our report.
Finally, I would like again to emphasise: if we lose our credibility because we fail to pay sufficient attention to the implementation of Community law in European Member States, this will lead to a credibility problem for the European Union as a whole.
Ombudsman. - Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for this opportunity to address you.
I wish to thank the Committee on Petitions, and especially the chair, Mrs Mazzoni.
They continue to offer me valuable support and advice, as evidenced by the excellent reports submitted to this Chamber by Mrs Nedelcheva and Mrs Paliadeli, whom I thank warmly for their kind words.
Where EU institutions refuse to follow my recommendations, it is of fundamental importance that the Ombudsman can turn to Parliament to seek its support, and I am naturally very grateful that Parliament continues to do so, as evidenced by the Nedelcheva and Paliadeli reports.
This is the first annual report presented to you since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
In 2009, my office closed 318 inquires, 70% of which were completed within one year. 55% were completed within three months.
I am pleased to note that, in 2009, 56% of all investigations were either settled by the institution or resulted in a friendly solution.
In 2009, I received a total of 2 392 such complaints, a 6% decline compared to 2008.
Reducing the number of inadmissible complaints has been a long-standing request of Parliament.
This guide aims to direct complainants to the body best placed to help them, whether it be my own services, the services of national or regional ombudsmen in the Member States, or problem-solving mechanisms such as the cross-border online network Solvit.
This also means that complaints are resolved more promptly and effectively, thus ensuring that citizens can fully enjoy their rights under EU law and also that EU law is properly implemented.
The number of enquiries opened, based on complaints received in 2009, rose from 293 to 335.
I have also continued my efforts to improve the quality of information provided to citizens and potential complainants concerning their rights under EU law through the European network of Ombudsmen which greatly helps to facilitate the rapid transfer of complaints to the competent Ombudsman or similar body.
To promote this goal with respect to the Commission, I am in close contact with the Vice-President of the Commission responsible for relations with the Ombudsman, Commissioner Šefčovič, who I thank for his presence here today, and I am grateful for his close cooperation and support to date.
I believe that the relevant rules should provide guidance to officials as to how they should ensure both sound financial management and good administration.
I would like to start by thanking Ms Nedelcheva, Ms Paliadeli and Ms Lichtenberger for their reports.
Of course, there are some outstanding issues on which we are working, but I think that is simply proof of our fruitful communication.
If the institution does not accept his recommendations, he can make a special report to Parliament.
A special report was sent to Parliament in 2010 regarding a complaint on access to Commission documents.
Given the developments which have occurred in recent years on the registering and treatment of complaints (the 'EU Pilot' project), as confirmed in its annual report on monitoring the application of EU law in 2009, the Commission would like, in the near future, to update its Communication of 23 March 2002 on relations with the complainant in respect of infringements of Community law.
One of these cases led the Ombudsman to submit in 2010 a special report to Parliament and this is the subject of Ms Paliadeli's report.
The Commission handles around 5 000 access requests per year, of which only 15 to 20 lead to complaints to the Ombudsman.
The entry into force of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has made it possible to start thinking about how to achieve a common approach in order to establish an open, effective and independent European administration.
A positive outcome here seems possible, and cooperation between the two institutions on the matter should ensure it.
If you will allow me, Mr President, I will also respond to Ms Lichtenberger because she has made a great effort to be here this morning.
I would like to assure her that the Commission attaches great importance to the correct application of EU law and, as you know, this was among the priorities of the Barroso Commission.
Already in our communication 'A Europe of results', in 2007, the Commission committed itself to improving its working methods to ensure the more efficient pursuit of problems arising in the application of EU law, focusing on the issues which cause the most problems for citizens and businesses.
The Commission welcomes Parliament's response to this report.
We welcome Parliament's recognition of the contribution of the EU Pilot project to a properly functioning, citizen-focused European Union, in accordance with the Lisbon Treaty.
The Commission also considers it appropriate to weigh the outcome of initial work on the overall issue before considering any more specific elements.
The draft resolution being discussed today covers a wide range of issues and, in its response to the resolution, the Commission will provide additional explanations which would be very difficult to provide today, mainly through lack of time.
Mr President, Mr Diamandouros, Commissioner, this is a joint debate we are holding here.
Mr President, I would like to take the floor as shadow rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) for the special European Ombudsman's report.
I must mention that not a single amendment was tabled and I would like, at the same time, to congratulate Mrs Paliadeli for this result.
I also wish to recall the principle of sincere cooperation stipulated in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
It entails the consolidation of relations in good faith between the EU's institutions.
Another worrying aspect is that the Ombudsman had to compile a special report as a last resort to persuade the Commission to be more cooperative.
Mr President, I would like to thank all three Members for the reports we are discussing here today in the joint debate, and I would particularly like to talk about Mrs Lichtenberger's report, as it shows exceptional rigour in my opinion, and I agree with much that it says.
I, too, would therefore like to be a little more critical today, Mr Vice-President.
It can generally be said that the Commission does not, on the whole, tell citizens or Parliament enough about how it monitors the implementation of Community law.
A terse reference to formal proceedings in the case of a Member State which has not yet transposed an EU law at the national level does not tell us or our citizens very much.
We in the European Parliament have a sincere interest in sensibly evaluating the Commission's progress in fulfilling your tasks, safeguarding agreements and complying with EU law.
I would like to make a strong appeal for the Commission to provide this information to us and, through us, to the citizens of the EU.
In conclusion, Mr Vice-President, I have said several times in my speeches that the European Parliament has a sincere interest in assisting the Commission, and even in supporting it against the Council.
We are now making a request to you for the Commission to provide the European Parliament in return with the information we are requesting not only for ourselves, but also for the citizens of the Member States of the European Union.
Mr President, in the Committee on Petitions, in other words, the committee that deals with citizens' complaints, respect for EU legislation is absolutely key.
We need only consider the many complaints we have received concerning the long-standing waste crisis in Campania, despite a clear ruling by the European Court of Justice, and concerning the freezing of funds.
The Commission must immediately utilise all means at its disposal in this regard.
In light of this, I welcome Mrs Lichtenberger's report.
In any case, it will constitute progress if we now adopt the proposal in Mrs Nedelcheva's report to have a proper law on EU administration procedures, which we finally have a basis for in Article 298 of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I would like to thank the Ombudsman and Mrs Paliadeli.
Let us concede, namely, that the European Union, as an international organisation, is, to a considerable extent, hard to understand, and not only in terms of its grants, but also in the area of its powers, institutions, decision-making processes and adopted policies and legislation.
When we debated the 2008 report in this place, everyone here called for greater public awareness.
Mr President, my group would like to thank Mrs Nedelcheva for this report, which provides us with a wealth of information from the Committee on Petitions on the work of the European Ombudsman.
I believe that the objectives that were set for 2010 are extremely relevant.
We have the example of the Paliadeli report, in relation to the case of Porsche, and as Porsche refused, or rather the Commission refused to publish some of the motor company's letters, Parliament needs to support the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman also needs to rely on the European Parliament in order to acquire better information on these matters.
It is, of course, the European Ombudsman's job to ensure that any private individual or legal entity that encounters problems with the institutions of the European Union in terms of abuse of power or any other form of maladministration can take recourse to him.
I should like to point out that nine of the cases closed in 2009 are examples of best practice.
My congratulations therefore to Mr Diamandouros. (DE) Mr President, I also once lodged a complaint with the Ombudsman, and, although things did not work out quite so well for me and I was not satisfied with the judgment, nonetheless I would like to compliment the Ombudsman on his work.
What I am getting at is that it is very important for us to put our own house in order and to take the recommendations of the Ombudsman seriously, thereby strengthening his position. (PL) Mr President, as is the case every year, the Committee on Legal Affairs is presenting Parliament with its report regarding the European Commission's report on the application of EU law and, as is the case every year, members of the Committee on Legal Affairs have many reservations as to the substance and the form in which the Commission prepared the report.
There is no doubt that the issue of transposing EU law into national systems is a very serious problem within the Union.
However, this should not lead to delays that cause a lack of legal surety and, as a consequence, make it impossible for citizens to exercise their rights.
As our rapporteur correctly points out, delays in transposition as well as the incorrect application of EU law bring with them real costs and lead to a lack of trust in EU institutions among citizens.
For this reason as well, I welcome all of the Commission's initiatives such as meetings of experts and bilateral dialogue between the Commission and Member States, the aim of which is to resolve these problems as quickly as possible.
I am observing with great interest the EU pilot programme, which is supposed to be a tool enabling a rapid response to all cases of incorrect application or adaptation of EU law to national legislation.
With regard to our Parliament - and I address my fellow Members - the law that we create, because we are legislators, must be clear and comprehensible, for only when it is understandable can it be transposed easily into national systems and will there be fewer problems associated with it. (PL) Mr President, when analysing the report on the European Ombudsman's activities for 2009, I was glad to note the further development of cooperation between the Ombudsman and the Committee on Petitions.
Taking into account the fact that that only 23% of the more than 3 000 complaints registered in 2009 came within the remit of the Ombudsman, he should absolutely continue his activities in the field of information.
This occurred in as many as 56% of cases in 2009.
I hope that the Ombudsman, supported by us, Parliament and the other institutions, will continue his work with the same energy and even greater effectiveness than to date. (FI) Mr President, my thanks go to the European Ombudsman and his Office for the admirable work that they have done for his Office in difficult circumstances.
In this respect, the Porsche case is very serious.
Now that a Commissioner and the Ombudsman are sitting there quietly next to each other, I think it would be a good idea if they began a confidential and thorough discussion about whether they respect one another's work and whether they are prepared to cooperate and act in accordance with the EU's very own basic principles.
I do not want to blame any single Commissioner in connection with this, but the Commission should have a genuine debate on the matter, because the EU's public image is certainly not so good that we can afford more cases like Porsche again in the future.
The rights of our citizens have to be respected by the Commission, the Council, and obviously Parliament too - by all the EU institutions. (DE) Mr President, Mr Diamandouros has been a real asset for our citizens and for the European Union and I would like to thank him sincerely for his work.
I do not believe that this is an adequate way of dealing with the concerns and complaints of our citizens and I would like to take this opportunity to ask Commissioner Šefčovič, who I hold in very high regard, to state that he either intends to abandon this project or to reconsider how we can ensure that the complaints of our citizens are sent to the place where they will actually be dealt with and that citizens will receive justice and redress. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, I do not wish to change this Chamber into a university classroom.
In Mrs Nedelcheva's report, there is one section that I find alarming.
Apparently there are a few thousand complaints, and of these some are not valid.
In other words, this is a case of 'glass half empty or glass half full'.
There is much talk of transparency and clarity, yet simplicity is also a democratic value that we often forget, as it allows wide public access to the institutions.
Most of the complaints concern the Commission, which is regularly late with its response and thus shakes confidence in EU institutions.
In this respect, I would like to say that a Valencian cultural association has collected 650 000 signatures in favour of a legislative initiative to guarantee reception of radio and television channels in Catalan.
Well, the Spanish Government has refused to take these 650 000 signatures into consideration.
We hope that the European Ombudsman will take them on board and protect the rights of those 650 000 Europeans who are protected by European legislation. (SK) Madam President, I would like to begin by expressing the opinion that the Commission's annual reports on monitoring the application of EU law have certain shortcomings, since in their present form, they do not provide the citizen or the affected institutions with the necessary information on the actual situation regarding the application of EU law.
The European Parliament has already sought better information on proceedings involving breaches, through a formal request in the resolution of 4 February 2010.
Year after year, this institution contributes to strengthening the trust of complainants in European institutions.
It is for this reason that I ask the Ombudsman to attempt, in future, to collect the complaints submitted to national ombudsmen on the implementation of European law by Member States, as well, since in most cases, citizens come into contact with European law through their own national authorities. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, to start with, I should like to congratulate the European Ombudsman on the exceptional work he has done over this entire period.
I should like to comment specifically on Mrs Paliadeli's report.
If the national parliaments and the European Parliament must cooperate effectively in the public interest, as indeed they must, there is no doubt that this personal enrichment of professional history and diverse legal cultures must find time in this cooperation for mediation as an effective method of solving problems in the public interest. (LT) Madam President, Ombudsman, thank you for your report.
The role of the European Ombudsman is particularly important for helping citizens to clear up problems that have arisen, and for improving the transparency and accountability of the institutions' work.
The Commission is receiving numerous complaints about maladministration.
Furthermore, inappropriate application of legislation undermines confidence in European Union institutions and leads to additional costs. (PL) Madam President, at the outset, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her very good, comprehensive and balanced report, as well as the Ombudsman for his unceasing work in combating maladministration as well as raising administration standards in the European Union.
For this to be possible, he must cooperate more closely with national ombudsmen.
The second point I wanted to make was to underline the great importance of interinstitutional cooperation, as my fellow Members also did.
I believe that our experience with the Ombudsman, especially the current one, reflects the extent of the cooperation that exists between this Chamber, this Parliament and, in particular, the Committee on Petitions, and the Ombudsman's bureau.
Moreover, I would like to appeal to the Commissioner present, Mr Šefčovič, to follow our lead, as I believe that in the area of citizens' complaints, the European Commission is not cooperating with the Parliament as much as the Ombudsman is.
Finally, I would like to pass on a message to the citizens.
First of all, I would like to praise the work of my colleague, Mrs Nedelcheva, for her report on the activities of the European Ombudsman in 2009.
The European Commission has been the object of most of the Ombudsman's criticism, often for a lack of information.
The report by my fellow Member, Mrs Paliadeli, whom I would also like to congratulate, is a glaring example.
Next, I would like to thank our European Ombudsman for all the work that has been accomplished, together with his whole team, and for his accessibility and his excellent collaboration with the Committee on Petitions.
The second issue which arises relates to property purchases and transactions between citizens in different Member States.
I am glad that you are nodding approvingly.
When more than one third of the investigations by the Ombudsman were cases where there was a lack of transparency and when 56% of all cases were resolved amicably, the importance of the office of the Ombudsman is clearly evident.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, in my introductory remarks, I talked too fast, so I will try to correct this.
He knows how closely we cooperate, and I think that the success rate in sorting out the problems of maladministration or other issues that he is investigating is so high because we are cooperating very closely and in a very positive spirit.
If I may ask the assistance of the European Parliament in this particular area, I would like to ask you to insist a little bit more on correlation tables where directives are concerned.
So far, the results are very positive.
To conclude, Madam President, I would like to thank the Members of the European Parliament and, of course, our Ombudsman, for the very satisfactory cooperation, and for a very good debate and the many new ideas which I heard this morning in the debate.
I would just like to remind all of us that, thanks to the Lisbon Treaty, citizens have the right to good administration.
Ombudsman. - Madam President, first of all, I wish to thank very warmly all the Members who took the time to comment on my report.
I wish to make it clear to this Chamber that Mr Šefčovič has gone out of his way to try and work very closely with the Ombudsman, and I am very grateful to him for what he has done so far.
Therefore, I wish to draw a distinction between the person of the Commissioner and the Commission's institutional response to this issue, which resulted in my needing - for the first time in 15 years - to feel constrained to submit a report to this body concerning that behaviour.
Commissioner, I consider the 2002 communication concerning citizens of fundamental importance for the application of good administration of the Union.
I am very glad that the Commission also acknowledges that.
More than 46 000 people have used it so far, and they were guided to the right place the first time around.
Ms Geringer de Oedenberg: it may not be easy to grasp that the vast majority of the complaints, whether to the European Ombudsman or the national ombudsman, do indeed deal with EU law.
Therefore, we have the network of ombudsmen that I coordinate in order to be able to send the complaints to the right institution from the very beginning so as to avoid problems.
We are very mindful of the constraints, but we are also encouraged by the fact that the major budgetary institution - not only Parliament - has approved it.
I would be violating my mandate if I were to accept this task, and I would also be encroaching on the legal responsibilities and mandate of my colleagues in the Member States if I were to do it.
Madam President, Mr Diamandouros, Mr Šefčovič, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your contributions, which, I strongly believe, have, on the one hand, clearly shown the importance of the activities of the European Ombudsman and, on the other, the interest that our institution accords to these activities within the European Parliament.
Mr Diamandouros, the year 2009 marked the 15th anniversary of the institution of the European Ombudsman.
As a result of your election by the European Parliament, an additional legitimacy has been added to your function.
I say 'added' because, in fact, the legitimacy of your function originates from all those European citizens who have been able to turn to you and who have been able to find a solution thanks to your interventions.
The reduction in the number of complaints, the reduction in the time spent on finding a solution, the complaints that have been settled amicably - there are always as many advances as there are needs.
Behind these facts, I think that there are two major challenges that we should not lose sight of: obtaining more transparency in the functioning of the institutions, and having a better dialogue between citizens and the institutions both at a European and at a national level.
I would like to thank you, Mr Diamandouros, and I will conclude by saying that, as a result of your everyday work, we have concrete evidence that it is possible not only to take up these challenges but, above all, to provide adequate and satisfactory answers for citizens.
That is very important for me.
I consider that fifteen months' delay to its reply and its final decision, successive extensions to the initial deadline and, more importantly, what I consider to be the Commission's curious decision not to disclose the letter prepared for this particular automobile manufacturer, telling it that it would disclose some of its letters, are serious issues; the decision not to disclose the letter is a very serious issue.
If, after such a long time - and this is not your fault, Commissioner, you only took over this particular sector recently; if the Commission had decided to disclose the letter which it had prepared for this particular automobile manufacturer to Mr Diamandouros on 18 February, there would probably have been no special report.
However, the Commission must take serious account of the fact - and I am glad that you said it before I did - that any difficulties which you cause the European Ombudsman in his work harms the unity of the European Union, undermines the trust of its citizens in its institutions and damages the public image of its function.
I believe his work is very valuable and I am aware how important it is to our citizens because his office has become a key point of contact for them.
I would like to come back to what Mr Šefčovič had to say, particularly in relation to the EU pilot project, which has been criticised sharply by a number of Members of Parliament because, as you stated clearly yourself, it offers 'more possibilities for Member States' but not for citizens.
Written statements (Rule 149) The application of European law is vital so that EU citizens can fully enjoy the benefits of the internal market as even the most effective legislation becomes redundant if it is not applied.
in writing. - (HU) On the margins of the European Ombudsman's annual activity report, allow me, as the author of Parliament's opinion on public access to documents, to say a few words about institutional transparency.
I was pleased that when examining citizens' complaints registered with the Ombudsman, the author of the report, Mrs Nedelcheva, devoted special attention to the relation between transparency and good administration.
The Latvian Saeima formally elected Romāns Apsītis as Ombudsman.
He has, sadly, not noticed that there are some 300 000 people in Latvia who have had their basic civil rights taken away from them.
Around 300 000 people in Latvia, many of whom have lived in Latvia all their lives, have had their basic civil rights taken away from them.
