ECB annual report for 2008 - Report on the 2009 Annual Statement on the Euro Area and Public Finances (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following: the report by Mr Scicluna, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the ECB annual report for 2008, and the report by Mr Giegold, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the 2009 Annual Statement on the Euro Area and Public Finances -.
My report on the ECB's 2008 annual report was drafted in this context.
The report focuses on the ECB's continued response to the crisis, its exit strategy proposals, the increasing imbalances within the eurozone, the reform of the EU's financial architecture and, finally, issues related to the governance and accountability of this institution.
The financial and economic crisis has seen the worst global economic decline since the 1930s.
After a relatively benign period of economic growth enjoyed across most of Europe, most Member States have had their economies stress-tested, not through a simulated model but in real time and with painfully real consequences.
The result has been GDP growth of a meagre 0.7% in 2008, followed by a 4% contraction in 2009.
Meanwhile, Member States across the EU have forecast a very sluggish and uneven return to growth in 2010 and 2011.
Most Member States are experiencing rising budgetary deficits and debts.
Although inflation was far above the ECB's self-imposed ceiling when it peaked at 4% in June and July 2008, inflation rates have since tumbled.
The ECB has also steadily cut interest rates from a peak of 4.25% in June 2008 down to the current rate of 1% in May 2009, in a bid to reinvigorate lending and to kick-start the European economy.
The ECB is accountable to the citizens of Europe through the European Parliament.
The economic situation is a matter of major concern for the citizens of Europe and for all of us.
At this time, the report was adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in a highly cooperative spirit and by a large majority.
I would like to present the report against this background.
On the one hand, it is very clear, both from the relevant Commission proposal and from the recommendations which Parliament and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs are presenting here in the plenary session, that the economic situation must be stabilised.
However, the report also states very clearly that the rules in the Stability and Growth Pact are not enough.
The Commission, in particular, and also the euro area countries, have a huge responsibility for introducing the necessary measures in this situation.
I would like to summarise briefly our proposals in this respect.
Firstly, we need effective instruments for economic coordination.
This is why we are calling in the report for eurobonds or similar measures to be applied, in order to help the weaker Member States by means of solidarity.
The simplest solution which would allow us to make good progress in this area is effective cooperation in the field of taxes.
The report also calls for the implementation of a country-by-country reporting system for corporate income.
Strong economic cooperation between the Member States will help us to ensure that we do not leave behind debts for our children, but instead a euro area in which the countries cooperate with one another rather than being dragged down by competition.
Following the profound intensification of the financial crisis in the autumn of 2008, 2009 started with a continued synchronised freefall in economic activity worldwide.
Until around April last year, economic activity was declining, month after month.
Overall, our non-standard monetary policy measures, which are known collectively as enhanced credit support, have served, we trust, the euro area economy well.
They have supported the functioning of the money market, contributed to improving financing conditions and allowed for a better flow of credit to the real economy than could have been achieved through interest rate reductions alone.
I therefore welcome the repeated support by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for our quarterly monetary dialogue.
I would like to say that the robustness of euro-denominated CDS markets is of direct relevance for the Eurosystem as regards control over its currency and financial stability in the euro area.
To ensure such a role, we still need to improve the functioning of financial systems considerably further.
Effective reforms also have to look very closely at non-bank financial institutions and at the set-up and functioning of financial markets.
Based on our last projections for this year, we will have at the end of this year, after 12 years of the euro, inflation at a yearly average of 1.95%.
That is in line with our definition of price stability: less than 2%, but close to 2%.
The smooth functioning of Europe's economic and monetary union does not rest only on monetary union but also on economic union.
But they have generally worked well, even in the most difficult times.
I will provide the technical details when reporting on the Governing Council decisions of our next meeting on 8 April.
The global financial crisis has brought fresh challenges to which we in Europe have risen.
Our monetary union and our very close ties, inside the single market, with all EU Member States' economies have prevented the crisis from being compounded by currency crises, as was the experience in the early 1990s.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the chance to discuss the 2009 Annual Statement on the euro area.
Let me congratulate both rapporteurs, Edward Scicluna and Sven Giegold, for their excellent reports.
In order to respect the independence of the European Central Bank, I will focus on the Giegold report, which makes a very substantive contribution to the current debate on economic coordination and economic governance within the euro area.
In my view, the broad support the Giegold report enjoyed within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is indeed a testimony to the relevance and balance of his approach and issues.
It has shielded our citizens from economic turbulences.
However, since the end of 2008, the euro area has been hit hard by the global financial crisis.
Despite the economic recovery policies and strong fiscal stimulus, financial markets still remain volatile and the degree of uncertainty remains exceptionally high.
Recent waves in the market have seriously tested financial stability and economic governance in the euro area, especially in relation to Greece.
I would like to say that Greece is now on track to meet the 4% target of deficit reduction this year, following the bold and convincing measures that the Greek Parliament decided earlier this month and which are now in force.
However, neither Greece nor the eurozone are completely out of the woods yet as there are still concerns regarding financial stability in the euro area.
Therefore, the Commission has strongly encouraged the euro area Member States to take a political decision on a mechanism to ensure financial stability in the euro area as a whole, a mechanism which could be swiftly activated if needed, in conformity with the treaty and its bailout clause, and without any automaticity built into this mechanism.
On our side, I can assure you that the Commission is ready to put such a European framework in place for coordinated and conditional assistance, which could be used if needed and if requested.
We are working closely and intensively together with all euro area Member States and the ECB in order to reach such a solution this week in the context of the European Council.
However, in addition to the immediate crisis management, we need to look at how similar situations can be avoided in the future so that we never again have cases similar to the Greek case now.
Therefore, we are currently preparing proposals for the implementation of Article 136 of the Lisbon Treaty and the Commission will make a proposal for enhanced economic policy coordination and reinforced country surveillance in the coming weeks.
We can also make better use of existing instruments.
It is possible for the Council to address recommendations to a Member State whose economic policies risk jeopardising the proper functioning of economic and monetary union.
This is something we must do in order to help Member States to address emerging economic problems at a much earlier stage.
The economic recovery is now in progress but it is still fragile and not self-sustaining.
No matter how important fiscal stimulus was for the economic recovery, the two years of the crisis have wiped out over 20 years of consolidation of public finances.
This report, the European Parliament's response to the European Commission annual statement on the euro area and public finances, is rich in analyses and proposals.
The euro area has therefore become more attractive, as the case of Iceland shows.
Today, the only genuine European economic policy is monetary policy.
However, the euro area, which - as mentioned again by this report - is intended to integrate all the Member States of the European Union, must establish effective governance in every aspect of economic policy.
It must begin with macro-economic as well as financial monitoring, something we are busy working on in the European Parliament.
It must be carried forward within the framework of the Stability and Growth Pact as a real instrument of fiscal coordination.
At this time of crisis, the considerable drop in revenue, the tax incentive measures taken within the framework of the recovery plan and the operation of economic stabilisers have led to a deterioration of the budget balances of the Member States.
The result is firstly a slowdown in internal demand which, since the second quarter of 2008, has led to negative growth, and this was even before the start of the liquidity crisis.
The current recovery is all the more fragile given the fact that Europe is continuing with wage deflation and the Commission, but also the President of the Eurogroup and the President of the European Central Bank - whom we heard on Monday - are calling on the Member States to prematurely adopt exit policies that are comparable to real austerity plans.
These policies will fail to reduce the deficits in Greece, in Spain and elsewhere, because the expected tax revenue will fail to materialise also.
The Giegold report has the merit of drawing attention to some of these macro-economic imbalances.
However, on the whole, the debate opened by Mr Giegold may be beneficial at a time when neoliberal dogma thrown into doubt by the crisis is back in force in Parliament, in the Council and in the Commission.
All of a sudden, all my English colleagues had become poorer, and the pound has still not recovered today.
These two years of terrible global economic crisis have shown that the euro has firmly anchored us to stability.
The euro is not in crisis today: it is the fiscal crises of certain Member States that are causing the single currency difficulties.
Its artificial devaluation has contributed to the creation of the huge global imbalances that are one of the causes of this crisis.
So that would be our contribution to this debate.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, coming from a non-eurozone Member State, I am not sure whether my opinion holds much weight with my colleagues in this debate.
It sits in the global market and has been affected by the global financial and economic crisis just as those outside the eurozone have.
As many have pointed out, there is a reason why Germany faces a very different government deficit to Greece.
The UK perspective has a lot to say on differences in fiscal policy.
Its policies in the recent past have focused upon using government spending and incentives to help stimulate the private sector.
Ultimately, the public sector has done its job in the crisis.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make use of this opportunity to take another look at the situation in Greece, because I believe that the crisis in Greece gives us an insight into the political status of the euro area.
Major exporters such as Germany are forcing Greek economic policy to its knees.
Therefore, this also represents a crisis in EU economic and competition policy.
The Member States in the euro area should make euro loans available, the European Central Bank should buy up debts in the same way that the Federal Service in the USA has done and credit default swaps should be banned.
This is what we are calling for. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, 25 March is the birthday of both Europe and Greece.
On 25 March 1821, Greece was born.
Everyone in this House knows that all 30 countries which belong to the OECD have debt of over 100% of GDP and 30% higher than in 2008.
Even the United States of America is trying, in this huge economic crisis we are experiencing, to resolve its problems primarily by printing money.
We also know that Greece has introduced severe austerity measures to the point at which it has exhausted its citizens.
The Members want to vote on this later and we will be in serious difficulties if we do not keep to our speaking times. (DE) Mr President, Mr Trichet, firstly, I would like to congratulate you on what you have achieved in recent years.
It should not now be punished because it has achieved better results in many areas than other countries.
It is not possible to show solidarity with people who have been responsible for mismanagement, waste and excessive administrative measures. (DE) Mr President, as the shadow rapporteur from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) for the European Central Bank annual report for 2008, I am very happy with the report that is in front of us now.
On the other hand - Mr Trichet, I have already mentioned this in the last but one discussion on monetary policy - the independence of the European Central Bank must be maintained, in particular, given its future inclusion in the European Systemic Risk Board.
It is essential for us to bear this point in mind when considering other reports in the next few years. (IT) Mr President, Mr Trichet, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the king has no clothes!
The gravity of the situation has been accurately described.
Real European governance must guarantee three objectives: 1) a policy of growth; 2) financial instruments suitable for sustaining that growth; and 3) a policy for managing emergencies.
Very well, I am obviously in agreement, but why not think of the euro as a currency that saves us not only from inflation but, by means of a little virtuous and guaranteed debt, also secures us greater liquidity to launch a major European investment programme by issuing Eurobonds?
As far as managing emergencies is concerned, I agree with the idea of establishing a European Monetary Fund, which would be a sensible solution.
We should also like it to signal an important turning point in the policy of the European Union as a whole.
Of course it refers to 2009, while in 2010, important developments are taking place which, of course, concern my country, Greece.
One might conclude that, apart from monetary union, we also need economic and political union, as many have said.
That is clear from Eurostat statistics: it was approximately 90% in both 2007 and 2008.
The increase in the budget deficit and public debt in Greece over the last two or three years was the result of the collapse in incomes, the reduction in income from abroad, such as tourism and shipping, due to the crisis, and the increase in public spending.
Of course there is wastage, but people are also being recruited to the public sector in various forms.
However, the Giegold report must also signal a more general change and the incorporation of these positions in the Stability Pact.
I hope you can give me a straight answer to that question. (EL) Mr President, I should like to start by wishing my fellow countrymen the very best for 25 March.
The capitalist crisis has resulted in a spiralling deterioration in the living standards of the workers.
The basic pillar of the anti-grassroots policy being exercised by the European Union and the governments of the Member States is the ECB.
It has channelled over EUR 1 trillion to the banks and monopoly groups.
Unemployment, youth unemployment in the Iberian Peninsula and many eurozone countries is chronic.
GDP per capita in the USA is miles ahead of the European Union.
This is impossible in global, in currency management, whether it is an optimal currency zone or not.
Let me just remind everybody here about something else if I may.
Believe you me, as a writer and historian who runs a daily newspaper and a weekly magazine, I know very well what I am talking about.
Since 1990, approximately 6 000 companies valued at EUR 700 billion have been privatised fraudulently.
Unfortunately, only EUR 7 billion, or 1% of this money, has been received so far.
Just like 100 years ago, the Balkan Peninsula is sitting on a powder keg.
The population's mood is becoming increasingly gloomy and if we fail to put an end to the fraud in our countries, the European Union's noble project will collapse like a sandcastle.
Therefore, I would like to wish the Commission courage and give my warm thanks to the ECB. (Applause) (EL) Mr President, allow me to start by congratulating the two rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done at a particularly difficult juncture.
The common currency has provided a great deal, but it also has serious weaknesses.
In 11 years of EMU, we did not want to see and to acknowledge that the competitiveness divide and the significant inequalities and imbalances between the economies in the euro area are not compatible with either the viability or the stability of the euro area.
The speculative attacks which, so far, have been directed mainly at Greece - but which also resulted in Portugal's credit rating being downgraded just the other day and which have already been directed at other countries, such as Italy and Spain, and no one knows what the consequences will be - have made that much clear.
It is worth repeating that the euro has been a success during the financial crisis and it has been an anchor in Europe, including for countries outside the euro area.
The euro has provided stability and the conditions for creating millions of new jobs, and that must not be forgotten in these days when everyone is talking of a crisis.
Greece's problems and those of other euro area countries cannot be blamed on the euro.
On the contrary, the economic crisis would have been considerably worse if we had not had the cooperation that the euro involves.
We would have had to deal with speculation and competitive devaluation among more than 20 national currencies.
The deficit is still extremely large.
We need better supervision and coordination of economic policy at EU level, in other words, financial coordination that is worthy of the name.
Sometimes, when countries are subject to speculation, as my own country was in the 1990s, it actually provides us with a good opportunity to organise the measures we take.
We should avoid such inconsistency. (EL) Mr President, I agree with my fellow members who said that the crisis is not over.
The economic situation in numerous countries is clearly negative.
In my opinion, the problem in the European Union and in Greece is not one of sound finances.
The IMF has itself said that it is in an excellent position to help Greece.
The establishment of a European Monetary Fund (EMF) seems to be motivated by political considerations, in particular, that is, to save Europe's face in case Greece appealed to the IMF.
However, let us not rush headlong into establishing a new body as a remedy against non-compliance with the existing rules.
Now that a moderate recovery is expected and there is no inflationary pressure, it must continue to contribute to the reestablishment of credit and avoid compromising the economic recovery through the early or indiscriminate withdrawal of the extraordinary measures.
The true meaning of consolidating public finances - an unavoidable task, that must be done in a coordinated and intelligent way - is restoring demand, promoting investment, and favouring reforms that will allow the economy to be revived, increase the potential for sustainable growth and create jobs.
The European Union is one of the most balanced regions.
It is a question of common interest and uncertainty harms all Europeans.
The public funds of many Member States have declined as a result of this crisis.
The government's action stabilised the deficit at 11.6% of GDP in 2010.
The action taken by the government has gained recognition in international markets.
In Europe, the European Central Bank flew to the banks' assistance, but in terms of Greece and more generally of the PIGS, it is still the same ones who have to pay, in other words, employees, civil servants and pensioners, even though their countries have also been victims of financial speculation.
It is not minor reforms that we need, but a different Europe, an economic and social Europe for the benefit of the majority, not just of a few. (SK) The report on the annual management of the euro area and of public finances in 2009 analyses in detail the management of the EU during the global financial and economic crisis.
The decline of economic output in various EU countries has led to a dramatic rise in unemployment and a growth in the debts of European countries.
Despite the efforts of EU bodies to adopt coordinated and collective measures, it appeared that in certain countries, populist governments with no proper sense of responsibility for the administration of public finances were courting disaster.
That is why the European Union as a whole has found it harder to deal with the impact of the crisis than other major economic centres, such as the United States, China, Japan and India.
In the forthcoming period, we must therefore, along with efforts to consolidate the public finances of the euro area, also strive to restructure and greatly simplify the rules of the internal environment.
We should not forget that it is the productive sector alone that generates the resources on which the whole of society lives. (HU) Ladies and gentlemen, in the course of its activities in 2008, the European Central Bank was faced with unprecedented challenges as the world economic crisis wound its way into Europe in September 2008.
The financial crisis turned into a crisis of the real economy as the capital markets froze up due to mistrust, and financial institutions would not extend credit to each other or to businesses.
I would carry this idea further, when talking about the creation of the European Systemic Risk Board that we are all working on now.
The ECB will have an important role in this area.
The presidency of that Board will be held by the president of the ECB, and we will need to ensure that countries within the euro area - as well as those outside it, such as the Central and Eastern European states - receive equal voting rights in the new organisation.
In addition, an increase in budget deficits, government debt and the unemployment rate among young people under 25 is being seen in most European Union Member States.
Well, there have been some significant developments, not only for Estonia, but also for the euro area.
The signal would be why should we do our utmost to repay private debt with a high exchange rate for our national currency, when this debt has been issued as euro loans by EU banks against, for example, immovable property?
During 2008, the ECB engaged with other major central banks to form a coordinated approach in order to provide the banking system with plenty of short-term liquidity, and this approach by the ECB proved to be extremely successful.
I agree that 2008 was instrumental and that those responsible have risen to this occasion.
In terms of democracy, the monetary dialogue is an important element, but also with regard to the very functioning and running of the European Central Bank.
The report by our friend, Mr Giegold, asks questions of you, Mr Rehn, which come under your responsibility and not that of the European Central Bank.
The risk we face, as regards the functioning of the euro area, is the dismantling of our social model.
Firstly, to understand that, even if the sustainability of public finances is a key element, it is not enough.
As you know, I deplore the fact that, from this point of view, the 2020 strategy does not even mention the work in progress on the harmonisation of the tax base for corporate taxation, which we absolutely must continue with determination. (FI) Mr President, in the wake of the financial crisis, public debt has become rapidly worse, even if, in many countries, they are beginning to turn off the taps of recovery.
The sustainability deficit is a reflection of how much the tax rate should be raised or the rate of expenditure lowered for public finances to be on a sustainable basis over the long term.
We also need to focus on what we can do to initiate growth and combat unemployment.
In many countries, cuts in public expenditure are needed.
There is still much to do in this regard.
Only by making these kinds of investments can we create growth that is sustainable in the long term. (FR) Mr President, 2009 was, without doubt, the most difficult year for the euro since its introduction, but it was also the most useful.
In 2009, monetary instability could have weakened the political solidity of the European Union.
Non-assistance to countries in danger is undermining the monetary stability of the whole of the euro area.
We need a coordinated European bond market to avoid bottlenecks with too many sovereign debts in too many countries coming to maturity at the same time.
Globalisation has led to the establishment of world financial institutions and a global finance market.
However, adequate world, regional and, in our case, European institutions for supervising and monitoring these markets have not been established.
The market is not guided by values, but, above all, by the need to achieve profit at any cost.
The crisis did not begin in 2008 with the collapse in the financial markets, but in 2007, with the crisis in the food markets, as well as the undermining of the energy market, which is controlled by political instruments.
Some Member States were allowed to get away with more, because, after all, they were not going to let some Commission or other lecture them.
This kind of behaviour cannot be the basis of Community or our integration.
It is important to admit the mistakes which have been made, to tell our citizens, to apologise to them and to ask for understanding and cooperation as we emerge from the crisis.
European Union solidarity obliges us also to support the countries which have been worst hit by the crisis.
Recovery will not come from outside, if the body, or the state, does not take up the fight. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Trichet, I would like to thank you very much, not only for what you have done in recent years, but also for your approach in recent weeks.
Mr Rehn, you have made some very encouraging statements over the last few days.
The euro is a stabilising force, even in times of crisis.
We must put an end to the myth that the euro and the Stability and Growth Pact are the cause of the problems experienced by Greece and other countries.
On the contrary, it is part of the solution.
Greece cannot be given subsidies, but it wants support for implementing its reform and savings plan.
We have a monetary union, but we do not have an economic union.
This is what we are calling on the Member States to do and we expect them to show commitment.
We must continue on this route in the interests of the euro. (PL) Mr President, last year was an extremely turbulent one for the euro area.
During this period, the world experienced its biggest economic crisis for years.
Discussions are currently under way on how to cope with the new challenges, what direction the global economy should take and what European Union policy should be.
Ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis, the problems in Greece, and also the current debate on assistance for Greece, show that the division into the new and the old Europe is still a reality.
Last Friday, the head of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso, referred to the idea of creating a mechanism of support for countries in the euro area which are struggling with financial problems.
Indeed, it is alarming that despite all our efforts, the rate of unemployment and the level of state indebtedness keeps rising in almost all Member States of the European Union.
Slovakia was the last state to join the euro area, on 1 January 2009, and this had positive repercussions on economic as well as political and social areas.
Parliament must help the Commission and the ECB in their efforts in order to avoid failure in this endeavour.
The first thing to do is to bring the integration of the European economy to a higher and sustainable level.
This is, however, a strategic question, in which the Council's committed support is indispensable. (LT) The way out of the complicated economic and financial crisis was not as effective as we had hoped.
When the crisis began, the Member States' programmes of support for banks were not coordinated with joint conditions set down at European level and some banks used additional funds allocated from the European Central Bank to cover their losses.
If we believe in European solidarity, if we operate in one open market with the same competitive conditions and the main goal is to exit from this complex situation as soon as possible, I think that the European Central Bank should have ensured and must ensure the provision of liquidity to Member States not in the euro area that were hit particularly hard by this crisis.
A state's currency must reflect the condition and needs of its own economy and not the average needs of 27 different economies.
However, keeping our own currency is only part of the answer.
The single currency has not provided a solution to all the internal and external imbalances which have occurred.
However, the benefits provided through allowing national financial institutions to have access to the European Central Bank's liquidity and the elimination of the risk of exchange rate fluctuations have increased the interest shown in it by the Member States outside the euro area.
The efforts made by these states through improving their own economies and fiscal policies in order to adopt the single currency must be welcomed.
I call on the Commission and European Central Bank to further encourage the expansion of the euro area as quickly as possible in order to provide them with greater protection against the effects of the economic and financial crisis. (DE) Mr President, Mr Trichet, I would like to thank you very much for the part of the report which warns against excessive cuts in wages with the aim of reducing deficits, because low incomes result in a fall in economic growth.
I want to thank you for this paragraph, because I believe that this not only slows down economic growth and reduces the competitiveness of Europe, but also restricts the opportunities for European citizens to play a full part in society.
It is essential for us to draw up our budgets according to the guidelines, but it is equally important for the Member States to have room for manoeuvre in an economic and social context.
This is why I am calling for the emphasis to be put on the social aspect in future. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current economic and financial crisis, which is also a structural crisis, is forcing us to impose long-term controls and to introduce cautious budgets.
I am very impressed by the wealth of what we have just heard and very impressed also by the diversity of views that have been expressed.
So we all had to face up to enormous responsibility and I fully agree with those who have said that we cannot say that the difficult times are over.
I also got the message on growth and jobs, which is a very strong message from Parliament.
A firm message coming from you, which we fully share in the ECB is - and I do not want to respond in the place of the Commissioner - governance of Europe of the 27, governance of the 16 members of the euro area is of the essence.
We call for the utmost level of responsibility from countries, whether members of the 27 or of the 16, to exert their responsibility, to exert surveillance on the peers.
A word on the long-term situation inside the euro area: during the next 10 or 20 years, we will deliver price stability in line with the definition we have delivered since the inception of the euro.
These are facts; these are figures. (FR) And I must stress this: all the members of the euro area know that average inflation in the euro area will be less than 2%, or close to 2%, in the medium and long terms.
They must not put themselves in a national context, in terms of national inflation, since that would be far from what we guarantee, because that has been asked of us, because we are faithful to our remit and because it is a contribution to the prosperity and stability of Europe.
As I have often said to MEPs, we are the most transparent in the world when it comes to the immediate publication of our studies, the introductory statement.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, first, I would like to say thank you to the Members for a very serious and substantive debate.
I can conclude from them that there is strong and broad support for an effective reinforcement of economic governance in the euro area and in the European Union as a whole.
First of all, its cornerstone will be a truly credible and better preventive fiscal and budgetary surveillance that is stronger and more rigorous, also covers the mid-term budgetary policies, and uses recommendations and, if needed, warnings to the Member States.
In other words, the aim is not to make Bayern München play worse against Olympic Lyon but to improve both export competitiveness where needed and domestic demand where needed and possible, thus making both Bayern München and Olympic Lyon play better as a European team by making both offensive and defensive strategy ever stronger.
I would like to take the opportunity to thank the ECB for its cooperation and availability in responding to my various queries.
Some observers have stated that the ECB cannot help Greece because this is forbidden by the 'no bail-out' clause of Article 103 of the EU Treaty.
As my colleagues before me pointed out, and as Europeans, we all look up to the euro and we all want it to succeed.
Finally, we must restore public confidence in financial institutions through measures which include greater transparency, better risk management and appropriate regulation.
On the other hand, there are several countries which use tax policy as well as their wage-setting arrangements to ensure they fall below this threshold.
Most people in Greece feel that during the last 10 or 20 years, a lot of people became very rich under circumstances which were not just.
If you praise the Irish efforts, you cannot compare it to the situation in Greece.
Therefore, I urge you, Mr Rehn, also to put pressure on the Greek Government to get serious on illegitimate wealth which has been accumulated in the past.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 25 March 2010.
The economic crisis is also responsible for the eurozone difficulties, but I believe there are also structural weaknesses of EMU that we should address in order to avoid future crises.
Better coordination would enhance euro area stability.
This applies also for those Member States which have not yet joined the eurozone.
Almost all European economies have sinned against the principles of sound and balanced fiscal policy.
Greece is on the verge of bankruptcy and Spain and Portugal are also in difficulties.
However, taking another huge step towards a centralised European superstate will not solve the existing problems.
The alarming state that the monetary union finds itself in and the fact that the euro has become a high-risk currency are a result of countries such as Germany, the Netherlands and Austria, on the one hand, being brought together with states such as Greece, Italy and Spain, on the other, with a deliberate disregard for the existing differences between them concerning their economic development and the ethos on which their financial policy is based.
The accompanying current or forthcoming devaluation of the dollar by the United States as part of its currency reform programme would have a severe negative impact on the European market.
In order to avoid this risk, the European Central Bank and other European institutions should seriously consider moving away from the dollar as a key currency.
The euro is much stronger, and famous economists, such as Nobel prize-winner Joseph Stiglitz, have said that the leading role played by the dollar has been the cause of many financial crises.
The European Union should stop exposing itself voluntarily to the problems of US financial policy.
I am convinced that the strength of the single currency will be guaranteed if the rules we have agreed upon are followed in every single Member State.
It has been said that, as well as Greece, there are other European Union Member States which can expect serious financial difficulties.
In addition to the soaring national debt, some Member States have also reached almost dangerous levels of government spending, something which the European Central Bank was already concerned about a couple of years ago.
