Interim Partnership Agreement between the EC and the Pacific States - Interim Partnership Agreement between the EC and the Pacific States (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the report by David Martin, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the recommendation on the draft Council decision on the conclusion of the Interim Partnership Agreement between the European Community, of the one part, and the Pacific States, of the other part (05078/2010 - C7-0036/2010 - 2008/0250(NLE)), the oral question to the Commission on the Interim Partnership Agreement between the European Community, of the one part, and the Pacific States, of the other part, by Vital Moreira, David Martin, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade - B7-0807/2010).
I am fortunate that the adoption of Glyn's resolution in 2009 meant that Parliament already had a clear position on the EC-Pacific Interim Economic Partnership Agreement.
Finally, in terms of acknowledgements, I would also like to welcome the presence here of the Ambassador for Papua New Guinea and to thank him and his staff for their close collaboration.
Firstly, I would like to make a few general remarks on the agreement and the regional context.
It is important that a fair and equitable share of the EUR 2 billion set aside in the 2007 Aid for Trade strategy is directed towards the Pacific region.
It is also important to highlight that this interim EPA was conceived as a short-term measure to safeguard the Pacific's trade preferences following the World Trade Organisation (WTO) ruling.
On fishing, the fisheries sector plays a key role in Papua New Guinea's economy and - importantly - provides employment and income to its citizens.
In the three tuna processing plants which export to the EU, there are 5 700 employees, the majority of whom are women.
I appreciate that there are some concerns in this House - and specifically in the Committee on Fisheries - about the potential impact of Papua New Guinea's tuna imports on the EU industry.
Nevertheless, it is, of course, right that we should continue to monitor the situation and that, if there are any unexpected increases in fishing products coming from Papua New Guinea, the Commission should take appropriate action.
In my report, I have recommended the inclusion of several points of substance in future negotiations, which I hope the Commission will take into account.
Back in 2007, the immediate purpose of the interim agreement was to secure continued access to the EU market for those countries in the Pacific region which most depend on it, given the impending expiry of the Cotonou trade regime.
The Commission's commitment to concluding negotiations on a comprehensive EPA with the Pacific region as a whole remains unchanged and we are currently engaged in negotiations with our Pacific partners.
That is why we will allow partner countries in the developing world to exclude more sensitive products from the trade agreements: something that we would not allow other countries to do.
The European Union and Papua New Guinea have applied these rules provisionally since 2008 and, whereas export figures have fluctuated, no upward trend has been detected.
The Commission will, in any event, closely monitor the implementation of the derogation and will report to Parliament on the basis of a study which will be prepared before the end of 2011.
The Commission is fully committed to continue negotiations on a comprehensive EPA with the Pacific region.
Commissioner, I have just come back from the Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission, and I am well aware of the position that Papua New Guinea has taken.
This process would have an adverse impact on the industry, workers and local incomes, given that the fishing industry is one of the most important creators of jobs in these countries.
The derogation from the rules of origin for fish processed in Papua New Guinea and Fiji is an example of this.
The strong pressures exerted on the ACP States by the European negotiators were criticised by the ACP countries themselves during the 92nd Session of the ACP Council of Ministers, which took place in Brussels from 8 to 12 November 2010.
They were such a failure that a number of ACP countries are asking the Member States of the European Union to examine the possibility of revising the negotiating mandate given to the European Commission in June 2002. (DE) Mr President, in conjunction with the current market situation, the reform of the EU sugar market regime will result in the EU sugar price falling below the international price.
Currently, however, there is a problem with the provisional agreement, and it must be rectified. (ES) Mr President, as is being said here, the partnership agreement with Papua New Guinea and Fiji includes an exemption from the rules of origin.
We want a balanced situation.
We want to know whether this agreement is aiding development in this archipelago.
This ACP country benefits from preferential access to the European market; that is, from a total exemption from all customs duties on the canned tuna that it exports to our market.
Community imports of tuna increased from 9 200 to 16 200 tonnes between 2008 and 2009.
This phenomenon can only get worse if this derogation is maintained.
I would therefore urgently call on the Commission to closely monitor the application of this derogation and to submit a report to Parliament in a timely manner on the impact on Papua New Guinea's development and on the European canning industry.
The Commission takes the view that it is highly unlikely that Papua New Guinea's exports will cause any serious disruption to the EU's fishing and canning industry given the low volume of trade between Papua New Guinea and the EU, and Papua New Guinea's low market share in the EU tuna market of around 3% in recent years.
That is why we have earmarked EUR 45 million for aid for trade in the Oceania region.
I believe that the measure is right and that the necessary safeguards are in place in case anything goes wrong.
But the situation at present is that Chinese boats, Thai boats and boats of other Asian nationalities are fishing in Papua New Guinea's waters and landing their fish back in their own country, giving no opportunity for development in Papua New Guinea.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 19 January 2011.
