The United Nations took careful note of the statement by its Secretary General, Ban Ki-moon, to the Security Council on 21 January 2009, in which he gave his impressions following a visit to Gaza and South Israel just after the hostilities ended.
In addition, the report that has already been referred to in some of the speeches on the previous item, the Goldstone report, which was published in the middle of September last year, was debated in the 12th Session of the Human Rights Council, from 14 September to 2 October.
The European Union confirmed its constructive position with regard to the Goldstone report when, in the debate of the United Nations Security Council on 27 January, just one month ago, it highlighted the importance of conducting adequate and credible investigations into the possible violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law.
I can inform you that, subsequently, on 4 February 2010, a few days ago, the Secretary-General of the United Nations published a report on the application of the United Nations General Assembly's Goldstone Resolution.
The Palestinian side indicated that it is their intention to seek General Assembly action on the resolution on Friday, 26 February, to reiterate the main points of the General Assembly resolution 64/10 of 5 November 2009, and to ask the United Nations' Secretary-General to report again in five months.
Mr President, Mr López Garrido, Commissioner, I believe that a credible investigation into the violations of international humanitarian law is important and that this is what we must focus on.
The conclusion needs to be examined, but this applies equally to both parties involved, including to those waging asymmetrical war by firing on Sderot and other towns from a densely populated area, thereby determining the battlefield.
However, I would also like to point out that it is right to call for an international investigation, although not everything can be investigated within the framework of the Goldstone report.
In December 2008, Operation 'Cast Lead' in Gaza resulted in around 1 500 deaths, the majority of those killed being women, children and other civilians.
However, there has been the Goldstone report.
Mr Brok, what is the difference between the Goldstone report and the resolution that followed?
The pressure today to bring down this report and the discrediting of Judge Goldstone is unbelievable.
No democratic state can dare to break international law without having to justify its actions.
It should also be said that 150 criminal investigations of the actions of particular Israeli soldiers are currently under way in Israel.
Mr President, the report by Justice Goldstone provides the most blatant proof of the crimes and of the infringements of international law and international humanitarian law by Israel against the Palestinian people.
The idea put forward by some for a unanimous EU abstention would be a travesty for all the victims of this terrible conflict.
This investigation into alleged breaches of international humanitarian law by the Human Rights Council - just as much as the 2004 International Court of Justice ruling on the separation rule - should be treated with the proper status of legal rulings of international treaty bodies that they are.
I would like to say - in a European Union forged from war - for us, war crimes must be held to account.
At stake are its military, diplomatic and media interests - those interests that the Hebrew state was able to establish in the past. (DE) Mr President, I am pleased that the European Parliament has succeeded in producing a resolution on the Goldstone report that has fairly broad support without simply transferring the conflict in the Middle East to Brussels.
Instead, the powers in Israel that are fighting with us for peace, tolerance and human rights in the Middle East must be strengthened.
It therefore needs to be made clear here and now that we find the obstruction of the NGOs in Israel by government representatives like the Foreign Minister, Avigdor Lieberman, unacceptable.
It fails to mention Hamas terrorism and ignores the fact that Israel is investigating 150 allegations of misconduct by the IDF and will prosecute wrongdoers.
The ECR Group continues to press for a two-state solution as the only way to bring about a long-term sustainable solution to the conflict in the Middle East, but the Goldstone report does nothing to bring us any closer to that point. (DE) Mr President, Israel's right to existence, the protection of its people and the efforts to promote as close cooperation with Israel as possible are, for me, as a German and a left-wing politician, political givens.
Clearly, the 2008 war and the inhumane policy towards civilians are intended to be forgotten.
Thus, the implementation of the Goldstone report, including in the United Nations General Assembly, must remain the job of the EU. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the UN Human Rights Council has adopted the Goldstone report by an overwhelming majority.
We wonder when we read that it is these countries, which do not exactly set an example where human rights are concerned, that are calling for Israel and Hamas to carry out in-depth investigations into the human rights violations committed during 'Operation Cast Lead'.
We welcome the request made in the report for compensation to be paid to civilian victims of an unequal conflict and for the International Criminal Court to be seized of any cases in which the parties fail to conduct genuinely independent and impartial investigations, as was requested last January by numerous Israeli human rights associations.
Anyone who has been to Gaza after the conflict can testify to the people's enormous suffering.
We Europeans must also say today, especially to Gaza: let us stay human! (NL) I think that the Goldstone report has clearly shown that both Israel and Hamas have committed human rights violations during the war in Gaza.
Any credibility in our respect for international law will be lost if the EU leaves these war crimes unchallenged.
The Goldstone report makes many accusations and they have to be investigated.
Under these circumstances, the European Union and our Parliament must create the conditions to ensure that the Israeli Government abides by international law, using the suspension of Article 2 of the EU-Israel association agreement as a sanction if necessary.
This is regrettable, particularly on Israel's part, because, however controversial the Goldstone report might be, any state that calls itself a democratic state based on the rule of law is obliged to allow such serious accusations to be subjected to an independent investigation.
However, irrespective of the Goldstone report, there is currently no reason to continue the siege on Gaza. (SK) The Goldstone report, the conclusions and recommendations of which we are debating, ignores Israel's right to self-defence.
We are allowing the law of might is right to prevail. (DE) Mr President, the Goldstone report describes human rights violations by both sides.
However, it is clear that, here in the European Parliament, we must demand respect for human rights and call on both sides to return to the peace process. (FR) Mr President, in Israel, Judge Goldstone's work is demonised and completely discredited in the eyes of the public.
The European Union must provide unfailing support to human rights defenders in all countries including, of course, Israel, whose impunity is an insult to democratic values.
Mr President, there has been a debate, which I think has been very diverse, around not only the Goldstone report itself, but also around the prior situation that triggered the report.
The debate on this report is going to take place, and we believe that this debate in the United Nations should be supported.
My predecessor, Louis Michel, went to Gaza immediately after Operation Cast Lead.
In the context of the Middle East peace process, respect for human rights and international humanitarian law is as important today as ever - and maybe even more important than ever.
Mr President, Justice Goldstone's report is being presented in the international arena as an objective document on the operation in the Gaza Strip in the winter of 2009.
