An EU Strategy for the Black Sea (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Ungureanu, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on an EU strategy for the Black Sea.
The Black Sea region is not visible enough in debates in Brussels, and EU funding for the region is fragmented and complicated.
I think we all agree that this House expects the Commission and the Council to turn this report into reality.
The report and its recommendations are interesting and innovative on the many issues.
Precisely for these reasons, Parliament has chosen an approach based on regional ownership and fostering dialogue.
Thus, the report on developing a new European Union strategy for the Black Sea represents our commitment to the region and to our Member States who belong to this area by giving them our full support in facing the challenges linked to their specific geographic situation.
Madam President, the Committee on Industry, Research and Industry supports full market and regulatory integration on the basis of EU energy legislation and encourages the participation of countries in the wider Black Sea region in the Energy Community Treaty, as well as EU, EIB and EBRD assistance for the modernisation of the energy infrastructure in this region.
Projects such as the Nabucco pipeline, a priority project for the European Union, along with the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline, the Pan-European Oil Pipeline, the Turkey-Greece-Italy Interconnector, or the Azerbaijan-Georgia-Romania Interconnector, emphasise both the importance of the EU's commitments in the Black Sea region and the further need to step up cooperation between the countries in the region.
We stress the importance of establishing a regional research and education network in the wider Black Sea region and its link to GEANT, and call on the Commission to continue to support research projects in the region.
The Committee on Regional Development believes this strategy can bring growth and sustainable development for the region.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done, bringing many ideas together in a comprehensive form, something that will help us in our future efforts.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Madam President, the Black Sea is a gate to and from Europe, and therefore it should be addressed as such.
The truth is that the area has already put - and will continue to put - items on our agenda, be it through the interruption of gas transit as in 2006 and 2008, or the Georgian war in 2008.
The fact that nothing of importance has happened since the first review of the initiative in 2008 - and we are not very far advanced in its implementation as mentioned in the report - is indicative of that.
Secondly, the initial assumption on which the synergy was based, namely, that the area should become a coherent and cooperative region in order to qualify for EU attention and material support, has ignored the simple truth that just 20 years ago, the area looked completely different.
In this context, I emphasise, in particular, energy security and ensuring a sustainable energy supply for the European Union, infrastructure and opportunities for us to have an influence in the resolution of conflicts and unresolved issues in the region, as well as developing partnerships with Russia and Turkey.
All of this can be achieved with a deeper engagement of the countries in the region and with the participation of all Member States of the European Union and other organisations and networks present in the region, including networks of civil society organisations; it is precisely they that require our special attention and recognition.
This is also because a number of our proposals have been included, for example, dealing with the unresolved conflicts in the region, improving cooperation in civil society, support for people-to-people projects and the promotion of small projects in the context of cross-border cooperation.
Therefore, I think the most important task today for Mr Füle is to try to sort out our initiatives in this part of Europe and show that our priority is Neighbourhood Policy, and that other issues should be given second place in this context.
The Synergy could also be a good instrument, for example, if we are talking about supporting Georgia in the democratic and economic transformations it has been going through in recent years.
Had Georgia been in NATO, the consequences could have been disastrous.
Pontus Euxinus, as the Black Sea was called in antiquity, has always been of a major geostrategic and economic significance for Europe.
That is why it is very important for this strategy to be translated into real action, because we are having a debate again, and I remember us having a similar debate quite recently.
This area is important to the Union, especially by reason of its energy and transport links.
We need to get past our fragmented approach in terms of finance as well.
Since 2007, when we started our policy in this area, which is crucial on several counts, we have made some progress and achieved some successes.
It is unfortunate that no ministerial meeting on this policy has been organised since 2008.
This situation falls well below our initial ambitions and, given the geostrategic, geopolitical and economic importance of the area, we only have one choice: to strengthen our policy and action on the Black Sea.
Its geopolitical and economic importance for the EU is constantly increasing in terms of security, stability and energy.
It is not only the littoral countries that show a big interest in multilateral regional cooperation - which is crucial for solving urgent issues of regional and European importance such as 'frozen' conflicts, trafficking and other security-related issues.
We expect to vote soon on the report by our colleague, Iliana Malinova Iotova, which deals for the first time with EU fisheries policy in the Black Sea.
EU support is also desirable for ongoing projects like the Black Sea Ring Highway, Pan-European Transport Corridors 8 and 9, and the transport connections between the Black Sea ports.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for supporting my amendments and for his excellent oral contribution. (PL) Madam President, when we are talking about the Black Sea region, it needs to be said that there is no place like it around the European Union where there are such extreme differences, so many intense conflicts - including bloody conflicts - and so many conflicting interests.
However, we note the lack of a structured approach to this region.
The first one is the fact that the report makes a commitment to regional development between the European Union and this region.
For us Hungarian Members, this is particularly important with a view to support for the Danube strategy, as any request for support for the Danube strategy can only be credible if we remain open to supporting other strategies as well.
Other than its intention to ensure peace and stability in the region, perhaps the most important objective of the strategy for the Black Sea in the field of energy security is to ensure energy security itself, and as was said yesterday, energy security is the other main priority of the Hungarian Presidency, and is thus in all our interests. (NL) Madam President, the Black Sea is on our doorstep and, when looked at from the energy perspective, it is also genuinely European.
As far as I am concerned, diversifying our energy flow would be paramount as part of a much broader framework.
The first I have expressed already at the beginning of our debate, which is appreciation for this timely report on the Black Sea region.
My country is the most active EU Member State in promoting the Black Sea's strategic importance and the need for the Union to increase its role in this region.
If we want to speed up the process of settling the unresolved conflicts in the region, we need to start from the observation that this action has been greatly delayed by sponsors of the various plans vying with each other, thereby holding the process up for more than 15 years.
In my opinion, the Black Sea region can only benefit from the construction of Nabucco: the pipeline will provide a predictable source of income for countries in the region, and will, at the same time, provide them with direct access to the world's largest gas market.
The enlargement of the Union with Bulgaria and Romania meant that this region found itself at the centre of our attention.
It is there that communication routes are located which are important to our economy.
The provisions of the energy report are insufficient.
