Repeal of directives regarding metrology (debate) The next item is the report by Anja Weisgerber, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council repealing Council Directives 71/317/EEC, 71/347/EEC, 71/349/EEC, 74/148/EEC, 75/33/EEC, 76/765/EEC, 76/766/EEC and 86/217/EEC regarding metrology - C6-0467/2008 -.
The Commission therefore welcomes the first-reading compromise between Parliament and the Council, which provides for the repeal of one directive by July 2011 and of the other seven directives by December 2015.
As stated, we will refer to those arguments by the end of April 2011 and, where appropriate, submit the legislative proposal in accordance with the principles of better regulation.
This is therefore an excellent compromise between the position adopted by the Commission, which is in favour of a full repeal of all the directives and against new regulations in this area within the framework of the MID, and the critical positions initially adopted by the Member States with regard to this proposal.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to express my thanks to Mrs Weisgerber for the truly collegial collaboration that we enjoyed.
We also need to ensure that there will be no gaps between the old directives being repealed and the 2004 directive on measuring instruments.
Furthermore, the first reading report adopted in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection enabled the inclusion of provisions on the measuring instruments covered by the directives being repealed in the general Measurements Instruments Directive.
The report, which sailed through the competent committee, was submitted last March, and the situation has dragged on for so long because an agreement on the associated correlation tables had to be reached within the Council, between the 27 Member States.
The real problem is that the European Commission has still not presented the proposal for a directive on measuring instruments, which should supersede the obsolete directives that we are repealing today and regulate this matter once and for all.
Fortunately, European businesses have a system of international standards for the sector that is independent of, and goes beyond, EU rules.
In response to Mr Rossi, who criticised the Commission but has now left the Chamber - after making a criticism one would do well to listen to the response, too - there is a joint statement by Parliament, the Council and the Commission on this matter, which reads, and I quote: 'in accordance with Article 25 of Directive 2004/22/EC on measuring instruments, the Commission is invited, by the European Parliament and by the Council, to report, before 30 April 2011, on the implementation of that directive and to submit, where appropriate, a legislative proposal'.
I am also looking forward to the Internet consultation that the Commission has announced and which will take place between 6 September and 1 November 2011.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Wednesday, 15 December 2010).
