In August last year he ordered the closure of 34 radio stations through a refusal to renew their licences.
We are not just referring to the recent case of RCTV International on which the Venezuelan audiovisual authority imposed a retroactive law but also to the fact that since 2009, 34 of the most popular radio stations in Venezuala have been closed down.
Following the shut-down of 34 radio stations, the government of Hugo Chávez officially announced there was a list of other stations which are about to be closed down as well: a list which nobody is aware of because the procedures are not open, and a list over which a great deal of uncertainty hangs, the sole purpose of which is to promote self censorship.
However, let us take this urgency session in which we are discussing breaches of human rights and democracy a lot more seriously, because, if we do not we are going to lose all the credibility that we currently have, and this is clearly difficult to regain at international level.
author. - Mr President, let me first emphasise the utter hypocrisy of the right-wing groups in this Parliament which condemned the Venezuelan government for the temporary withdrawal of broadcasting facilities for Radio Caracas Television (RCTV) and pretend to be champions of the freedom of the press.
By the way, most of the media outlets in Venezuela are in private ownership, actually, including powerful media corporations which conspired to overthrow Hugo Chávez in 2002, who happens to have been elected and re-elected many times by the people of Venezuela.
Provocative action against Columbia, support for FARC guerrillas - these are facts which could actually lead to a real conflict in the region.
A few members of our group have actually already given their position, and I also agree that the Venezuela question or freedom of expression is not only relevant in Latin America but the whole of Europe and throughout the world.
I must also express my criticism of the fact that, in this precarious situation in which Venezuelans suffer from power cuts, water shortages and a deplorable economy, President Chávez has bought over USD 70 million worth of arms for the National Guard.
He soon mobilised 12 million people to protest on the streets all over the world calling for an end to FARC's violence.
His closest friends internationally are dictators Castro, Lukashenko and Ahmadinejad, which speaks volumes.
Lieutenant Colonel Chávez has failed in governing Venezuela in many respects but he has remained in power only by suppressing the opposition, gaining control of the media and manipulating the electoral process.
I would like to react to some colleagues who have already spoken in this Chamber before me and to say that our responsibility, our mission, is to support the Venezuelan people facing persecution, human rights abuses and arrest by their President. (RO) In my view, Hugo Chávez has adopted all the worst possible aspects of totalitarian socialism from the last century.
We understand that this is an issue that goes beyond purely legal requirements and needs to be regarded within the context of the question of freedom of expression in Venezuela.
You might also recall that, in 2009, the European Union issued a declaration concerning those problems, because for us freedom of expression and free access to information are issues that are part of the dialogue that we have with the Venezuelan authorities.
Our commitment to supporting and strengthening democracy and the protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms will be reflected in our cooperation policy and relations with Venezuela, in the future as in the past. - (ES) Mr President, if the 'catch-the-eye' procedure is to work effectively, the President should look in the Chamber to see who is requesting the floor, something which I have done very visibly so as to speak in the 'catch-the-eye' in the debate on Venezuela.
In 2009, Chávez forced stations to transmit live 141 speeches, including one that lasted seven hours and 34 minutes.
