Merkies, on behalf of the S&amp;D Group, Paul Rübig, on behalf of the PPE Group, Jorgo Chatzimarkakis, on behalf of the ALDE Group, Philippe Lamberts and Reinhard Bütikofer, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Evžen Tošenovský, on behalf of the ECR Group, and Marisa Matias, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on innovation partnerships - B7-0560/2010).
Long-term security is important, but we would ideally like a well-functioning instrument with a vision until 2020.
author. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's proposal in the 'Innovation Union' policy document, adopted on 6 October 2009, is an integral part of the Europe 2020 strategy.
However, I would like to point out, and Mrs Merkies has already mentioned this, too, that if we simply look at the instruments that already exist, there is the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT), the Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KICs), the Joint Technology Initiatives (JTIs), the so-called Competitiveness and Innovation Programme (CIP) - these are all programmes that already exist.
If that is the case, we will give it our full support.
Of course, at this stage, the Council is still busy examining the issue, and conclusions are being prepared for our Competitiveness Council on 26 November.
Our Council had a first informal debate on the matter in July, then a formal debate on 12 October, and that debate enabled the Presidency to submit some draft Council conclusions, which are currently being examined and which, as I have already said, are on the agenda of our Competitiveness Council on 25 and 26 November.
By definition, a pilot scheme can start on an experimental basis and without necessarily waiting for all the conditions to be predefined.
Mr President, honourable Members, my conviction is that research and innovation are not an option for Europe, but a necessity if we want a long-term solution that protects our social model and the sustainability of our environment.
I therefore welcome this Parliament's unfailing concern for these matters and, more particularly, the first speech in this debate on the plan for innovation.
I refer in particular to the difficult economic conditions prevailing in various Member States of the EU, starting with my country, and I would make the same comment as my honourable friend, Mrs Matias.
For example, according to the Times Higher Education supplement published the other day, 82 of the 200 leading universities in the world are European universities, of which 80 are in the northern countries and just 2 universities are in the south, in Spain.
Mr President, it is true that the Commission launched its proposal for an Innovation Union at the same time as its industrial policy proposal, because in order to ensure intelligent and sustainable growth that generates employment and competitiveness, the European Union must certainly improve its capacity to innovate.
We are in agreement that the European Union must utilise its potential for innovation much better in future, not least in order to keep pace with countries that are strong in terms of innovation like the United States and Japan, and also with emerging economies like China.
Mr President, the Commission and the Council have to ensure excellence in implementation, which is not guaranteed given the mere months of pilot testing scheduled for the first partnership. (ES) Mr President, I would like to celebrate the fact that there is innovation, attention to innovation, and also partnership, but I would also like to say that we do not know what this thing is that we are talking about.
Of course, we also need to incorporate the banking system in terms of the risks involved, which should not only be undertaken by the European people. (RO) Article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights stipulates that everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits.
To enable the European Union to develop its innovative capacity, which is vital to its competitiveness, we must develop and correlate innovation policy with the EU's industrial policy.
Cohesion policy can make innovation work across all Member States and regions. (LT) Innovation policy and the realisation of technological achievements should become a decisive factor not only in implementing the EU 2020 strategy, but also for the future growth and competitiveness of the Union itself.
I believe that the European Innovation Partnership is a major step towards a better coordinated innovation policy that would allow much better results to be achieved in the area of competitiveness, and would contribute to more rapid progress for the whole Community in the future. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time of squeezed public finances, investing in innovation could be Europe's keystone to get out of the crisis.
The question is: what is the Commission going to do to ensure that this initiative is more than a mere flash in the pan? (RO) With the aim of meeting the EU 2020 strategy objectives, a sustainable, intelligent, inclusive economy is achieved through encouraging the field of research and innovation.
I think the Presidency has been working under strict time constraints, since the Commission's proposal was submitted on 6 October 2010 and we are now preparing our conclusions for the Council meeting of 26 November.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 11 November 2010.
