We traced the Detroit bomber's trail from the United States to Europe, to Africa and Yemen.
Thus, we were reminded, once again, that our own security is at risk if we do not help countries like Yemen, who are struggling to meet multiple challenges at the same time.
Over the last 18 months, the European Union has highlighted Yemen as a priority case in its counter-terrorism strategy and its comprehensive approach to state-building and development.
This will come on top of EUR 11 million allocated, in the Commission's development programme, to police training and juvenile justice in the last two years.
It is also vital that the Yemeni state boosts its capacity to meet the needs of people throughout the country.
The international community should lend sustained support to this dialogue.
The London meeting offers an invaluable chance to include the Saudis, the United States and others in a meaningful international dialogue on, and with, Yemen.
After the formidable stunt that the Taliban pulled off yesterday in Afghanistan, where, lest we forget, we have 100 000 troops fighting for freedom, and the failed terrorist attack in Detroit this Christmas, I believe, Baroness Ashton, that it is legitimate to wonder whether terrorism is stronger now than when freedom was attacked by the barbarous toppling of the twin towers in New York.
We have just had a debate on Iran, we can see what is going on in Afghanistan, in Pakistan, in the Middle East, in Somalia and even events in the heart of our own continent with the attacks in Madrid and London.
You have just spoken to us, Baroness Ashton, of the concrete measures that the European Union is thinking of implementing and you have told us about sums in addition to the EUR 11 million.
The amount spent by the United States increased from USD 67 million in 2009 to USD 167 million in 2010.
For this reason, Baroness Ashton, my question is this: do you believe that, when we are faced with terrorism, notions of foreign policy, security, defence, development cooperation and aid, trade - and I would even include culture or civilisation - all merge together and we have to realise that, when faced with dangers and threats that affect us all equally, the response should also be shared by us all equally?
Madam President, High Representative, ladies and gentlemen, our group is very worried by the situation in Yemen because there is a global threat there: the failed attempt to blow up a US aircraft, the threats directed towards foreign embassies and the intensification of attacks by al-Qaeda, the most recent being in Afghanistan, must be taken very seriously.
Unfortunately, Yemen's domestic situation does not help, and we should bear in mind the fact that it is one of the poorest countries in the world, with serious water shortages, high unemployment and an economy heavily dependent on revenue from oil and gas, which it is estimated will be exhausted within the next 10 years.
Baroness Ashton, I therefore consider it a priority to ensure that humanitarian organisations can enter Yemeni territory and work in complete security.
I also hope for an effort by the European Union to ensure that Yemen abides by the commitments made in 2006 at the international donors' conference, namely to step up the process of political and economic reforms, to increase democracy and people's living standards.
Since the September 11 attack, we have realised that making at-risk areas secure depends on how much we are prepared to gamble on better living conditions.
We - and perhaps Baroness Ashton, also - must consider what we can do to counter these risks.
As I see it, the main question might well be: how can we bolster the Yemeni Government so that it can regain control of the country and thus contain these risks?
All the other debates about the long-term building-up of the country also need to be held, of course, but I do not think that there is really any point in us putting forward a catalogue of demands clean across all political areas - from the freedom of the media to women's rights - here in Parliament at this point, or that we will be taken seriously if we do so.
Doing so will not achieve our goal in Yemen, so instead, we should concentrate on what tangible assistance we can provide in the current situation in order to solve an urgent problem.
We need only recall the al-Qaeda attack on the American warship, the USS Cole, on 12 October 2000.
The fact is that the ruling elites surrounding President Saleh brutally discriminate against and suppress the Shi'ite population in the north of the country and are waging a war against the separatist movement in the south, in the area of the former People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, that is causing a great deal of suffering to the population there.
Yemen's stability should, however, be brought about with a view to national and regional ownership, without imposing external or pre-prepared solutions which are often at odds with the situation on the ground and are doomed to failure.
The failed operation against the Northwest Airlines plane is the most recent example of the threat we face.
But I do hope the High Representative will explore the potential for a joint EU-Gulf Cooperation Council CSDP project on security sector training in Yemen, in which our efforts are critically important in so many countries.
The right to protection, in particular from a terrorist attack, is laid down by Article 188R of the Treaty of Lisbon, and more precisely in its Article 4, which empowers the European Union and its Member States to act in an effective manner.
I would like to ask Mrs Ashton to clarify to me whether, and to what extent, the European Union and its Member States have acted in line with this clause.
In more recent years, of course, Yemen has both developed as a terrorist incubator, where terrorist acts have taken place, and exported terrorism to other countries.
Of course, we cannot hope to snuff out terrorism wherever it breeds, and that means we must improve the security of our own countries and have more effective controls on our own borders.
Developments in this country have always been the result of the imperialist choices of NATO policy and the policy of supporting the deeply reactionary and anti-grassroots regime in this country.
We Europeans must therefore do everything we can to finally stabilise the country.
We must do everything in our power to fight international terrorism.
There are over 130 000 refugees from Somalia in Yemen.
Yemen is representative of all these problems and we should not delude ourselves into thinking that we are dealing with a local problem.
We should remember the cause and effect relationship between the terrorist presence in Yemen and the number of acts carried out to destabilise Somalia, which is a pawn controlled by al-Qaeda forces in Yemen.
In this respect, I would like to know where the European Union stands as regards the strengthening of maritime surveillance capacities, which also concern Yemen. (PL) Madam President, Yemen is the poorest country of the Arab world.
The internal conflicts referred to in the draft resolution and during this debate should be resolved by political means, and the sides in the conflicts should respect human rights and international humanitarian law.
The European Union should make efforts to prevent escalation of the present crisis.
The only way to help this country not to become an al-Qaeda outpost is for it to come to agreement with all the Arab countries, not just Saudi Arabia and, of course, we need to make efforts to help this nation move away from a tribal philosophy and civil conflict and to seek democratic rights. (RO) The failed bomb attempt on 25 December on board the Amsterdam-Detroit flight actually only served to reveal an important fact.
Apart from the battle involving the separatist movement in the south, the conflict in Saada province in the north has been reignited by the offensive launched approximately six months ago by government forces against the al-Huthi Shi'ite rebels, and air strikes have been carried out against al-Qaeda bases.
The humanitarian situation, as was also mentioned by the Secretary-General of the United Nations on 5 January, is deeply concerning and is at risk of deteriorating even further if none of these conflicts end.
The path to a united, stable and democratic Yemen lies, in my view, through drafting a consistent plan for boosting both military and economic support and for combating terrorism, which needs to be backed up by specific measures supporting this country's economic development.
Eighty-two Saudi soldiers have died in the conflict with the rebels in Yemen since Saudi Arabia began its offensive on 4 November 2009.
High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy/Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, once again, an important and wide-ranging debate on an area of the world where we have, for some years, had a focus.
I was reflecting on the fact that, over the period 2007-2010, EUR 100 million have been spent by the Commission in support and a similar amount will be spent in the future but nonetheless, an area where we have reflected again on the importance of sustainable and coordinated effort, as many Members have pointed out.
The current situation in Yemen and the terrible suffering to which its people are being subjected should be analysed in the light of this situation.
Yemen, which is the poorest country in the Arab world, has become an object of the special interest of terrorist groups, which, taking advantage of its weakness, have turned it into a base for terrorist attacks far beyond its borders.
Therefore, I appeal for a strengthening of bilateral relations with Yemen and for drawing up plans for the most effective methods of improving security and the political situation, especially in connection with the special meeting on this subject being organised by Gordon Brown for 28 January in London.
