Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities as regards the European External Action Service - Draft amending budget No 6/2010: Section II - European Council and Council; Section III - Commission; Section X - European External Action Service - Amendment of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of those Communities (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following: the report by Mrs Gräßle and Mr Rivellini, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities as regards the European External Action Service - C7-0086/2010 -, the report by Mr Rapkay, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the amendments to the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of those Communities - C7-0146/2010 -, and the report by Mr Gualtieri and Mr Surján, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on Council's position on Draft amending budget No 6/2010 of the European Union for the financial year 2010, Section II - European Council and Council, Section III - Commission, Section X - European External Action Service. (13475/2010 - C7-0262/2010 -.
The joint Rivellini-Gräßle report attempts to address these problems.
We have strengthened Parliament's influence in respect of tasks in the area of foreign policy, we have increased transparency by means of clear reporting obligations and we have increased accountability.
We have made it clear to the EU ambassadors that they have a key role to play in protecting the financial interests of the European Union, and it is very important that their own service should also make this clear to them.
The preferential treatment that has been given up to now to diplomats from the Member States gives us cause for concern.
Article 1 lists the European Union's institutions.
The EEAS shall share an auditor and an accounting officer with the European Commission; this arrangement is to be reviewed in 2013.
The Member States must undertake to fully support the Union in pursuing any kind of liability of temporary staff working for the European External Action Service.
The fact that the regulation lists all the institutions - which means that discharge for the other institutions is just a matter of time - is an excellent result, as is the fact that it provides for a single auditor and accounting officer held in common by the two institutions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and when I say 'ladies and gentlemen', I include you, Baroness Ashton, Mr Šefčovič, your team and the Council Presidency, because, at the end of the day, we experienced collegial cooperation, without which we would surely not have achieved the result that we did.
Mr President, it was a very clever idea of yours to call all the rapporteurs together on a regular basis for an exchange of ideas right from an early stage - back at the time of the Brok, Verhofstadt and Gualtieri reports.
As a result, for the relevant people, it was clear what would need to be done later, and for those who were to do this later work, it was clear what had already been done in terms of preparatory work.
That already represents considerable progress with regard to both the aspect of gender equality and the other aspect of geographical balance.
Bearing all that in mind, we have done a very good job, and the service is now set for a sound start on 1 December.
This position is due to Parliament's desire to see the EEAS set up, because Europe urgently needs it, but, of course, it does not mean that it will give up its role as budgetary authority in the debate on the nature of the body that will deal with crisis management or on the priorities of staff policy, as shown by the reserve that we established in the 2011 budget.
With tomorrow's vote, therefore, we will have an EEAS that is stronger, more communautaire and subject to greater Parliamentary scrutiny.
Mr President, I am pleased to see that this debate takes place in the presence of the Council and the commissioners.
It was indeed possible to resolve the bulk of costs through the redistribution of budgetary resources, but by adding up two amendments, there is an extra cost of approximately EUR 44 million.
Finally, we would like to have very clear cooperation with, and mutual assistance from, Member States' External Action Services, because if these elements are in place, it will allow certain tasks to be performed in countries where a Member State is not represented, but our European service is present.
Last but not least, allow me to express my gratitude to Cathy, her team and the Commission services for their enormously hard work which will lead, I hope, to the establishment of the EEAS in a very short period of time.
I think the input they brought to our debate really contributed to having the EEAS as a truly efficient and effective European diplomatic service.
As you know, the EEAS will be composed in its starting phase of the three sources mentioned in the treaty, namely, the Commission, the Council General Secretariat and national diplomats.
Permanent officials and national diplomats will have the same rights and obligations in the EEAS and the necessary provisions of the Staff Regulations will apply to ensure their independence and loyalty to the European Union.
In addition, Member States will provide national diplomats with a guarantee of immediate reinstatement after their service in the European External Action Service.
The situation will be reviewed in 2013 with a report by the High Representative to be presented to the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
I therefore hope that the European Parliament will adopt these amendments tomorrow.
With regard to amending budget No 6, both arms of the budgetary authority are now, I hope, in a position to approve the amending budget without amendment.
The justification for the first tranche of new AD posts is to cope with immediate additional tasks, but by 2013, we aim to have upheld our commitment for one-third of AD staff to come from the diplomatic services of the Member States.
I know that these have been tough negotiations at times and you have been tough negotiators.
This has been a joint and collaborative exercise and I am extraordinarily grateful to all of you for the work that has gone on.
Most importantly, I believe we have set the foundations for the service in a way that will engage Parliament properly in the future, and I have already made my commitments to transparency and the approach that I wish to take in working with Parliament.
This is, above all, a service for them, and I stand before the representatives of the citizens of Europe to make my commitment to see this service fulfil your ambitions.
After the political agreement of Madrid and the European Parliament's opinion issued on 8 July, on 26 July, the General Affairs Council, as you know, adopted a decision setting out the organisation and functioning of the European External Action Service.
However, in order for this service to be properly established, we still need to adopt the three instruments that I have just mentioned.
On Monday, 25 October, the General Affairs Council may adopt these instruments at a political level.
For my part, I shall limit myself to addressing the historical nature of this event which, a year after the Treaty of Lisbon came into force, embodies one of its most significant innovations.
To conclude, Mr President, I should like once again to thank the European Parliament for its commitment and its constructive approach which was decisive in this matter.
Two hundred MEPs from the new Member States in this House will also be keeping an eye on this.
We believe that all men and women are equal and not that some are more equal than others.
Lady Ashton, we look forward to your actions to correct the present discrimination against new Member States in what will become the EEAS.
This not only applies to Parliament's influence; above all, it is about the right of citizens to scrutiny of this important new service that the Union is now providing.
It has taken time and we fought hard to achieve it, but I believe that we can also say that, with this, we have laid a good foundation that will enable the new European External Action Service to enhance the EU's role in the world, under the full and sound scrutiny of Parliament and the citizens, and that is important.
The Committee on Development endorses the amendments put forward in the draft report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and, in particular, the amendments which are intended to ensure that recruitment of personnel to the European External Action Service is based on objective and transparent procedures set out in the Staff Regulations and conditions of employment of other servants of the Communities.
They concern, in particular, gender equality and geographical balance among staff, as well as a balance between staff from European Union institutions and those with a background in national diplomatic corps.
Since our shared vision is to see a real European diplomatic service which is not just an extension of the diplomatic services of the 27 Member States, the Financial Regulation and Staff Regulations, which we will discuss today and vote on tomorrow, are of paramount importance.
At the same time, I also wish to express my regret that the geographical balance proposal, which received majority support in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgets and is also, I would like to point out, in line with the European Parliament resolution of 8 July 2010, has not been mentioned sufficiently in the Rapkay report.
It is very important to establish appropriate organisational and operational regulations.
Transparent and simple organisational structure and management of resources is the guarantee that the new organisation will operate efficiently.
It is especially important that this body comprising members of EU institutions and Member State employees has full equality in this respect.
I am certain no one in this House is in the slightest doubt as to the important role the European External Action Service will play in the work of the Union.
We have worked under time pressure, and the negotiations have often been difficult.
The Committee on Legal Affairs had the task of proposing amendments to the Staff Regulations which will be appropriate to the needs of the new service and which will also guarantee that it will be independent and that its work will be of a high standard.
I do, of course, welcome the declarations made by the High Representative that she is going to give particular attention to ensuring participation in the service by citizens from all the Member States, and I also welcome the provision that in 2013, a report will be presented in which the High Representative will provide information on the work of the service.
I thank the rapporteurs for good cooperation, and my wish for Mrs Ashton is that she will be able to put our efforts to good use in her work.
Mr President, I would first of all like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done and for the compromises that have been reached.
Of course, not everyone is satisfied yet, and I also understand the concern, particularly regarding geographical balance.
Above all, it is a question of providing a common service of the highest quality for the European Union.
China is a new emerging power, and we do not want to prevent that, but we object to a form of nationalism that is developing a certain degree of aggressiveness, particularly in that region in Asia.
For the High Representative, too, that is surely also one of the most important issues that needs to be addressed, namely to ensure that, in these new international multilateral institutions, we also achieve an appropriate new regulation and new distribution of influence and power, where the European Union is not restricted, but where there is acceptance of the fact that there are also new global players.
All of these are huge tasks for the diplomatic service and ones for which the High Representative needs our full support.
Baroness Ashton certainly does not have an easy task ahead of her now that our common European External Action Service is to be established.
I hope that, under Baroness Ashton, the External Action Service will develop into a genuine European service that will represent citizens from all of our Member States, women as well as men.
I wholeheartedly wish Baroness Ashton success in this important work.
We have laid the ground for an inclusive service that is based on equality and an esprit de corps.
I think that will bring us all forward.
The Union is an association of 27 states, and this fact should be reflected in the structure of the institution which is to represent the European Union externally.
It is not, therefore, a rigid solution which imposes geographical criteria of this type when recruiting staff for the future service, but a flexible and auxiliary measure.
Therefore, we are very far from that control, and for those reasons, we are not going to vote in favour tomorrow.
I agree that the Member States should be represented in the structure of the new service and that a large proportion of women would be appropriate.
I therefore think the idea of setting up a European diplomatic academy from scratch would be inappropriate and costly. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to be able to represent the interests of the European States on the international stage in a more effective manner, foreign policy actions must be discussed in advance and then communicated to the outside world with one voice.
They do exist. (DE) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Frank Sinatra was referred to as 'the Voice'.
You and this service will have a special role to play in this regard.
We have succeeded in safeguarding the Community character of the policies that are Community policies and also in ensuring that more than 60% of the staff must be Community officials.
Moreover, if this is now legally binding and a review must also be carried out in 2013, then it is an excellent achievement by this House - a good compromise that we have reached between the institutions.
We will do this with the necessary flexibility, but we will also exert pressure to ensure that you, Baroness Ashton, are able to succeed in your task.
There is no dilemma between 'communautarianism' and intergovernmentalism, between merits or quotas, between old and new Member States.
The fact of the matter is that some in our Union - mainly but not only among the new members - feel they are discriminated against.
I can only hope that the High Representative will correct the imbalances in the process which apparently fuelled these perceptions, and I also hope that a future European diplomatic academy, or something similar, will help us to create a corps of European diplomats who are competent and loyal to our common interest and to the European institutions. (NL) Mr President, in this debate, which mainly focuses on the supervision and organisation of the European External Action Service (EEAS), we must not lose sight of the general interest of this service - which, after all, is very great.
Mr President, today we are focusing, in particular, on the financial and organisational side of the EEAS, and that is an important aspect.
Not until sufficient transparency and financial responsibility are in place will this service be fully capable of action.
While the new service needs to be representative of the EU's 27 Member States, it must be built, first and foremost, on merit.
When decisions are made on matters of principle, the power of veto still applies, and so, in the case of major decisions, such as the intervention in Iraq or the secession of Kosovo, there has been no European Union foreign policy in existence.
The implementation of this Lisbon Treaty novelty looks pretty disgraceful, but I must say I am not surprised.
As always, however, it will be the taxpayer who pays for these 'efficiencies'. (NL) Mr President, what a sad - even tragic - day.
Among the 29 ambassadors who were recently nominated, only four are from the new Member States.
We must not allow such a division to become a rule in the operation of the future External Action Service.
I am confident, of course, even as the debate went on today, that the European Parliament will be a European institution which will help, encourage and pass on its ideas to the new service so that it will be really effective and successfully create a more active, visible role for the European Union on the international stage.
In fact, the European External Action Service is perhaps the most visible result of the Treaty of Lisbon.
This will commence on 1 December and we wish you every success in this regard.
In other words, the European Parliament is almost happy.
The principle of solidarity and representativeness, which has guided the Union for a long time, must not be obscured by the selfishness of some of the large Member States.
Such proposals have been avoided by means of balanced compromise amendments, which have been able to take geographical and gender balance into account without imposing country-based selection criteria.
The selection of country-based quotas would not, in fact, have been a suitable or desirable solution.
After over 50 years of European integration, the Union's first real diplomatic corps is now being created.
For it to accomplish this task, it is crucial that its staff represent the Union and not the Member States of which they are citizens or have been diplomatic officers.
That is the line that the Committee on Legal Affairs took yesterday when adopting the Rapkay report, and that is the line that I hope will continue to be taken in the vote in plenary. (SL) We need a strong European Union, a European Union of all 27 Member States, not just a minority.
There is no greater threat to the strength and unity of the European Union than a situation where the EU is, in the main, represented by citizens of only six nationalities.
We need a strong European Union of all 27 Member States. (PL) An absolutely exceptional procedure is ending, today - the procedure of establishing a new European institution.
Yes, I do, and so will this Parliament in our vote tomorrow. (SL) Finding a compromise with regard to the financial foundations of the European External Action Service (EEAS) has been as complicated as Europe itself.
Coordinating interests in every situation will be a tough job, because we are all different and because we have a different history.
That is what we want to see from 1 December onwards. (SK) The European External Action Service is gradually developing its role.
Even the European External Action Service will ultimately survive only on the money from the 27 Member States of the EU, and you must, Baroness Ashton, be well aware of this fact.
Even though we demand professionalism, quality and experience, above all, when selecting diplomats for this service, we cannot completely abandon the principle of balanced geographical representation from the individual Member States.
It is our hope that the principle should establish itself in the longer run, with savings in the national diplomatic services, in the Commission and in the Council, and with the same internal auditor and accounting officer for the Commission and for the External Action Service.
I think that this positive atmosphere has brought us very close to the historic decision of tomorrow.
The first, which I quite deliberately left to the end of the debate, is that I would like to thank all of the shadow rapporteurs for their friendly and constructive cooperation.
How to unify functions associated with different policies and subject to different decision-making procedures in order to make the European Union's external actions more consistent, without endangering the communautaire nature of certain policies, but embracing the contributions of bodies operating in the field of the common security and defence policy, was not merely a problem of European law or administration science or a test of the power relations between institutions.
Well, I think we have risen to the challenge marvellously, and so our satisfaction is fully justified.
The approval of the amendment tabled by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, which will introduce 'merit' as the criterion for selecting the EU's Heads of Delegation (the diplomats who will represent the European Union in third countries), will show us, once it has been implemented by the European External Action Service of socialist Catherine Ashton, that Romania and other new Member States will be left empty-handed.
Let us remind Lady Ashton that all EU Member States enjoy the same rights and, therefore, they must be sufficiently represented in the structures of the new European diplomatic service, both at the headquarters in Brussels and in the EU delegations.
We therefore urge Lady Ashton to bear in mind that the European Union has 27 Member States.
The Rapkay report on amending the Staff Regulations in the context of establishing the European External Action Service, the EEAS, is a very important document on the road to creating a Union foreign policy.
in writing. - The European Parliament has used its new powers in a creative and responsible way, introducing new balances into the External Service's architecture.
We look forward to the High Representative's report to the European Parliament on its implementation in two years time and are prepared to make the necessary modifications.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that appropriately drawn up regulations relating to the European External Action Service will ensure that it functions in an effective and productive manner.
The High Representative must meet her commitment, already reiterated on a number of occasions, to ensure that Member States such as Romania, currently under-represented in the Commission's and Council's foreign affairs structures that will be transferred to the EEAS, are fairly represented in the European External Action Service.
The EU has hitherto always boasted that it has a lean administration - which, of course, is not true if we take into account the separate agencies.
Fifty directors-general with a princely EUR 17 000 per month for an initial 30 employees, 73 promotions to the position of director - we could easily get the impression that this is a self-service shop.
However, I am somewhat disappointed that although appointments to the EEAS will be made using a thorough selection procedure based on merit and having regard to gender and geographical balance, it still does not guarantee proportional representation of nationals of all Member States.
The fact that the European Union is an egalitarian organisation of 27 Member States should be clearly reflected in the composition of the European External Action Service in order to put our values into practice.
The European Parliament has proven to date that it clearly supports both the establishment and the swift commissioning of the European External Action Service.
The EEAS also needs the same internal auditor and authorising officer as the European Commission for the purposes of financial control.
We feel that the compromise achieved will help enormously in achieving more transparent, sound and effective administration of spending by the EEAS under the Community budget.
