Safety of toys (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on safety of toys by Andreas Schwab, Anja Weisgerber, Marianne Thyssen, Anna Maria Corazza Bildt, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Evelyne Gebhardt, Christel Schaldemose, Anna Hedh, Barbara Weiler, on behalf of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, Cristian Silviu Buşoi, Jürgen Creutzmann, Antonyia Parvanova, Nadja Hirsch, on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, Heide Rühle, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, Malcolm Harbour, on behalf of the European Conservatives and Reformists - B7-0658/2010).
As every year, this issue comes to the fore in the run-up to Christmas, and for me personally, too, as a mother-to-be, this issue is one that is close to my heart, and I think it is very important that we have the strictest standards.
I am pleased that, as I understand it, the Commission is to announce today, at least, that the limit values for certain heavy metals are to be tightened up, albeit with a delay from when we called on it to do so and certainly encouraged by the debate today.
Should it also turn out that it is necessary to amend the limit values in order to protect our children, I call for a rectification of the legislation in this regard, too.
The new information does indeed show that we need to ensure that the limit values are adapted and we are calling on the Commission to finally do so.
It is our duty as the representatives of EU citizens to ensure that we are looking after the best interests of consumers and protecting children.
The latest RAPEX reports also underline problems concerning market surveillance for toys.
That sounds great, Mr Harbour, but I still think that we have some work to do on our side, too.
According to the study, 40 laboratories took part in the analysis, 15 of which are bodies notified by the Member States as being qualified to assess the conformity of toys within the meaning of the directive.
The Commission has sent the results of these studies to the Member States that notified the names of the laboratories and to the laboratories themselves, inviting them to take the appropriate measures.
The study in question has also been sent to the European Committee for Standardisation so that it can be incorporated in the review of the EN 71-3 standard, which is currently under way.
As regards the new directive on toys, adopted in May 2009, it is based on a new legislative framework for the marketing of products and it provides for greater market surveillance.
As regards chemical substance limits, Mr Buşoi, it is true that a migration-based method is preferable from a scientific point of view, because it is based on the real risk to which children are exposed.
As you know, the new directive will apply to economic operators from July 2011.
The obligations relating to chemical substances will apply from July 2013.
Mr President, Commissioner, the directive adopted in 2009 was a success because it updates the legislative framework governing the safety of toys.
Europeans are preparing to make their Christmas purchases, and we must guarantee that the products that they buy comply with all the safety requirements. (CS) Mr President, the recommendation of the Commission's Scientific Committee regarding the limits for release of the six chemical substances is not unequivocal, and that has led to this question being put.
Then I remembered that he is the Commissioner responsible for this issue and, therefore, the first thing he should have done was to reply to us in detail on the CE mark, the issue raised by my fellow Member, Evelyne Gebhardt, the mark which is supposed to be a safety guarantee for the toys which our children play with.
As in the question tonight, people have acknowledged the job of RAPEX.
As a practising father, I often find that instead of being deterred by more stringent inspections, such paltry products find their way into the hands of our children in increasing numbers and varieties.
PAHs are particularly mentioned and therefore, it is important that we reduce CMR substances in children's toys to the minimum.
Therefore, we need to take action. (GA) It is time for us to do it and to ensure that the toys used by our children are safe for them.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to point out once again, in response to the many questions asked during the debate, that the directive will apply to economic operators from July 2011 and that the obligations relating to chemical substances will apply from July 2013.
That is why I am convinced that the Member States have a fundamental role to play; indeed, a toy that enters the internal market in Rotterdam or in Constanţa, Romania, today, may wind up in Bologna, Lisbon or Helsinki tomorrow, without any border controls.
The Commission must address this without delay.
Safety standards must be based on reliable methods of testing, and intensive research must be undertaken to ensure that no harmful substances are found in children's toys.
Although all the toys that appear on the market from 20 July 2011 onwards will have to comply with the new Toy Safety Directive, and although we in Europe have the world's strictest legislation as regards toy safety, constant care is necessary.
