Preliminary election results show a very small gap between the two contestants.
In the weeks and months to come, we will see a new administration being formed in Kiev.
This message was also already conveyed at the EU-Ukraine Summit of 4 December 2009.
Already today, ongoing and planned technical and financial cooperation with Ukraine is in the region of EUR 435 million, without counting possible macrofinancial assistance.
The Eastern Partnership has brought additional tools.
The comprehensive institution-building programme envisaged by the Eastern Partnership is a case in point, as it specifically targets institutions within the Ukrainian Government which need strengthening in order to deliver on reform.
More generally, in negotiations with Ukraine on a new ambitious EU-Ukraine association agreement, we have set out our goals clearly: political association and economic integration between the European Union and Ukraine.
The pace at which Ukraine and the EU come closer together in the future depends on the quality and depth of Ukraine's own reform efforts.
Madam President, Commissioner, we are rather disappointed.
I hope that these elections will bring new stability to Ukraine.
However, despite the elections apparently being conducted in accordance with international standards, I am concerned that this is not a stable, self-confident democracy.
Mr Füle, you have a specific responsibility relating to neighbourhood policy.
This will not harm anyone, does not represent aggressive behaviour towards anyone and, at the same time, will lead to the introduction of the European perspective and of stability in countries of this kind.
In fact, we can say that democracy in Ukraine was the main winner because, when the current president stands again as a candidate and only receives 5% of the votes, this seems to me to be a very clear sign that democracy is working.
This is true, but Ukraine remains a state even after these elections.
It still has its multi-party system, and this is mainly thanks to the Orange Revolution.
Thus, we have to recognise the development of Ukraine towards democracy and the rule of law, towards improving economic integration and promoting relations with the European Union.
It is true that it was a very sad result for the hero of 2004, Victor Yushchenko, to be beaten in the first ballot.
You have taken on a significant responsibility in this area. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, of course, Yulia Tymoshenko is entitled to appeal against the result of the presidential election.
A lot will depend on whether Mr Yanukovich appoints a prime minister whom both the Eastern and Western Ukrainians can live with and whether Mrs Tymoshenko has the democratic maturity to acknowledge her defeat and join the opposition.
Madam President, Commissioner, five years ago, this Chamber went through the Orange Revolution, too, in a certain sense.
It is an opportunity for you, too, Mr Füle.
Say this clearly, and you will go down in history.
The new President will be governing in the face of robust opposition and free media.
The election campaign confirmed that the Ukrainian political elite wants to continue the process of integration with the European Union and to maintain good neighbourly relations with Russia.
There will be a new President, and that new President should meet with a friendly reception in the European Union and the European Parliament.
The Eastern Partnership and Euronest initiative offer a suitable framework for this.
In this situation, if we want to have influence in the post-Soviet space and consolidate the positions of democracy and human rights in this region, then we must work with Ukraine, and more actively than ever before.
To do this, we should first of all aim for so-called 'soft' measures that have a long-term impact, such as promoting economic integration, the more active creation of people-to-people contacts and political dialogue with Ukraine's government institutions. (HU) In the debate about the current situation in Ukraine, I would like to ask the Commission to use its relations or network of relations with Ukraine to request and show a consistent and clear commitment with regard to the rights of national minorities, alongside other areas, as what we have heard today about recent setbacks in Ukraine, affecting so many areas, applies exponentially to members of minorities, to education in the languages of minorities and to the use of their mother tongue.
Ukraine is a European country which must have the right to take decisions on Europe.
Therefore, the European Union must cooperate intensively with Ukraine, strengthening democracy in this country and speeding up its integration in the European Union. (SL) Commissioner, your report on Ukraine today was very clear.
It is encouraging that this was the result of a fair election.
I firmly believe that this dynamic should continue in the future.
Ukraine needs support and solidarity from the EU to continue the reforms already under way in order to eliminate this division between East and West.
in writing. - Ukraine continues to be crucial for the stability and democratic development of Europe.
For example, there is a Romanian-speaking minority in Ukraine numbering more than 410 000.
It is a traditional national community with deep historical roots, which lives in harmony with the majority and other minorities, especially in the Chernivtsi Region (Northern Bukovina, Northern Bessarabia and the Hertsa Region), the Odessa Region (districts in Southern Bessarabia) and in the Transcarpathian Region (historical Maramureş Region).
In addition, the EU should cooperate with Kiev so that the Chernivtsi State University establishes sections offering teaching in Romanian as a mother tongue in all the current departments and specialties.
Ukraine is a major partner in the Eastern Neighbourhood Policy of the European Union and it is also the most important transit state for relations cultivated with Russia.
I would like to emphasise that Hungary, with Ukraine being its largest neighbour, is particularly interested in political and economic stability being established in Ukraine.
