Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (LT) Mr President, I would like to announce that I support this decision, although my card was not working to begin with and that is why I want to announce this.
Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on a change to the annual accounting responsibilities of micro-entities.
This project caused stormy debate at almost all levels, both in European Union and Member State institutions.
As a result, those companies would no longer be tempted to engage in illegal activities. (DE) Mr President, with the option of relieving micro-enterprises of the obligation to produce annual balance sheets, the European Parliament is clearly coming out in favour of the abolition of superfluous bureaucracy.
This arrangement will not only enable the enterprises in question to save time and costs amounting to around EUR 2 000 per company; it is also a very good example of how Europe is more citizen-friendly than many people believe it to be.
Keeping accounts is actually effective and necessary, for the very reason that it allows enterprises to compete on the market and also obtain bank credit, because the quality of management is measured on the basis of accounts for enterprises and micro-enterprises alike.
The decision we took today is a sensible one and a well-founded response to the concerns of struggling small businesses in Europe.
This measure represents a tangible helping hand for small enterprises at this difficult time.
This closed attitude is unworthy of this House.
I believe that the resolution does much to ridicule this House which, in such an important debate as Europe 2020, is capable of doing nothing other than stating the obvious. (RO) As is well known, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe was among the first to call for a more specific approach to the economic growth strategy.
I believe that the strategy's success will mainly depend on the way in which it is implemented at national, local and regional level. (RO) A declaration was adopted by the Heads of State or Government during the informal meeting of the European Council held on 11 February to support Greece's efforts to remedy its economic and financial situation.
In addition, the topic of what the European Union will stand for in 2020, following on from the Lisbon Strategy, was also discussed.
Investment in education must be backed up by the existence of an infrastructure which supports the practical application of knowledge, social cohesion and the global growth of Europe's economic competitiveness. (EL) Mr President, it is clear from the Council conclusions and from the debate which followed in Parliament in Brussels and from the stand subsequently taken by the competent Commissioner and the heads of several Member States that, in times of crisis and when certain Member States are facing serious economic problems, we need, among other things, and within the framework of existing monetary union, European solidarity and new policies to address speculative attacks against certain Member States.
As such, the stands being taken at this time in connection with the creation of European institutions and structures to address such problems, such as, for example, a European monetary fund, are very important.
We expect a great deal of the Council in days to come and look forward to effective action to address the problems in this critical period. (LT) Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about the EU 2020 strategy.
In my opinion, this can also be said of the European Union's 2020 strategy.
Of course, in this case, I am by no means talking about such areas as culture, tradition or national heritage.
Nevertheless, we must underline that, in economic terms, the European Union market is a common market.
I am sorry but I think we have heard enough.
Thank you so much, Mr Uspaskich.
I have cut you off. (EL) Mr President, I voted against the report, because the EU 2020 strategy treads the same unsuccessful neoliberal path as the Lisbon Strategy, which widened regional and social inequalities, increased poverty and unemployment and was the basic cause of the crisis in the European Union.
They treated Greece like the black sheep and they want harsh measures to be taken to the detriment of workers in Greece and other countries.
The anti-social and anti-development Stability Pact therefore needs to be replaced by a development and expansion pact as described in the motion tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left. (PL) The European Union undoubtedly needs a new strategy which will help and allow us to construct our response to the economic and financial crisis.
The resolution that my group and I voted for contains some of these things, but I think that President Barroso, the Council and Parliament should be more courageous. (PL) The new EU strategy is, in fact, the younger brother of the Lisbon Strategy.
At the same time as the leaders of the European Union were talking about the necessity of adopting the Lisbon Strategy, the Member States were, in fact, restricting the free movement of workers, and also of services.
The new strategy is, of course, a little better than the version of a few months ago, where nothing at all was said about cohesion.
I hope it will be a strategy which will not contribute to domination of the new European Union by the countries of the old Union. (HU) I voted against the EU 2020 strategy.
I therefore think that the wording of paragraph 18 will create a misunderstanding in the public mind that 80% of the budget is poorly managed and that we have been criticised for it.
I would like to clarify this for you, ladies and gentlemen, and for the benefit of the European public. (RO) I voted against the Goldstone report even though, initially, this report seemed to be a well-intentioned initiative to analyse closely the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and identify the best solutions for remedying the situation in the region.
However, I would have liked this report to be more objective, in keeping with the provisions of international and humanitarian law.
I voted in favour of the report, although I do not agree with it on every point, but it is a good thing that we have taken the position adopted in Parliament today.
Hopefully, it will help limit the excesses of the opposing parties and will, in the long run, contribute to achieving the much desired and lasting peace in the Middle East. (HU) In December 2008, Israel launched a brutal attack on the Gaza Strip, as a result of which more than 1400 people died, for the most part civilians, including 450 children.
Too many things have been laid at the door of Israel, and yet it was Hamas that was misusing civilian targets and civilians as shelters, arms depots and human shields.
These countries are not exactly world-famous for their brilliant track record on democracy and freedom of expression.
Unfortunately, that is what swayed Goldstone as well and, for this reason, I voted against the joint EP resolution.
As a matter of fact, the resolution is just as one-sided as the Goldstone report itself. (FI) Mr President, I voted against the Goldstone report.
More than 600 Members of the European Parliament quite rightly voted in favour of considering Hamas a terrorist organisation.
Despite the fact that we almost unanimously agreed that Hamas is a terrorist organisation, we, or at least the majority, in this House, voted in favour of this report and appeared to approve of the measures contained in it, and of all the 8 000 rockets which Hamas has fired at Israeli civilian centres.
I voted against this report, because I have the impression that the report attempts to present the situation in the Middle East in black and white, showing Israel as the 'Schwarz' character - the villain.
Actually, the situation is much more complicated.
I, personally, have been to a place called Sderot - and I think you have been there, too, Mr President - which has been the target of several hundred missiles fired by Hamas fighters, as Mr Takkula said recently.
Equally, the partiality and tone of this report have pushed further away the idea of a two-state solution in which an Israeli entity and a Palestinian one live side by side as peaceable neighbours. (DE) Mr President, the German Free Democratic Party (FDP) delegation in the European Parliament today voted against the resolution from several groups to implement the recommendations of the Goldstone report.
A report that equates democratic Israel with a group officially listed by the EU as a terrorist organisation and a report that fails to give reasonable consideration to the deeper causes of the conflict is not one that we can vote in favour of.
Our voting choice likewise does not mean that we would endorse the policy of the government of the State of Israel in the peace process.
US Vice-President Biden's visit also shows that the Obama administration is serious in its efforts to achieve a lasting peace in the region.
Such legal action curtails freedom and democracy in Belarus and deepens the distrust of citizens and other countries, including the European Union, in its state authorities and their representatives.
In the context of the recent arrests of civil society and democratic opposition representatives, it is impossible not to see the short time period between when the decree enters into force in July of this year and the upcoming presidential elections at the beginning of next year. (PL) I would like to thank fellow Members for drawing up this resolution and for its adoption by the European Parliament.
By endorsing this resolution, we have expressed support for the defence of the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, including national minorities.
It is, at the same time, an initiative to defend the fundamental principles of democracy and tolerance, which are the foundation of Europe.
I am pleased by the official position of Parliament on this matter, which supports the Polish minority in Belarus.
I would like to take this opportunity to point out that Member States of the European Union should set an example to other countries and to our neighbours, and should take care that the rights of national minorities in our Member States are fully respected. (PL) I voted in favour of adopting the Belarus resolution.
In the resolution, we demand legalisation of the Association of Poles in Belarus, which is led by Angelika Borys, and we express our solidarity with all the citizens of Belarus, who cannot take full advantage of civil rights.
The intentions which are behind the resolution are much more profound.
I would also like to strongly condemn the arrest of Angelika Borys, the chairperson of the Union of Poles in Belarus, and also Anatoly Lebedko, the leader of the opposition United Civil Party and the leader of the United Democratic Forces in Belarus, who has been the guest of this House on several occasions.
Regrettably, the people of Belarus are not able to benefit from many projects and proposals the European Union is financing as part of our eastern neighbourhood policy. (FI) Mr President, as regards the situation in Belarus, I regard it as very important that, as Europeans, we remember what our values are.
I want to bring this to your attention because of the recent regrettable outcome of the vote on the Goldstone report and because in all matters, be they in connection with Belarus, the Middle East, the Far East or Africa, we need to remember the fundamental principles that guide us.
They are democracy, human rights and freedom of opinion.
This is the right of the entire European Union: the values that unite us and which endeavour to promote these goals.
For example, last week we adopted a resolution on Ukraine, which included a provision that many Ukrainian patriots rightly find insulting to their national hero, Stepan Bandera.
This does not make him any less of a hero for many Ukrainians, who rightly feel humiliated by the majority of this House.
It is possible that in the context of international agreement, the time has come for some financial transaction tax.
Most of today's resolution has our backing, but we take exception to paragraph 7 for two reasons.
Instead, it must be to ensure future financial stability and to protect against the kind of events that have caused the recent economic chaos.
What we need is to take public ownership and democratic control of these hedge funds and major banks in order to use their massive resources for investment that will end poverty and benefit society, rather than destroying society for private greed. (IT) Mr President, we abstained, but my main aim was to take a stance against the clear intention of the European Union and the Commission to introduce a tax, as demonstrated by Commissioner Šemeta's recent statements to European Voice about the supposed imminent introduction of a minimum tax on emissions.
I wish to remind you that President Van Rompuy hinted at this when, in a mysterious meeting held a week before his appointment to the Bilderberg group, which is not exactly the most transparent group in the world, he announced - and even committed himself to - the proposal of a European direct tax on CO2, which would cause an immediate increase in fuel prices, services, etc., and would therefore be detrimental to European citizens.
It attacks the bankers, it attacks the City of London and, above all, it furnishes the European Union with an independent stream of revenue, which means that it does not have to go to the Member States.
So, when one thinks about this idea of a global financial transaction tax, it may seem reasonable if we want to help the victims of the financial crisis and also help those in poorer countries.
We should be making sure that we lift tariff barriers in both the EU and poor countries, to help entrepreneurs in poorer countries to create wealth and take people out of poverty. (SK) I appreciate the efforts of the European Union regarding the introduction of a single regime for bank transactions within the euro area.
If, on the one hand, our banks, under pressure from the European Union, adjust payments for cross-border SEPA transfers within the euro area so that they are at the same level as internal transfers, the fees for depositing and withdrawing money at branches would concurrently rise.
And, therefore, we have to say loudly that the exploitation by the banks of the new rules which have been introduced in the euro area in order to increase their profits at the expense of our citizens is blatant doltishness.
Therefore, it should be our duty to monitor carefully how the new regulations on financial institutions are being applied. (PL) I voted in favour of adoption of the resolution because, as a representative of my electorate, I cannot accept that anything should be agreed behind their backs and against their will.
The Treaty of Lisbon has given the European Parliament new competences, which is also why the European Parliament should be able to stand guard over the rights of citizens.
I agree with the authors of the resolution, who criticise the way the Commission's negotiations on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement are being kept secret as well as the lack of cooperation with the European Parliament on this matter.
This action is directed against prevailing EU law on universal access to information about the activities of public authorities, and it is also action which restricts the right to privacy.
To use the current negotiating formula to generate a global agreement is totally contrary to the transparent and democratic processes that we should expect from our lawmakers.
Regardless of the content of the agreement, it is unacceptable to avoid public scrutiny when generating policies that will directly affect so many European citizens.
He strongly encourages the European Commission to establish a public and transparent dialogue on ACTA.
He also states that, while intellectual property is important to society and must be protected, it should not be placed above individuals' fundamental rights to privacy, data protection and other rights such as presumption of innocence, effective judicial protection and freedom of expression.
The Commissioner last night heard that message loud and clear, and I am very pleased that he has promised to give us more information.
If the Commission is negotiating on behalf of 27 Member States and on behalf of the EU, then it is essential that we know what the negotiating position is, and also that there is a full impact assessment on what is being proposed to show how it will impact on EU industry.
One of the things that is very important when we look at GSP and GSP+ is that, during the negotiations on the economic partnership agreements, there were many individual states in the proposed regions that were against signing a deal with the EU.
Therefore, what we should propose is to offer those countries that want a trade agreement, but do not fit the criteria of the economic partnership agreements, GSP+ as an alternative, and we should look to be more flexible.
Well, one of the last arguments of those who believe in this European project is that the EU has kept the peace in Europe for the last 50 or 60 years.
It was NATO forces that protected the rest of Europe from this nightmare.
I believe that it is in the UK's interest to cooperate with all of these countries against a new form of totalitarianism that is the European Union. (IT) Mr President, I voted in favour because I wanted to emphasise that the hope of increasing civil and military synergy and collaboration between the European Union and its Member States, even whilst respecting some non-aligned or neutral positions, is a position that we can all broadly share.
The purpose of this would be to eliminate problems, disorders and delays which, unfortunately, continue to arise under the current system. (EL) Mr President, thank you for your patience.
I voted against this report, because it repeats the dangerous guidelines contained in the Treaty of Lisbon for the European defence and security strategy.
In other words, it calls for the militarisation of the European Union, legitimises military intervention, recognises the primacy of NATO and the close relationship between it and even promotes - at a time of crisis and major social needs - an increase in military force.
I think that such a policy better expresses the views of European citizens.
If these companies are not involved in cross-border activities or do not even operate at national level, this reporting obligation only serves to create a pointless administrative burden, thereby incurring costs for these commercial companies (approximately EUR 1 170).
This is why this report is recommending that Member States waive the annual reporting obligations for commercial companies which meet two of the following criteria for consideration as micro-enterprises: total assets must be less than EUR 500 000, the net turnover amount must be less than EUR 1 million and/or they must have an average of 10 employees throughout the financial year.
I am voting in favour of the Lehne report regarding the accounts of micro-enterprises because I support active measures for de-bureaucratisation and those that support small and medium enterprises, which, in Portugal and in Europe, are responsible for the greatest amount of job creation.
Care will have to be taken to ensure that there are no negative consequences of the way these rules are transposed in relation to the ongoing efforts to combat fraud and tax evasion and also the fight against economic and financial crime (whether at national, European or international level).
The last two rounds of enlargement of the European Union have brought numerous benefits to old and new Member States alike, while also posing a number of challenges.
In an effort to reduce the administrative burden, the European Commission proposed that countries that so wish can exempt their SMEs from this annual obligation to publish their accounts imposed by the current European legislation.
I was against this repeal because, as a result of the Commission proposal, the European regulatory and harmonised framework will disappear for more than 70% of European businesses.
That is also why the Belgian MEPs and the Belgian Government are fiercely opposed to the European proposal (Belgium has also rallied together a blocking minority in the Council of Ministers, where the proposal still has to be voted on).
The report on the proposal for a directive on the annual accounts of companies resolves the framework and broadens the obligation to submit accounts in the case of micro-entities.
The aim of this measure is to reduce the administrative burden and thereby to help boost the competitiveness and economic growth of micro-entities.
I voted against the Lehne report because abolishing the accounting obligations for these microentities will not reduce the real costs of businesses and will create great legal uncertainty.
This situation will be detrimental to very small enterprises.
Today, I voted against the Lehne report, as I believe that the reduction in administrative expenditure for small and medium-sized enterprises must take place as part of a uniform and comprehensive approach for the whole of the European Union.
Were this proposal implemented, more than 70% of European companies - indeed more than 90% in Luxembourg - would be exempted from the requirement to produce standardised annual accounts.
I welcome the decision adopted today.
I hope that as many Member States as possible will implement it in an ideal and efficient way, for the benefit of small entrepreneurs and the economy in general.
Moreover, the publication of annual accounts safeguards transparency and is the sine qua non for access by micro-entities to the credit market and to public procurement contracts and to their inter-company relations.
I voted against the Lehne report and the Commission proposal.
Yes, a thousand times yes to a reduction in administrative burdens for businesses, and particularly for SMEs, but a consistent reduction, achieved by means of a proposal for a general review of the fourth and seventh Company Law Directives.
The proposal submitted to us entails allowing the Member States to exempt certain enterprises (microentities) from the obligation to draw up and publish their annual accounts.
However, the Commission proposal cruelly misses the mark: firstly, it is not clear whether the proposed system would really reduce the administrative burden on these businesses (the statistical data currently compiled will have to be gathered by other means) and, secondly, this text, which leaves it up to each Member State to decide whether or not to apply the exemption, is in danger of fragmenting the internal market (in the highly likely event that some Member States will apply the exemption and others will not).
The objective of the present proposal relates to the simplification of the business environment and, in particular, the requirements for the provision of financial information by micro-enterprises, with the aim of strengthening their competitiveness and potential for growth.
In this context, I welcome the changes included in the report regarding the reduction in the administrative burden on micro-enterprises, as I believe that it constitutes an important measure in stimulating the European economy and in combating the crisis.
I therefore argue for the finding of balanced solutions with a view to adapting the way this measure is applied, rather than having a specific obligation in the document to maintain accounts regarding commercial operations and the financial position.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's adoption of the Small Business Act in March 2009 kick-started a series of policy proposals geared towards making the business environment in Europe more SME-friendly, through administrative simplification, among other means.
This is an extremely important proposal as it will reduce the unnecessary burden of red tape on small businesses and help over five million firms to make a saving of approximately GBP 1 000 each.
The EU has made a commitment to reduce burdens on small and medium enterprises by 25% by 2012 and this law is a vitally important step along the path to achieving this objective.
Very small enterprises account for more than 85% of European businesses; in other words, they are the backbone of our economy, which urgently needs a boost.
I therefore believe that a harmonised reduction in their obligations is along the right lines, albeit with an assurance that this will not hinder their access to credit.
The assessment should therefore be carried out across the board, with account taken of the whole economic environment that surrounds very small enterprises, their relations with banks, with management centres - in the case of French enterprises - and, of course, with their customers.
I voted against this proposal because it is liable, in the long run, to backfire on SMEs and, by reducing their access to credit, to deprive them of the conditions of transparency and of confidence that are indispensable to their management and to the dynamism of their activity.
I do not believe that one can, on the one hand, request greater transparency from the banks by criticising them for the non-transparency of the financial markets, which led to the current crisis, and, on the other, seek to abolish the tools of transparency that are crucial to economic operators themselves and to the economic regulatory policies that we want to conduct at European level.
I welcome the adoption of the Lehne report that will certainly contribute to the reduction of the managerial burdens of micro-enterprises.
Let us hope that the rules proposed in this report will lead to higher turnover and greater competitiveness for micro-enterprises.
The Commission forecasts total savings of between EUR 5.9 and EUR 6.9 billion for the 5 941 844 micro-enterprises if all Member States adopt this exemption.
In Portugal, 356 140 Portuguese enterprises would be covered under this exemption if it were adopted by the Portuguese Government.
I voted against the proposal for a directive on the annual accounts of certain types of companies adopted on Wednesday, 10 March 2010.
By reducing their access to credit, this proposal is liable, in the long run, to deprive SMEs of the conditions of transparency and confidence that are indispensable to their management and to the dynamism of their activity.
It is paradoxical, on the one hand, to request greater transparency from the banks by criticising them for the non-transparency of the financial markets, which led to the current crisis, and, on the other, to seek to abolish the tools of transparency that are crucial to economic operators themselves and to the economic regulatory policies that I support at European level.
The European Parliament, like the European Economic and Social Committee, is supporting the objective pursued by the Commission by presenting this initiative, which entails exempting micro-entities from administrative and accounting requirements, which are costly and completely disproportionate to the needs and internal structures of micro-entities and of the principal users of financial information, in order to enable them to rise to the numerous structural challenges inherent in a complex company, thanks to the full implementation of the European Charter for Small Enterprises and in accordance with a process integrated into the Lisbon Strategy.
I voted in favour of this resolution because it promotes the strengthening of economic coordination between the European countries, greater coherence between the Stability and Growth Pact and other European strategies, the implementation of an ambitious social agenda in the fight against unemployment, greater flexibility regarding retirement age and the promotion of SMEs.
The EU 2020 strategy must resolve the problems caused by the economic and financial crisis through measures aimed directly at the sensitive points in Member States' economies.
If the Lisbon Strategy was not wholly successful because too many targets were set, a strategy for exiting the crisis must be focused on a few clear, quantifiable objectives such as: providing solutions to combat unemployment effectively, especially among young people, the promotion and provision of support to small and medium-sized enterprises, which generate the most jobs and innovations, as well as an increase in the percentage allocated to research and development from the EU and national budgets up to 3%.
If we want a more competitive labour market, we must restructure the social security systems and support more flexible working practices.
At the same time, such a strategy must support the development of production methods which respect the environment and people's health.
On 3 March, the European Commission presented its EU 2020 strategy: 'A strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the EU 2020 strategy on the grounds that the objectives which it announces map out the path which Europe should follow and that it responds in a clear and objective manner to the problems created by the economic and financial crisis, in terms of unemployment, financial regulation and the fight against poverty.
Since we will be unable to solve the current social and economic problems at national level, we therefore need to solve them at European and international level.
The EU 2020 strategy should, above all, be an effective measure to overcome the economic and financial crisis, since the goal of this strategy is the creation of jobs and economic growth.
Therefore, most attention in this European Parliament resolution is paid to the creation of new jobs and to combating social isolation.
Moreover, Parliament calls on the Commission to not just take into account unemployment and social problems, but to show effective means of solving these, so that this new strategy has a genuine impact on people's real lives.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that Europe has already learnt from its mistakes, having been unable to fully implement the goals set out in the Lisbon Strategy earlier.
Therefore, the new strategy for the coming decade must be based on a strong management system and it must ensure responsibility.
Consequently, by voting for this resolution today, I am calling on the Commission and the European Council to concentrate on Europe's main social problems and to set out fewer, but clearer and more realistic goals, which it would then be possible to realise.
I welcome the recent debates held during the Informal Council of 11 February on the guidelines for EUROPE 2020, the new strategy for Europe.
I congratulate the Commission on its initiative and call for greater cooperation with Parliament on such an important matter for the future of Europe.
It is essential to invest in knowledge and in reforms that foster technological progress, innovation, education and training to promote prosperity, growth and employment in the medium and long term.
The cohesion policy is equally important in supporting growth and employment.
EUROPE 2020, in its regional dimension should, therefore, include this priority as one of the pillars for a richer, more prosperous and fairer society.
I appeal to the need to develop mechanisms of financing and governing with practical effects for the accomplishment of this strategy.
The strategy that succeeds it, the socalled EU 2020 strategy, which we voted on today, seems to me to be far less ambitious.
Although it does retain some objectives to be achieved, such as the 3% of GDP to be devoted to research, and the preservation of the Stability and Growth Pact (3%), it is still regrettable that employment and the environmental dimension (which is much reduced) do not occupy a horizontal place in it.
Nevertheless, I supported this proposal because it is very clear that, in the face of the crisis and its many consequences, especially for employment, we cannot continue to stand idly by.
I welcome the adoption of the paragraphs relating to an ambitious social agenda and to improving support for SMEs.
Let us hope that the EU 2020 strategy will provide it.
Above all, let us hope that the 27 Member States will do their utmost to implement this strategy.
The 2020 strategy is supposed to replace the Lisbon Strategy.
It is, above all, in danger of prolonging the shortcomings, of ending in the same lack of results and of causing the same disappointment.
It is neither a true recovery strategy nor a new perspective for the economic, social, budgetary and fiscal policies of the Union.
Europe needs a different ambition; the citizens expect more convincing responses.
The banks are speculating again, hedge funds have not been regulated, the citizens are being asked to tighten their belts, drastic cuts are being made in public services and social protection is being cut back.
This will allow the EU to develop a role as a world leader, showing that it is possible to combine economic dynamism with social and environmental concerns.
It will allow the EU to create new jobs in areas such as renewable energy, sustainable transport and energy efficiency.
The European Commission has made public the Europe 2020 strategy, which replaces the unsuccessful Lisbon Strategy and which provides important and ambitious challenges for Europe.
These challenges relate, essentially, to five areas considered to be strategic by the Commission: (i) employment; (ii) research and innovation; (iii) climate change and energy; (iv) education and (v) the fight against poverty.
For this same reason, I consider it vital that the objectives of the EU 2020 strategy be strengthened.
The principle of solidarity should be the basis for the EU 2020 strategy; solidarity among citizens, generations, regions and governments.
This principle of solidarity must constitute the guarantee of the European social model.
We must deliberate on the restructuring of social security systems and on ensuring minimum social rights at the European level that will facilitate the free circulation of workers, specialised personnel, businessmen, researchers, students and retired people.
The efficient use of resources becomes a necessity owing to this principle and deriving from the need for sustainability.
This strategy must generate the creation of jobs.
We cannot accept that the EU has approximately 23 million unemployed men and women.
The Commission and Parliament now seek to follow the same approaches.
In following this approach, the strategy will itself be the origin of new and deeper crises.
In it, we not only proposed a broad process of discussion on the proposals which have already been presented by the European Commission and a complete evaluation of the results of the Lisbon Strategy, with the aim of extracting conclusions for the new Europe 2020 strategy, but we also presented a set of new proposals giving priority to increased productivity and the creation of employment with rights, the resolution of the unemployment problem and poverty, and guaranteeing equality in social progress.
We voted against the joint resolution which was adopted because it does not get to the root of the problem, does not propose measures which are an alternative to the Stability Pact, and nor does it propose an end to the liberalisation or labour market flexibility which have led to an increase in the insecurity of work and low pay.
In this way, you allow the European Commission to continue to argue for more or less the same approach, one which has already led to unemployment for more than 23 million people and has left more than 85 million people in poverty.
Mr President, for the last two decades, the European Union has been successful in many areas, from three ambitious enlargements to the introduction of the common currency, the euro.
European Union citizens work less than the Americans or the Japanese (10% fewer hours per year) and retire earlier.
Maintaining these gains at the current level is not easy during a crisis, so I am pleased to hear of the decisive measures on the part of the European Council and the European Commission, which aim to establish a comprehensive economic strategy - Europe 2020.
At the same time, before the European Councils in March and June this year which will give the strategy its final form, there are a number of doubts relating to the European Commission document which was presented on 3 March this year.
Firstly, what kind of data will be used as the basis for setting national targets for the 27 different European Union Member States?
Finally, what role in the whole process has been reserved for the European Parliament since, until now, the Europe 2020 strategy has been a project piloted exclusively by the Council and the Commission?
We must find answers to these questions before the European Council in June.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the bitter failure of the Lisbon Strategy, which was meant to make Europe the world's most competitive knowledgebased economy in 2010, here we have the EU 2020 strategy, which is precisely an extension of that strategy.
For flexibility of the labour market, read job insecurity for workers, increased competition at European and international level, the liberal reform of national social protection systems, and absolute respect for the stupid Stability and Growth Pact ...
We shall vote against this text.
The European Parliament also lets slip the opportunity to emphasise the need to combat all forms of insecure employment, by means of a directive on part-time work, the introduction of a set of social rights that are guaranteed regardless of the type of employment contract, and measures to combat abuses in relation to subcontracting, and even unpaid work experience.
Lastly, this resolution chooses to overlook the need to harmonise the tax base, which is of vital importance to the creation of a European social model.
The reality which we have all realised is that the 2020 strategy does not even have enough green or social policies.
However, we must expect Member States to demonstrate political will and reflect on our position in a constructive way.
Objectives such as 'a social market economy' and 'a budget reflecting smart, inclusive and sustainable growth' are vital to overcoming the effects triggered by the economic crisis.
In the context of the EU 2020 strategy, agriculture will play an important part in Europe's future success.
We should not forget, furthermore, that agriculture supplies 500 million Europeans with high quality food, provides 40 million jobs and is responsible for an annual turnover of approximately EUR 1.3 trillion.
European agricultural policy must therefore be given greater consideration in the context of this new strategy.
I would like to draw attention to an inconsistency between the targets of the 2020 strategy and the effects which will be the consequence of proposed changes to the budget priorities for 2014-2020.
This means it will be a threat to the environment, and this, in turn, means that the EU would have to depart from the European model of agriculture, which affords particular care to the environment, the landscape, biodiversity, the well-being of animals, sustainable development and the social and cultural values of the rural environment.
The objective of the European Union's future strategy is to accept current and future challenges and to master them as well as possible.
In the context of the EU 2020 strategy, the agricultural sector, in particular, will play an important role in relation to the new, EU-defined challenges such as protection of the environment and the climate, renewable energy sources, biodiversity and sustainable growth and employment, specifically in rural areas.
Europe must be aware that around 40 million jobs depend on agriculture, directly or indirectly.
The top priority, however, must continue to be the security of the supply of high-quality foods for 500 million Europeans, in particular, against the backdrop of the doubling of food production by 2050.
European agricultural policy must therefore be given greater consideration in the context of this new strategy.
Against the backdrop of the global economic crisis, the EU 2020 strategy has to be the model which all the Member States must follow in order to bring us into a new era, with new paradigms which will promote sustainable development based on good practice.
We have to be able to create jobs and make our workforce better trained and qualified.
This will only be possible with the complete support of SMEs, which are responsible for the creation of most jobs.
However, for the EU 2020 strategy to be a success, we cannot make the same errors which were made with the Lisbon Strategy, particularly the lack of commitment and responsibility on the part of the Member States.
I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution of the European Parliament.
The EU 2020 strategy is intended to set new objectives, not only for political action, but also for the way in which we think.
In order to make a good recovery from the crisis, we have to create common instruments and mechanisms which will not only eliminate the effects of the current economic crisis, but will also allow us to react appropriately to future crises and even not to permit them at all.
The Commission, Parliament and all EU institutions should remember that working for the common good of Europe's citizens is, for them, a priority.
In the context of the crisis, problems such as unemployment, poverty and social exclusion are the order of the day.
If we want to build a modern, fully innovative, development-based and cohesive Europe, we must guarantee our citizens a sense of security in the future.
Economic reconstruction and realisation of the objectives of environmental policy are included in agricultural policy.
Without inclusion of this policy in the EU 2020 strategy, and also in every successive strategy, we have no chance of achieving the objectives, not only in the areas I have just mentioned, but also in many others.
I voted against the second part of paragraph 6 of the joint motion for a resolution on the EU 2020 strategy because it implies an intention to further dismantle the traditionally constructed European social state.
Far from it: with GDP down by 4% and 23 million citizens without jobs, its state of health is not exactly brilliant.
If the European Union needs a severe electric shock to get the economy and employment back in a virtuous circle, it must do so with similar objectives but using a method that is completely different from that of the Lisbon Strategy.
It must also take account of the negotiations ahead of it in the areas of energy, climate change, industry and agriculture.
That is why I support the determination tinged with pragmatism of the new 2020 strategy.
Ensuring that 75% of people of working age actually have a job, and seeing the gamble of investing 3% of GDP in research pay off are now, more than ever, objectives that Europe must achieve.
Whether the 27 capitals cooperate is another matter, however.
That is why we are calling for penalties and incentives to be envisaged for the good and bad students of the 2020 strategy (section 14).
in writing. - I voted 'no' to motion for a resolution RC7-0151/2010 submitted today for voting in Parliament for the same reason that we Greens did not vote for the Barroso II Commission: because of a lack of ambition.
I believe that Europeans expect more from this Parliament.
The EU Parliament was sidelined during the design of EU 2020 strategy.
Especially in times of economic crisis such as these, the EU 2020 strategy should act as the engine driving us out of the uncertainty.
That makes it more important to choose the goals in such a way that they can actually be met.
I voted against the joint resolution, because the three major groups are obviously using it to endorse the business-as-usual approach of the Barroso II Commission.
The European Union continues to swear by the policy of uncritically increasing growth in GDP.
However, the greens and environmentalists want to transform the Europe 2020 strategy from one which strives for GDP growth alone to a broader political concept of the future of the EU as a social and sustainable Union which will place people and environmental protection at the heart of its policies, seek to ensure human well-being and create the best possible opportunities for everyone.
My group has therefore submitted an eight-page text which explains our alternative approach in detail.
I voted against the resolution on the EU 2020 strategy because paragraph 6, which mentions the restructuring of social security systems and talks about greater flexibility for workers, has been adopted.
The Europe 2020 strategy aims to set out a plan for the future to achieve economic growth and the promotion of jobs within the European Union.
Its approach must be made on the basis of objectives which refer to a sustainable social market economy, the sustainable knowledge society, and the role of SMEs in promoting employment.
A strong, modern and flexible cohesion policy must be a central element of this strategy.
Embodied in the new Treaty of Lisbon, cohesion policy, through horizontal application, has an essential role in responding to the new challenges of the European Union.
In this context, the objective of European territorial cohesion can be seen to be fundamental.
The priorities for European cohesion must aim not only at promoting competitiveness at European level, through the efficient allocation of funding, but also at helping disadvantaged regions to overcome their social and economic difficulties and to reduce existing disparities.
It will be desirable to have a deep sharing of objectives, tasks and responsibilities relating to the Europe 2020 strategy between the European Union, the Member States and local and regional authorities.
If we really want to give social market economy, our social model, a chance, we need more economic growth, green growth, that will make us competitive and create new jobs.
Undertaking further investment in research and development, in innovative products, production processes and services, is crucial if we are to maintain our standard of living in the global economy.
The joint resolution provides a good basis for further discussions with the Commission, the Council and the President of the European Council.
The joint motion for a resolution by the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe on the EU 2020 strategy expresses the joint decision by the political face of capital to use every means to implement the savage attack and anti-grassroots plans of the monopolies against the working classes and workers throughout the EU.
The EU 2020 strategy follows on from and extends the anti-grassroots Lisbon Strategy by laying down the strategic objectives and plans of monopoly capital and laying the workers' fundamental wage and social rights on a Procrustean bed.
The Greek Communist Party voted against the European Parliament resolution on the EU 2020 strategy.
Long ago, Jacques Delors used to say that one cannot fall in love with a single market or a single currency.
However, on reading the EU 2020 strategy and our parliamentary resolution, I find that our ambitions are limited to a shy flirtation with the free market economy.
Europe 2020 should respond to this situation with greater enthusiasm and determination.
I read both Judge Richard Goldstone's report and the conclusions of the ambassador Dora Hold, which dismantle many of the arguments presented in the report of the UN Commission headed by Judge Goldstone.
Actions must be analysed in a transparent and impartial way in relation to both sides in the conflict.
The Goldstone report fails to mention the reason that triggered the Israeli operation in Gaza: nearly 12 000 attacks with rockets and mortars against Israeli civilians.
Following the withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza, the number of rocket attacks has risen by 500%.
Not a single Member State of the European Union has voted in favour of adopting the Goldstone report as part of the United Nations Human Rights Council.
Compliance with international law must be a priority for all the parties involved.
in writing. - We decided to abstain on all of the votes on Palestine and Israel.
We could not vote for resolutions that purported to give the European Union the power to conduct foreign policy or that were inconsistent with our policy of neutrality on the conflict.
However, our policy is not a neutrality of indifference.
in writing. - Whilst I recognise that the conflict in Gaza and the West Bank is a humanitarian tragedy, my votes do not support the existence of international influence of the European Institutions as I do not recognise the European Union.
My votes in Parliament on 10 March 2010 reflect my conscience on this subject.
It also concluded that the siege of Gaza is tantamount to collective punishment of the 1.5m population, contrary to international law.
We do not share the opinion that the EU's decision to continue the political isolation of Hamas following its success in a free and democratic election is the right one.
Like Yitzhak Rabin, I also believe that diplomatic peace is not quite a genuine peace, but it is an essential step towards it.
It is necessary to work in this direction and to remove the obstacles blocking steps towards genuine peace.
The report of Judge Goldstone notes some obstacles put in place by both sides in this process, namely abuses and serious crimes which must be investigated, judged and punished.
Attention must be paid to the armed conflict that started in Gaza on 27 December 2008 and ended on 18 January 2009, causing the death of over 1 400 Palestinians and 13 Israelis.
The High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and the Member States must work towards an EU common position on how to act on the Inquiry Mission's report on the conflict in the Gaza Strip and in Southern Israel.
I want to emphasise that the respect for international human rights law and international humanitarian law is essential to the achievement of a fair and lasting peace in the Middle East.
I agree with the call for the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and the Member States to control the implementation of the recommendations contained in the Goldstone report through the consultation of external missions of the EU and the NGOs that operate in this field.
The adoption of this resolution on the conflict in Gaza by Parliament was a positive step as it recognises the violations of international law by Israel.
This proves the impact which the Goldstone report has had on the Middle East peace process by making the constant violations of international law committed by Israel known within Parliament.
The truth is that the Goldstone report contains clear proof of the violations of international humanitarian law committed by the Israeli forces in Palestinian territory during its military operations in 2008.
If the same causes produce the same effects, there is reason to question the causes since the effects are always disastrous.
The same causes are the disproportionate counterattack by the State of Israel.
The same causes are also the exploitation of their misery by the most radical factions.
Those forces exist on both sides and they are all too often accused of betraying their own people since they dream of a scenario in which it is possible to transcend the divisions in a region which has long been the backdrop of one of the most dangerous conflicts on the planet.
I voted in favour of the resolution calling for the implementation of the Goldstone recommendations because it is vitally important to obtain a pledge from the Israeli and Palestinian authorities that they will carry out impartial and transparent investigations into the Gaza tragedy of 2008-2009, not in an aggressive but in a determined way.
The Member States, for their part, must work even harder to defend a strong position and must commit themselves to keeping up these demands on their Israeli and Palestinian partners.
International humanitarian law must be respected by all the parties involved in the conflict, and the EU's objective must be to ensure respect for these principles.
However, I strongly disagree with the ideas of right-wing political Islam and of Hamas.
Attacks on living standards and democratic rights need to be jointly defeated by Israeli and Palestinian workers.
The only solution that can achieve lasting peace in the region is a socialist Israel, alongside a socialist Palestine, in which borders are mutually agreed by both communities and are part of a democratic socialist confederation of the Middle East.
in writing. - I strongly support the findings of the Goldstone report, and am pleased that the Parliament has endorsed its recommendations.
The EU should be deeply concerned for the resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict which, in addition to the victims it has caused, has, for decades, created great instability in the region and in the world.
Even so, I believe that there are differences between what Israel does, as a democratic and sovereign state which shares and promotes the basic values of Western societies, and radical movements such as Hamas which, in the majority of instances, refuses to recognise the existence of the State of Israel.
On 26 February 2010, both sides were once again called on by the UN General Assembly to carry out credible investigations and to submit further reports within five months.
The European Union's actions on the international stage must be focused on strict compliance with the principles and objectives of the UN charter and of international law.
Similarly, compliance with international humanitarian law and the norms of international human rights law by Israel and by the Palestinians is a material prerequisite for the peace process, which is to lead to two States, coexisting in peace and security.
With this resolution, the EU is attempting to prompt the attainment of a settled common position on the measures resulting from the report by the UN Fact-Finding Mission on the conflict in Gaza and southern Israel led by Justice Goldstone.
The report also argues for publicly advocating that the recommendations of the report should be implemented and that responsibility should be assumed for all violations of international law, including imputed war crimes, for which reason I voted in favour.
On 26 February 2010, the UN General Assembly, too, once again called for an investigation within five months into the incidents and the alleged serious human rights violations.
In my opinion, the European Union must actively go in to bat in international organisations and committees for compliance with and the implementation of international law.
The joint resolution calls for the recommendations of the report by the UN Fact-Finding Mission on the conflict in Gaza and southern Israel led by Justice Goldstone to be implemented, for which reason I voted 'yes'.
Human rights must be respected by all sides in the Middle East conflict.
Here, however, an identical approach must be used for all the sides of the conflict.
The international community must not, however, turn its back on the conflict.
The Goldstone recommendations include a proposal to conduct international investigations of crimes alleged to have been committed by any of the sides in the conflict.
There is a serious danger that the European Parliament will not be able to monitor actions taken by Hamas, but only those carried out by Israel.
Taking these circumstances into account, I decided to vote against adoption of the joint resolution at the final vote.
This report was adopted by the General Assembly of the UN in November last year, by only five out of 27 EU Member States.
The aim, after all, should be to achieve a peaceful solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the future prosperity of two independent states, Israel and Palestine, and not a power struggle between Europe and the US for influence in this region.
The situation is a sensitive one and the conflict between the parties has become polarised.
I also find it strange that the EU can adopt a resolution on a mandate which was not supported by any of the EU Member States on the UN Human Rights Council.
I do not think the joint resolution on implementation of the Goldstone recommendations on Israel/Palestine fully reflects the views expressed by Members of the European Parliament during the debate which took place in Brussels on 24 February.
In addition, the joint resolution does not mention the circumstances which led to the conflict, neither does it contain any reference to the 8 000 attacks on Israeli civilians organised by Hamas and other armed groups.
Item 7 of the document I am referring to shows plainly that the European Parliament will not be able to monitor actions taken by Hamas, but only those carried out by Israel.
Such a position reduces the credibility of Israel's judicial system, and also of Israeli institutions, and undermines their ability to conduct investigations.
Therefore, at the final vote, I voted against adoption of the joint resolution.
The mission led by Judge Goldstone was tasked solely with listing the violations of international law.
Although not all of the conclusions in this report are unjustifiable, voting against these resolutions, which approved the approach and the conclusions of a text that I believe has been managed in a biased fashion but, above all, on the basis of incomplete objectives, struck me as being the most honest intellectual solution.
I voted in favour of the joint resolution on the Goldstone report, not least because it recognises that the people of Gaza continue to live under appalling conditions as a consequence of the blockade and because it calls for an immediate, permanent and unconditional opening of the border crossings.
The approved text pushes for the implementation of the recommendations in the Goldstone report and for accountability for all the violations of international law, including the war crimes allegations.
The report contains enough elements to require the UN Secretary General and the Security Council to start legal proceedings, which will be the best way to guarantee that all the doubts and discussions surrounding the events in Gaza are eliminated.
As a global player, the European Union should keep in view not just the good of its citizens, but should also not forget to maintain a world perspective.
Voting on the resolution on implementation of the recommendations of Justice Goldstone's report, before the report has been adopted by the UN, is a mistake.
In a situation in which the Member States of the European Union are not showing the will to take consistent action on Israel and Palestine, adoption by the European Parliament of any kind of resolution is not helpful to the peace process in the Middle East.
For these reasons, I abstained from voting on the resolution of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), and voted against the joint resolution put forward by the other parties.
I would also like to emphasise that this conflict in Gaza has caused the destruction of many projects financed by the European Union and intended to mitigate the humanitarian crisis suffered by the population, which is the victim of a shortage of staple goods and of a lack of access to basic public services.
The population on the ground needs to be given hope and to continue to believe in a swift resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian problem.
It is only under these circumstances that the conditions will be in place to achieve a just and lasting peace between a Palestinian state and an Israeli state that are viable, safe and peaceful neighbours.
Furthermore, political prisoners have still not been freed, the death penalty has not been abolished and there has been no guarantee of either the separation of powers, in particular, the independence of the judiciary, or respect for human rights.
The European Union cannot be the partner of a Belarus which does not respect either its own nationals or international law.
The European Union should not recognise the legitimacy of the Belarusian Parliament until free elections are held in that country.
Therefore, I call on the Belarusian authorities to undertake a complete reform of the country's electoral legislation, in accordance with the recommendations of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe/Office on Democratic Institutions and Human Rights.
Since the end of the Cold War, relations between Belarus and the West have been moving forwards in the development of a new understanding and the European Union has been developing positive dialogue in terms of providing Belarus with incentives to make progress relating to democracy and human rights.
The above notwithstanding, the EU cannot accept actions which conflict with international principles and legislation regarding the rights of national minorities.
Mr President, as a co-author of the European Parliament's resolution on the situation regarding civil society and minorities in Belarus, I voted in favour of the resolution.
Although, last year, the Lukashenko regime freed political prisoners and has become somewhat milder, the European Union cannot look the other way in the face of the recent human rights violations concerning members of the Union of Poles in Belarus.
I voted in favour of adoption of the joint motion for a resolution of the European Parliament.
The European Union has opened up to Belarus.
Every ineffective solution will be evidence of our weakness.
The Union has extended a helping hand to Belarus in the form of inclusion in the Eastern Partnership, a programme which is intended to strengthen democracy and the rule of law.
It is a vote of the entire Parliament, of all the political groups and of the representatives of the 27 Member States of the European Union.
I do not imagine that Belarus will benefit from what is being offered under the Eastern Partnership without the prior re-legalisation of the Union of Poles in Belarus and the return of its property, and, in addition, without the release of political prisoners such as Andrei Bandarenko, Ivan Mikhailau and Arystom Dubski.
Today, we have sent Belarus a clear signal.
I support this resolution and think that the European Union must reach an agreement on a common position in this matter.
The current motion for a resolution, which comes in the wake of the G20 discussions conducted as part of the Pittsburgh Summit and of the request made by some international bodies, such as the IMF, may provide a solution for both avoiding any new financial disasters and for recovering the sums which the treasuries have made available to the banks to save them from collapse.
In any case, the adoption of such legislation in France and Belgium, in a pioneering spirit, is welcome (with the United Kingdom also examining the possibility of introducing similar legislation), and we expect to see its impact.
By supporting the resolution adopted today by a very large majority (536 votes to 80, with 33 abstentions), the French delegation of the Democratic Movement has repeated its wish to have an impact assessment and practical proposals from the European Commission on the creation of taxes on financial transactions.
It would also be a good idea to evaluate the extent to which a tax such as this could help to stabilise the financial markets.
The questions to which the Commission should provide answers concern the use of this tax to support developing countries' adaptation to climate change and the financing of development cooperation, but also the levers that the Commission could use to persuade its partners to join it in implementing this tax so as to prevent the migration of capital.
That is why I welcome the adoption by a wide margin of the resolution on taxes on financial transactions.
This is only a small step, but the message is clear.
Objectors tell us that it will only be effective if it is global, but make a start we must, as some countries have done with the tax on flight tickets.
The financial sector has to accept its responsibilities for the economic crisis that still plagues us.
The political and regulatory context in this area is different nowadays.
The European Union must adopt a common position in the international framework of meetings of the G20.
In order to do this, the Commission must assess the impact of a global tax on financial transactions before the next G20 summit.
This assessment must specifically evaluate the effects of the introduction of the tax on financial transactions in the European Union, as opposed to its introduction at global level.
This is particularly true of the statement that the financial sector must take a fair share of the burden of economic recovery and development, given that up until it now it has been the real economy of taxpayers, consumers, public services and society in general which has had to pay a substantial part of the costs and consequences of the financial crisis.
However, beyond this, there was almost regret for any action which might help to lead to a possible tax on financial transactions, through the attachment of many constraints to the application of the resolution.
It is necessary to make decisive progress and not continue in these muddy waters, which only serve to help financial speculators and large capitalist interests.
In order to be effective, it should be a global tax, and I support measures to introduce such a charge on financial transactions.
An FTT could help reduce volatile and risky financial trading while raising billions to help tackle the effects of climate change and help developing countries who have been hit hardest by the financial crisis.
A potential tax on financial transactions could reduce the immense volume of speculation capital that has again had a detrimental impact on the real economy recently, and thus also represent a step towards sustainable growth.
That process is exactly what the resolution proposed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is calling for, which is why I voted in favour of the resolution.
A crucial point that is only mentioned in passing in the text but that must be clearly defined before a decision is made is the potential use of the capital that could be generated by such a tax.
in writing. - I voted in favour, today, of motion for resolution on taxation of financial transactions, and am delighted that, for the first time, Parliament has demanded an assessment of the feasibility and impact of introducing a financial transaction tax at EU level.
SEPA continues to work in an imperfect way and it does not cater for the real needs of its users.
Therefore, it is important that all interested parties - legislators, the banking sector and the users of the payment services - be involved in the achievement of SEPA.
The Commission must aid public authorities in the migration process by developing integrated and synchronised national migration plans.
The Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) must quickly turn itself into an integrated market for payments services.
However, there is much to be done before this can be achieved and, despite the existence of directives which stipulate the framework for SEPA cards and the SEPA direct debit system, the truth is that these systems are not yet in operation.
It is thus necessary to overcome all the obstacles to the implementation of the SEPA system so that it can begin to operate fully as quickly as possible.
It is important that the transition period does not last beyond 21 October 2012.
Introduction of the SEPA is the next step towards realisation of one of the four fundamental freedoms of the common market - the free movement of capital.
What is extremely important is that the SEPA will lead to an economic rapprochement between countries in the euro area and countries which, although Member States of the European Union, are not part of the euro area, as well as the other countries of the European Free Trade Area.
It is a clear signal sent out to the Commission, which has been negotiating this agreement in the utmost secrecy for two years.
Parliament demands complete transparency with regard to the negotiations under way, as well as respect for the treaties, which entitle it to receive the same information as the Council.
Aside from the risk of reintroducing the 'flexible' response, respect for the fundamental rights of citizens, in terms of freedom of expression and of protection of privacy and of data, and the principle of nonliability of Internet access providers and hosts could be called into question.
Parliament has already proved its commitment to these principles, and if the Commission does not change its strategy, I will lead the campaign against the ratification of ACTA by Parliament, as we have already been able to do for the SWIFT Agreement.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution.
Undoubtedly, better protection of intellectual property rights and combating counterfeiting and piracy are very important issues in the European Union and worldwide, and I very much welcome the opening of negotiations at international level to strengthen IPR and to fight counterfeiting and piracy more effectively.
However, I am very disappointed at how those negotiations are taking place.
Mr President, I have voted for the resolution of the European Parliament on transparency and the current state of negotiations over the ACTA Agreement, because I share the doubts of the authors concerning the progress of negotiations to date.
I take the view that digital content and the handling thereof should not be included in the text of the agreement, and if it is included, the provisions in question should not be of a repressive nature.
The protection of privacy and the protection of personal data must remain a pillar of European legislation, which will not be undermined by international legal agreements.
The inclusion of this would, in my opinion, conflict with the right to personal freedom and to information.
in writing. - Whilst we as a group voted against the ACTA resolution on Wednesday, 10 March 2010, we did so on the principle that the ACTA Treaty itself should not exist in any form.
Despite the Treaty of Lisbon and codecision on international trade, the Commission and the Member States are preventing a public debate from being held on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA).
Moreover, Internet piracy is not yet classed as a crime in either European law or international law.
The Commission will have to provide Parliament with a document outlining the negotiations and all the positions under discussion.
If it fails to do so, Parliament could reject this text negotiated in secret, just as it rejected the SWIFT Agreement.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the transparency and current position of the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) negotiations because I support a transparent process in the conduct of negotiations.
Following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, Parliament will have to give its agreement to the text of the ACTA Agreement before it becomes valid in the European Union.
Parliament's contribution is essential to guarantee that the means of applying intellectual property rights will not obstruct innovation, competition, protection of personal data and the free movement of information.
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement may be a path which it is worthwhile to tread, but it must be understood and debated in a transparent way beforehand, as opposed to what has happened up until now.
In 2008, the European Union and other countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development opened negotiations for a new multilateral agreement aimed at reinforcing the application of intellectual property rights (IPR) and at taking actions against counterfeiting and piracy (Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement - ACTA).
Any agreement related to ACTA made by the European Union must abide by the legal obligations imposed on the EU on matters of privacy and data protection legislation, as defined in Directive 95/46/EC, in Directive 2002/58/EC and in the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights and of the European Court of Justice (ECJ).
In the wake of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, Parliament will have to give its approval to the text of the ACTA Agreement before it enters into force in the European Union.
Therefore, a legal basis should have been created before the beginning of ACTA negotiations and Parliament should have approved a negotiation mandate.
The Commission should submit proposals before the next round of negotiations.
The general condemnation of Parliament regarding the suppression of information by the Commission relating to the ongoing negotiations on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) and the limitations which, by proceeding in this manner, the Commission has attempted to impose on scrutiny and democratic control, have been quite clear.
For this reason, we believe it to be important that the resolution points out that the Commission 'has had a legal obligation to inform Parliament immediately and fully at all stages of international negotiations'.
Democratic and transparent procedures in the conduct of negotiations are required, as well as public debate on their content, something which we consider to be positive.
That is why we voted in favour.
However, as is always the case when there is something fundamentally harmful in an agreement negotiated by the Commission, everything is done in secret.
This is unacceptable, and that is why we have voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for complete transparency in the negotiations and threatens to drag the Commission through the courts if it refuses.
I endorsed the resolution aimed at obtaining complete transparency from the European Commission on the subject of the negotiations on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA), which are currently being held in secret.
Aside from the risk of reintroducing the 'flexible response', respect for the fundamental rights of citizens, in terms of freedom of expression and of protection of privacy and data, and the principle of non-liability of Internet access providers and hosts, could be called into question here.
It follows that the European Parliament, as the voice of the European peoples, cannot be excluded from these negotiations and must receive the same information as that issued to the Council; this is a democratic requirement.
Lastly, ACTA must not compromise access to generic medicines.
In this context, considering, at this stage, the method and the worrying rumours circulating about its content, I can only vote in favour of a resolution that is critical of such an agreement.
In the resolution which has been adopted, the European Parliament has clearly declared its support for greater transparency in the European Commission's negotiations on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement.
Therefore, we also need clear and effective principles for the protection of intellectual property rights which will not interfere with innovation and competition, will not place an unjustified burden on legally conducted trade and will protect our privacy and fundamental rights, such as freedom of speech.
However, the negotiations being conducted by the European Commission are not open.
The European Parliament and European citizens are not being kept up-to-date about progress in the negotiations.
Regrettably, the Commission's information policy in relation to the negotiations leaves a lot to be desired.
I support the motion for a resolution (RC7-0154/2010) and thus the European Parliament's call on the Commission to frame its information policy in relation to the ACTA negotiations in a more transparent, complete and thus also holistic way.
in writing. - Transparency of the ACTA negotiations is of vital importance, and I am glad the Parliament has called for full disclosure in such powerful numbers.
The lack of transparency in the negotiations of the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) are contrary to the spirit of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
Non-compliance with this basic duty by the Commission and by the Council could lead to Parliament using legal procedures to gain access to these documents, something which would harm the prestige of the European institutions involved.
I would like to thank the rapporteurs and all Members who are responsible for the fact that the European Parliament has clearly expressed its uncompromising position with such a huge majority against the non-transparent negotiation of such an important international agreement.
We expect that the agreement will open up a new international dimension in the fight against counterfeiting, but without reducing the right of European citizens to privacy.
I also see a problem in the fact that China has not been invited to the negotiations.
in writing. - I supported resolution RC7-0154/2010 on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, and I am glad that a large majority of Parliament did so.
In its negotiations on ACTA, the Commission should be upholding the principles of transparency, human rights and the EU Parliament's legal right to information.
Instead, the Commission is failing this litmus test of its compliance in informing Parliament under the terms of the Lisbon Treaty.
The Commission has been strongly urged to keep us fully and immediately informed on the ACTA negotiations.
I voted in favour of the resolution, a specific aim of which is to involve Parliament fully in its revision by 2012.
This trade regime enables 176 developing countries and regions to benefit from preferential access to the European market in exchange for their ratification of ILO conventions on social rights and of UN conventions on human rights.
That is why we demand, before the revision, a report on the current state of ratification, implementation of the conventions, an impact assessment of the effects of the GSP during the period 20062009, the inclusion of a condition stipulating that 27 fundamental UN conventions must be implemented, and more transparent investigation processes - involving, in particular, regular consultation of Parliament.
We know that, every year, the European Union and the Member States give millions to cooperation and development programmes, that this assistance is necessary and that, in many cases, it makes all the difference.
It is, however, my conviction as a supporter of the market economy that development assistance can (and must) be provided by means of trade policies which benefit developing countries.
For the GSP to become a mechanism of development aid, there will be a need, as we propose, to abolish and then renegotiate both it and other policies for development assistance, forming an effective solidarity, and combating economic dependency and the exploitation of people and natural resources by economic groups within the EU.
The actions which the European Community has undertaken since 1971 in relation to developing countries through trade preferences under the Generalised System of Preferences are a way of making world trade more just and, at the same time, helping those countries with their growth and economic development.
If we are to avoid unfairness, it is, however, crucial that the new list of countries which will benefit from this system are realistic about their economic situation.
in writing. - In the end, I voted in favour of the common resolution on Generalised Tariff Preferences (GPS) (RC7-0181/2010) although I am very sorry and upset that the Colombian Embassy has been very successful in convincing some of our colleagues to keep out almost all references to the need to investigate the human rights violations in Colombia and decide on the basis of the findings in order to decide whether to withdraw the tariff preferences for Colombian goods.
The report calls for: a) effective organisation of the EU's European External Action Service (founded under the Treaty of Lisbon), the new political/military arm for organising, supporting and implementing the imperialist interventions of the EU; b) an increase in spending from the EU budget for its military and political interventions; c) better interweaving of the EU's political and military capabilities, with a stronger EU/NATO link being pivotal in the more effective exercise of its imperialist interventions using military means.
The European Union must develop its strategic autonomy through a powerful and effective foreign, security and defence policy in order to defend its interests globally, ensure the security of its citizens and promote respect for human rights and democratic values throughout the world.
Through having more effective European security agreements, Member States must demonstrate receptiveness towards making the European Union a bigger player on the international stage.
I believe that the Council's next annual report on the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) must refer directly to the implementation of the European Union's foreign policy strategy, assessing its effectiveness, as well as offer the conditions for establishing a specific, direct dialogue with the European Parliament, focused on devising a strategic approach to the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
in writing. - I voted against amendment 18 as this amendment, in my opinion, contains a paradox.
I support this report, as I believe that a clear and coordinated Common Foreign and Security Policy may contribute significantly to the strengthening of the European Union's powers at international level.
I would like to call on the Commission's Vice-President and High Representative, Catherine Ashton, to implement without hesitation Parliament's recommendations on the creation of a consistent and coordinated policy by firstly promoting EU cohesion in maintaining a constructive dialogue with energy suppliers, particularly Russia, and transit countries, by supporting EU energy priorities, by defending the common interests of Member States, by developing effective diplomatic work in the area of energy, by establishing more effective crisis resolution measures and by promoting energy supply diversification, the use of sustainable energy and the development of renewable energy.
Like many of the Member States (if not all of them), the European Union finds itself confronted with a budget which is much less grand than its ambitions and in no way sufficient for all that it would like to do.
The report on the implementation of the European security strategy is an annual document by Parliament that assesses European security and defence policy and presents proposals to improve the efficiency and visibility of this policy.
I would like to refer to a few points in the 'Western Balkans' subchapter of the report on the main aspects and basic options of the Common Foreign and Security Policy in 2008.
Consideration must be given to the fact that at the Council Meeting for General Affairs and External Relations in February 2008, the decision was made that each EU Member State would decide, in accordance with national practice and international law, their relationship with Kosovo.
A balanced approach must be maintained in assessing developments in the stabilisation process in Kosovo, bearing in mind that some tense situations were noted during 2009, including during the election period in November.
In this respect, I believe that there are numerous challenges to be overcome, especially with regard to law enforcement, the fight against corruption and organised crime, protection for the Serbs and other minorities, reconciliation between communities and the implementation of economic and social reforms.
The EU must increasingly come to be the principal driver in building world peace.
I voted against the Council's annual report to Parliament on the main aspects and basic choices of the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) in 2008, because I think that the objective of the CFSP should be to define the EU's external policy, not defend its territory.
The Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left demands the withdrawal of all military bases belonging to the United States and other countries that are on the soil of EU Member States, and we ask for military expenditure to be used for civilian purposes in order to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
In so doing, however, it does not give any clear specification of objectives or direction to the common foreign and security policy (CFSP).
The EU must manage to create its own structures, and must, of course, have the necessary resources available for such structures.
When it comes to the numerous operations and missions, many of the current 23 different actions in which the EU is involved should be reconsidered.
The EU's involvement should therefore be reconsidered without delay.
With regard to the Albertini and Danjean reports on the European Union's foreign, security and defence policy, I would like to make it clear that the votes of the Spanish delegation of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament confirm the non-recognition of Kosovo as an independent state.
Kosovo has not been recognised by Spain or by four other EU Member States, or by 100 other Member States of the United Nations.
Therefore, both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and today in this Chamber, we have supported the amendments that were in line with our viewpoint.
in writing. - I have finally voted in favour of the report, known also as the annual report on the CFSP, mainly because two of our five amendments were adopted (the one on the Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue and the one about the expectation that a strategic relationship between the EU and China will be developed).
The report was, in the end, voted with 592 votes in favour (among which ours) and 66 against.
This seems to be a neo-colonial approach.
The European Parliament also believes that the EU and NATO should develop an intense and effective partnership.
The citizens of Europe have never had the opportunity to express their opinion on this issue because some of the Member States have refused to hold referendums on the Treaty of Lisbon.
The EU report on the EU CFSP is a call for a widespread war by the imperialist centre of the EU aimed at the peoples.
It calls for the organisation of military and political interventions, even in the Member States of the EU, within the framework of alleged mutual support provided for in the 'solidarity' clause of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The European Parliament has received, through the vote of the EU's citizens, more powers with regard to matters such as the budget and control over foreign, security and defence policy.
This justifies the request to set up a Defence Council as part of the External Affairs Council, as well as the creation of a permanent EU operations centre to deal with operational planning and the implementation of military operations.
The discussions about the anti-missile shield, in the current form proposed by the US Administration, must take place across the whole EU, with the active involvement of the European Parliament.
However, it must be made clear that the EU has exclusive rights in determining the defence and security policy, and the interventions of third states are not justified.
The EU has variously been defined as an economic giant and a political dwarf, and this is supposed to mean that it has not been provided with the means necessary to pursue some of its aims, in particular, in respect of its foreign policy.
This must not prevent us from searching for deeper cooperation and coordination with the aim of improving our common security and defence.
The result of these developments could be more conflict, exploitation and poverty in response to the crisis into which capitalism has plunged the world.
Subject to the following remarks, I voted in favour of the Danjean report. 1) The report calls for the abolition of the Assembly of the Western European Union (WEU).
Indeed, they are the ones on which the decision to make national troops and capabilities available to the EU for EU military operations will depend, and for a long time yet.
in writing. - Labour MEPs welcome this annual review of the European Security Strategy and Common Security and Defence Policy, especially in the light of the changes brought about by the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty, and, in this regard, especially welcome the role of High Representative, Baroness Cathy Ashton, in the associated debate in Parliament.
While voting in favour of the report as a whole, we decided to vote against paragraph 20, which proposes the establishment of an permanent EU Operations Centre.
The Common Foreign and Security Policy and the European Security and Defence Policy are two fundamental pillars allowing the EU to become the principal actor of the international community in the fight against the challenges and threats which were identified in the European Security Strategy.
Notwithstanding the fact that the EU considers the UN Security Council to be the primary responsible party in the maintenance and preservation of world peace and security, the EU must have policies which are effective and shared by all Member States so that it can respond in an effective manner to the those challenges and threats which have a global character.
It does not propose any civilian and peaceful focus or solution to the conflicts, focusing instead on defence and the militarisation of the EU.
Mr Danjean's report into the implementation of the European Security Strategy and the common security and defence policy is very comprehensive and deals with numerous topics that are important for Europe.
On the one hand, the report seeks to strengthen the EU's autonomy in respect of other global players, in particular, in respect of the United States, through having a strong foreign, security and defence policy, and this is something that I welcome.
The call for a White Paper to be drawn up on the common security and defence policy (CSDP) which clearly defines the objectives of the policy is thus more than advisable.
Such a centre would enable us to both plan and execute diverse operations more efficiently.
in writing. - I have finally abstained in the final vote on the annual report on the implementation of the European Security Strategy.
The report was, in the end, approved with 480 votes in favour and 111 against.
I, as I said, abstained, together with the rest of my group.
The European Parliament is calling for the establishment of a permanent operations centre which will be responsible for the operational planning and conduct of military operations and for strengthening cooperation with NATO.
The EU and Parliament are to become involved in discussions on a strategic concept for NATO.
As a citizen of a non-aligned country, I cannot support this far-reaching report.
I wish to thank all my fellow Members in the European Parliament for the support they have given me in plenary, voting in favour of Amendment 34 to the Danjean Report on the European Security Strategy.
I initiated Amendment 34 with the aim of modifying the text in paragraph 87 of this report, which referred to the development of the anti-missile shield in Europe in the wake of a bilateral agreement between the United States and Member States, including Romania.
I am pleased that this amendment was approved by 358 votes in favour.
I consider that strengthening efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and achieve a world free of nuclear weapons is an absolute and important priority.
Strengthening the Non-proliferation Treaty (NPT) by having all the Member States sign and apply it comes within this framework.
The principles which lay behind the signing of the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty and which date back to the period of the Cold War continue to be of relevance today and are even of greater urgency.
The fall of the Soviet bloc led to the spread of nuclear material to various states, and the end of unified control over its use and storage raises fears over its irresponsible utilisation or even its deterioration, with unimaginable consequences for the health and safety of the region.
The European Union must be capable of assuming a common and coherent position on these questions, aimed at creating a world which is safer and increasingly free of weapons.
The Union must be up to the challenges of nuclear non-proliferation, especially those posed by Iran and North Korea, which continue to be the biggest threats to international security.
Parliament expects a common and ambitious position from the European Union during the next review conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
This justifies the need to promote and strengthen the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty (NPT) and to ensure its ratification by all states.
In the current international climate, the danger of a new nuclear arms race is a matter of genuine concern.
The imposition of disarmament and of the end of the development, production and storage of new nuclear weapons are the basis of the spirit and letter of the NPT.
The ongoing dispute over Iran's nuclear programmes requires a peaceful solution, based on negotiations which it will be important to resume.
The Iranian problem is at the heart of the debate in preparation for the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty (NPT) review conference.
A strong signal from the United States and Russia to show that they are both inclined unilaterally to reduce their nuclear arsenal could help give a sense of responsibility to the average nuclear powers that are also ready to disarm.
Lastly, a strong gesture from the major powers could perhaps convince countries that are currently acquiring nuclear knowhow to abandon their projects.
We are proud that Britain as a nuclear power is leading efforts towards a nuclear non-proliferation agreement in May in New York that involves global consensus.
We decided to abstain on Amendment 2 as we believe that military doctrine is a matter for national governments to decide and not in the prerogative of the European Parliament.
We also joined with our political group in supporting Amendment 3 as we believe there is a right for all states to develop civil nuclear power, but there is a responsibility for these states to reject the development of nuclear weapons.
I am delighted that the European Parliament has clearly adopted the report on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
As a Christian, I welcome the fact that the representatives of Western civilisation, more than 60 years after the end of the war, realised that the existence of nuclear weapons was a huge global risk and therefore made efforts to reduce them.
These countries also fail to fulfil international obligations in the area of nuclear safety.
in writing. - I have finally given my 'yes' to this complex resolution (RC7-0137/2010) on the Non-proliferation Treaty.
Israel faces an existential threat from neighbours, several of whom have a history of developing nuclear and other WMDs, and indeed at least one, Iran, continues in that direction.
