I think Mr Piebalgs is standing in for her.
We discussed Sudan in the Foreign Affairs Council, both in January and in May, and will revert to it at the 20 June Foreign Affairs Council.
The EU's main objectives are to support peace between the two states and democratisation and prosperity within both of them.
With regard to the latter, the EU has just made additional funds totalling EUR 200 million available for South Sudan, making our envelope today roughly EUR 300 million.
We are trying to step up our political dialogue with the government in Khartoum.
The three European citizens who were held hostage in Darfur for several months have been released but, at the same time, we know the situation in Darfur is as it has been previously.
We welcome the outcome of the recent All Stakeholders Conference in Doha and hope it will provide for such important developments towards lasting peace in Darfur.
A lasting peace in Darfur cannot be achieved without justice and reconciliation.
Transparent negotiations are a guarantee of two viable states, as are the cessation of violence and effective cooperation between the two states.
It is these citizens and their well-being that should be the main focus of democratisation, political pluralism, and respect for human rights and for religious, cultural and ethnic diversity in both South and North Sudan.
I met with both the South Sudanese and North Sudanese electoral commissions, though especially that of the South.
Your visit and that of Mrs Georgieva in the past and the probable visit of Lady Ashton for the independence celebrations are all major events.
Madam President, Commissioner, when the independence of yet another African country, South Sudan, is proclaimed on 9 July, another chapter of colonial heritage on this continent will be closed.
The situation in the Abyei province is closer to a crisis than to peace, there is violence in Darfur, and Sudan needs our attention and generous help.
Another important fact is that the UN Security Council has renewed the mandate of the UNMIS mission in Sudan and will deploy additional peacekeepers in Sudan.
As rapporteur for the European Parliament report on nation building, I have to say that this is an extraordinary opportunity for us to partner South Sudan, one of the poorest and newest 'countries-to-be' on 9 July, and make nation building - that we keep talking about in this Chamber - a reality on the ground.
However, the question, of course, is how long that will last.
The ultimate fragility of the peace process that has been set in motion is demonstrated by current events in Abyei.
The Northern army has occupied Abyei and 15 000 people have taken flight.
I believe that we, the European Union, must help in a very tangible way as we did before and that this must take the form of getting food and humanitarian aid for the refugees moving as soon as possible and preparing the emergency humanitarian aid for the refugees.
First of all, I call on the High Representative to urgently press the Sudanese authorities to release the Christian, Hawa Abdalla Muhammad Saleh, who was arrested by the security service in a refugee camp in Darfur on religious grounds on 25 May.
I hope, therefore, for European pressure on al-Bashir. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, with the greatest respect for the pragmatic approach you took in your speech, I wish to make two recommendations, in which I would also like to highlight the work of monitoring the referendum that Mrs De Keyser recently carried out so thoroughly, which, in my opinion, has been invaluable for our institutions.
This conflict is jeopardising the peace process that should have followed the referendum of January 2011.
The firing of shots by militia men at a UN helicopter at the end of May was an outrageous and cowardly act; as outrageous as the call by the Khartoum government for UN Peacekeepers to withdraw after 9 July.
The EU should not be tempted to make any potentially 'convenient deals' with President al-Bashir in exchange for forgetting that he and his henchmen must be brought before the International Criminal Court (ICC) to answer for the war crimes and the crimes against humanity committed against the Sudanese people in Darfur. (FR) Madam President, South Sudan's recent referendum on independence has ushered in a new era for political dealings with this new state.
Firstly, among these parties, I must mention former South African President and President of the African Union, Thabo Mbeki, and the mediation he performed, and I think we should also emphasise the mediation role that our own special representative to Sudan, Rosalind Marsden, has played.
Lastly, there is the dreadful security situation in the Darfur region and the government's unilateral wish to organise a referendum on its status on 1 July 2011.
Baroness Ashton knows that she has our support in her human rights policy, and in respect of the rebels in Benghazi she made clear choices, and rightly so.
Do the same now in connection with Omar al-Bashir, as the people of South Sudan deserve our strong support. (DE) Madam President, in February, many people, including in this House, were full of both hope and concern about the future of Sudan.
I therefore welcome the recent agreement between the North and South Sudan, brokered by the African Union, on a demilitarised zone along the future border between the two states.
A 7 000 strong UN force modelled on MONUC could cause more harm than good, however.
As has already been said, South Sudan will proclaim its independence on 9 July 2011.
The challenges are huge, both in terms of the new State's internal organisation and in terms of its relations with Sudan at their shared borders and in the oil-rich Abyei region.
The primary challenges are security, reaching inhabitants in distress and respect for humanitarian principles.
It is vital that the international community maintains its presence and a very high level of humanitarian involvement.
The real importance of the link between urgency and development is highlighted in this context, in which state infrastructures are very weak and the humanitarian crisis is set to last.
Lastly, the events in South Sudan and the Abyei region must not make us overlook the situation in Darfur, which is considered to be the worst humanitarian crisis in the world.
Madam President, for South Sudan, the 9 July date goes before everything else; for North Sudan, although the comprehensive peace agreement may be coming to an end, its obligations do not.
I hope that South Sudan can achieve its independence while averting the tragic transition suffered by the people of East Timor and providing peace and prosperity for the Sudanese people, who have suffered too much during the longest running civil war in Africa. (IT) Madam President, it is difficult to oversee the final steps in the formation of a new country along a peaceful path.
However, South Sudan also needs the EU's unequivocal support politically.
The recent seizure of the disputed border region of Abyei by the Khartoum government suggests that President Bashir is still not fully reconciled to his country's partition.
That is the only way to avoid war and the only way to control the wealth of their country and move towards a different sort of development. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I had the opportunity to experience the independence referendum in South Sudan as an electoral observer for Parliament and I was impressed by the major backing given by the South Sudanese people to the idea of deciding on the fate of their country themselves in future.
The new state of South Sudan is due to officially become independent on 9 July, extending the family of states in our world.
More than 80 000 people have left their homes, which is a sign of the imminent risk of a humanitarian crisis.
The occupation of the disputed Abyei region by Sudanese government forces on 21 May and the violence which continued yesterday, as well in Kadugli, show us that the civil war between north and south can reignite at any time.
The military operations being carried out by the Sudanese Government and the militia in Abyei mark a serious violation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement.
I sincerely believe that we are all definite about one thing: any escalation of violence must be avoided, as it could result in further human casualties.
The security situation must be resolved according to the Kadugli and Abyei agreements from the start of the year, including, in my view, through the intervention of a mixed security force commissioned by the UN.
The atrocities committed during the civil war finally ended with the signing of the peace agreement, an integral part of which was the holding of a successful referendum.
If this happens - and I believe it already is happening - South Sudan, as the youngest state in the world, will need help and support. (SK) Madam President, I fully agree with the statement and declaration of Baroness Ashton but, at the same time, I share the concerns over the future development of this country.
The civil war ended just under six years ago, after continuing for more than 20 years.
I would therefore like to express support for the Commission, which has roundly condemned the use of force against innocent civilians, who have been, and still are, the victims of intervention by the Sudanese army occupying this region.
The EU has the opportunity to be a peacemaker, to assist stability in the region and to strengthen its position not only as the largest donor in the world, but also its political position, and, above all, to help the inhabitants of this country. (PL) Madam President, I would like to draw attention to what is, in my opinion, a very important factor.
In this context, I think that as well as the very important humanitarian aid, it is also necessary to safeguard security, and that the current UN forces are still needed there. (RO) Madam President, I, too, would like to welcome the statement made by the Vice-President of the Commission against the background of the deepening conflict between both sides.
It is clearly necessary to prevent this because of the threat of a humanitarian catastrophe, and we should therefore do everything in our power to help the Sudanese get through this critical period and to prevent a repeat of the bloody conflicts. (DE) Madam President, the Northern army forced out 15 000 supporters of South Sudan from the city, and then suddenly, they definitely want to hold a referendum in Abyei in double-quick time in the shadow of an army, when previously they had been unable to even agree with the South about who was entitled to vote.
It would be very interesting from this perspective to see what preventative actions or preventative steps the Office of the High Commissioner has prepared in order to avoid this happening, perhaps in cooperation with the UN or the African Union, on the one hand, and it would be very interesting, of course, to see the method or steps the office would like to take if that does happen, and in the event that North Sudan does not comply with the peace agreement which was signed, and which I basically believe in. (SK) Madam President, South Sudan is a country which has voted for independence, and it will be the newest member of the United Nations.
Yes there is violence, there are difficulties, but the situation is different.
I believe, as I said to South Sudan, that we should not expect all the issues to be resolved by 9 July.
With the signing of the Naivasha Agreement and the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) (2005), 20 years of conflict between the north and south formally came to an end.
The aid given by the EU to South Sudan must be measured in terms of the effective capability of this new state to absorb it.
