European fisheries sector crisis due to rise in oil prices (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question to the Commission on the crisis in the European fisheries sector arising from higher fuel prices, by João Ferreira and Patrick Le Hyaric, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left - B7-0306/2011), the oral question to the Commission on the European fisheries sector crisis due to the rise in oil prices, by Alain Cadec, Antonello Antinoro, Jim Higgins, Jarosław Leszek Wałęsa, Maria do Céu Patrão Neves, Werner Kuhn, Ioannis A.
Tsoukalas, Crescenzio Rivellini, Rareş-Lucian Niculescu, Vito Bonsignore and Salvador Garriga Polledo, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) - B7-0307/2011), the oral question to the Commission on the crisis in the European fisheries sector owing to higher oil prices, by Philippe de Villiers and Juozas Imbrasas, on behalf of the Europe of Freedom and Democracy Group - B7-0308/2011), the oral question to the Commission on the European fisheries sector crisis due to the rise in oil prices, by Britta Reimers, on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe - B7-0310/2011), the oral question to the Commission on rising oil prices and support for fishers, by Josefa Andrés Barea, Kriton Arsenis, Luis Manuel Capoulas Santos, Estelle Grelier, Iliana Malinova Iotova, Guido Milana, Ulrike Rodust, Antolín Sánchez Presedo and Catherine Trautmann, on behalf of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament - B7-0311/2011), the oral question to the Commission on the crisis in the European fisheries sector due to the rise in oil prices, by Isabella Lövin, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance - B7-0313/2011).
Professionals everywhere are telling me that they are concerned about the rise in oil prices.
With this question and the resolution that will follow, I call on the Member States to help fishing professionals, where necessary, to continue their work without distorting competition.
Hence, I am calling for the de minimis aid threshold to be increased from EUR 30 000 to EUR 60 000 per firm.
It is in our interests to preserve this activity; by doing so, we can develop our territory and coastal regions, ensure the European Union's food security and safeguard jobs in the sector.
It demands an increase of 100% in the de minimis aid ceiling from EUR 30 000 to EUR 60 000, which is to be used to fund fuel subsidies.
Something urgently needs to change in this regard in the interests of our fishermen.
This is already a hidden subsidy which has contributed to making it possible for European fisheries to go on fishing depleted fish stocks; and the segments in the fisheries sector which have the highest consumption of fossil fuels are, in fact, the most destructive ones, such as beam trawlers and bottom trawlers.
I would think that, if the EU were to introduce an increased de minimis at this point in time, it is likely to undermine the EU leadership in the ongoing negotiation process, sending a signal round the world that other countries, too, could increase their fishery subsidies on fuel, which would lead to a vicious circle, increasing the pressure on the world's fish stocks.
Up to now, the Member States have used less than 20% of the overall allocation.
The Commission conducted a study, back in 2008, analysing the effect of moving from the ceiling of EUR 30 000 to EUR 100 000 per beneficiary.
Second, because larger and more fuel-intensive vessels would receive more funding than smaller and less fuel-intensive vessels.
If only some Member States paid higher de minimis aid, this would distort competition and result in an uneven playing field for the fleets of different Member States.
This is the most important reason of all.
This issue cannot be tackled appropriately by EU legislation alone, but needs to be discussed at a global level.
To do so, we call on the European Commission to raise the threshold of de minimis aid that can be granted to them to help them cope with this crisis.
Their profits have gone down because fuel prices have gone up.
The Commission has made it quite clear that they understand that the fishing industry is not economically viable in some respects, but that is not the result of extra fuel prices.
With regard to the drastic increase in fuel prices in Europe which has contributed to the collapse of the industry, the common fisheries policy should include a mechanism which would protect fishermen against an uncontrolled rise in prices in situations like these.
This is a sensible proposal which, in the current situation, would guarantee help for a sector wrestling with financial difficulties, and ensure social and economic development. (ES) Mr President, the fact that we have found time for this issue during this sitting, whose agenda is hardly short of matters to debate, gives an idea of the importance that this House attaches to the increase in oil prices and how it affects the fisheries sector.
We believe that this is an emergency measure and we think that short-term flexibility measures could give a breathing space to a sector that has been hit quite hard. (ES) Mr President, there is an urgent need for concrete measures to reduce the impact that the increase in fuel prices is having on the fisheries sector.
Fishing is the only viable economic activity in many regions and is important in terms of maintaining the number of jobs.
However, it is also important for us to look at what is currently happening as regards our fishermen.
It is true that small-scale fishermen, coastal fishermen, are suffering greatly at the moment.
I personally am in favour of extending de minimis aid on certain conditions: we must focus on small-scale fishermen, on small-scale and coastal fisheries; we must focus on fishermen who apply proper, sustainable fishing practices; and finally, we must focus on ensuring that financing does not result in an increase in fishing effort and these measures do not put the environmental and social viability of European fisheries at risk.
I agree with you Commissioner; we must see how we can make greater use of the European Fisheries Fund and, in particular, how we can help countries which no longer have the funds to make their own contribution make a more active contribution. (BG) Mr President, we laid down a number of conditions and demands for ensuring sustainable, responsible fishing in the new common fisheries policy.
The de minimis principle is intended to apply until 2013.
Mr President, Commissioner, the significant rises in fuel prices have seriously exacerbated the crisis faced by the fisheries sector, not least its economic viability, and the already scant incomes of those working in the sector have been significantly reduced.
The coastal and small-scale fishing sectors are particularly vulnerable, and represent more than 90% of the fleet in some Member States, such as Portugal.
As well as any tax measures that could be adopted at Member State level, EU-level solutions are needed so as not to exacerbate the inequalities that already exist today between Member States and which are increasing because of the serious social and economic crisis, which is hitting the most vulnerable economies particularly hard. (ES) Mr President, the best thing about asking a question is that you get an answer, even if, in this case, it could be considered disappointing in some ways.
This is why I think that granting more public money to the fisheries sector in response to increased fuel prices would send the wrong signal during the reform of the common fisheries policy and would provide an incentive for vessel owners to use more powerful and more fuel-consuming engines.
In particular, the weight of cod landed in Britain has fallen from 300 000 tonnes, before joining what was then the EEC, to just 7 000 tonnes today.
Of course, now we are discussing fuel prices.
So this would result in creating an uneven playing field in our sector, favouring the richest countries.
The richer Member States can already give it now.
The Member States use only 20% of our funding.
Of course there is a problem in general and, referring to our reform, we can discuss what we can do to help our small-scale fisheries, in particular.
The vote will take place at noon on Thursday, 12 May 2011.
European fishers, and especially those who live in the Member States facing the greatest financial difficulties, like Portugal, are in a difficult economic situation which has been exacerbated by the rise in fuel prices.
Finally, it is crucial that there be regulation mechanisms to improve first-sale prices, and to promote the fair and appropriate distribution of added value along the fisheries sector value chain, in a way that acknowledges the prices paid to producers. , in writing. - The current high oil prices have had a severe impact on operating costs of fishermen, even forcing some to stop work.
