Security situation in the Sahel region (debate) The next item is the debate on an oral question to the Vice-President of the Commission, the Union High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, by Arnaud Danjean, Ioannis Kasoulides, Elmar Brok, José Ignacio Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra, Michael Gahler, Krzysztof Lisek and Andrey Kovatchev, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), concerning the security situation in the Sahel region - B7-0808/2010).
In the last year alone, 10 European citizens were kidnapped and four were killed.
Secondly, we need to assist the Sahel countries in enhancing the capabilities of the security sectors - army, police, justice and border control systems - in each country.
Finally, Baroness Ashton, I would like you to give your assessment of the anti-terrorist centre created by Algeria 2 000 km south of Algiers, in which Mali, Mauritania and Niger are participating, and to tell me if you share the interpretation that the aim of this anti-terrorist centre is to prevent the European Union and the United States from being present in order to guarantee security in the area.
If we want to do what is expected of us as the European Union, in the first instance, we must agree on a common approach to the Sahel region in particular and to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in general.
Western funding for security structures could have a counterproductive effect on efforts to combat crime and could continue putting innocent people at risk in future. (RO) Mr President, the kidnapping and subsequent murder of Antoine de Lecour and Vincent Delory in Niger give us a painful reminder of the need to implement a strategy for promoting security, stability and good governance in the Sahel region.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) has actually supported such a strategy for a long time and I would like to welcome, in this context, the European Commission's announcement to the effect that a strategy which will combine security and development aspects will be presented by the end of this month.
I would like to draw your attention to the resolution adopted on 4 December last year by the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly, which addresses precisely this subject, and to the recommendations this resolution makes.
I would therefore urge Baroness Ashton to do everything necessary in order to move the discussions on and to come up with concrete solutions to this major problem. (RO) Mr President, the deterioration in the security situation in the Sahel region is no longer a regional problem.
One of the challenges for us is to back initiatives that countries are able to take individually and collectively, but ensure that they can be effective by ensuring that they are comprehensive, either in terms of the numbers of countries or in the approach that they take.
