We began work in Parliament exactly six months ago: six months have passed between starting work on the report and the time of voting, during which more than 700 000 people have developed Alzheimer's or some other form of dementia.
In the area of research, we know that the number of people suffering this disease doubles every 20 years.
The issue concerns a medical device - specifically an asthma inhaler - which was patented in 1990 and lawfully placed on the market.
The Ministry initiated the procedure - the procedure pursuant to Article 8 of the aforesaid directive - at the end of 1997, but it drew a blank, because no information was provided and the process of consulting the manufacturer was not initiated.
This has had a serious economic impact on the manufacturer, because he has been waiting for a response for more than 15 years and cannot place his product on the market.
As recommended by Parliament, I can also confirm that the Innovation Union initiative under the Europe 2020 strategy will take as its first pilot area for the new European innovation partnership the topic of active and healthy ageing.
Finally, the Commission looks favourably at a number of other recommendations, including declaring 2014 as European Year of the Brain.
When the product was again prohibited by the German authorities in 2005, the Commission carefully analysed the case and concluded the procedure by formal letter to the German authorities and the manufacturer in July 2007.
The Commission analysis was that the prohibition by the German authorities was justified because the clinical data provided by the manufacturer was insufficient to demonstrate the safety of the device.
This meant that the applicable legal provision was Article 18 of the directive which addresses cases where a product is placed on the market with improperly affixed CE marking.
Mr President, I am going to talk about Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Matias, on the fine job she has done.
Action is fragmented and responses are unequal in terms of research into and fighting against this disease.
The report supports solidarity between states and the exchange of good practices to avoid duplication of effort and wasting resources.
The fact that all these are carried out at national level increases fragmentation.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, nearly 10 million Europeans suffer today from dementia, with Alzheimer's the most common form.
I therefore strongly welcome this European initiative on dementia.
I welcome the focus on better research in Europe, especially as we know that 85% of research today is without EU coordination.
I also welcome the focus on the sharing of best practices and the rights of sufferers and their families.
We can, and should, welcome the current EU funding of 32 research projects, but we must do better, much better, especially in terms of the coordination of research into Alzheimer's in the Eighth Research Framework Programme as early as 2014.
This is clearly specified in point 21 of our resolution.
At European level, which is covered by point 64 of our resolution, it is crucial that Parliament finally responds to the appeal from researchers.
The manufacturer turned to the Commission back in 1996 and the Committee on Petitions has been dealing with the matter since 2006.
The important point is this: sufferers are helped, families have information and support and, ultimately, the patients are helped to retain their dignity through this difficult illness.
I also believe that we should recognise the contribution of the voluntary and community sector in this.
Then came a sudden blow: the inhaler was banned by the German authorities, as a result of which the European Commission began a safeguard clause procedure.
Without going into all the details once more, I am convinced that the initial 1996 ban on the inhaler was not legitimately imposed.
The current medical and social burden of this disease represents a serious threat to the sustainability of our healthcare and social systems.
It does not matter whether the companies concerned are big or small: the only question of importance for us is the safety of patients. (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my sincerest thanks go to the rapporteur, Mrs Matias, for her excellent work on the Alzheimer's report.
In any case, the precautionary principle dictates that there should be a reduction in the use of these chemicals as pesticides in our gardens and in fields. (CS) Mr President, I would also like to talk about Alzheimer's disease.
We know that this report does not have a specific legislative impact, nor is it too contentious.
We know that, for medical reasons, it is important for patients not to suffer any upheaval in their environment, which may aggravate the disease and its symptoms and make things much more difficult.
It is also important that we focus not only on providing research funding into new drugs to treat diseases, but also look at simple preventive measures that everybody can take such as a change in diet and lifestyle.
Alzheimer's could be one of the major themes that we get to grips with. (NL) Mr President, as Vice-President of the European Alzheimer's Alliance in the European Parliament, I warmly welcome the report by Mrs Matias.
However, in addition, the importance of joint programming of research resources cannot be overstated.
We already have problems, with up to 1.4 million new cases of some form of dementia every year, and we must take energetic action over timely diagnosis, prevention and other related issues, such as patient dignity.
It has to be acknowledged that with the ageing of Europe's population, Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia are spreading at a dangerous rate.
Statistics show that one person out of every five above the age of 80 suffers from Alzheimer's disease.
According to the World Alzheimer Report 2009, 28% of the global population suffering from dementia lives in Europe, second only to Asia in this regard.
In Poland, the country which I represent, about 250 000 people suffer from Alzheimer's, and specialists estimate that by 2040, this figure will have trebled.
As you can appreciate, these statistics are disturbing.
This is why I am happy that we have discussed this important problem today.
I would like to stress that in combating this difficult disease, it is vital to pay much attention to prevention and to target efforts at obtaining the earliest possible diagnosis.
Therefore, there is a need to draw up a preventive strategy on Alzheimer's disease, linked to encouraging healthier lifestyles, informing people about this disease and exchanging medical practices. (GA) Mr President, I want to thank you for giving me the opportunity to talk about Alzheimer's disease.
Unfortunately, due to the ageing population in Europe, more and more people are likely to be affected by this disease in the future.
Therefore, better coordination between EU Member States, in terms of research into the causes of dementia and best practice in terms of a care system, is essential.
The burden of care is often placed on the shoulders of close family members and in Ireland, 50 000 people care for people with dementia on a daily basis.
In conclusion, I would like to pay special tribute to those carers and to the Alzheimer's society of Ireland who provide incredible support to people affected by dementia. (DA) Mr President, I would like to address Commissioner Dalli.
I think it is absolutely scandalous that the Commission is continuing to maintain that this simple product is to undergo the same substantial test procedure - as if it necessarily belonged in the same test system - as the medicine - not exactly the same as the medicine itself, I know, but still as a device that belongs to it.
I look forward to supporting Member States in their efforts to work closely with Parliament in addressing Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia.
It is very important for me, as Commissioner responsible for health, not to compromise on patient safety, not to take any shortcuts and short-circuit the processes and procedures that we have in place to ensure that any device to be used in any medical way is properly tested and its safety assured.
As a layman, if I had to use a device like this, these are the questions that I would ask myself.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by expressing my gratitude for all the words that have been said about the report that Parliament is tabling on Alzheimer's and other dementias.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Wednesday, 19 January 2011).
Written statements (Rule 149) It is estimated that 9.9 million people in Europe suffer from a neurodegenerative disease, such as Alzheimer's disease.
The EU gives a considerable amount of money - EUR 159 million - to 34 neurodegenerative disease research programmes, but since there will be a huge increase in these diseases, research projects under the Eighth Framework Programme must be broadened to include research on behavioural, cognitive and non-drug therapies.
The data on the prevalence of Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia is available in European Union countries and was collected by Alzheimer Europe.
Alzheimer's disease was, and is, the main cause of dementia in all countries.
It accounts for 74.5% of dementia cases in North America, 61.4% in Europe and 46.5% in Asia.
In this context, I think that Member States must develop long-term policies and action plans for speeding up access to research funding in the field of dementia and Alzheimer's, including research into prevention, at a level commensurate with these illnesses' economic impact on society.
They must also anticipate and prevent social and demographic trends and focus on the support provided to the families of the patients being cared for by them, thereby affording social protection to vulnerable people suffering from dementia.
The resolution tabled renews our commitment to the fight against a serious disease that still affects one in five people over the age of 85.
I am of the opinion that an effective, coordinated Europe-wide action is needed to make further progress in research and the collection of epidemiological data on this disease.
Proper coordination between Member States can contribute to the sharing of best practices in patient treatment and help make citizens more aware of the importance of prevention and early intervention.
I call on the Commission to truly make the fight against dementia a European priority and conclude the below-mentioned proposals within a reasonable timeframe: (1) promote cardiovascular health and invest in a healthier workforce; (2) promote initiatives that ensure social and intellectual engagement of the elderly; (3) encourage Member States to implement systematic routine screening which allows for early diagnosis of the disease, as well as providing easy access to medication and treatment once the disease has set in; (4) ensure that regular epidemiological studies at a European level are carried out; (5) prompt Member States to make better use of Assistive Technology (AT).
It is estimated that more than 8 million Europeans aged between 30 and 99 suffer from neurodegenerative diseases, and scientists anticipate that this number could double every 20 years.
Nearly ten million Europeans suffer today from dementia, with Alzheimer's the most common form.
I welcome the focus on better research in Europe, especially as we know 85% of research today is without EU coordination.
More attention needs to be paid to the prevention of these diseases from the time when people reach adolescence.
Although it is older people who mainly suffer, with improvements in diagnosis, the early symptoms of these diseases will be detected more and more frequently among the working population.
Furthermore, broad epidemiological and clinical studies as well as better research into dementia and Alzheimer's are important factors in the fight against dementias.
The European initiative on Alzheimer's disease and other dementias is also very important for starting a serious and open social debate on this condition in the broadest sense of the word.
