I would like to ask Vice-President/High Representative Catherine Ashton to take the floor.
Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. - Mr President, I shall begin by expressing how fully I share the concerns of this House about the recent violence against people belonging to religious minorities, as well as those who stand up for religious freedom.
I expressed my views on this issue most recently on 6 January when I visited Bethlehem and the Church of the Nativity on the eve of the Orthodox Christmas.
I have also strongly condemned the recent terrorist attacks in Iraq and Egypt targeting places of worship, as well as the assassination of Salmaan Taseer, the Governor of the Punjab in Pakistan.
The European Union was a driving force in the UN General Assembly behind the resolution on the elimination of all forms of intolerance and of discrimination based on religion or belief - which was adopted by consensus in December 2010.
Our delegations closely monitor these issues around the world, and the European Union's next annual human rights report this spring will address the situation of religious minorities around the world.
The next Foreign Affairs Council on 31 January will again address this issue so that the European Union can step up its efforts to promote religious freedom.
Baroness Ashton, I am very pleased to welcome you to the European Parliament in the New Year.
It is not very often that we can discuss with you personally such important issues of the foreign policy of the European Union, so thank you very much for coming here.
Mr President, Baroness Ashton, you have promised us that you will appear more often in front of the European Parliament, so that this will be settled.
You are right when you say that we must ensure that intolerance and violence against people because of their religion, regardless of the religion in question, is regarded as unacceptable.
However, it is clear that 75% of the attacks made for this reason in recent years have been directed against Christians.
Christians are being persecuted in China, for example, and in other countries.
The 20 million Coptic Christians living in Egypt represent a specific problem which we take very seriously.
The increasing number of attacks on Christians and the growing levels of religious intolerance are highly alarming.
I would like once again to express our deepest sympathy and regret concerning the attacks on Coptic Christians in Egypt.
This was a heavy blow not only against the Coptic Christians themselves, but also against the tolerance which is still widespread in Egypt.
However, there is also intolerance between different Muslim groups.
Therefore, our group believes that it is particularly important to take decisive action against intolerance of other religious views and especially of religious minorities.
However, in just the same way that I clearly condemn these attacks against Christians on behalf of my group, and not just the recent violent attacks, but also other discrimination, I would like to state specifically that I very much regret the growing Islamophobia in certain circles in Europe.
The existence of an aggressive, violent minority, whether it consists of Muslims, Christians, Jews or members of other faith communities, can never provide a justification for attacking other religions.
A glance at our world today shows a very bleak picture: from the Bahá'i in Iran to Copts in Egypt, from the use of blasphemy laws in Pakistan to the attacks on Christians or places of worship in Iraq and Nigeria.
By giving the extremists more credit than they deserve, by accepting the link between religion and terrorism, we disqualify the majority of believers who, in the diverse ways in which they do, practice their faith peacefully.
Religion or conviction should never be a reason for people to live in fear and the European Parliament rightly speaks out against the extremist acts against Christians and supports those who condemn this extremism.
Mr President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, the massacres inflicted on the Coptic Christians in Alexandria provoked international outrage.
Whilst our text quite rightly mentions the recent attacks and killings that have gone on in the world, we must also admit that in some European countries, respect for this freedom of religion is under threat.
Let me read you if I may two lines of a poem by Louis Aragon: 'Celui qui croyait au ciel, celui qui n'y croyait pas, et leur sang rouge ruisselle, même couleur, même éclat' ('The one who believed in God and the one who did not, their blood runs equally red and equally bright').
Mr President, Mrs Ashton, I should like to start by thanking Mrs Ashton for responding so rapidly to events in Alexandria.
Every year, 170 000 Christians throughout the world suffer legal discrimination, assault and even murder.
All those who claim to uphold human rights must take active measures to defend religious freedom.
The world will only listen to us if it is led to believe that this issue really is important to us.
The right of every person to follow a religious conviction, or even none at all, must be safeguarded and respected by everyone.
The above acts are in clear breach of the Third Vienna Agreement of 2 August 1975, Articles 3 and 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 10 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights and Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the recent terrorist attacks in Egypt and Iraq are criminal acts that represent just one aspect, albeit a tragic one, of the persecutions of Christian communities around the world and particularly in the Middle East.
In Iraq, for example, over 60% of Christians have been forced into exile, and we are talking about some 600 000 people.
We should have the courage to stand up today and say that these abuses are primarily committed against Christians in Islamic countries.
In those same Muslim countries, anyone who actually or reportedly criticises Islam can face the same fate.
That is something that struck me, because there is actually a feeling of embarrassment in our institutions, and in that sense we are playing the game of the fundamentalists, who tend to identify the presence of Christians in the Middle East and other parts of the world precisely with the West and Europe.
I would like to ask you, therefore, Baroness Ashton, whether we should not perhaps take a very thorough, careful look at ourselves and how we have approached this subject up to now, because it is a strong point of ours to call a spade a spade.
That is my question to you, and I would ask you to be specific in your answer.
Let us do something tangible and in everyone's interests, but let us do it quickly and well, because the world is waiting for a signal from Europe.
The Pew Centre says that 70% of the world's six billion people live in countries with strong restrictions on religious belief or practice.
But I know that when preacher of hate Terry Jones, who threatened to burn the Koran, said he would come to Luton - also in my constituency - to stir up religious hatred, he was told he would not be welcome.
That is why it is so important that we express our solidarity today with all those who are persecuted for their faith in the world.
The terrible killings carried out by al-Qaeda in Iraq and Egypt and the threats that Eastern Christians face from Islamic fundamentalists are, in reality, aimed at only one thing: creating tension between religions, fuelling hatred, setting communities against each other and provoking a clash of civilisations.
This attempt at destabilisation will fail in Europe, as it is failing in France, where the whole Muslim community naturally condemned these barbaric acts immediately.
We must defend religious pluralism, tolerance and mutual understanding both here in Europe and everywhere in the world.
We feel this resolution gives the impression that Christian Europe, or the Christian community in Europe, is running to the aid of Christians throughout the world.
This attack on conviction is more aggressive towards Christianity in certain quarters.
Freedom of religious expression is a fundamental right in society that should be protected and this debate is but a small recognition of the problem.
This debate today is also necessary, not only as a result of recent events, but also because freedom of religion is one of our fundamental values and part of our European identity.
Our sympathy also goes to their friends and families.
We need effective instruments which will allow us to protect Christians and to protect freedom of religion.
We must also include provisions that guarantee freedom of religion in our agreements with third countries and I very much welcome your intention to devote a chapter of the European Union's annual human rights report to the situation concerning freedom of religion. (IT) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to link the condemnation of these attacks and the call for urgent, concrete measures to protect Christians around the world with the more general demand for respect for the freedom of religion and freedom of conscience and thought.
There is a great deal of work for Europe to do in this respect at a political and diplomatic level as well as in the cultural and social spheres.
We could not understand what he wanted, as all he could say through his tears was 'Said Akbar, Said Akbar,' the great old man, the great old man.
This short but significant incident, reflecting widespread values in Egyptian society, happened in the same country in which the Copts were massacred at Christmas.
The horrific events in Egypt and Iraq go against human rights and basic principles of freedom of thought and expression.
But, before we criticise, we should put our own house in order.
Last month, the Christmas religious services were prohibited in the occupied village of Rizokarpaso in Cyprus.
We cannot accept any forms of discrimination in this Chamber if we are to be credible in the wider context. (NL) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, the freedom of religion or belief protects both religious and non-theist beliefs, and even atheist beliefs.
These views can be incompatible with each other, however, and then governments have a duty to promote tolerance and stand up for those who face discrimination and violence because of their beliefs.
I wholeheartedly support the joint resolution, in the form which we now see it before us, not because I think that we should solely concern ourselves with Christians, but because Christians are currently having to deal with intolerance in an increasing number of countries.
I therefore hope, Madam High Representative, that you will heed the recommendation that manpower be freed up for this purpose. (IT) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, in the prevailing relativism of European politics, there is one word that is taboo: Christianophobia.
This is a deep-seated problem and Christophobic acts are a reality.
Freedom of worship must be put into practice everywhere in the world, just as each individual is free to believe or not believe, because if this freedom which allows religions to be separate from the State is undermined, then all our other freedoms are also in jeopardy. (PL) Mr President, the victims of at least 75% of all cases of religious persecution throughout the world are Christians.
The European Union and Europe as a whole is opening itself up to immigrants from various countries around the world.
At the same time, however, we seldom stand up for the rights of Christians in those very same countries, in the countries where possessing a Bible is often punished by many years in prison, and on many occasions even death, in countries where it would not just be hard to build a Christian place of worship, it would be simply impossible.
Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights sets out in great detail what it calls freedom of religion or religious freedom.
Despite this, it is, unfortunately, a right that is little respected in some countries.
The European Parliament resolution sets out methods for better defending religious freedom in general and the freedom of Christians in particular.
I welcome the fact that the forthcoming Foreign Affairs Council is to give them close consideration, and - I am finishing now, Mr President - that the forthcoming European Council on 14 February is to give its opinion on these serious events, just as, for example, President Sarkozy very courageously did. (FI) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, the European Union's credibility as regards its foreign policy is measured in terms of how well it keeps to its fundamental values, which are human rights, democracy, the principle of legality, and freedom of religion.
Christianity and other religions are peace movements like the European Union.
We cannot let terrorists use religion as a tool of barbarity. (PL) Mr President, according to organisations monitoring religious persecution, every day, over 200 million Christians are under threat of persecution.
Over the past two years, over 170 000 individuals have died simply because they were Christians, hard as it is to believe.
These figures come from organisations monitoring the persecution of Christians, and they mean that Christians do, in fact, suffer most in terms of religious persecution, which is something that we should remember here in Parliament.
The European Union does not react resolutely enough to attacks and discrimination against Christians.
Mr President, I very much appreciate this debate and fully support the resolution, which I also sponsor.
Banning the exercise of religious faith is a blatant infringement of fundamental rights and of international law, which stipulates that the right to faith is inalienable and self-evident.
The ban on the Christian service in Rizokarpaso in occupied Cyprus by the occupying forces and the bombing in the Christian church in Alexandria used by the Coptic community are just two examples of the increased tension and religious hatred which are developing in numerous places not far from Europe.
The European Union must develop a set of tools which will protect the right of every religious faith in practice.
Finally, at Council and European Commission level, it would be a good idea to include protection of religious faith in all discussions with third countries. (PL) Mr President, Christianity has always been an indicator of European identity, and the European Union's values derive from it.
The EU cannot, therefore, sit back and watch while Christians are being persecuted, and this includes persecution in other parts of the world.
In Arab and Asian countries, Christians are the religious minority most under threat, as is confirmed by the recent attacks on Christians in Egypt and Iraq and previous attacks in India, among the victims of which were small children.
We have many instruments at our disposal to prevent and denounce such attacks, and the European Union must resolutely condemn attacks on Christians.
One of the most effective ways to do this would be for the conclusion of agreements with the EU, for example, trade agreements with third countries, to be made conditional upon guarantees that the countries involved will respect the rights of Christians, and upon the inclusion of clauses providing for the severance of the agreement if these rights are violated. (DE) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, in 2009, we encouraged an intercultural dialogue in Europe, between Christians and Muslims, Orthodox Christians and Catholics and between Protestants and Orthodox Christians.
They are not minorities, they are Egyptians and Palestinians, just like all the other residents of these countries.
Mr President, I think that the intolerance and violence that have taken place are unacceptable and that we should engage the warring factions in dialogue.
You can count on the solidarity of Parliament in that regard. (EL) Mr President, the persecution and slaughter of Christians in the Middle East is usually the work of fanatical and terrorist organisations.
The EU and its institutions, including this House, must increase pressure on governments where these incidents occur, particularly in those countries where the state has weak policies or turns a blind eye to such incidents.
The best efforts of the entire civilised world should therefore focus on reversing this dangerous trend. (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, I do not in any way want to undervalue the pressure on other religions, but the statistics speak for themselves: 75% of those threatened or killed for religious reasons are Christians, and around 100 million Christians around the world encounter persecution and violence because of their faith.
Nevertheless, if it wanted to, the EU could do so much more to improve the situation for Christians and to promote freedom of religion in the world, for example, by insisting on a freedom of religion clause in all agreements concluded with third countries.
This is happening as we here in Europe are bending over backwards to accommodate the endless sensibilities of Muslim believers.
The result is a Europe full of mosques and the Middle East purged of Christians.
Even for those among us who do not believe, Christianity should be more than a forgotten, exotic and diminishing sect.
We are free to believe or not, but we are not free to see our freedoms abused.
This approach means that we should make religious freedom a precondition in our relations with sovereign states.
Attacks on Christian communities have dramatically intensified, especially in the countries of the Middle East and North Africa.
This is about real equality of opportunity because it should be as easy to build a Christian church in Alexandria or Ankara as it is to build a mosque in Brussels. (MT) Mr President, the attacks against the Christian community in Egypt and other countries should be condemned, and it is our duty to react.
We must also be careful not to label all Muslims as terrorists, because those who favour violence and extremism are in the minority.
In his book Premesse della politica ('Premises of politics'), he wrote that every political idea has a particular concept of man underlying it.
Christians in Cyprus are in danger. (DE) Mr President, Baroness Ashton, today we are discussing a motion for a resolution on the situation of Christians throughout the world in relation to freedom of religion.
The European Parliament supports fundamental freedoms and human rights all over the world.
It is about protection for religious minorities and the obligation of every state to protect to the best of its ability the members of those religious minorities which are under threat.
Last Saturday, I stood outside 10 Downing Street in London with my Coptic constituents demanding that the UK Government do more to pressurise Egypt and its government to protect its own citizens.
This is precisely the problem of our communities today.
The charity Open Doors lists 50 states in its worldwide persecution index where Christians are subject to severe persecution.
If we in the EU and in the Commission distribute a calendar as the perfect example of self-denial to 21 000 European schools for 3 million school children, which does not list any of the Christian holidays, but does show Islamic, Sikh, Hindu and Chinese festivals, then this is no longer a question of self-denial, but of self-hatred.
Baroness Ashton, we need courage and we need to maintain our standards.
This Parliament refused to condemn the abduction of the Archbishop of Mosul, who was later murdered.
A political group from this Parliament made sure that the Pope was accused of violating human rights.
I look forward to the establishment in Vienna of the European Observatory on Intolerance and Discrimination against Christians, and I think it will have a lot of work to do. (HU) Mr President, as a member of a minority in Romania, I know what religious persecution meant in the days of Ceauşescu's dictatorship.
I was pleased to hear Prime Minister Viktor Orbán today mention the fight against the persecution of Christians among our priorities.
I believe that High Representative Ashton should contribute to this in cooperation with the Hungarian Presidency, and ask her to do so.
On the other hand, I ask Baroness Ashton to subject the protection of Christians to serious debate at the 31 January meeting of foreign ministers and to make it a foreign policy priority.
As I have already indicated, part of the reason I was very pleased to be able to participate in this debate is that this has been raised once before with the Foreign Affairs Council - but we will come back to it at the end of January - and the concerns that honourable Members have made have resonated and echoed with the concerns which have been raised with me from a variety of different sources, not least from some of the Member States and some of the ministers who have been most concerned about these issues.
I want to remind honourable Members that almost all of the trade and cooperation agreements which we have concluded since 1995 have included a human rights clause, and that exists in agreements with, I believe now, 134 countries.
The principal purpose is to demonstrate the shared commitment to human rights which we have, but it also constitutes the legal basis for sanctions in the event of grave human rights violations.
We are, as honourable Members know, supporting projects worldwide in the fight against racism, xenophobia or discrimination on any ground.
We have funded anti-discrimination NGOs in some 60 countries.
I think it is important that we see our delegations across the world as a source of being able to see and recognise the kind of discrimination that honourable Members feel 'bubbles below the surface', if I can use that expression, and notify us when they see it.
I also think it is important, as I have indicated that we put forward at the last Foreign Affairs Council, that in our human rights work and in the report that we produced, we are also addressing the situation of religious minorities across the world.
The world's religions do not encourage violent attacks.
One of the most recent outbursts of anti-Christian violence was in Alexandria at New Year when 25 people were killed and 80 injured in the bombing of a church.
Statistics on religious freedom show that the majority of acts of religious violence have been against Christians in recent years.
Unfortunately, many lost lives need to be mourned, resulting from the bloody attacks on the Christian communities in Nigeria and Pakistan, the terrorist attacks against Coptic Christians in Alexandria and the Philippines, the jihadi terrorist attacks against Assyrian Christian families, and the coordinated bomb attacks on Christian homes in Baghdad.
Moreover, I repudiate the deplorable persecution of Christians by the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, as well as the reprehensible repression of the activities of the Catholic Church and other religious communities in Vietnam.
The European Union must renew the commitment it has always shown to the pursuit of religious freedom, freedom of conscience and freedom of thought, which are fundamental principles of the acquis communautaire.
Therefore, and given the increase in anti-Christian violence worldwide, I would argue that the Council, the Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy should take rapid, robust and energetic action to guarantee the defence of religious freedom in the world.
I have been the co-author of three resolutions on related subjects - one on Iraq, in particular, the death penalty (including the case of Tariq Aziz) and attacks against Christian communities, adopted on 24 November 2010, one on recent attacks on Christian communities, adopted on 20 January 2010, and one on religious freedom in Pakistan, adopted on 19 May 2010.
Deutsche Welle journalists have done some interesting calculations regarding violations of Christians' rights; they have calculated that, on average, a Christian martyr dies every three minutes somewhere in the world as a result of his or her beliefs.
The data speak for themselves: last year, 75% of violent attacks motivated by religion were carried out against Christians.
The hatred fostered by these terrorist attacks is designed precisely to destabilise the social and political system in the countries where the violence occurs.
Given the European Union's role of promoting respect for human rights and for civil and democratic freedoms and, above all, given its Christian origins and roots, it has a duty in all this to react firmly by condemning all forms of extremism and promoting dialogue, religious freedom, mutual respect among communities, and tolerance.
The subject of religious freedom must be integrated in European policies, not least by including a binding clause on respect for religious freedom in our agreements with other countries.
Christians are currently persecuted in over 70 countries around the world.
The European Parliament, which acts as a guardian of human rights, should find ways to defend freedom of religion around the world as quickly as possible.
Bearing in mind the recent violence against Christian minorities in certain Middle Eastern, African and Asian countries, I believe that it would be a good idea to raise this issue at the forthcoming EU Foreign Affairs Council and, together with the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, to draft specific instruments to protect the Christian community.
The European Parliament should call on countries where persecution takes place to take effective steps to protect religious minorities, despite the difficulties involved in doing so.
