I would like to ask you to check whether Amendment 4 was unlawful.
The treaty does not refer to 12 plenary sessions per year, but to 12 monthly plenary sessions per year.
The fact is, Mr Posselt, that this issue has already been voted on and we cannot therefore reopen it.
I would like him to show the statistical evidence that it is economically better for consumers, because they have so far not proven that.
Oral explanations of vote (CS) I voted against the report of Vladimír Maňka setting out the EU budget for this year.
MEPs are to receive EUR 1 500 more per month this year under the Maňka report, on top of the additional EUR 1 500 per month under the Helga Trüpel report, which was passed yesterday.
MEPs are already the subject of public criticism over the large sums of public money they receive.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Maňka, for his superb report. (BG) Mr President, I wish to say that I supported the reports on the organ transplantation action plan, as well as the report on organ quality and safety.
I therefore hope that this action plan and the report on quality and safety will help Member States to standardise their criteria and that they will be used as a benchmark for the future.
This is why I hope that this report and the decisions made by Parliament will provide some impetus and that this directive will be implemented as soon as possible. (ET) Mr President, I also voted in favour of this report, because it establishes uniform and binding requirements on quality and standards for human organs used in transplants in all the Member States, and thus guarantees the protection of donors and recipients while, at the same time, enhancing cooperation between the Member States.
With this report, we have given the opportunity of a better quality of life to those people - more than 56 000 European Union residents - who are currently waiting for an organ transplant. (LT) I also voted for this important document on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation.
I believe that today is an important day, because we have ensured that donors and recipients of organs will have consistent standards and greater safety.
Last year, 25 people in my East of England regional constituency died because they were on the organ donor waiting list but no donor could be found in time.
At Addenbrooke's and Papworth hospitals in my constituency, we have European and worldwide expertise in lung and heart transplants.
When we hear that 56 000 Europeans are currently waiting for a matching organ in order to be able to have a reasonable or a high quality of life, or even simply to survive, it is clear that we urgently need to harmonise and improve the standards and to make it possible for recipients to access organs from throughout Europe. (PL) I, too, was in favour of adopting this document, because it is certainly a step in the right direction.
However, while I agree with these principles, and that we are going to be concerned about the quality of donors and organs, I want to say clearly that this is only the first step in the right direction.
If we want to bring about a fundamental increase in organ donations, the Union needs a significantly broader campaign, and measures of a prophylactic and informative nature.
The EU can help patients waiting for organs across Europe and, as a consequence, save lives.
There are even reports that people are deliberately killed to get their organs: for example, practitioners of Falun Gong in China.
The Commission proposal calls for clear labelling of meat that has been stuck together in this way and states that it should not be permitted in restaurants and large-scale catering establishments as it is difficult, in places like this, to provide customers with clear information.
I would like to point out that there is a large number of similar enzymes which are not banned and are still used. (DE) Mr President, consumer protection is a very, very important matter for me and therefore I am against consumers being misled or deceived in any way.
In my opinion, this should not be happening, in particular, when consumers are not aware of what is going on.
The Commission has proposed comprehensive labelling rules, but consumers may still be misled, because it is difficult to prove that a product contains thrombin.
I have now voted in favour of the resolution and of a ban on thrombin. (HU) Over the past eight years, the post-communist dictatorship in Hungary has systematically trodden underfoot the rights of Hungarians.
With the help of nearly 100 excellent lawyers and solicitors from the National Legal Defence Service, the majority of cases have already succeeded in obtaining legal redress before the Hungarian courts, but there have been cases, such as the now famous Bukta case, which had to be taken to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.
The European Union is now scheming to dismantle, under the guise of accession to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the smoothly functioning 'Strasbourg' system.
It is Hungary's historic responsibility to see that under the Hungarian Presidency, we do not speed up but rather prevent this dangerous process. (LT) This topic is actually quite sensitive and has been the cause of much debate in the European Parliament and, of course, in society at large.
This is why I have voted against allowing thrombin to be used as a food glue. (DE) Mr President, I have also voted in favour of the resolution banning the use of thrombin as a food additive, because the Commissioner's arguments did not convince me.
I would like all food to be labelled in such a way that it is not possible to mislead consumers.
If this enzyme is used, consumers must be able to identify its presence.
This is the basis for effective and fair consumer protection.
However, it is important that consumers at least know what they are actually eating. (ET) I welcome the action plan, and I therefore voted in favour of it.
This is a step in the right direction, and in order to solve this problem, we must all work together.
The action plan which has been approved will give the Member States the opportunity to use the ten priority measures set out by us as a basis for putting their national action plans together in a better way.
We are obliged, within the scope of our competency, to give help towards high-level health protection across the entire European Union. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, acceding to the European Convention undoubtedly represents progress in the process of political integration of the European Union, whose system of protection for fundamental rights is supplemented and strengthened by the integration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in its primary law.
It will also provide an additional legal instrument which makes it possible to present a claim before the European Court of Human Rights against an action or a failure to act by a European institution or a Member State in the context of the implementation of European law.
Lastly, it represents a clear desire to harmonise the issue of human rights and fundamental freedoms at a legislative and court level.
However, the way in which national jurisdictions implement these laws means that European law falls outside their scope, all the more so as this European law, in my country, France, for example, takes precedence, under Article 55 of our constitution, over French domestic law.
On the other hand, the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg has shown itself to be keen to protect fundamental rights.
In 1998, 138 countries agreed to set up the International Criminal Court and adopted the Rome Statute on the basis of which this court has now been operating for 7 years, since 2003.
However, some of our partners, like the United States, Russia and China, have not joined the International Criminal Court in its work.
In the 21st century, people responsible for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes should expect not only moral condemnation from the international community but legal sanctions.
The Treaty of Lisbon also makes clear the importance of consultations and dialogue with other institutions and bodies, with civil society, and with social partners, amongst others.
The proposal for a directive on the indication by labelling and standard product information of the consumption of energy and other resources by energy-related products is part, along with the two proposals on the energy performance of buildings and the labelling of tyres with respect to fuel efficiency, of the Energy Efficiency Package tabled by the Commission in November 2008.
Providing accurate, relevant and comparable information on the energy consumption of energy-related products will allow consumers in future to make correct, effective choices, thereby reducing both their energy consumption and household expenditure.
in writing. - The Maltese Government is against the Recommendation for second reading relating to labelling and standard product information of the consumption of energy and other resources by energy-related products.
It is useless for the government to appear to be in favour of energy efficiency when the potential savings could be achieved through the labelling of some of these products given that buildings account for 40% of total energy consumption in the European Union.
The Energy Labelling Directive has a crucial role to play in the achievement of the EU energy efficiency target of 20% by 2020.
As far as new features are concerned, involving the obligation to indicate the energy classes of products in advertising materials, I consider it a success that this obligation has been restricted to advertisements providing information on price or information connected with energy consumption.
I voted for this recommendation because it effectively contributes to helping European consumers choose products that use less energy or which indirectly lead to less energy being used.
By adopting this recommendation, the European Parliament is playing a part in moving closer to the realisation of the EU's objective of a 20% improvement in its energy efficiency by 2020.
This initiative, like the one that we voted on yesterday regarding the energy efficiency of buildings, is part of a legislative package on energy efficiency that was presented by the Commission in November 2008 and has been the subject of ample debate in Parliament, the Commission and the Council; agreement is now, at last, being reached on the final text.
The directive on energy labelling guarantees that consumers will receive adequate information thanks to the compulsory inclusion of the energy label on advertising.
In this way, all members of the European public will become involved in combating climate change.
As this directive now ensures, levels of energy consumption caused by products are assessed against universal criteria and parameters, which allow them to be compared in a way that can be trusted.
All advertising for products related to energy or their respective prices must include a reference to the energy efficiency classification.
The information provided must guide consumers towards choosing products that use less energy or indirectly lead to less energy being used.
Therefore, in future, any advertising of the price or energy efficiency of refrigerators, washing machines or cookers must indicate the product's energy class.
I voted for this report.
The EU is continuing to look determinedly for the best ways of ensuring excellence in energy efficiency, so as to succeed in improving its efficiency by 20% by 2020.
Once more, I welcome the position of the European Parliament on this issue and I hope that such decisions will become a real stimulus and opportunity to realise our commitments to reduce energy consumption by 2020.
One of the most controversial points concerns which type of scale to use in order to avoid causing consumer confusion: it was decided to maintain the A-G closed scale layout after the European Parliament adopted a resolution in this regard.
For the reasons I have explained, I agree with the stance taken by Mrs Podimata and I support the report.
The Energy Labelling Directive has a crucial role to play in the achievement of the EU energy efficiency target of 20% by 2020.
It provides an important added value for both the market and consumers.
I therefore repeat with conviction that I fully support the directive.
I voted for this report since, by including all energy-related products, the amendment to the Energy Labelling Directive will help achieve a EUR 4 million reduction in the transposition costs for each implementation measure updated and produced from scratch (if regulations/decisions are going to be used instead of directives).
Providing accurate, relevant and comparable information on the specific energy consumption of energy-related products will help end users make a decision based on energy-saving potential in order to reduce energy bills in the long term.
Lastly, given the leadership role that must be taken by the public sector, I feel it is essential for administrations to acquire products that belong to the highest energy efficiency class in public tenders.
Mr Maňka's report proposes several amendments to the European Parliament's 2010 budget.
I voted for this report and, in particular, for its provisions that follow on from the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon on 1 December 2009.
These include the EUR 1 500 per month increase in Members' assistance expenses.
Parliament needs to increase its expertise in legislative issues in order to match the Commission and the Member States.
I therefore supported this report.
In my capacity as group leader for the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament in the Committee on Budgets, I also took this line in the negotiations with Parliament's Presidency.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon will probably cause a significant rise in Parliament's workload.
in writing. - I supported the Maňka Report on the European Parliament amending budget while conscious of the sensitivity of increasing budgets at a time when citizens are being asked to take pay cuts and jobs are being lost.
The work in the European Parliament has undoubtedly increased because of the Treaty of Lisbon.
This new situation leads to two problems: increased costs arising from the need for more assistants, and additional space required in order for them to carry out their duties in good working conditions.
I voted in favour.
For that reason, we need collaborators and experts who are able to support us in our jobs on a daily basis.
On behalf of myself and, I hope, my fellow Members, these resources will translate into even more effective, efficient and focused work.
in writing. - I have signed and voted in favour of the Amendment rejecting the tranche, together with 16 other MEPs from my group.
At the final vote, however, I voted in favour of the Maňka report, amending Parliament's budget for 2010.
I voted against the report on the supplementary budget for 2010.
To increase MEPs' secretarial allowance by EUR 1 500 per month in order to deal with the increased workloads resulting from the Treaty of Lisbon is not tenable.
For one thing, you cannot employ highly-trained experts for EUR 1 500 per month.
That is why I agree with the rapporteur's decision to postpone the decision on discharging the Council's accounts until the requested additional information has been submitted.
Moreover, it is also fundamental in light of our citizens' expectations.
in writing. - I have voted in favour of this report because I agree with the fact that we need to postpone the discharge decision until October.
I voted against granting discharge in respect of the Council's budget for 2008 because the Council's financial documentation was received in Parliament too late.
The last few years have seen a steady, rapid rise in the need for organ transplants within the European Union.
Back in 2008, the European Parliament called on the European Commission, via the resolution adopted in April, to draft a directive setting out the legal framework for guaranteeing the quality and safety of organ donations within the European Union.
The Commission subsequently tabled a proposal for a directive, which was debated in the European Parliament, featuring the following three objectives: guaranteeing quality and safety for patients across the EU, providing protection for donors and facilitating cooperation between Member States.
We voted in favour of the compromise reached between Parliament, the Council and Commission as we need common quality and safety standards at EU level for the procurement, transport and use of human organs.
I support this report on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation.
With the growing demand for transplantations in the European Union and the imbalance between patients waiting for a transplantation and the number of organs donated, we must aim to avoid the commercialisation of donation and end the illegal trade in organs.
This directive establishes rules that seek to guarantee high standards of quality and safety for organs of human origin to be transplanted into human bodies in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health.
The directive introduces quality national programmes in which standards and practices for transplantation processes in the Member States are defined.
I voted for this report because of its three main objectives: guaranteeing quality and safety for patients at Union level, ensuring the protection of donors, and facilitating cooperation between Member States.
in writing. - UKIP believes that ongoing development and improvement in the present international network of facilities and agencies for organ exchange will not be facilitated by the EU's attempts to invade and regulate this network.
On the contrary, organ donation in the few countries where there are many donors is likely to decrease if demand for organs from the many countries where there are few donors becomes EU-mandatory.
I voted for the draft directive on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation.
Given the increase in the demand for organs for transplant and the limited supply, which often forces patients to look for solutions to their problem beyond national borders, the adoption at Community level of a common framework of quality and safety standards and the creation of a network of cooperation and mutual information is absolutely necessary in order to improve protection for public health and services to patients. 2.
On the contrary, the proposal for a directive supplements the current legal framework of each Member State of the EU with specific quality and safety standards throughout the transplantation procedure and, at the same time, safeguards the absence of any form of speculation and maintains the anonymity and security of both the donor's and the recipient's personal data. 3.
I voted for the report on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation because it contributes to reducing operation waiting lists for European sufferers.
It is unacceptable that, on average, 12 people awaiting a transplant die every day.
This directive will make it easier to donate and transplant organs, and to exchange them between EU Member States, benefiting thousands of ill Europeans.
The scarcity of organs for transplantation has been feeding a terrible market which affects, above all, developing countries, but which has also hit deprived people in Eastern Europe.
I warmly welcome this proposal and its three principal objectives: guaranteeing quality and security for patients at Union level, ensuring the protection of donors and facilitating cooperation between Member States.
In general in the EU, there is a broad social consensus on the donation of organs for transplantation.
However, due to differences of culture and tradition, and also in the system of organisation, there are different approaches to this issue within the Member States.
The proposal for a directive establishes common, binding standards of quality and safety for organs of human origin to be transplanted with the aim of guaranteeing a high level of protection for health throughout the EU.
The report also tackles the worrying issue of human organ trafficking in a way that seems appropriate to us.
This aim of this directive is clear enough: we need more organs for patients and greater cooperation between Member States on this matter and on combating organ trafficking.
Organ transplants can save lives, but only when a healthy organ from a matching donor is transplanted.
Unfortunately, errors have occurred repeatedly in the past and this makes it even more important to impose quality and safety standards in this area.
I hope that the report will contribute to improving quality and safety standards, which is why I have voted in favour of it.
The growing need for available transplant organs in a context of cross-border exchange and of significant differences among the transplant systems adopted by the various Member States requires cooperation and common regulations regarding the quality and safety of the organs to be strengthened.
This exchange, however, requires quality and safety standards across the board, as set out in the present directive by Parliament and the Council.
The Mikolášik report on safety and quality standards for organs intended for transplantation thus makes an important contribution towards minimising organ shortage and towards basic protection of the health of the recipient and the living donor.
It is a question of setting a positive process in motion to address the major imbalance between the need and the numbers of organs available, without compromising the principle of free, voluntary donation in order to prevent all forms of commercialisation and illegal trafficking and whilst guaranteeing the quality and safety of organs for transplantation with measures that ensure both confidentiality and traceability.
The adoption of common quality standards is definitely a step forward that should be welcomed as part of a framework in which the World Health Organisation may make a further contribution.
However, in setting up a European database, it is important that we take care not to introduce an unnecessarily rigid framework or create additional red tape that would hamper the current perfectly proper and efficient process.
in writing. - I have supported the report lead by our colleague Mikolášik on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation as one very urgent measure to improve the life expectation of more than 60 000 people in Europe waiting for a transplant.
I voted in favour of the report, even though there is a need, concurrently with the desired effort to unify safety and quality requirements for human organs designated for transplant, to focus, in particular, on increasing donor numbers in the various Member States, taking account of the different national traditions of health systems.
in writing. - I was pleased to support this report in its vote through Parliament.
I endorsed the report on standards of safety in organ donation because the report includes the principle of non-commercialisation.
The European Parliament has adopted the calendar of plenary sessions for 2011.
Furthermore, it makes no sense at all for the European Parliament to meet 48 days of the year in a city that does not have direct air links with virtually any of the Member States' capitals.
I have voted against the proposal made by some Members to divide a session into two parts, but still to hold it during one week.
in writing. - I enthusiastically supported the amendment proposing to reduce the two September part-sessions to one.
This additive fulfils the four criteria in Regulation (EC) No 1333/2008 permitting authorisation: food additives must be safe when used (confirmed by the EFSA in its opinion of 2005); there must be a technological need for their use (very useful as a stabiliser); their use must not mislead the consumer (use limited to pre-packaged and, hence, labelled, products); they must be of benefit to the consumer (end product is stabilised).
I voted for this resolution which aims to limit the use in food products of food additives that are dangerous to health, in order to protect the health of consumers.
As the benefit of thrombin ('meat glue') for consumers has not been proven and the process of binding together many separate pieces of meat significantly increases the risk of it being infected by bacteria, I did not support the proposal to allow this food additive to be used in bovine and pork products.
Thrombin is used as a 'glue' in reconstituted meat.
I voted in favour of Parliament's resolution because it does not allow the use of foods containing additives and enzymes, such as thrombin, which are dangerous and compromise the quality of food and consumer safety.
The guarantees given by the Commission are not only unconvincing and inadequate but they also increase my concerns.
The Commission itself recognises that using this food additive could mislead the consumer as to the state of the final food.
Indeed, this food additive, which is derived from animal plasma and blood and used in pre-packed products to bind together separate pieces of meat, meets all the health and safety criteria laid down by the European Food Safety Authority.
This issue has been raised within Parliament with the case of thrombin, which is a food additive used to 'glue' pieces of meat together, and whose final appearance could easily mislead the consumer.
It is time to show the Commission that food safety and health are major concerns for the European Parliament.
I therefore welcome this vote rejecting this enzyme.
Regulation (EC) No 1333/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 regulates the conditions for food additives throughout the EU and we are now looking to include new substances in it.
The proposal which suggests that thrombin from cattle and/or swine should be included on the list of food additives approved in the EU does not give us any guarantee that this substance has a clear benefit for consumers, and ultimately this may mislead consumers.
In addition, the whole process of linking different pieces of meat greatly increases the surface that can be infected by pathogenic bacteria.
I voted for this resolution, because I agree that the use of food additives must be moderate - it is only justifiable when it gives consumers an added benefit.
If the use of 'meat glue' became very widespread, it would be difficult for consumers to differentiate between real meat and pieces of meat that have been glued together.
Whilst the draft Commission directive would not permit the use of thrombin as a food additive in meat products served in restaurants or other public establishments serving food, there is, however, a clear risk that meat containing thrombin would find its way into meat products served in restaurants or other public establishments serving food, given the higher prices that can be obtained for pieces of meat served as a single meat product.
I therefore agree with the opinion expressed in the resolution.
in writing. - I fully support this resolution and the efforts to prevent the authorisation of thrombin or 'meat glue'.
Industry has argued that use of this substance enables them to create cheap meat for people who cannot afford more expensive products, but the fact is that it enables industry to sell smaller pieces of meat for more money, not less.
This is why I voted in favour of this resolution.
I welcome the adoption, by a 'very close margin' (370 votes, when we needed 369), of this resolution, which protects consumers from the use of thrombin as a 'meat glue', as a food additive used to glue pieces of meat together to form a single meat-based product.
Therefore, it was my duty and that of my fellow MEPs to strongly oppose the Commission's desire to allow the agri-food industry to use a new food additive of which the sole purpose is ultimately to generate further profits, with a concomitant disregard for the protection of the rights of consumers, one of which is to receive accurate information about the food which they choose to consume.
In 2008, the European Commission presented an Action Plan on Organ Donation and Transplantation (2009-2015), with the aim of strengthening cooperation between Member States in the area of organ donation through the exchange of good practice.
The actions stipulated in this plan complement the European legal framework set out in the Commission's proposal for a directive on organ donation and transplantation.
The other actions stipulated in the plan are aimed at improving the quality and safety of organ transplantation, creating a register for evaluating post-transplant results and setting up an organ exchange system for particular cases, such as children or adults with special requirements.
I voted, along with my other fellow MEPs, to support such a plan which will facilitate cooperation between Member States as well as combat illegal organ trafficking.
There is currently no database covering the whole of the European Union which contains information about organs intended for donation and transplantation or on living or deceased donors, nor a pan-European certification system which provides proof that human organs and tissues have been legally obtained.
I voted for this report, because I welcomed the Action Plan on Organ Donation and Transplantation (2009-2015), which was adopted by the Commission in December 2008, and which sets out a cooperative approach between Member States in the form of a set of priority actions based on the identification and development of common objectives and the evaluation of donation and transplantation activities through agreed indicators that might help to identify benchmarks and best practices.
Every day, 12 people die in Europe because they have not received a transplant in time, and 60 000 people are currently waiting for a transplant.
There are three particularly sensitive issues: cross-border exchange of available organs; information for citizens; and the identification of potential donors.
The measures taken by the Commission and European Parliament only serve to bring some order and make recommendations in a system which is important in terms of saving as many lives as possible.
Removing organs and carrying out the transplant, along with post-transplant care, are expensive medical procedures, but every Member State must make efforts to encourage this type of medical procedure.
In these circumstances, measures such as promotion through this directive, cooperation between Member States and organ exchange, all tightly regulated by quality and safety standards, give us encouragement.
The availability of organs differs considerably from one Member State to another: from 33.8 dead donors in Spain to 1 dead donor in Romania per one million people.
Parliament's vote is the first step towards a European network to meet the requirement for swift, flexible and safe transplantations on the model of Eurotransplant (Austria, Benelux, Croatia, Germany, Netherlands and Slovenia) and Scandiatransplant (Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Norway and Iceland).
Currently, there are 56 000 patients in the EU waiting for a suitable organ donor, and every day, 12 people die waiting for a solid organ transplant.
The Commission's proposal to draw up a European plan of action on donation and transplantation for the 2009-2015 period sets out an approach for cooperation between the Member States, formed around a set of priority actions, and is based on the identification and development of common objectives, the establishment of consensual, quantitative and qualitative reference indicators and parameters, regular reporting and identifying best practice.
However, there are still long waiting lists for transplants.
There are currently 56 000 patients waiting for a suitable organ donor in the European Union, and it is estimated that every day, 12 people die while waiting for a solid organ transplant.
Furthermore, there are wide variations between Member States in deceased organ donation rates and, at present, there is neither a database covering the whole of the European Union which contains information about organs intended for donation and transplantation or on living or deceased donors, nor a certification system which provides proof that human organs and tissues have been legally obtained.
It is in this context that the report under discussion suggests steps that we consider important for strengthening cooperation between the Member States in this area, from which all of them could benefit.
in writing. - A permanent shortage of organs for transplantation hampers the wonderful efforts of health care professionals to help patients.
The need to implement EU-wide measures to facilitate intra-Community exchanges of human organs for transplantation, through improved quality and safety standards in this area, was therefore becoming an increasingly urgent issue.
This is why I voted for this directive, which aims to protect live donors and the individuals who benefit from their donations, and safeguards basic ethical principles, such as anonymity, volunteering and the inalienable character of the human body, which must not be a source of profit.
The idea of establishing a network of competent authorities in the Member States also seems to me to be particularly positive, as does the idea of online registration in national or European registers.
I voted in favour of the report on the Action plan on Organ Donation and Transplantation for 2009-2015.
The technical progress achieved in the area of organ transplantation is a huge source of hope for all those individuals for whom transplantation remains the only possible treatment.
Twelve patients die every day and 60 000 are waiting for a compatible donor for organ transplants within the EU.
Mortality rates among people waiting for a heart, liver or lung transplant are between 15% and 30%, so patients who need an organ transplant will have to wait less time for that operation, thanks to this new directive.
The three key objectives in the area of organ donation and transplantation are ensuring quality and safety for patients at EU level, ensuring protection of donors and facilitating cooperation between Member States.
Generally, in the European Union there is a broad societal consensus on organ donation for the purpose of transplantation.
However, due to different cultural, traditional or organisational system backgrounds, there are differences between Member States in approach to this issue.
Sharing of best practices, models and expertise across the European Union could prove very useful in increasing organ donation rates.
The present report establishes a set of actions that are aimed at promoting cooperation between the Member States in the field of transplantation in order to contribute to the increase in transplants, the reduction of waiting lists and a consequent reduction in the number of patients who die while waiting for an organ.
At the same time, the action plan also establishes common quality and safety standards for the Member States, which not only contribute to the protection of patients but also facilitate cooperation between countries.
This will lead to greater and more thorough awareness of the current situation in Europe, as well as reducing opportunities for organ trafficking.
The report supports the action plan and underlines the necessity and urgency for the courses of action that it points out, taking a firm stance against all forms of trading in organs that currently take place in different parts of the world.
The action plan should mean that the 60 000 people who are currently hoping to receive an organ will see their life expectancy considerably increased.
I voted in favour of the report, although I think there is primarily a need to focus, in particular, on boosting donor numbers in the various Member States, taking account of the different national traditions of health systems.
According to this report, there are currently 56 000 patients in the European Union waiting for a suitable organ donor.
Every day, 12 people die waiting for an organ transplant.
For example, I welcome forms which would give citizens the opportunity to add their name directly to the organ donor register when they apply for a driving licence.
The shortage of organs for transplantation is also a powerful stimulus for the trade in organs and people.
The Treaty of Lisbon lays down the legal basis for EU accession to the ECHR - the most important instrument for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe, the core of Europe.
I agree with this proposal, since it is an historic opportunity making it possible to safeguard human rights and fundamental freedoms for EU citizens and Member States on the same basis.
The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg will be given jurisdiction to examine whether the legislation of EU institutions, bodies and agencies, including rulings of the European Court of Justice, are in compliance with the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Human rights and fundamental freedoms are the body of values and principles that mark us out as human and the basis of our coexistence; they are universal, indivisible and interdependent.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon represents an important step in human rights terms, not just because it makes the Charter of Fundamental Rights binding, but also because by giving the European Union legal personality, it enables the EU to accede to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR).
On the other hand, legislative and case-law harmonisation between the EU and the ECHR in the field of human rights must contribute to creating an integral system in which the European human rights courts (the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights) must operate in synchrony, with a relationship that is not a hierarchical connection but rather one of specialisation.
in writing. - I support this report on the EU's accession to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR), as provided by the Lisbon Treaty.
EU accession to the ECHR improves the Union's standing when calling on third countries to abide by its human rights standards and extends to people in the EU the same level of protection against Union action that they enjoy with regard to Member State action.
Despite the fact that the EU will not join the Council of Europe (CoE), accession to the convention should entail the right to nominate candidates for the post of judge, and allow for European Parliament representation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the CoE when this body elects judges to the European Court of Human Rights.
The next logical step, also in harmony with the Charter of Fundamental Rights, is the accession of the EU institutions to the European Social Charter.
I voted for this report because I believe that the accession of the European Union to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) is a strong message that enhances the credibility of the Union in the eyes of third countries which it regularly calls upon to respect the ECHR.
The European Union's accession to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is a result of the process that began in Maastricht, in the sense that it gave the European Community legal personality and culminated in the Treaty of Lisbon.
I hope that solutions can be found to the various legal, technical and institutional issues that are arising at the moment, and that these solutions will be based on the principle of subsidiarity, on voluntary cooperation between the Member States, and on respect for their sovereignty and national legal systems, and on the rule of law.
Moreover, since the EU system for the protection of fundamental human rights is consolidated and strengthened by incorporating the Charter of Fundamental Rights into its primary law, the EU's adhesion to the ECHR will constitute a strong message in terms of coherence between the EU and the countries that belong to the Council of Europe and its pan-European regime in matters relating to human rights.
With regard to the activities of the EU, this adhesion also guarantees the public protection similar to that which they already enjoy in their relations with all Member States.
This accession will actually provide citizens with a new means of recourse: they will now be able to refer a case to the European Court of Human Rights if their fundamental rights are infringed by an EU Institution or a Member State on account of an action or failure to act on their part.
I support this measure as it will enhance the EU's credibility in the eyes of its citizens by guaranteeing respect for rights.
Accession to the convention will provide citizens with protection against the actions of the EU and its institutions, just like the protection they enjoy at the moment against the actions of Member States.
At the same time, we will also achieve closer cooperation between the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Court of Human Rights and national courts.
EU law bears witness to this, but so do constitutional provisions of each of the Member States.
Accession of the European Union to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) is a significant step towards stronger protection of the fundamental rights of the individual.
This decision makes the EU part of the international system of protection of rights, thanks to which it has strengthened its credibility in the eyes of third countries, and also of its own citizens.
The importance of the EU acceding to the ECHR is linked both with its symbolic and political credibility and with the fact that the EU and its institutions will be under stricter obligation to uphold individuals' fundamental rights.
I support the accession of the European Union to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
I thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on the accession of the European Union to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR), which will be beneficial for Europe's citizens as it will provide us with a new court that is not part of the European Union, and will ensure that the rights of European citizens are always upheld by the European Union and the Member States.
In keeping with the principles of democracy, the European Union and the Member States must always have the right to defend themselves.
It is also important, moreover, that Parliament should be consulted and involved in the negotiating process.
I voted for the resolution because I take the view that the accession of the European Union to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) would be a good step forward in creating legal certainty and consistency.
I am concerned that some Europhobe Members persist in denying the need for this measure, whereas I believe that signing up to this convention implies a greater guarantee of protection for human rights, also within the EU.
The EU's accession to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms was already advocated in the Treaty on European Union; the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon made it obligatory.
This could be our chance to guarantee the human rights and fundamental freedoms of EU citizens.
This event would not only enhance the EU's credibility, in terms of relations with non-EU Member States, but would also improve public opinion about EU structures.
Courts both in my country and in the rest of Europe are still very often susceptible to political manipulation.
in writing. - I am supportive of the ECHR while recognising that judicial interpretations of certain provisions of the convention have created obstacles to the deportation of terrorist suspects.
This misconceived aspiration is further underlined in the statement that EU accession constitutes 'an accession of a non-State Party to a legal instrument created for States'.
For all these reasons, I voted against the resolution.
The notion of setting up an international court for investigating crimes against humanity emerged as far back as 1919, during the Paris Peace conference.
The European Union has been a firm advocate of the International Criminal Court (ICC) and all its Member States are sharing in its accession to this important court.
The EU has already provided over EUR 40 million over ten years under the European Instrument for Human Rights and Democracy for projects aimed at supporting the ICC and international criminal justice.
I hope that the Member States will participate in this conference by providing representation at the highest level and publicly reaffirming their commitment to the ICC.
The European Union has always been consistent in seeking to strengthen cooperation between states in order to prove and prosecute crimes against humanity.
In many cases in practice, victims encounter major difficulties in accessing information about the court and fail in their attempts to have their rights protected.
in writing. - I welcome the motion for a resolution on the Review Conference of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC) in Kampala, Uganda, as it contains very crucial and important points and requests regarding the ratification and the implementation of the ICC.
In this matter, the 'Stockholm Programme' and the 'EIDHR' might have had a positive impact, but in many other areas, these two programmes/instruments are not used in a democratic and transparent manner.
