Implemented reforms and developments in the Republic of Moldova (debate) The first item is the Commission statement on implemented reforms and developments in the Republic of Moldova.
The referendum of 5 September was meant to resolve the political deadlock by changing the rules for electing the President.
The elections of 28 November are equally important for the consolidation of democracy in the country.
The latest round of negotiations in Chisinau on 13 and 14 October demonstrated yet again that these negotiations are progressing at a very good speed.
Since the last quarter of 2009, EUR 37 million has been disbursed as sectoral budget support, with an additional EUR 15 million to come soon.
Now that President Buzek has signed the relevant legislative decision, we expect to disburse soon the EUR 40 million of the first tranche of macro-financial assistance.
In November, the EU-Moldova trade sub-committee will examine Moldova's response to the Commission's key recommendations in view of preparing negotiations on a deep and comprehensive free trade area.
We have actively followed up on the visa dialogue launched in June.
The purpose of this debate is for us to discuss the reforms carried out by the Republic of Moldova during the last year and the progress made on the path to European integration.
This is why I am asking the Council at the next session on 25 October to invite the Commission to draw up an action plan so that citizens from the Republic of Moldova can travel without requiring visas.
The outcome of this early election should aim to lead the country towards a future of European modernisation.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, eighteen months ago this House was shocked by the brutality of the events in Chisinau.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, we welcome the progress made by the Republic of Moldova and hope that the forthcoming electoral process can further consolidate the democratic institutions and ensure respect for the rule of law and of human rights in Moldova.
In my opinion, a recent decree establishing 28 June as Soviet Occupation Day, which triggered a negative reaction on the part of a large number of Moldovan residents, did not consolidate society but had just the opposite effect.
I hope that one day all clearly European countries in the Eastern Partnership, namely Moldova, Ukraine and a future democratic Belarus, will become EU candidates.
In this context I would also like to mention with pride the Orhei Foundation in Bunschoten-Spakenburg, a village which tackles such things with great vigour.
In this context, it is vital that the general elections on 28 November confirm Moldova's continued drive towards European integration.
Let us hope that the Foreign Affairs Council on 25 October will invite the Commission to draw up an action plan for visa liberalisation.
At the same time, the authorities in Chişinau must ensure that the benefit of the EUR 90 million in macro-financial assistance which the European Union is granting will be felt by all Moldovan citizens, irrespective of their ethnic origin.
The Republic of Moldova will have a crucial test to get through during the parliamentary elections on 28 November and I hope that the European path which the country has committed to will be approved by the population and continue.
We also saw the huge progress which has been made by the government of Prime Minister Filat on the road to European integration and the many reforms, including significant progress in the fight against corruption which had previously been eating away at the country.
However, in order for the process of reforms to be continued after 28 November, a clear signal from the European Union is needed, so I am hoping that the forthcoming Council summit will manage to push through the visa liberalisation process. (RO) I too would like to thank all those who have made this debate possible.
The Republic of Moldova has been going through a political crisis for well over 18 months now, with the failure of the presidential election and the validation of the referendum.
I believe that the forthcoming elections on 28 November are a huge gamble for Moldova's path towards Europe.
This is also another reason why it should receive our support. (BG) I am pleased that the European Parliament is devoting its time to discussing the situation in Moldova, a country which is essentially European.
In this respect, we must say that the ruling Coalition for European Integration actually contributed a great deal to the process of bringing Moldova closer to the European Union and it must be given great credit for this.
It is a long-term process and Moldova's path towards rapprochement must become an irreversible policy.
In other words, the Communists in Chişinău would like Bucharest to shut up.
Secondly, we must keep a very close eye on Chişinău because a coalition government there has been acting for well over a year in the name of European integration.
I was in Chişinău and Tiraspol last week and I noticed that becoming European is also at stake in the election campaign which is due to start for the November elections.
This is why I hope that citizens will understand the message and attitudes of the parties, and that politicians themselves will also understand the wishes of the people expressed at the ballot box. (PL) Let us ask ourselves why we are devoting so much attention to such a small country which lies in the vicinity of the Black Sea but does not have access to it.
Commissioner, the situation with Moldova is reminiscent of the concept in physics in which it is not the force itself which is important, but the point at which it is applied.
I am not interested in party affiliation, but I would like Moldova to consolidate, to build a better future for itself and to become our partner in the near future. (SK) The progress Moldova has made so far indicates that this country could become an example of a success story of a participant in the Eastern Partnership of the European Union.
The current pro-European government led by the Alliance for European Integration presented the citizens of Moldova with a clear and important political perspective for the future democratic progress of the country.
I believe that the European Union should explicitly recognise the important progress achieved by the current government in strengthening its relationship with the EU.
On Monday 25 October, the Foreign Affairs Council is expected to issue its conclusions on Moldova.
The EU should long ago have taken on the role of mediator in the conflicts involving Moldova and its neighbours.
The internal problems, in particular over Transnistria, and the breakup and disruption of the country, which are a symbol of the past and of division, are all very difficult issues.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I very much appreciated this debate.
The success of these reforms is crucial for the future of the Republic of Moldova.
For our part, and as far as possible, we will all continue to stand by Moldova's citizens and provide the necessary external support to reforms.
The vote will take place today, Thursday 21 October 2010, at 12.00.
The EUR 90 million granted to this country in macro-financial assistance was and still is the lifeline which Moldova and its citizens needed to make progress and, in particular, to meet the commitments it has made in the area of reforms, the rule of law and the fight against corruption.
The second problem, which obviously depends on the democratic political forces in the Republic of Moldova which we need to encourage, is the way in which the elections will be conducted on 28 November.
