As far as I know, US attorneys urged, in connection with this investigation, that an American court order Twitter to hand over specific data in a ruling, and the court did adopt the relevant ruling.
The enforcement of EU data protection rules is generally the responsibility of Member State authorities, and, more specifically, data protection authorities.
These authorities must ensure that data protection rules are respected, and it is these authorities that have competence over matters of jurisdiction and compatibility with European or national data protection laws.
The relevant TFTP agreement was approved by Parliament in July 2010.
Finally, I would like to stress that the Twitter case is completely different from the PNR or TFTP cases.
It goes without saying that the fundamental right to the protection of personal data also applies in the electronic world and in cross-border data processing.
Furthermore, as these personal data are sought from Twitter by the US authorities in the context of criminal investigations, the EU's data protection legislation is not applicable.
The EU's Data Protection Directive does not apply to state activities in the area of criminal law, nor does a framework decision on data protection in police and judicial cooperation apply in this case, given that no EU Member State authority is involved in executing the US court order and that no personal data is transmitted or made available by the competent authority of another Member State.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I would like to thank the Council and the Commission for the clarifications.
It is also a fact that we are aware of the difficulties that arise with the global medium of the Internet and law enforcement.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, I think that the Commissioner, skilfully as usual, anticipated the questions that we have.
Sites like Twitter are subject to US legislation, as their servers are based in the US.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank the Council and the Commission.
I should point out that this oral question is already a bit out of date, as there has been another court ruling in the meantime, but the argument that is being used by the American courts is that once you use Twitter, as in this case, you cannot have a legitimate expectation of privacy any more.
That means that anybody based in the European Union - EU citizens - no longer have any legal protection, because Twitter is US-based.
It means that we become outlaws, that we abandon our rights to legal protection.
This is because we are talking here about a bilateral framework for the European Union and its Member States to negotiate with third countries, and with the United States in particular.
Thus, as we know, US Private Bradley Manning has gone to prison for passing information to WikiLeaks.
I would just say to my colleagues, particularly Ms in 't Veld, that if we are going to offer that, then other countries will demand reciprocal rights as well.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your understanding, that is, for not disputing that we cannot intervene from here in an ongoing criminal procedure, and that in all cases the law in force at the time of an offence must be applied.
In this we also addressed two very important questions to the Commission that are relevant to the present debate.
The Council also fully agrees that it is important to modernise legislation and adapt it to technical developments.
