The Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament wholeheartedly supports the accession prospects of Serbia, a country which has made tremendous progress over recent years and which forms the cornerstone for consolidating peace and stability in the Western Balkans.
However, we must not forget that the Serbian people were victims of this war.
The Union must provide practical support for all efforts in this direction, especially in light of the credit crisis.
The decision to enter into dialogue with the authorities in Kosovo is especially important to stability in the area.
To close, I should like to congratulate the Vice-President of the Serbian Government, Mr Đelić, on his statement yesterday, to the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, that Serbia is seeking an historic compromise on Kosovo.
Madam President, as a liberal, I must stress that the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe is a group which has always supported the enlargement process because we believe in a Europe comprising all its members, namely, a powerful, united Europe.
As a Romanian, I cannot but welcome this European path being pursued by Serbia, while also emphasising that Serbia is a European country and its journey towards Europe will not be completed without difficulties arising from a troubled past.
However, Serbia must look forward and try to forget the past, because reconciliation with the past must not stand in the way of a future destiny in Europe.
I believe that these last two years since the historic decision was made to embark on the European path prove that both the government in Belgrade and the Serbian people are motivated and determined.
I believe that a model promoting assistance and support for minorities and cultural reconciliation is an absolute must.
Serbia received the Avis in October, in exchange for taking a moderate position on Kosovo.
In fact, we should be able to expect Serbia to take on a responsible role as a regional leader with regard to Kosovo and Bosnia as a matter of course, without having to reward it in the same way that one gives a small child a sweet for being good.
The verdict on this must rest with those who are in a position to judge whether Serbia is cooperating fully, and that is prosecutor Brammertz.
We in the ECR also hope that Ratko Mladić will be caught and sent to The Hague, though it is by no means certain that he is on Serbian territory.
Serbia's relationship with Kosovo is problematic but not insoluble.
Serbia's progress in terms of the reforms needed is reflected in this report in a realistic manner.
Nonetheless, one important outstanding issue is cooperation with the International Criminal Court, including handing over the final fugitives to The Hague, this being a fundamental prerequisite to Serbia's progress towards accession.
I think that we should help Serbia and we must not forget that this country recently came out of a war. (NL) Madam President, we should not focus just on arresting and trying the war criminal Mladić.
Serbia has enormous problems with organised crime.
We are not seeing results.
Each country is discrete, of course, but the region is interconnected and the action of each country in the region has a crucial impact on the success of the process itself.
In this context, I would like to point out, once again, that, for us, Serbia's accession process cannot progress any further without a definite all clear from the International Criminal Court and, as my fellow Member just said, more proactive and, above all, more effective cooperation with the Court on the ground.
Mobility is also a question that I would like to just mention quickly before I finish, specifically with regard to the vehicle licence plates that Belgrade continues to issue for seven regions in the north of Kosovo.
We call on Belgrade to finally desist from issuing these licence plates for Kosovo. (PL) Madam President, Serbia is a European country.
Not only has the Serbian Government failed to do anything about this - such as investments, to get the economy of the region going a little, but in November last year, with no explanation and in violation of its international undertakings, it stopped a group of Bulgarian citizens bringing aid to the children of the region who were coming to learn in Bulgaria.
And until you learn about it and apply it, there is no place for you here. (DE) Madam President, Mrs Győri, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Kacin for what he has put forward.
I would also like to say, however, that it is necessary to cooperate with Serbia.
These are elements of a regional collaboration, but a regional collaboration with a great political as well as humanitarian significance.
We all know how important it is that Serbia positively engages - and the same applies to Croatia - in order for that country to hold together and also to carry out the appropriate reforms.
We are therefore pleased that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU and Serbia is now in place and that we are sending clear signals to Serbia to show that we can see the results of their efforts and that Serbia has a place in the EU family.
In this one minute, I also have to point out that the different positions on Kosovo within the European Union have encouraged Serbia to make a clear commitment to Europe, which is essential for consolidating peace and democracy in the Balkans and for achieving a constructive approach to regional integration, as demonstrated by the High-Level Meeting in Sarajevo, held on 2 June under the Spanish Presidency.
Serbia needs to commit to full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in bringing the remaining war criminals to justice.
The European Parliament has always been a strong supporter of the integration of the Western Balkans.
Serbia is a crucial part of that with this commitment ... (The President cut off the speaker) (NL) Madam President, this is an important moment for stability in the Balkans.
On top of that, the last two ICTY suspects, Goran Hadžić and Ratko Mladić, have still not been arrested.
However, what I should like to emphasise is the issue of minority rights listed in the Copenhagen criteria.
The European Union, however, must learn from the accessions of 2004 and 2007 that these ... (The President cut off the speaker) (RO) Madam President, the decision made by the Council to initiate the procedure for ratifying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement will encourage Serbia to continue its reforms in order to comply with the Copenhagen criteria.
The future of Serbia and the Western Balkans is in the European Union.
Serbia has our support on its road to integration, and will continue to have it.
Let us not forget that 2011 is a pre-election year for Serbia, with parliamentary and local elections due to take place in March 2012.
I would like to mention the fact that Chief Prosecutor Brammertz himself regards cooperation with the international tribunal in the Hague as irreproachable.
At the same time, I need to point out that the border is one of the key issues when it comes to neighbourly relations. (DE) Madam President, I, too, would like to voice my backing to the accession of Serbia to the European Union and to the idea that the Serbian people have a future in a common Europe, just as the Western Balkans as a whole has.
I followed very closely what Deputy Prime Minister Đelić had to say yesterday, when he stated that the willingness to enter into this historic agreement is there but that it must also be clearly stated that the dialogue between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Kosovo ... (The President cut off the speaker) (SK) Madam President, I would like to begin by expressing my support for the conclusion of an association agreement with Serbia.
If we want to stabilise the political situation in the Balkans on a long-term basis, however, we must have open and correct relations with all countries in the region.
The case of the young men of Temerin shows a flagrant violation of human rights perpetrated by imposing an excessively severe sentence of a total of 61 years in prison on five young men for a pub fight, which they must serve in third world conditions, tortured and subject to inhumane, cruel treatment.
Yet, despite this, Belgrade continues to be accused of failing to adequately cooperate with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague.
In view of the important role that Serbia plays in the Western Balkans, the SAA will have a positive influence not only on the EU and on Serbia, but also on the region as a whole by enhancing its security, stability and development, as well as setting solid foundations for the enlargement process in the Western Balkans.
I hope that, after it has received the green light from the European Parliament, the SAA process can be concluded as soon as possible.
Serbia, in a similar way to all countries on the Balkan Peninsula, is a very specific case.
The European Union's role is to support these countries and help them.
History has taught us that the political situation in the region affects the whole continent and that we all feel its consequences for a long time.
For this reason, we have an increased moral obligation towards those countries, and the agreements we are talking about today - cooperation in all areas and measures to make things easier for the citizens of those countries - are essential, not least to ensure that this history is not repeated. (SL) Madam President, today has again proved that a democratic and European Serbia has many allies in the European Union.
Serbia's democratic government and President Tadić deserve our support.
It has the responsibility, first of all, to ensure a stable, European, peaceful and better future for its neighbour, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and secondly, to strike an historic compromise with the neighbouring Albanian nation.
Both of these objectives are the aims of the current Serbian Government, so let us work together with it and support its objectives. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner Füle said that everything was in Serbia's hands as to whether they make the right choices.
This is undoubtedly the case, but at the same time, we have to be aware, and we know this as new Member States, that this process should be strengthened.
As the European Parliament, we must strengthen these reforms, because it is not only the government but, above all else, society that must make this proper European choice.
I believe that everything that is happening in the process to ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as well as the European Parliament's resolution, can help Serbia to a great extent on that road.
The support provided by Parliament to the ratification process of the SAA is an important signal for Serbia, and will contribute to intensifying its efforts on the path towards the European Union.
Excellent observations have been made on an excellent report, and the fact that the majority of the issues raised here have been included in the report demonstrated the excellence of the report to me, so I believe this was an excellent basis for discussion.
Substantial progress has been made, and this is why we have reached the point we are at in the process, and there is still much to do.
Madam President, today's rich debate is the best illustration of the lively interest in, and support for, Serbia here in the European Parliament and in other European institutions.
We need to strengthen the role and responsibility of the Serbian Parliament and all its members.
The submission of the Serbian Government's replies to the European Commission's questionnaire, which Prime Minister Cvetković will hand over to Commissioner Füle this month, will be an historic step for the Serbian state and for all its citizens.
I believe that this step will be highly significant and successful, which is why I also wish the Hungarian Presidency every success in promoting pro-European forces in Serbia.
I know that the Serbian Government's European Integration Office, headed by Milica Delević, is doing an excellent job and, therefore, cooperation will not be difficult.
In addition, the presence here today of Mr Božo Đelić, the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Science, is proof of the lively interest on the part of the Serbian Government in our work and in Serbia's future in the European Union.
With this resolution, we are encouraging Serbia along its historic path, and we are sending out a clear message to Serbia that we appreciate its successes and recognise all the challenges it is facing.
The European Parliament draft resolution acknowledges the 'further aspirations of the Albanian minority' in Serbia, and speaks of respecting its 'right to provincial autonomy'.
Hungary ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU and Serbia on 16 November 2010.
