Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question by Louis Michel, Charles Goerens, Antonyia Parvanova, Frédérique Ries, Olle Schmidt, Maria Da Graça Carvalho, Nessa Childers, Marc Tarabella, Bart Staes and Marina Yannakoudakis on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, to the Commission on the Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative -B7-0006/2011).
The cost in terms of human life is some 4 700 people per day.
In fact, the cases reported in the United Kingdom and Ireland during the summer of 2010 remind us that the disease is here in our countries, not to mention the ravages caused by the same disease in the east of our continent, particularly in Russia and Moldova.
First, health does not have a price but it has a cost.
In order to deal with bottlenecks in the clinical development field, the European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership, or EDCTP, has been established as the first initiative taken under Article 185, in which 14 Member States, 2 Associated States and the Commission have collectively committed EUR 400 million, with EUR 200 million coming from the European Union, with the aim of promoting research in phase 2 or 3 clinical trials for AIDS, for example, malaria and tuberculosis in sub-Saharan Africa.
As we heard, 1.6 million to 2 million people die annually from the disease.
EU funding has been instrumental in generating a robust pipeline of innovative TB vaccine candidates, as the Commission said enabling their early stage development by phase 1 and phase 2A clinical trials.
According to estimates by the World Health Organisation, there are 49 new cases and seven deaths per hour in Europe alone.
In developing countries, unfortunately, and in particular in Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa, it remains a very serious problem.
We must take measures: we must increase funding for health programmes in developing countries.
I am convinced that this would be the best way of ensuring the principle of appropriation and allowing the most vulnerable parts of the population access to healthcare. - (SK) Madam President, tuberculosis, like malaria and AIDS, is one of the great pandemics which are decimating the populations of developing countries, particularly in Africa and Asia.
I support the Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative, but we must take a global approach to overcoming this disease.
I would like to make a call - I am about to finish, Madam President - for new funding and new resources. (RO) Madam President, an annual mortality rate of between 1.6 and 2 million people makes tuberculosis one of the two major causes of death worldwide from infectious diseases.
However, this cannot be achieved without, on the one hand, granting more generous EU funds for completing the research in this area and, on the other hand, finding other sources of funding by reviewing the model proposed by the TBVI for alternative, innovative funding methods.
Research is the key, and in this area the European Union deserves great credit because, while we are behind the US and Japan in terms of research in general, we are the leaders in this field, with 60% of research taking place in the EU, and with Danish authorities and scientists in particular having developed the vaccine. (PT) Madam President, four years before the deadline for achieving the Millennium Development Goals, tuberculosis ends 2 million lives every year.
As far as developing countries are concerned, the European Union is already achieving a great deal in the area of health with the development fund, and this is a topic to which the Commission will continue to pay full attention in the future.
Over 95% of cases occur in developing countries.
In Asia and Africa, incidence stands at 100-120 per 100 000 of population.
in writing. - (LT) We must combat tuberculosis, because this disease kills nearly two million people worldwide each year, and almost a third of the world's population is infected by it.
Furthermore, this project would contribute towards implementing the Europe 2020 objectives and achieving the Millennium Development Goals by 2015.
I would like to point out that there is insufficient funding for the fight against tuberculosis and European Union funding is very important for establishing a strong package of new potential tuberculosis vaccines.
The situation in Romania is also worth mentioning, where 110 cases per 100 000 inhabitants are recorded, against a European average of 39 cases per 100 000.
The inclusion of the TBVI in the EU 2020 strategy may be the solution enabling Europe to strengthen its strategic independence in the battle against tuberculosis and its position as a leading innovator.
