It should be emphasised that both the Commission's strategy and Parliament's report reflect the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon - what it says about energy solidarity and its concern for energy security and supply.
The Commission's strategy and Parliament's report also lay emphasis on strengthening energy policy and making it more European in character.
This also concerns the need to build a renewable energy market in Europe.
Energy policy is, today, increasingly related to the foreign policy of the European Union.
This concerns both pipelines which will arise in the future as well as those which are currently under construction.
I would like, however, to see similar action in the case of other pipelines, including Nord Stream.
In summary, Mr President, the Union needs a long-term vision for energy policy.
We, as Members of the European Parliament, insist on this.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that I am impressed by the number and quality of your ideas, critical comments and constructive contributions in respect of what was presented by the Commission as a draft Energy Strategy for 2011 to 2020.
The Energy Council on 3 December, followed by the unique opportunity for the Heads of State or Government to address the issue of energy on 4 February, will provide impetus for our common goals and for the Europeanisation of energy policy.
We have a single market that is not yet complete.
For 12 years it has been the law for electricity and gas, but it has not yet become reality.
We have more sub-markets and regional borders, and we must do everything we can to ensure that in the next five years the single market can also be implemented for industry and consumers with the goal of greater competition and transparency.
We need transparency in order to achieve greater acceptance for the development of infrastructure for electricity and gas, and we need the appropriate financial resources, which have to be provided primarily by consumers via energy prices, but which, where there are European interests involved, are also a public responsibility of the European budget.
Anyone who, like us, is dependent on imports and at the same time wants to make progress in terms of sustainability, climate protection and environmental protection must oppose energy wastage and lead the way with targeted energy initiatives, energy saving and increased energy efficiency in the public, industrial and private sectors.
With that in mind, I would like to thank you for your diverse and intelligent contributions and your report.
Not only are we increasingly dependent on energy imports obtained from outside Europe, but we are also having to deal with the huge investments needed in our energy infrastructures at a time when Europe is still suffering the consequences of the crisis.
The Treaty of Lisbon not only provides a series of clear objectives such as the internal energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency and promoting energy networks, but it also gives the European Union a legal framework and a sound legal basis - Article 194 - for acting in the field of energy policy.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (SV) Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Kolarska-Bobińska, for her excellent and open cooperation.
I also think it is important that the Member States' responsibility for the energy mix, for example, is clearly indicated in the strategy.
It is up to ourselves to create a drive in the market, to show the pioneers where we want to go so that they can take us there.
That is why ALDE is calling for the EU to move to a 30% CO2 reduction target.
We have to implement the climate package, the third internal market package and the security of gas supply.
Regarding renewables, our report is much more outspoken and your EU strategy and the Energy 2020 strategy are very vague.
Jens Rohde is right.
Renewables will make up 70% of all power investments in Europe over the next ten years.
I do not think that it sends the right message to dilute renewables in the EU 2020 strategy.
Governments want national support schemes and we should not confuse this debate by reopening that one.
Secondly, at your press conference you were very clear about peak oil and also the risk of reaching USD 200 a barrel, so how does this link in with the transport policy at Commission level?
In particular, Russia imposes restrictions in access to gas pipelines, and also bans re-exporting, restricting the property rights of European businesses in relation to gas which has already been purchased.
Otherwise, our reaction will simply be unbalanced.
In our energy policy, we should most certainly give full support to modern technologies, liquefied gas installations, geothermal energy and shale gas.
Otherwise, we will only increase our dependence on gas, particularly in Central Europe, where coal still plays an extremely important role.
We have two small pipelines: the ITGI and the TAP.
Two major projects are currently being developed: South Stream and Nabucco.
There are some radical factions in Bulgaria saying that these projects are mutually incompatible.
Another extremely important issue, which must not be overlooked in any way, is nuclear energy and its development in relation to the politicisation of this issue.
I am very grateful to Mrs Kolarska-Bobińska for presenting a realistic policy, because that is what is called for in times of economic and financial crisis.
We do not need to unfold new dreams, but to table something that will make it possible for us in one, two, three or four years' time to demonstrate that we have achieved it.
In some debates, I would like us to consider at the start what the end result will be. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, congratulations to Mrs Kolarska-Bobińska and also to the shadow rapporteur from my group, Mrs Ulvskog and the other rapporteurs on their excellent work.
As well as ensuring energy security and support for research and development, the need for greater energy efficiency and the use of renewables has not been forgotten.
With its comprehensive and balanced approach, this report is, in my opinion, a good starting point for further work on improving the European energy system. (DA) Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a splendid piece of work and a well-balanced report.
There is no doubt that there is a rapidly increasing need for a new energy strategy for Europe, and European enterprises are in no doubt about that either.
The energy strategy has become both part of Europe's foreign and security policy and a question of security of supply.
There is a need for huge investment in the future to enable us to attain a complete and cohesive internal market, and there is also a need for massive investments in energy efficiency.
Moreover, the United States and China are investing heavily in areas that will increase energy efficiency.
Everyone is fully aware that the price of energy will increase in future, and Europe is currently suffering from a lack of competitiveness in a global world.
I am all for action at a European level when it adds value, but Member States have only recently brought out their National Renewable Energy Action Plans and are working to implement them; this would be harmonisation too far. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work on this report.
Europe has had a strategy for energy and combating climate change since 2008.
The eighth framework programme should also make research and the development of innovative technologies its priority in the field of energy.
This is the only way that we will be able to maintain the competitiveness of our industry, promote economic growth and create jobs. (NL) Mr President, the word we have heard most so far here today is 'strategy'; and rightly so.
Therefore, I should like to ask the Commissioner to actually take up this priority, and also to really present it in your preparations for the major summit in February. (SL) Mr President, Commissioner, today we are deciding the course of energy development up to the year 2020, but this period is much too short.
We need a strategy document for energy development until at least 2050.
Nuclear energy is increasingly becoming one of the energy sources of the future and I would therefore highlight three tasks that I see facing us at European level in that regard.
We do not need to revisit the Euratom Treaty as this could be done through an inter-institutional agreement. (PL) Mr President, energy makes up around 40% of the costs of production, while labour accounts for barely 15%, but obtaining the raw materials for the generation of energy itself requires energy.
The operational programmes between and within Member States are becoming increasingly important.
Sufficient percentage targets have been laid down, for both the climate and energy.
However, it is absolutely imperative for the Union's energy strategy also to be linked to industrial policy, transport policy, research and innovation policy, as well as the policy for combating climate change.
We call on the Commission and Member States to develop the financial and fiscal instruments required for energy efficiency, especially in the construction sector, and to make energy efficiency and the smart energy infrastructure a priority in the future Multiannual Financial Framework.
As a result of the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Union's energy strategy will be built on four new pillars: the single energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency and the interconnection of European energy networks.
The refurbishment of power stations currently in operation may also be of key significance.
Member States must carry out an overarching review of their stance on nuclear energy.
The full realisation of the internal energy market is an objective that can only be achieved if the current legislation relating to the energy package is applied by all Member States.
These very investments not only represent the most economically beneficial solution for reducing the EU's energy dependence, but will also contribute to combating climate change. (DE) Mr President, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs and to you, Mr Oettinger, because what you have presented in the last few days and weeks is crucial for the development of the European Union.
Of course, a lot of what is involved in environment-oriented energy policy is still more expensive.
However, we need to know the direction in which energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable energies are going.
It is important for the future 2011-2020 action plan to make a significant contribution to strengthening the European Union's common policy.
I think that, apart from obtaining public and EU funding, in order to develop an EU strategic infrastructure which will involve expanding and integrating all the local, regional and European energy markets, we must focus greater attention on the private sector and investments from there.
This will help us successfully obtain the funding which is so vital to the future of any energy policy. (LV) Mr President, Commissioner, today I should like to talk briefly about the welfare of our citizens and about islands.
Firstly, it reasserts that energy efficiency and energy saving are economically advantageous priorities to reduce Europe's energy dependence and combat climate change.
I feel that in future we also ought to have better control of Member States' desires and interests, because if we are creating a common energy market, those interests must be reconciled.
Commissioner, I would also like to thank you for reacting very promptly to the signing of certain agreements and I am grateful that the principle of solidarity is deeply rooted at EU level. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have read the report carefully and I endorse it overall.
However, I was left rather puzzled by various references to the future of coal in the European strategy, in particular in paragraph 52, in which the Commission is asked to draw up legal provisions to facilitate the building of coal-fired electric power plants.
As well as CO2 emissions, this decision is also based on the problem of dealing with the ash, which contains many toxic substances.
Alternatives exist, they are renewable, they are genuine, and the European Union must plot its path for the coming decade in that direction. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report offers some very interesting points in that, starting from the basic concept that Europe must provide itself with common energy policies, it carefully analyses both methods and timescales.
As far as we are concerned, a second commitment period to the Kyoto Protocol can only happen in a global context, involving all the main economies with a legally binding agreement. (LT) Mr President, I would like to offer my congratulations to the rapporteur and give my thanks to the Commissioner who is considering energy strategy and policy with such goodwill.
With the depletion of the EU's resources, we are increasingly dependent on third countries and so it is not just important to develop renewable energy, but to also invest in research into increasing energy efficiency.
The bilateral agreements of some Member States, implementing projects such as 'Nord Stream', causes distrust not just over environmental issues, but also principles of solidarity, and therefore there must be transparency in this area. (RO) Mr President, in my opinion, enhancing the EU's renewable energy potential is one of the report's key elements.
Construction of the 522 turbines will be completed in 2011.
Romania and Serbia have recently resumed the feasibility studies for building the first section of the pipeline between Constanţa and Pancevo. (RO) Mr President, diversification of sources, a new energy infrastructure and an increase in the proportion of renewable energy sources are important to the European Union's energy future.
However, the most important factor in this for me and the citizens whom I represent is that we must retain an affordable price for all consumers, as well as preserve and even create new jobs in this area.
I agree with everything the rapporteur said and I would highlight the fact that, nowadays, energy policy has far more to do, directly and indirectly, with the foreign policy in general both of the Member States and of the Union itself.
However, what we see before us, Commissioner, is the need for a common energy market.
Coal, nuclear fusion - and in the long term nuclear fusion plus fission - are the only energy sources dense enough to save us as the oil age comes to an end.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering into the debate here, and if I take the points on which your speeches focused, we have a broad energy mix in the European Union, in the Member States and also in Parliament.
With this Road Map we intend in the next year to consider the next 40 years with you and the Member States and to submit forecasts for energy requirements, the energy mix, environmental targets and the security of supply for four decades.
Imagine for a moment that we were in 1970 before the oil crisis, before the fall of the Wall and with only a few Member States, and we had to use the expertise that we had in 1970 to shed light on 2010 and the current energy situation.
Nevertheless, I am in favour of the attempt to produce the Road Map 2050.
Then the question of why we need binding CO2 reduction targets was raised, and why the Member States cannot do this.
The subject of energy efficiency was mentioned.
In our strategy we are only creating the headings for this.
We will ensure full compliance with the second and third internal market packages, we will deal with treaty infringement proceedings and do everything we can to ensure that in the next five years gas and electricity achieve an internal market with competition and transparency.
In fact, the Member States are not always willing or in a position themselves to ensure compliance with internal market rules in their bilateral agreements.
There are also large Member States in which the internal market does not work.
That is true, but you failed to mention the fact that China is currently buying up the world's coal and is investing much more in coal.
Mr President, as can be seen, the subjects of discussion and the opinions expressed in the European Parliament are very varied and different.
I think it is a very good report, because we have built a consensus.
I would also like to thank Mrs Castillo Vera for her cooperation, help and support, Mrs Toth of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) for her help, Mr Hillman and also the Commissioner and staff of the Commission, who answered my numerous questions and responded to my various ideas.
We have a strategy, and, as Mr Turmes has said, in view of this we must implement it, implement it and once again implement it, defending ourselves against various particular interests.
That will lead to a reduction in costs and an increase in competitiveness for the economy, and also create wealth and jobs, which are important for a healthy balance of trade.
The Union should look to these examples, and increase its support in the areas of research, innovation and project development.
In this context, new Member States, which are much more vulnerable to external disruptions to their energy supply, need the support of the European Union to tackle these challenges.
This report seeks to contribute to a new energy action plan, within the framework of the Europe 2020 strategy.
However, the issue of energy merits a tailored approach based on the improvement of specific indicators such as energy intensity or energy deficit.
This is aptly demonstrated by the fact that both the report of Mrs Kolarska-Bobińska and the latest energy strategy and infrastructure priorities of the European Commission are urging structural changes.
In the case of imported gas, this is true of the three Baltic Member States.
The energy strategy being proposed must promote in the long term a diversified combination of energy sources, including not only renewable energy sources but nuclear energy as well.
However, it will not be possible for this strategy to be viable as long as the transmission network is not strengthened so that it can support market integration and the development of large-scale sustainable energy production.
in writing. - (RO) I would like to welcome this report, especially the references to the development of the potential of the bioenergy sector.
One relevant factor in this context is that some Member States are facing the situation where huge areas of agricultural land are left uncultivated every year.
The situation in Romania, which I am most familiar with, provides a clear example of this: approximately 3 million hectares of land remain unused, while the power lost across this area is roughly 187 terawatts per hour.
I believe that this issue must be considered during the debates on the future of the common agricultural policy.
The second strategic objective - to guarantee energy security to all Member States - also has my complete support.
Therefore, in order to achieve this objective effectively, it is essential to have strong financial support from the EU.
Poland - and many other Member States - recognises the need to build a low emission economy, but is not, however, able to achieve this objective without European aid.
In accepting the three main strategic objectives of the new energy strategy for Europe, I would like to express my emphatic support for the motion for a resolution on Towards a new Energy Strategy for Europe 2011-2020.
The European Commission already issued its Energy Strategy for Europe 2011-2020 on 10 November, so it is presumably too late to affect that.
The first of these is financial support from the European Union budget in the search for alternative sources of fuels such as shale gas.
I think it is important to change Union policy on this matter so that it supports the exploration for and use of shale gas.
The last matter which has been omitted is the lack of a clear explanation of the term 'European Union energy security'.
