Human Rights violations in China, notably the case of Liu Xiaobo The next item is the debate on seven motions for resolution concerning violations of human rights in China, notably the case of Liu Xiaobo.
author. - Mr President, last month, Mr Liu Xiaobo, the very well-known writer and political activist, was sentenced to 11 years' imprisonment for 'incitement to subvert state power'.
He was arrested over a year ago after drafting Charter 08, a charter which was signed by more than 10 000 ordinary Chinese citizens, demanding the most normal things in a democratic society: the right to free speech, open elections and rule of law.
In the last few years, relations between the European Union and China have focused mainly on the economic dimension, which has overshadowed the country's democratic record and the gross human rights violations which have systematically occurred in China.
On the contrary, acts of repression have increased and we need to draw conclusions from this fact.
Today, the European Parliament voices concern over the fate of the prominent human rights activist and scholar, Liu Xiaobo, signatory of Charter 08, which urges constitutional reform and the safeguarding of human rights.
This Charter has been bravely co-signed by more than 10 000 Chinese citizens.
Last month, Liu Xiaobo was sentenced to 11 years' imprisonment.
In the case of China, I am not sure that increasing the number of urgent resolutions as we have been doing - in March 2009, in November 2009, in January 2010, and in March 2010, with the other planned resolution - is productive.
The case of Mr Liu Xiaobo, found guilty of demanding democratic reforms in his country, along with more than 10 000 of his fellow citizens, exemplifies this.
We cannot accept a government engaging in Internet piracy and denying Internet users their freedom of expression.
Chinese Internet users must be able to access uncensored information.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot end my speech without asking you to remember the deaths in Tiananmen Square; many hundreds of young Chinese people met their deaths on the night of 3 June 1989.
It was 20 years ago now, a sad anniversary which we would be honoured to commemorate by paying tribute to those young victims.
Not all the events of 1989 have deserved the same attention, however.
I believe not only that we have a duty to do so, but that we owe it to the victims of human rights abuses in China such as Liu Xiaobo, most of whom have been denied a voice.
Indeed, the award of the Sakharov Prize in 2008 to Hu Jia showed the world how seriously we MEPs take the issue of human rights in China.
I think all of us hope, nevertheless, to see the day when we will really see this in practice in the People's Republic of China.
Liu Xiaobo has been sentenced to 11 years in prison and will be deprived of his political rights for a further two years for making such a statement and for continually supporting human rights.
As a result, I believe that it is vital to raise the subject of human rights as part of the next European Union-China Summit, as specified in Article 9 of the resolution.
I believe, as also suggested by Mrs Hautala earlier, that dialogue is not sufficient for human rights.
Now, following the judgment against Liu Xiaobo, we have even seen a homosexual party banned by the police, which clearly threatens to result in a political ice age in China for dissidents, human rights defenders and homosexuals.
For this reason, we demand the immediate release of Liu Xiaobo and other human rights defenders and we call on China in particular - if it wishes to be a recognised partner in the international community - to put an end to its hysterical censorship measures and monitoring methods.
Human rights are universal and indivisible, whether here in Europe, in the US, in Sudan or in China.
I am convinced that this is the only way we can genuinely help the Chinese people in their fight for human rights.
Rightly, the resolution focuses on Liu Xiaobo, the principal author of Charter 08.
I believe the authorities should now produce Gao Zhisheng and release him.
Nobody should be in any doubt that the European Parliament will not give up on reform in China and, of course, in Tibet. (FI) Mr President, it is intolerable that commercial interests should have drawn the longer straw in relations between the EU and China and that the insistence on respect for human rights and democratic development has been more or less put in the role of cordial greetings.
Mrs De Keyser said that, for this reason, her group had withdrawn its signature.
Therefore, we should not let up with our urgent appeals.
The EU's commitment to human rights is conveyed during our regular political contacts and, in particular, during our human rights dialogue with the Chinese authorities.
The last session, as you are aware, was on 20 November last year in Beijing.
Mrs Vergiat and Mrs Korhola touched upon the cyber attacks against Google.
I would like to react to a question from Mrs De Keyser.
Human rights groups have accused Google of helping the Chinese Government in repressing its citizens and particularly human rights activists.
By announcing the change in their China policy, Google risks profits from the biggest Internet market in the world and potentially abandons almost 400 million users.
I am therefore convinced that the real number of violations of human rights is much higher than our information leads us to believe.
The dialogue which was begun between the European Union and China in 2000 has not brought the expected effects.
The arrest and sentencing of peace campaigner and human rights activist Liu Xiaobo, who has called for greater democracy in China, is a clear signal that our current measures are not effective.
