Movement of persons with a long-stay visa (debate) The next item is the report by Carlos Coelho, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement and Regulation (EC) No 562/2006 as regards movement of persons with a long-stay visa - C6-0076/2009 -.
The amendments which I have proposed and which have the support of the majority of the members of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs contribute towards the resolution of this problem without reducing security in the Schengen area.
The obligation to consult the Schengen Information Service during the processing of requests for long-stay visas is the same procedure as the one which already exists for nationals of third countries who are holders of residence permits.
The truth is that various Member States have been providing long-stay visas and, subsequently, residence permits, without first consulting the SIS, in particular, with respect to the requirements of Article 96 on the effects of a refusal of admission.
This practice weakens the security of the Schengen area and creates problems on its external borders in cases where individuals with a valid visa are recorded in the SIS.
Mr President, I would have liked to invite the Spanish Presidency, which is absent from this debate, to guarantee to Parliament that the regulation can enter into force before 5 April 2010.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, as the rapporteur pointed out, the aim of this proposal is to facilitate movement within the Schengen area for third-country nationals who are legally residing in one of the Member States on the basis of a long-stay or 'D' visa.
According to the current Schengen acquis, third-country nationals who hold a residence permit can travel freely within the Schengen Area because the residence permit is equivalent to a visa.
However, there has been a recent trend in Member States not to convert long-stay visas into residence permits upon arrival.
The legal and practical situation has considerable negative consequences for third-country nationals legally staying in our Member States on the basis of a D visa.
These persons can neither legally travel to another country nor can they transit through the territory of another country when they want to return to their country of origin.
A third-country national holding a long-stay D visa issued by a Member State will thereby be able to travel to the other Member States for three months in any half year under the same conditions as the holder of a residence permit.
I do not need to remind you that we have to find a solution quickly, especially due to the Visa Code which will be applicable from 5 April this year and will abolish the so-called D+C visas which were intended to partly remedy the situation of D visa holders.
In order to give a response to the security concerns regarding biometrics - and this is, of course, a major issue for many Member States - a political declaration has, as you know, been attached to the draft regulation in which the Commission is invited to study the possibility of the use of biometric identifiers with respect to long-stay visas and to present the results in the study to this plenary and the Council by 21 July 2011.
This proposal facilitates in a tangible way travel within the European Union for third-country nationals holding long-stay D visas issued by a Member State.
This is to provide a solution for situations when, for one reason or another, some Member States are unable or unwilling to issue a residence permit in time for third-country nationals residing in their territory.
On this point I can only agree that the Commission should submit a report on the enforcement of this regulation by April 2012 at the latest and, if necessary, a proposal for the amendment of the regulation in order to accomplish the objectives.
The practice that has evolved in this area undermines the legitimate expectations of third-country nationals who have come to the European Union to work or study.
The Member States should also take appropriate measures to simplify the procedures for issuing visas.
Therefore, I agree with the proposal that a third-country national, holding a long-stay visa issued by a Member State, should be able to stay in another Member State for three months within any six-month period under the same conditions as a holder of a residence permit.
Mr President, I firstly wish to thank the rapporteur, Mr Coelho, whose proposal I, like the other shadow rapporteurs of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, support.
In two hours, a researcher can leave Portugal and enter Spain, making for the border of another Member State, or rather, he cannot leave if he has, as happens in some cases, a visa to study for a two year Masters degree which does not allow him to leave the country to share his work or to undertake research in another Member State.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, the report proposes that Member States may issue long-stay visas for up to 12 months for third-country nationals which will be recognised by other states within the Schengen group.
We should eliminate all of the obstacles that prevent free movement, both of European citizens and of third-country nationals legally residing in a Member State.
It was crucial for this report to be adopted before the end of April 2010 so that it could be implemented at the same time as the Visa Code.
It is extremely important for all residents of the European Union to be able to travel throughout all the Member States.
Furthermore, if SIS II is not implemented from the end of 2012, we urge the Commission and the Council to present the legislation required to provide the same level of data protection as that afforded by SIS II. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these proposals seek to make it easier for third-country nationals legally residing in a Member State to move in the Schengen area on the basis of a D long-stay visa.
In just seven weeks, around 150 000 Macedonians have taken advantage of this new freedom to travel, according to the Ministry of the Interior.
They will have to put up with scarcely controllable illegal immigration and illegality and the associated undeclared employment. (MT) I would also like to congratulate my fellow Member, Carlos Coelho, for his report on this initiative which is granting third-country citizens the possibility of greater freedom of movement within the European free zone.
The consequences are very serious.
There has also been talk here about students and scientists who were unable to travel to another Member State.
Secondly, I would like to say that doing away with the 'D + C visas' and the fact that Member States cannot issue residence permits force us to take very urgent action.
We should, today, have a good system for exchange of information collected in Schengen, we should most certainly work on the second generation Schengen Information System and the Visa Information System, and, above all, perhaps have even more frequent reviews and reports.
Finally, we must, in cooperation with the Member States and the services of the Member States, not only facilitate the Schengen acquis and strengthen it, but also simultaneously strengthen security, which is the necessary element for every Member State, for all of us, and for the Schengen acquis. (Applause) (SL) Freedom of movement and the abolition of internal borders are two of the most important factors of European integration.
We have to facilitate movement in the Schengen area for citizens of third countries who are legally resident in a Member State.
Any action we take to facilitate travel in the Schengen area will be a step forward and will be in the interests of the European Union. (PL) Mr President, the proposal under discussion concerns one of the fundamental principles of the function of the European Union - the removal of internal borders and the free flow of people.
The European Commission should also be required to present a report on application of the regulation not later than 5 April 2012.
It is paradoxical that the holder of a short-term visa today has greater freedom of movement than the holder of a long-stay visa, and a person from a third country who holds a legal permit for a long-term stay, for example, in Poland, cannot travel to Germany or France.
The liberalisation of visas for the Balkan countries goes hand in hand with an increase in futile asylum applications from these countries.
It is especially important now, when, since the relaxation of the visa regulations for the Balkans, there is a real threat of a wave of immigration, when, within seven weeks, almost 150 000 people from Macedonia have made use of their new freedom to travel and, according to estimates, almost two thirds of them will probably not make the homeward journey, to whip the enforcement of the visa regulations into shape. (HU) As Hungarian Members of Parliament, we are in a special position when we are to vote and decide whether to make it possible for third-country nationals to move more freely within the European Union or, on the contrary, try to impede it.
Our compatriots are in a very humiliating position when they study or work in research or other areas in their own truncated country, and are not allowed to leave the territory of Hungary.
The Commission will very soon, after consultation with Member States and experts, make a report on that and the assessment of that report will be shared with members of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs before we put a possible proposal on the agenda.
So, thank you very much for your work, Mr Coelho, and thank you for a good debate in this plenary.
The first is that it is regrettable that the Council's chair is empty during this debate.
The second is to thank Commissioner Malmström for her kind remarks and also to ask her, together with the Council, to guarantee the entry into force of this regulation on 5 April.
I believe that when we participate in finding a solution in this manner, we are performing our work in the best possible way.
The agreements currently in force have entailed numerous disadvantages for third-country nationals who are legally resident in one of the Member States and who wish to travel for various reasons throughout the European Union.
