Implementation of the Services Directive (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Gebhardt, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on implementation of the Services Directive [(2006/123/EC).
They inserted it into the legislation and, as such, they should take the responsibility for it themselves even if, for example, local communities are beginning to discuss what Europe has done to them again.
I therefore find it very regrettable that, while these points of single contact have been set up in many Member States - although not all of them as yet - this has only been done in a very unsatisfactory way.
I say this with one eye on our Polish President - in the border area between Germany and Poland, German should be offered in Poland and Polish in Germany so that the information and assistance are actually really good, so that even the small businesses, which are not all competent in English, can really get involved in cross-border activities.
Finally, we come to the scope, in which connection I would like to make it quite clear, once again, that we excluded all services of common economic interest from the scope of Article 16.
If they want to include these services in the scope of the Services Directive, that is their right, but in that case, they must not sweep it all up as part of the Services Directive; rather, it is their own political statement of intent and something that they should also assume responsibility for themselves.
I should like to thank Parliament, and Mrs Gebhardt in particular, for their impatience and their vigilance.
Mrs Gebhardt spoke of lengthy discussions here in Parliament.
I personally am glad, on this occasion, that she is single-minded when it comes to monitoring the transposition and the proper implementation of this directive, which is a prerequisite for completing the internal market in services.
We believe that there is still a great deal of potential, and we must therefore press ahead.
Mrs Gebhardt raised a very important issue, which concerns one of the tools of the Services Directive - the points of single contact.
I also agree with you on the importance of providing points of single contact that are genuinely multilingual - an essential part of their added value - so that people can use them in their own language and can receive a response in their own language, including across borders, and so that we can therefore make this tool - the points of single contact - accessible, in particular, to small and medium-sized enterprises.
Today - I reviewed this matter recently - nearly 5 000 European authorities are registered in the IMI, and my aim is very simple: I want to turn the IMI into a kind of administrative Facebook, if I can use that expression, with a translation facility.
That is why I believe that the Commission and the Member States must be more proactive in eliminating all outstanding legal and administrative barriers.
If it is not implemented properly, we can forget Jacques Delors' vision, and many of the Single Market Act's initiatives will be left as empty promises.
Now that we have come through the crisis, we need the Services Directive more than ever.
The report which we have adopted in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection attaches great importance and, in my opinion, the greatest importance, to the points of single contact, which, from the users' point of view, are still not working adequately.
In some, the points of single contact have been set up based on existing structures, and others have been built from scratch.
Finally, I would like briefly to refer to the recently published report on mutual evaluation.
Parliament is playing, and will continue to play, a full part in monitoring the successful implementation of this directive, which is key to ensuring that the single market creates jobs and is closer to the citizens, and that Europe is experienced on a daily basis as something positive, not something negative.
With this report we have, I think, succeeded in avoiding the political conflicts of the past, and clearly that is important because we have a great many other things on which to focus our energies.
Secondly, it is, of course, important to promote administrative cooperation, particularly through the Internal Market Information System (IMI), as has been mentioned a couple of times.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Gebhardt, in 2006, my group, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, voted against the Services Directive, and today, we consider the report assessing the implementation of this Services Directive, previously known as the Bolkestein Directive, to be equally unsatisfactory.
The Verts/ALE Group will therefore vote against this report.
My final point is in the form of a question to Commissioner Barnier.
I say to Mr Canfin and others that there has been a huge amount of investment in time and resources, and indeed in systems like the points of single contact, in order to generate those jobs and growth, but they now have to come.
This is just the first of many reports and many investigations that my committee will continue to make, because this is a long-term project.
The country of origin principle was clearly replaced by the freedom to provide services, but we needed a recipient country principle, in other words, for the rules in the recipient country to apply.
This is a sector that, in my opinion, should be excluded from the application of the Services Directive.
For this reason, I hope that Parliament will ask for the Services Directive to be reviewed so that its scope may be amended, because, as it stands, there is a serious risk that it will penalise sectors that are fundamental to the economy. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, reports on implementation represent an extraordinarily arduous task and they promise little media attention, but they are of major significance for the shaping of Europe's internal market, particularly in the present era.
Thirdly, I would like to point out that the creation of the point of single contact - which has been mentioned in various ways already - represents the nucleus of a European administrative law.
This is a typical problem associated with implementation, as the directive does not contain any ban on laying down corresponding requirements and we have several examples of countries that have succeeded in solving the same problems without ending up in the same situation.
If we want to make EU 2020 a reality, the Member States will have to step up implementation of the Services Directive. (CS) Mr President, I am pleased that you have mentioned the thousands of changes implemented by individual countries.
In connection with the implementation of the directive, I am very concerned that the points of single contact, which are supposed to make life easier for entrepreneurs by providing information on doing business in a given country, as well as in other Member States, are functioning in only 14 countries so far.
Furthermore, services of general interest are being destroyed or privatised everywhere.
The report therefore calls for closer, thorough monitoring by the Commission, with regular implementation reports.
This is just more unreality, more bureaucracy and more dismay. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the adoption of the Services Directive represented an important achievement in attaining an essential objective for the European Union, namely, the creation of a single market in services.
In this act on the single internal market, we are trying to adapt Europe not only to its citizens and consumers, but also to firms and entrepreneurs.
As smaller businesses have had all the obligations of the Services Directive thrust upon them anyway, it would be good to know how they, in particular, have benefited from the directive. (CS) Mr President, the Services Directive should doubtless be of key importance for opening up the development of services in the Member States, and especially the cross-border exploitation of a far greater range of opportunities for both entrepreneurs and consumers.
I very much regret the fact that five countries do not have points of single contact in operation, although it is much more worrying that a decent level of interoperability has still not been established between the points of contact in the other Member States.
As the previous speakers have already pointed out, the issue is that small-scale entrepreneurs in particular do not yet have enough information about what the points of contact can do for them, and in some countries, these points do not even exist.
I would like to draw your attention to Article 36, in which the report notes that Member States must carry out risk assessments and ensure that companies do not encounter pointless obstacles when performing the necessary procedures electronically. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner Barnier, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the European Union does not have the best reputation.
However, if we are to complete the market, promote growth and create new jobs, I believe that the Member States should not only speed up the application of the directive, but should also take immediate action to address any obscure points in the directive, in order both to benefit society as a whole and small and medium-sized enterprises and to protect workers' rights. (GA) Mr President, may I say, firstly, that I am grateful to the group for giving me the opportunity to speak in this debate and may I commend the rapporteur and Commissioner Barnier, in particular, for their excellent and important work.
Unfortunately, many countries, including my own, have not transposed this directive into law.
In my opinion, the directive is appropriate, but in order to achieve its objective, it is important that all Member States follow and comply with all elements of the directive in time and observe the deadlines. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of workers, the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services are vital pillars of our internal market.
Service providers must respect the law of the State in which they operate.
Beside the austerity programmes, this is the achievement, so I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and those who participated. (DA) Mr President, I would just like briefly to add something to my first speech.
I think it is quite simply scandalous that, after 14 months, we still have countries that have not implemented this. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, it is both useful and necessary to remind ourselves here of the struggles fought by workers in various countries against this directive, struggles which came together to take on an expressive dimension on a European scale, struggles that allowed some of the more negative aspects of the first draft of the directive to be deleted or amended.
I would like to offer my sincere thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Gebhardt, not only because she has shown such commitment to this subject for so long, but also because she attempted, together with the shadow rapporteur, to accommodate both the principles and the practical in this report.
I myself was able to see, during my recent visit to Greece, and echoing the concern expressed by Mr Harbour about the potential for growth found in this directive, that, if it is used intelligently, within the limits laid down but to its full potential, there clearly will be potential for the services economy, which is so very important - I will say it again: other agri-food and industrial economies should be equally important or more important - to grow.
I would like to say to Mr Schwab, and to Mrs Gebhardt also, that they are right to point out Parliament's role in improving this directive and to confirm that Parliament will be vigilant in ensuring that it is implemented properly.
I would also like to point out to Mrs in 't Veld that infringement proceedings are still open with regard to seven Member States that have failed to communicate their transposition measures.
Mrs Auconie, Mrs Handzlik, Mrs Sehnalová, Mrs Gebhardt and Mr Harbour stressed the importance of multilingual points of single contact.
Because we realise that, in order to apply the Services Directive properly, we need to have regard to other texts, and I would offer the example of an architect based in Belgium who works with clients in the Netherlands and who, depending on the circumstances, may be subject to the Services Directive, the Professional Qualifications Directive, the E-Commerce Directive, the Consumer Protection Directives, and other instruments besides.
I would like to conclude, Mr President, by raising a highly political point, which is important to me too, ladies and gentlemen, and which Mrs Gebhardt was the first to raise: this directive must be applied for the purposes for which it is intended; it must not be applied to other matters.
I would also remind Mr Canfin, who questioned me, that the Commission is honouring its commitment by working on a text that will clarify a communication on public services, on services of general economic interest.
This is because we have included, in Article 1, a clause whereby the labour and social law of the Member States cannot be jeopardised by the application of the Services Directive.
I am eager to see what the Commission will produce for us in this regard.
Written statements (Rule 149) The market in services represents two thirds of the gross domestic product and two thirds of jobs in the European Union, but even so, only a fifth of total intra-EU trade.
