Preparation of 2012 budget (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Balzani, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on general guidelines for the preparation of the 2012 budget [2011/2042 BUD].
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the document we are examining today is not merely a report on the priorities of the next European budget, but also and above all a strategic document looking at the new role that the European budget must play in the context of greater economic governance.
Today, these objectives - these European objectives - can only be those laid down in the Europe 2020 Strategy: a grand, ambitious strategy with five highly important targets and seven big flagship initiatives.
Instead we must look at what exactly are the programmes and the actions that can contribute to the 2020 Strategy.
Looking to the future has an absolutely crucial significance: taking the utmost care over our commitments and not simply over our payments, because commitments are the tool with which to build the sustainable financial future of our Union.
I therefore think that it is really important that, right from the start, we consider all the available flexibility instruments as fundamental and indispensable for the budget we are going to draw up if we want it to be not only possible or essential to take the first step towards the 2020 Strategy - which absolutely must not be a failure, as we have seen in the past - but also if we want it to be a useful and effective budget.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I welcome Parliament's position on the priorities of the 2012 budget as reflected in the proposed guidelines.
On the other hand, we have to take into account the most recent data coming from the 27 Member States, and we will have our services carefully scrutinise and evaluate those elements in order to shape the draft budget on 20 April.
I think, in such a context, that it would be responsible to take into account and respond to all the fiscal financial obligations of the European Union, but also to bear in mind the context of austerity which is the reality in the Member States.
The European budget is about investment with multiplier effects.
As mentioned in the letter from the President of the Commission, and as the rapporteur, Ms Balzani clearly stated, we must ensure sufficient funding for expenditure under the 2020 Strategy.
Therefore I am looking forward to our first trialogue meeting on 30 March.
The EU's budget is controversial, despite the fact that it is actually very small - around 1% of GDP or a little over 2% of overall public expenditure.
I believe that the 2012 budget will be crucial in answering that question.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report.
I think that, unlike the other guidelines which we have discussed over many others years in this House, it is focused and it does not get into a whole lot of different details, which are obviously to come later in the budget procedure.
Firstly I would like to say that we in my group would like to take very much into account what is happening elsewhere in the European Union and not just keep it within the Brussels 'Beltway'.
Therefore the paragraph you have put in paragraph 21 - where you are saying that we should be looking for negative priorities and savings by the institutions, asking our specialised committees to be able to look for priorities - is very important, but very little work has been done on this so far.
This should also be an important part of our approach to the 2012 budget.
Lastly, therefore, in looking at the kind of responsibility we should take in an era of austerity, if we are going to be able to cope with the savings of financing where we need new expenditure my group believes we should be heading for a freeze in our expenditure for 2012.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Mr Lewandowski, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are also of the opinion that when budgets are tight and there is a need for austerity policies we must respond, because we have to reduce levels of debt in the Member States.
However, the politically clever solution involves not only reducing debt but also achieving a balance, so that it is possible to invest in projects for the future in order not to put the national economy further at risk.
Reaching this balance must be one of the guidelines for the European budget in 2012.
In addition, we have made commitments in recent years in the European budget which come out of the structural funds and which will have to be financed next year and in the years that follow.
We must continue to focus on these issues and we must not put this at risk.
I believe that we should listen to this protest, because it poses a key question from the point of view of the European budget about the place of public investment in discussions about economic policies.
We have heard various governments saying that, in the name of austerity policies, we need a European budget with a 'zero increase'.
This is the crucial discussion to be held in talks on the 2012 budget.
We are going to abstain from this report because it is full of good intentions, but it does not respond in a clear way to this challenge, and the world of work requires a response from us on this matter.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Madam President, this report's fundamental weakness is that it completely ignores the observations made by the Court of Auditors in its annual reports.
Given his track record today, I will not be holding my breath. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my opinion on three areas of Mrs Balzani's report.
The first is that the report on the 2012 budget is based on the assumption of enhanced economic governance involving the EU, the European Semester mechanism and the Europe 2020 objectives to boost growth and employment.
An active climate policy and the creation of green jobs will not only help us to achieve our climate targets, but will also make a positive contribution to social policy.
I say this because the original idea was not to hold this debate on budget guidelines.
This belongs in a far wider financial framework, so any attempt to artificially bring this debate into the annual budget will only lead to a misguided strategy of negotiation with the Council right from the start.
Only last year we saw what happens when we bring into a single-reading annual budget procedure, policies or ideas that actually have a wider scope: failure, stalemate and, ultimately, a situation - as we are now experiencing in 2011 - in which the level of credit appropriations is, as the Commissioner is perfectly well aware, insufficient to cover the immediate short-term needs of the European Union over the coming months. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner Lewandowski, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we are debating the need to make savings in view of the debt crisis that we are experiencing in the Member States.
Yet how can we pursue an austerity policy in the European Union if the volume of European expenditure is only 2% of the total public expenditure of all 27 Member States?
The Member States can play a part in this in order to underline their willingness to make savings. (DA) Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Balzani.
Last but not least, I would like to thank the Commissioner for stating that we must cut our administrative expenditure, because this is one of the few areas where we actually can save money in the short term.
That is something we should also do in other institutions, and I believe that it is something that we really should take seriously - also in Parliament. - (CS) Madam President, the 2012 budget of the European Union should continue the tradition of balanced budgets.
If we lose sight of this, we will lose credibility. (PT) Madam President, we are having our say in this debate in order to show that there is an alternative to the consensus between law and democratic socialism, which has brought this crisis upon us.
We would therefore like to point out the urgency of steering Europe along a different course, and this should also be reflected in budgetary decisions. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this report - which ought to map out Parliament's guidelines for the 2012 budget - seems to me to be pretty much devoid of meaning.
It is the Member States themselves that have to come to terms with restricted budgets and the consequences of the crisis; we cannot be so naïve as to the think that we can do much at a European level.
I am aware that this report is dealing with general guidelines, but in its current state it seems to me to be all but useless and merely self-serving. (NL) Madam President, Mrs Balzani from the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament has proved with her report the following fact: the EU does not look after its citizens well, but it does look after itself.
A nice sum of EUR 3 000 per member for a staff allowance, a good job on the side in the House of European History (for those fortunate enough to have the right connections), a totally unnecessary and terribly expensive European TV channel, a prestigious satellite project called Galileo, all of which is leading increasingly to financial disaster.
The fact that the European budget is being aligned with the objectives of the EU 2020 Strategy, in a clear way for the first time in 2012, means that employment and growth can be put back at the heart of European policies, which I would point out are our priorities, since the EU 2020 Strategy has set the objective of an employment rate of 75% of the working population.
The Member States have already expressed their short-term view of the budget, which advocates discipline, and have called for a limit on their contribution to financing Community action.
The 2012 budgetary procedure will provide another insight into the tactics being used to define the future multiannual financial framework.
Obviously, in the final stage, you can look at where you can make savings and we in Europe have to do that as well.
Refusing to pay it does not only make you unreliable, it is also stoking the anti-European sentiments in Europe. (HU) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2012 budget is the sixth among the seven budgets of the current multiannual financial framework.
Thank you for your attention. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2012 budget is set against the background of a difficult economic and financial situation in the 27 Member States.
In light of this, I think it is also important for large-scale projects such as ITER - and in this regard I would like to thank Mrs Jensen for her comment - to be fully and clearly financed and clearly managed, because otherwise the Americans, who are currently implementing the same project, will be appreciably ahead of us, and we Europeans should not always take second place. (PT) Madam President, I would like to begin by saying that I welcome the work of Mrs Balzani, but that I would nevertheless like to make a few observations here.
I believe that there is still time to resolve these two issues. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Balzani, for the work she has done.
The 2012 and 2013 budgets will be consolidation budgets aimed at reflecting the Member States' spending cutbacks and setting a benchmark for amounts that will be established in the next financial framework.
The contribution of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) to the guidelines for the 2012 budget was based on the concept of responsibility, which means pursuing the aims of economy, efficiency and effectiveness using as little as possible of the available resources.
The EU 2020 Strategy is based on important priorities - namely research, innovation, development and growth - that were not initially present in the report by Mrs Balzani, but which have been strongly emphasised by the PPE Group.
It is therefore important to ensure flexibility between the expenditure headings in order to more effectively counter the problems linked to the economic crisis and also to propose a budgetary framework that includes own resources.
Instead, I am in favour of an investigation by the Commission into how to deal with this highly important issue in technical terms, so as to affirm and establish Europe's added value. . - (SK) Madam President, the European Union has set five measurable objectives for the period up to 2020.
It depends on the responsible conduct of individual states as to whether we will have higher employment, whether we will manage to reduce the proportion of people leaving school early, whether we will achieve the planned parameters in the number of young people obtaining a university education, whether we will reduce the number of people at risk of poverty and whether we will protect our climate.
I would like to ask you, Commissioner, whether you personally and the Commission as a whole support states taking a path which goes against the common objectives in this first introductory stage of fulfilling the Europe 2020 Strategy? - (SK) Madam President, the budget is a key instrument for European integration, and how it is set therefore matters.
It is precisely in a time of crisis that the EU budget can contribute to mitigating the restrictive budgetary policies of national governments and direct funding towards desirable long-term investment projects.
I believe that we irritate our citizens with these activities, because taxpayers have to finance our trips, and it costs them a great deal of money.
At present we could transfer this funding to other activities, especially in 2012, in order to fulfil the 2012 programme, and thereby also improve the efficiency of our operations, of course. - (SK) Madam President, I would first like to applaud the work of the rapporteur, who has correctly identified numerous problems in her report.
It should be emphasised at these meetings that the EU budget must not be in deficit, that it represents only 2% of overall public spending in the EU and that there are fundamental differences between Member State budgets and the EU budget.
On the 2020 Strategy adjustment, a clear point in Ms Balzani's guidelines: in the current 2011 budget, 41% of expenditure could be attributed to the goals of the 2020 Strategy.
This time more than ever, in addition to positive priorities, we should examine what is not performing.
This is a lower proportion than in the municipalities of Rotterdam and many other Dutch cities famous for a frugal approach to budgeting.
Our budget, the European budget, which is without deficit, cannot be blamed for the mismanagement of public finances in many Member States.
This is our credibility.
Even in times of austerity, you have to pay your electricity bills.
As long as we continue to consider the 2020 Strategy as too big and too ambitious to be squeezed into a practical document like the budget, I think we will achieve nothing more than increasing the risk of another failure, which is exactly what nobody wants, starting with the Commission, if I remember the first communication on the 2020 Strategy correctly.
There is, however, another important issue: austerity is not a policy, it is not an instrument, it is a condition against which we must take action, and not only by consolidating our expenditure, but also by using the European budget, an extraordinary instrument that is radically different from the national budgets and gives us the chance to do something different this year.
It enables us to come up with a global strategy and to create synergies; and creating synergies between the budgets of the Member States and our budget is an extraordinarily European system to give more value to public resources and to create a real method to turn the 2020 Strategy - long and ambitious as it is - into a European reality.
The debate is closed.
Written Statements (Rule 149) Unfortunately this report advocates 'a 2012 budget under the auspices of enhanced European economic governance, the European Semester mechanism and Europe 2020 objectives'.
We therefore propose an important set of changes, aimed not only at denouncing this approach, but also at presenting guidelines for an alternative which is both possible and necessary.
in writing. - (CS) In her report on general guidelines for the preparation of the 2012 budget, Mrs Balzani set out the five key budget priorities of the EU.
The current multiannual financial framework now offers very little room for manoeuvre, and I therefore agree with the rapporteur that further attempts to limit or cut budgetary resources related to the fulfilment of key priorities are simply out of place at the moment.
in writing. - Across Europe governments and public authorities are having to find ways to save money and show restraint.
My own country, Scotland, was hit by a double whammy - a global recession exacerbated by misrule by governments in London, always willing to plunder Scotland's resources but intent on denying the people of Scotland control over their own affairs.
