Member of the Commission. - Mr President, thank you for inviting me to speak on Albania this evening.
The developments in Tirana on Friday, 21 January 2011, were tragic.
The tone in Tirana needs to change.
His messages on behalf of the High Representative and Vice-President of the Commission, Cathy Ashton, and myself were clear: first, stop the violence and investigate the events of 21 January correctly.
Fourth, begin the important task of implementing the 12 priorities outlined in the 2010 Commission opinion.
The government and opposition must do it together.
The reactions of the political leaders and the general public to Miroslav Lajčák's visit were encouraging and positive respectively.
The two Albanian leaders welcome the attention given to them, but they are stuck in their own internal impasse, and European Union goodwill and assistance cannot replace dialogue between the leaders.
The following is on the table for Albania: an EU perspective in line with the Council conclusions and based on the Copenhagen criteria; a clear identification in the 2010 Commission opinion of the 12 priorities whose effective implementation would enable Albania to begin accession negotiations with the European Union.
These 12 priorities include, among others, improving the functioning of democratic institutions and the political dialogue, the rule of law and reform of the judiciary, the fight against organised crime and the protection of human rights.
These 12 priorities and the Copenhagen criteria are not just an exercise for politicians.
Let us turn these priorities into a European framework to address the current political challenges in Albania.
For this reason, I sent a letter to Prime Minister Berisha one week before the January demonstrations, in which I set out a road map based on these 12 priorities, to help Albania emerge from the current impasse.
This forum cannot be replaced by events on the streets and particularly not in the way in which Mr Rama attempted to do on 21 January.
The socialist party should take responsibility for its role as parliamentary opposition.
The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR) have produced recommendations for improving the basic conditions of elections.
It is also important for the socialists to be involved in this area too.
I have heard that Mr Rama agreed, while he was here in Strasbourg, to take part in the local elections on 8 May.
This has enabled us to make a joint contribution to ensuring a positive future for Albania.
Last year, this Parliament adopted a resolution calling on all domestic political players to find a negotiated political solution to the crisis and to build a minimum national consensus.
It is inadmissible that exercising the right to rally and to protest in a country plagued by corruption be described as a coup d'état.
We ask Commissioner Füle and managing director Lajčák to do their best in order to assure international assistance and international monitoring of these elections in such a way as to make sure that they will be free and fair, or at least that we could assess their freedom and their fairness.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I had a very interesting day today when it comes to Albania.
It occurs to me that the political establishment in Albania is more concerned with itself than with its people.
And let them not forget that it is their responsibility, first and foremost, to provide for the wellbeing of citizens and not to deny them a European future, because it is crystal clear that the political crisis hampers any and all progress.
New elections will take place in May and the preparations are under way.
I so, so hope that the citizens of Albania eventually get a responsible government and a responsible parliament, with politicians who will put the welfare of their citizens above their own prestige and interests.
We should be able to expect this government to do everything possible to prevent the January events from happening again.
It, too, must do everything to prevent a repeat of the January violence, by cooperating fully with proper and fair elections in May and by participating in parliamentary debate, preferably on content, for once, such as the sky-high levels of unemployment in Albania.
I had every hope in November when Commissioner Füle put the ball in Albania's court and said: no more progress until you resolve this.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, if Albania is to make progress towards its eventual goal of EU accession, its political leaders need to engage in a more constructive, democratic and mature way.
NATO leaders must now question whether Albanian membership was granted too soon.
Aside from my own concerns about Albania's political instability and how it will impact on the country's EU aspirations, I am also sceptical about Albania's strategic priorities.
Mr President, Commissioner, I had hoped that, eighteen months after the last parliamentary elections in Albania, the political impasse would have been resolved.
Once again, I would like to express my sorrow for the victims of the demonstration on 21 January.
However, I will not conceal the fact that I am concerned about the imminent local elections in May.
I believe that, if the political leaders in Albania insist on this sort of practice and this sort of approach, the impasse and the crisis will get worse, making it impossible for the country to address serious problems in addition to the political problem: problems that will arise - if they have not already arisen - from the economic crisis which has hit the neighbouring countries of Italy and Greece, given that money sent from these countries is, to a degree, helping the economic situation in Albania.
Consequently, a solution to the political impasse, political responsibility and political dialogue are what will help the political leaders find a rapid solution to the problems facing Albania.
They are both in their thirties and they have both decided to stay in Albania: they could earn much more abroad, but they are staying.
However, what can they do about the political impasse in their home country?
However, I am confident that you will want to do your best to fulfil the hope that many upstanding Albanian citizens have placed in Europe and in you, as the Commissioner responsible.
The fact that the socialists are accusing the government of electoral fraud and corruption, demanding its resignation and early elections before those due in 2013, as well as the fact that Prime Minister Berisha is unwilling to resign and is accusing the opposition of attempting to come into power by force, indicate that negotiations with the European Union are doomed to fail very quickly.
The European Union considers it vital for candidate countries to step up their efforts in the fight against corruption and organised crime.
This is not only important for the EU, but is also beneficial for the society of the countries concerned, not to mention that it can contribute to the improvement of the image of the candidate countries.
We should not allow this political crisis and tensions to go any further.
What we need now is to send a common message that we want to have Albania as a candidate country, but political leaders on both sides must show the will to solve political problems in full respect for the rule of law, the constitution and on the foundation of democratic institutions.
We strongly condemn the violence which took place in the streets of Tirana during the demonstrations on 21 January.
Albania is awaiting the local elections of May this year.
Nothing could be worse for the development of Albania than accusations being made by one side in this House against the other that are similar to those being made by the two major political groups, the government and the opposition, in Albania.
Both sides, both political groups - the government and the opposition - must commit to finding a way out of this crisis.
However, I am very disappointed when I look at what has come out of this and what has not.
I must say that the political class in Albania is not able to satisfy the wishes and the ideas of the people.
However, it is crucial for us now to tell both sides that they must sit down together and attempt to ensure that the local elections at least are transparent and open.
We must also call on both sides to be prepared to implement the requirements drawn up by the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR) for these elections, either by means of legislation or practical action, so that there will be genuinely fair and transparent elections in future.
However, we do not want Albania to be isolated.
We want it to start out on the road towards Europe. (BG) Mr President, I would like to start by saying that Albanian society, and the Albanian people, are a special case, but please do not misunderstand me.
For example, I believe that we should contact not just the leaders of the two main political parties which are at loggerheads, but also the unofficial leaders of Albanian society.
Some correct things have been said here about sharia and the Islamic Conference, but we must bear in mind that the Albanians are tolerant towards all three main religions in their country, including the Eastern Orthodox and the Catholic churches.
I am also pleased that the debate today has not descended into squabbles between the political groups which are in conflict with one another in Albania.
However, this process of verbal violence becoming actual violence on the streets is something that could put Albania's accession to the European Union at risk.
The Albanian socialists, led by Edi Rama, accuse Prime Minister Sali Berisha not only of electoral fraud, but also of being responsible for extensive corruption and the deteriorating living conditions of the people.
At a protest rally organised by the opposition in the Albania capital, Tirana, on 21 January, there were more than 20 000 demonstrators demanding the resignation of the government of Sali Berisha.
The brutality of the police intervention, as well as the fact that Sali Berisha gave all members of the security forces participating in suppressing the demonstration an extraordinary reward amounting to one month's pay, is clear evidence of the fact that the Albanian premier is buying the favour of the security forces and trying to win their support and to set them against the Albanian people.
The 2009 elections were the best that have so far taken place in Albania and they were based on election legislation which, amazingly, was adopted following a consensus between the socialists and democrats.
Not the sort that we have in my country or in yours.
I would also like to emphasise the contribution made by Mr Lajčák in trying to identify solutions for overcoming the dramatic situation.
It is important to put pressure on both sides so that the two blocs finally reach a solution.
Up until now, only one side has shown some readiness to implement both the European Parliament resolution and the 12 proposals you mentioned before, Commissioner.
I call on the Commission to be strong and committed towards an agreement based on the European Parliament resolution and the 12 conditions you mentioned before, bearing in mind that without complete agreement from both sides, Albania's European integration process might be completely frozen. (IT) Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for the road map he has set out for Albania this evening, which I endorse wholeheartedly.
I am totally convinced that this country has a European future and should therefore be a candidate for accession.
The bloodshed of 21 January dragged Tirana backwards by several years.
During our last visit there in November 2010, in our capacity as the Delegation for South-East Europe and, on 3 and 4 May 2010, as the Stabilisation and Association Parliamentary Committee, together with other colleagues, I witnessed Albania's difficulties with my own eyes.
Mayor Edi Rama will stand in elections for the district of Tirana, so we will shortly have the chance to check and assess the political situation and standard of democracy, as naturally, we shall be present there.
I should like to thank the Commissioner for the work he has carried out and will continue to carry out, because our presence in Albania is important. (EL) Mr President, I have been following events in Albania with a great deal of concern.
However, the elected government should listen to the message being sent by the people, that the country needs sound governance.
The European Union must do whatever it can to help ensure that calm and caution prevail.
We must all be involved in this process.
My wish for Albania is the achievement of its aim of having a stable country that is part of the European family.
However, it is clear that if the two main parties in the country persist in their stubbornness then this aim will never be achieved.
It is a pity, but it is a reality.
Nonetheless, Albania must also play its part, and for this to happen, then all the parties concerned, including the government and the opposition, have to adopt a different policy, one that embraces politics based on dialogue, on maturity and on responsibility towards the Albanian people; politics that do not seek to divide, but to unite.
We are here to tell them that the decision on whether Albania is to find its place within the European family is in their hands. (SV) Mr President, though the crisis in Albania has been going on for a long time, it is only now that it has really started to escalate, and this time, the EU has acted immediately and in the right way.
There should therefore be solidarity between the countries of the Balkan region and it should be in their common interest to maintain and promote greater regional integration and political stability. (RO) Mr President, the tense situation which developed in Albania at the end of January highlights how important it is to maintain certain boundaries in political debate.
The elections held in 2009 were fair and it is the political parties' duty to respect the will of the people.
Political parties play the role of warring sides and are pulling the country into a downward spiral.
The European Union made a commitment to all the Western Balkan countries that they would enter the European Union.
Albania urgently needs to implement the 12 key priorities of the opinion.
Written statements (Rule 149) The crisis under way in Albania, which is jeopardising geopolitical stability in the Balkans, is causing acute concern and alarm.
The political standoff between the government and the opposition is calling Albania's European prospects into question and President Sali Berisha has no intention of stepping down.
The Commission should explain how it intends to safeguard the rights of Greeks and other minorities in Albania, through the smooth, democratic operation of the system, and to strengthen Frontex on the Greek-Albanian border, given the danger of an influx of immigrants into Greece due to the political unrest.
