Estimates of revenue and expenditure for 2012 - Section I - Parliament (debate) The next item is the report by Mr José Manuel Fernandes, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the estimates of revenue and expenditure of Parliament for the financial year 2012 - Section I - Parliament.
This is a report that will enable Parliament's 2012 budget to be an austerity budget, a containment budget, and a rigorous budget.
In truth, we have effectively cut around EUR 49 million from the initial proposal.
We then propose that EUR 100 million intended for administrative costs be transferred to the area of youth.
Youth because it is the generation that has greatest difficulties in terms of access to jobs, with an unemployment rate that is double that of other generations.
That is why I believe the additional EUR 100 million is a very positive approach.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Madam President, I would first of all like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for the way in which he has approached this budget and for his recognition that Parliament should avoid large increases in its spending for 2012.
This is particularly appropriate as we know that the Council intends to cut its budget by 4%, the Commission intends to increase its budget by only 1%, the Committee of the Regions by around 2.9% and the Economic and Social Committee by an even smaller amount.
Reducing the increase to 2.3% is therefore progress.
This will therefore need discussion before a decision can be made on whether it should be done and where the money should go - in other words, where the money would be spent if that transfer takes place.
On this issue, I believe it is important that Parliament, as on other issues, should be seen to be taking the right decisions on our own budget.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Madam President, I agree that the work of the rapporteur and our fellow Members has certainly borne fruit.
As Mr Fernandes has pointed out, we have identified savings of EUR 49 million.
The newly opened debate on the EUR 100 million to be spent on our youth is naturally something that no one could oppose.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in these economically difficult times it is quite right that the European Parliament should play its part and should be prepared to apply self-restraint and self-discipline, even though we are still engaged in building up our own institution and have been assigned new responsibilities under the Treaty of Lisbon.
With regard to the issue of the House of European History, let me say this: in principle the majority of my group is in favour of the idea of a service for the citizens of Europe informing them of our history since 1945.
However, this also requires that a business plan should be put in place and that all the conditions currently being formulated for tomorrow's vote by majority decision should be met.
This also means that if there is a genuine desire for this change in priorities, which will involve an investment of EUR 60 million in the coming years, then, in the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, we will also have to make savings in other areas, rather than just limiting increases.
The best example of that happened this morning.
It is in this context that I say that the proposal to increase the budget of Parliament by 2.3% is still too high and unacceptable.
Let us go back to the drawing board and reduce it to 1%, as suggested by Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski.
We do not need a shiny, glitzy fleet of black Mercedes-Benz cars here in Strasbourg.
We should review and revise our health insurance costs as well.
Between 2010 and 2011 we awarded ourselves an additional EUR 3 000 each per month.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Madam President, the 2.3% increase in the budget requested by this Parliament calls into question its sense of responsibility.
There is waste to be seen in the 2012 budget, specifically in connection with a project as ridiculous as the House of European History.
I hope that the Council, which will have to assess the rapporteur's proposal to reduce the ceiling under heading 5 in order to finance policies to support young people, will give its support.
I believe it is vital that we find the additional funds to support youth employment, which is currently at an all-time low in most of Europe, so that we can put our foot down on the accelerator on the road to achieving the main aims of the Europe 2020 Strategy and revive economic growth, which relies on our young people and on their ability to access high-level training. (SV) Madam President, the fact that those fellow Members who are against the whole idea of the European Union want to cut the European Parliament's budget is perhaps not that strange, but it is quite clear that there are populist motives behind it.
What is more important is the fact that those of us who are in favour of the European Union also think it is time to have a rethink when it comes to administrative expenditure.
The Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament has therefore tabled an amendment regarding a long-term, strategic review of Parliament's administrative expenditure.
It is questionable, but I believe that there is a point to the project, namely that no one else has started such a museum.
What is most important with regard to what we are doing now, of course, is the fact that those of us who really do believe in the European Union also want to ensure that we take responsibility towards taxpayers and carry out a proper review of the administration in the EU.
From the initial proposal by Parliament's bureau it would appear that this report makes some savings, but if we compare it with the budget implemented in 2010, what is proposed for 2012 is an increase of 11%, or EUR 175 million.
It is not difficult to see what is essential: EUR 43 million on furniture, EUR 33 million on parliamentary assistants, EUR 18 million on temporary employment contracts, and EUR 7 million on information campaigns.
I am pleased to hear my fellow Member from the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament say just now, for example, that there is a will to consider what we can do in the long term.
However, there is no doubt that we need to review our costs and the only sensible way to do that is to take a long-term approach.
With regard to the proposal for a House of European History I have to say that the idea does not particularly appeal to me, but at the same time I believe that it is good to remember that this is a long process and it was started during the previous parliamentary term.
Now we need to consider how we can take a decision on this matter.
However, I do not believe that we will gain anything by competing over who comes top of the populist list in this regard.
It is better to reflect carefully on where we can make cuts. (NL) In the current economic climate I find it self-evident that the European Parliament must put in place an austere budget.
Let us, then, focus our efforts on this idea - let us make greater savings! (PT) Madam President, there has been a lot of debate in relation to this report, about Members' salaries and allowances.
I would like to end, Madam President, by saying that it is also important for it to be clear that the draft amendments to this report, while promoting savings in Parliament, should not seek to create exceptions that are more favourable to funding European parties and European political foundations. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the estimates for the European Parliament for the financial year 2012 rightly stresses the absolute necessity of containing expenditure.
The compromise of increasing expenditure by 2.30% seems acceptable, since this figure is actually lower than estimated inflation and would represent a theoretical saving.
This should remain something that the Members of this House should decide for themselves, because it is naturally also extremely important that we should explain the benefits effectively. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when I listen to the debate on the House of European History, it seems to me that there are only two types of Members in this House: the budget specialists, who attend this debate and who are largely critical of this project, and everybody else, who seem to find the whole thing to be just fine.
The worst thing here is that when it comes to the issue of the House of European History there are so many cooks that people have actually lost sight of the point of the whole exercise.
Thus, the Daily Telegraph today reported that documents have come into its possession indicating that the cost of this project has risen to the astronomical figure of GBP 137 million.
We might add a third principle: we should avoid any duplications or overlaps between the Infocentre and the House of European History. (DA) Madam President, I would also like to say something about the House of European History.
I would also like to say that the majority of my group is in favour of the House of European History.
That is very important, but I do think that the idea is a good one and I definitely support it.
However, the bottom line here is that there is a 2.3% increase when inflation is expected to be 2.8%.
The other point that must be made is that the European Union has to deal with something in line with the overall context of the 27 countries, whereas some countries, particularly my own country, are suffering very badly at present.
Ultimately, I think we should be following the line of President Barroso. (NL) Madam President, in this House, I represent the most pro-European party in my Member State, the Netherlands.
I would have liked to have had him here, as I would like to remind him of paragraph 6 of the resolution, in which we ask the services to go through the budget with a fine toothcomb with the aim of identifying potential savings.
This 2.3% increase is certainly a lot easier to accept and justify than the 5.2% proposed by the Bureau.
Ending this Parliament's monthly plenary rally would mean considerable savings, and these would also be reflected in Parliament's budget. (PL) Madam President, when examining Parliament's budget, it is apparent that transport accounts for a significant proportion of expenditure, and this will remain the case in future, since we have to travel from 27 Member States to sittings in Brussels and Strasbourg.
I have calculated that the total cost of travel for Parliament's Members and officials exceeds EUR 100 million per year.
Thank you very much. - (SK) Madam President, the report on the estimated revenues and expenditure of the European Parliament in the 2012 budgetary year refers in points 17 and 18 to the continuing work on the House of European History, and proposes creating budgetary reserves to cover further costs connected with the implementation of this project, included in an item of Chapter 10.1 - Unforeseen Expenditure Reserve.
I do not know whether the continuation of the House of European History can be considered as unforeseen expenditure, but I listened carefully to Marta Andreasen, who pointed out to us when the programme was approved that the costs stated in the report for the House of European History are substantially underestimated.
I hope, finally, that in the 2012 budgetary procedure, it will be possible, through the determination of all the institutions, to optimise resource management. . - (SK) Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for what is really a very good report.
The next step, as mentioned by Göran Färm, is then to monitor this expenditure in the future.
It is proposed that the European Parliament's overall budget in 2012 should increase by 2.3%, which is below the current rate of inflation.
I agree with the rapporteur's proposal for a long-term review of the European Parliament's budget in order to reduce costs.
I believe that these measures would enable European Union money to be used more efficiently, thus saving taxpayers' money and reducing Parliament's current level of expenditure.
There are 27 Member States, the Treaty of Lisbon will bring in another 18 Members of Parliament when it comes into force, there is set to be an enlargement involving Croatia, and it is clear that all of this will involve costs.
We are well aware that the initiative has come from the Commission and that the Council needs to adopt it unanimously, but we also know that it was important to send a signal, and the allocation to which we are referring is heading 5 out of all of the administrative expenditure, where there is due to be around EUR 380 million and we propose EUR 100 million.
The Commission's current proposal for updating salaries is 0.9%.
Regulation (EC) No 31 could also be amended, specifically Article 64.
