EU strategy on Roma inclusion (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Járóka, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the EU strategy on Roma inclusion.
We have an agreement spanning six political groups, 27 Member States and five very important parliamentary committees.
The strategy must also take into account the territoriality of exclusion since the geographic distribution of social disadvantages is not uniform throughout the Member States, but poverty and social exclusion are concentrated in underdeveloped micro-regions, which, in many of the new Member States, are predominantly inhabited by the Roma community.
I recommend adopting the Laeken indicators and their complementary components to measure social and territorial exclusion, as well as to evaluate progress.
These are the principles and the priorities that I believe the European Roma strategy must sustain and I am looking forward to your comments on my report. (Applause) Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the Hungarian Presidency attaches great importance to the issue of Roma integration and is grateful for the active support of the European Parliament in this matter.
On 8 April, the International Day of the Roma is celebrated worldwide.
After that, the Hungarian Presidency will draw up draft Council conclusions, which we hope the Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs Council will adopt at its meeting on 19 May.
Let me remind you of an earlier resolution Parliament adopted in 2006, which deals with the situation of Roma women.
Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur for this subject, Mrs Lívia Járóka, can inspire us all in this regard as well - particularly the women, but also the men.
I would once again like to thank Mrs Járóka and all of you for participating in this vital process, and I would like to remind you once more that the Hungarian Presidency is determined to achieve substantial results in this area.
The social and economic integration of Roma is, I think, a moral obligation, but also, as Parliament's report rightly pointed out, an economic interest of our European societies.
It will help us to take the necessary steps to improve the situation of the Roma people and their social and economic integration into society.
As you might remember, on 7 April 2010, the Commission adopted a communication on the social and economic integration of Roma in Europe, which was the first ever policy document dedicated specifically to Roma.
We also agree, I think, that the primary responsibility for Roma populations lies with the Member States in which these Roma populations are moving, and it is for that reason that the Commission is drawing up this EU framework combined with national Roma integration strategies, because we need both: we need to know where we are all going together and we need to know where each individual Member State will go in order to adapt specific policies to the problems of the Roma in that Member State.
The EU framework to be presented in April will build on your resolution, Ms Járóka, on the work of the Commission's Roma Task Force and, of course, on the wide range of contributions received from Member States and from civil society.
There is indeed a social and economic necessity coupled here with a moral imperative.
Fourthly, I agree with Parliament that we need to put in place a strong mechanism to monitor national strategies for Roma integration.
It is clear that a number of Member States will not be able to make sufficient progress towards the Europe 2020 targets unless they take concrete steps to improve Roma integration.
In 2009, József B and his wife were sentenced by a Hungarian court to 10 months' imprisonment for the endangerment of minors.
The European Roma strategy will not bring about immediate change, but will give an opportunity for change.
Non-discrimination must be guaranteed, and not only in the labour market but in all areas of social life as well.
Madam President, I congratulate Mrs Járóka on her excellent cooperation.
The political establishment and business community must rediscover the Roma and ensure better access for them to the labour market so that they can contribute to the European Union's economic development and prosperity.
I truly hope that this report will be properly implemented and will help improve the Roma's social and economic integration on our continent.
They must also have full rights: human rights in the proper sense of the word.
The European Union must face up to the reality of the Roma problem, one which is dictated by the Roma's economic situation in general, but especially by aspects of their own tradition: nomadic lifestyle and low education level and, by extension, a lack of professional qualifications.
The Roma community needs to understand that it has to make the necessary efforts and that it has to really want to become integrated into society, regardless of country of origin or residence.
The future strategy devised by the Commission must propose framework programmes adapted to the nomadic lifestyle of some of the Roma community, which will be developed and implemented in a similar manner in all Member States.
It is hard to imagine the way in which these people live in some European capitals.
I believe that the struggle on behalf of the Roma is, above all, a struggle against poverty and not only amongst the Roma.
The efforts made on a local level are also important.
I hope that the Commission can come up with a good Roma strategy.
In my view, people in the developed countries 'discovered' the Roma not necessarily because they recognised the bad conditions in which Roma were living in their countries of origin, but because they were bothered by the presence of Roma in the streets and on the margins of cities.
Next, the European Commission also needs to get involved through its own projects, run by itself, pilot projects - that is what this report proposes - which could be run, for example, in the micro-regions that we have spoken about, so that exemplary, remarkable projects can convince all interested parties to become involved in this inclusion process.
This approach does not obey the principle of subsidiarity, if it is true - as indeed it is - that these measures must be conceived and carried out at local, regional and national levels, since their impact is then on the regions and their native populations.
He would start by selling this place off and nobody would dare to complain. (HU) Madam President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Járóka.
In several Member States, there is a large number of Roma groups caught in the trap of poverty, and there will never be a sufficient number of jobs for them, because without qualifications, they are essentially unemployable.
The training of Roma girls merits special attention, because it would appear that they tend to become early school leavers more often, and also because girls are exploited to a much greater extent in work at home. (SK) Madam President, we are dealing with another highly sensitive topic and, in my opinion, the European Parliament must resolve it, the Commission must resolve it and the Council must resolve it, because Roma inclusion is now no longer possible at the EU Member State level alone.
Our problem is that we also encounter enormous levels of prejudice in our societies - and I mean now in those Member States where the problems with Roma are perhaps worse than in other Member States.
This report addresses a few of the problems, but in a one-sided way.
I am thinking, in particular, about the whole part relating to schooling for Roma children, in which we point out that schooling is both a right and a duty, in which the children's families must also be involved.
Roma must switch from the role of spectators to the role of players involved in turning these measures intended for them into a reality.
The Committee framework will offer the opportunity for greater governance when countries fail to support regions and local authorities.
I believe that, more than any other policy aimed at social integration, education is the most powerful instrument for improving this community's situation.
At the same time, we must bear in mind the particular characteristics of this ethnic group, which, on quite a few occasions, are the cause of their problems.
At the same time, cooperation is required from the Roma community, which must assume its responsibility and change its situation for the better. (FI) Madam President, Commissioners, to start with, I wish to thank, in particular, the rapporteur, Mrs Járóka, and the shadow rapporteurs for an excellent report, which presents Parliament's robust guidelines for building a common Roma strategy for the EU.
Any future strategy must be built on a comprehensive and concrete approach and cooperation between the Commission, the Member States and, in particular, Roma organisations.
We need to develop a monitoring system for the Member States for the implementation of Roma issues, one that would have a permanent structure. (HU) Madam President, Secretary of State, Commissioner Reding, Commissioner Andor, first of all, please allow me to congratulate Mrs Járóka on her excellent report and on all the work she has been doing here consistently for the protection of European Roma communities since 2004.
I would like to approach today's debate from the perspective of children, because today, all children in Europe should be guaranteed access, in practice as well, to opportunities and upward mobility, whether it be children belonging to a majority community or to a minority one.
Today, the percentage of children living with multiple disadvantages in extreme poverty is 19% at EU level, and a sizeable proportion of these children are Roma.
Using the Járóka report as its basis, a EU level Roma strategy must therefore strengthen Member States' and social solidarity, for example, by means of crisis maps, and must also encourage local initiatives.
It is, after all, in the interest of us all to prove that it is possible to change our attitude to our environment.
I welcome the fact that the Hungarian Presidency treats the development of this Roma strategy as one of its foremost priorities and is in close cooperation with Mrs Járóka on this matter. (HU) Madam President, the issue of the social exclusion and the economic and social situation of the Roma has provided the grounds for debate since the accession of the Central and Eastern European countries.
We have a shared responsibility; all of us are responsible, but the Roma communities are responsible for their own fates as well, and so is Europe for not having acknowledged the problem until now.
The majority has more responsibility, but the minority still has some.
The social integration of Roma lags behind, being considered Utopian by many, both in the administration and in the community.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Járóka and also Mrs Kinga Göncz, and I welcome the commitment of the Council and the Commission. (RO) Madam President, the fact that we are discussing today the drafting of a European strategy for Roma citizens is recognition at last that this problem comes under an EU and not only a national remit.
That is why I believe Europe 2020 is a good framework and will help in developing the appropriate strategies, policies and financial support.
The EU framework for national Roma strategies will first be presented to the European Platform for Roma Inclusion because we need - as many parliamentarians have said - to include the Roma population in our work and for them to take on their responsibility.
It is also very important - and here I look to the Presidency - that there will be a follow-up of the work we do in the coming months so that we can see how all the projects will be implemented in practice.
This is the best possible timing, because in April, the Commission will publish its communication and we then wish to incorporate that communication into the work of the Council.
As Commissioner Andor has said, it is a social and economic issue in that extreme poverty still represents a general problem in many places in the EU Member States.
Indeed, education is investment in the future, and this is a key point when we are talking about people who are inactive, not just because they have no jobs and no opportunity to study, but who are inactive in a deeper sense of the word, because they have given up hope.
It is very important to enable these people to change from objects of these measures into subjects, and to participate in this themselves, as partners.
After all, Europe belongs to all of us, and the majority can only feel well if the minority feels well, too.
To conclude, I would like to express the hope I have formed, over the past six years, that the upcoming Commission Communication will be able to endorse these points and provide a very good basis on which the Hungarian Presidency can pledge its commitment to launching this European Roma strategy.
Governments and Roma must do what they have signed up to: take determined action to deliver tangible results.
I would like to underline that by adopting a common strategy for the whole of Europe on Roma inclusion, we in the European Parliament are demonstrating that the European Union is not just leaving Roma integration problems to be addressed by the Member States themselves.
Furthermore, we should involve representatives of the Roma community as much as possible in the process of drafting EU policy on Roma issues.
The report on the EU strategy on Roma inclusion lists the problems and difficulties facing Roma communities in the EU.
Roma integration is therefore not merely a moral duty and a duty in terms of human rights protection but, above all, an economic necessity as well.
Although the EU level is very important, I believe that the most effective results can be achieved by acting at local or regional level.
I wish the European Parliament, the European Commission, the European Council and, last but not least, the Hungarian EU Presidency, successful work in developing and bringing to a final conclusion this momentous strategy for the integration of the Roma by June this year.
