Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is founded on a relationship of solidarity between its Member States.
All these implications are particularly worrying because the latest estimates suggest that tax fraud in the European Union amounts to EUR 200 billion a year.
Member States which have good control of their public finances and counter-cyclical fiscal policies have been able to provide financial incentives to help their economies exit the crisis.
This directive will not only help boost efficiency in this area relating to the recovery of claims, but will also help the single market operate better.
I believe that this report will clearly illustrate the efficiency with which the European Union operates, by virtue of its institutions, when faced with a problem that requires urgent and specific attention.
The fight against tax havens, tax evasion and illicit capital flight must be considered priorities of the European Union.
The point is that we need increasing tax cooperation and collaboration in the European Union.
The general objective that we must set ourselves is for automatic information exchange on a global and multilateral scale, but this must, obviously, start within the European Union.
As Mrs Alvarez has already said, we must completely abolish bank secrecy in European Union countries and hasten to put an end to the temporary derogation that allows the application of a withholding tax, which is often evaded or underestimated, instead of an exchange of information.
Mr Kovács, having listened to the other reports as well, we need strong commitment by the Commission and we now also need these priorities to be emphasised to the new Commission at the time of handover.
The tax policy issues you are currently discussing have a major role in order to achieve the Commission's objective to better tackle tax fraud and evasion which results in the loss of EUR 200 billion to EUR 250 billion a year at EU level.
I am very pleased that the essential message of the reports is one of support for the Commission's initiatives.
I understand that the reports encourage increased efforts concerning, firstly, good governance in tax matters, both in the European Union and beyond; secondly, administrative cooperation in the tax area; thirdly, mutual assistance in the recovery of tax claims; and, fourthly, the fight against VAT fraud, in particular, carousel fraud.
The Commission adopted the communication in April 2009, promoting these principles in order to combat cross-border tax fraud and evasion, both within the EU and beyond, and to achieve a level playing field.
The Commission has tabled several proposals in order to improve good governance within the EU.
The Commission services are currently preparing a Communication which would be dedicated to good governance in tax matters in the specific context of development cooperation.
This communication will address what role good governance in tax matters can play in improving resources mobilisation in developing countries, notably through capacity building.
To be explicitly clear, a tax haven which has 12 agreements with other tax havens would certainly not pass the threshold.
Work on possible sanctions is less advanced and, of course, any EU action must take into account individual Member States' tax policies.
The proposed new directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation seeks to enhance and streamline all mechanisms of exchange of information and other forms of cooperation between the Member States to better prevent tax fraud and tax evasion.
In particular, the directive proposes to withdraw bank secrecy in the relations between Member States for administrative cooperation purposes.
Let me recall that the objective of this proposal is to enhance within the EU all types of exchange of information and other forms of administrative cooperation and specifically automatic exchange, which is a major pillar for preventing tax fraud and tax evasion.
Promoting the exchange of information on request, as an OECD standard, is certainly an acceptable approach with third countries but, in a fully integrated internal market as the EU single market is, Member States must be more ambitious and go further.
I also notice that the report welcomes this proposal for a new directive for administrative cooperation as it also extends its scope to cover taxes of any kind and it abolishes bank secrecy.
Concerning the amendments aimed at providing for more defined rules on the protection of private data, I would like to underline that in any case, Member States are compelled to respect the existing Community legislation on this subject and that therefore, these rules will have to be respected without any further amendment of the present draft directive.
The Commission can also accept in principle the amendments on bank secrecy, which would not distinguish between taxpayers based on their tax residency.
National provisions on tax recovery are limited in scope to national territories, and fraudsters have taken advantage of this to organise insolvencies in Member States where they have debts.
Member States therefore increasingly request the assistance of other Member States to recover taxes, but existing provisions have only allowed 5% of debts to be recovered.
As you know, ECOFIN reached an agreement on 19 January 2010 on a general approach to the draft directive.
They would need to assess the effectiveness of this measure, as well as its impact on a possible shift of fraud to other Member States, to other types of supplies and other fraud patterns.
I was pleased that the Council took up this proposal so quickly and reached agreement on it at the ECOFIN of 2 December.
Finally, I would like to thank the European Parliament once again for its speedy reaction as well as for its clear support.
Allow me, Mr President, to address a final word to Commissioner Kovács, who is fighting his last battle this evening.
One forgets that, each year in the European Union, EUR 200 billion evades taxation, and these are resources which could have been used for essential recovery policies, resources which would allow us calmly to face up to what some are calling, in inverted commas, the demographic time bomb.
I hope that the vote we take on Wednesday confirms the vote in committee and results in some encouraging tax recovery texts.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I am glad that we are debating these reports within the Commissioner's term, even if it is only just.
Now, in many - in fact, I would say in most - things, we have had a mutually supportive dialogue, Commissioner, though of course we have not agreed on everything.
But your activism in this matter has already created positive developments, both within and beyond the EU.
I also commend the directive on mutual assistance for recovery of claims but consider a lower threshold for implementation more appropriate.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for some weeks now, it has been fashionable to worry about the budget deficits of certain Member States.
In so doing, it will be a step forward, but it should pave the way not for more competition but for more cooperation.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs and other shadows for the hard work they have put into producing these reports.
If this information was to be shared across the EU, many third countries would refuse to sign similar agreements in the future.
Mr President, without doubt, the reports in question make a positive effort towards creating a legislative framework in terms of administrative cooperation at European Union level in the field of direct and indirect taxation other than VAT and excise.
However, I must say that the reports, the proposals for directives and so forth touch on the problem of tax evasion and tax fraud.
However, there are two aspects of tax evasion which have stood out during the crisis.
The first has to do with tax competition within Europe; the last thing this promotes is solidarity and economic and social cohesion between the Member States.
As we all know, these companies are tax evasion and money laundering vehicles.
This being so, and as numerous Members have stressed, in these times of economic crisis, with all the Member States facing financial problems, not to mention the fact that the way in which the European Central Bank and Stability Pact operate is inadequate and they are exacerbating rather than resolving the problem, we need common solutions to common problems, one of which is tax evasion.
We need to come down on tax evasion and tax fraud, so that governments have revenue at a time at which there is an urgent need for redistributive and development policies.
May I suggest, if you really want tax harmonisation, that the Commission and the bureaucracy pay the same taxes as the electorate, that they bear the same burden of tax as the rest of us, before the electorate storm this building and hang us from the rafters, as they have every right to do. (DE) Mr President, we need to overhaul the democratic process.
I strongly believe that Member States' tax authorities must cooperate in order to track down tax fraud.
The Domenici report gives an account of how to close those back doors.
I know that Commissioner Kovács has doubts about this, but I think work could begin in that direction.
Finally, I am glad the Commission supports the need for tightening the requirements for tax information exchange as stipulated by the OECD model agreement applicable to 12 States.
The economic and financial crisis has hastened the need to make our tax systems as effective, reliable and fair as possible.
The reverse charge mechanism is likely to be an excellent way of preventing such VAT fraud.
If Mrs Lulling had done us the honour of staying with us, I could have told her that the question of civil liberties does indeed arise when we are talking about the exchange of sensitive data, but that, in my view, there is a major difference between the data that we can exchange between Member States of the European Union - in other words in the framework of the internal market, and in the service of the internal market - and the data that we exchange with other countries, even friendly countries such as the United States.
The second, highly political issue, especially after the crisis, is the fight against tax havens, but also against grey areas - or indulgent practices - which unfortunately still exist within the European Union or in associated territories.
Finally, to conclude, I would like to say a word to Mr Kovács - it is quite rare to be able to say goodbye to someone on the very evening that their mandate is ending - and, above all, to give a piece of advice to the Commissioner-designate, Mr Šemeta, whose initial steps in this area we have welcomed, just as we have welcomed the initial steps of the Barroso II Commission, which seems determined to tackle the issue, especially by entrusting Mr Monti with the task of drafting a report on the internal market containing all of these aspects.
That is why the proposals in this report, which aim to go beyond this approach, to adopt a new definition of tax havens and to introduce new tools - including sanctions - to help in this fight are hugely important.
We can only welcome the fact that the European Parliament is adopting them and, in so doing, will become one of the institutions that is most involved in this fight.
On a personal level, I would like to thank Mr Kovács for the seminar that we jointly organised in Brussels on 9 December to put this subject on the agenda.
Thank you and good luck. (CS) Mr President, Commissioner, today we are debating a package of economically and politically contentious proposals that are supposed to bring about significantly improved cooperation in the field of taxation.
The second important reason for tax evasion is the opacity and complexity of tax systems.
The contentious proposals are as follows: the introduction of the principle that there is an obligation to share information on taxpayers; secondly, the mandatory information on taxpayers is precisely defined and is clearly highly sensitive; thirdly, the obligation to share information on all types of tax is being applied for the first time and fourthly - a legislative novelty - banking secrecy is breached. (PT) Mr President, this debate is very important because what governments and the Commission itself have said to us is that in the years ahead, the crisis exit strategy depends on plans for radical cuts in public investment and social spending.
And this way forward is also the way forward in overcoming the crisis from a revenue point of view - mainly from a revenue point of view - as it will put an end to the nightmare that has been caused by tax havens and to the nightmare that has been caused by widespread tax evasion and tax fraud among large companies and the banking system.
The question is rather, what means do we wish to employ in order to achieve this objective.
The situation among Member States at present is that there are States that do not willingly exchange information on taxpayers with other Member States, even when requested to do so.
Right now, the European Union is in crisis - in Spain, unemployment is nearly 20%, in Latvia it is over 20%, in many other countries, it is well over 10%.
There is, of course, a global consensus that a lack of good governance in tax matters encourages tax fraud and tax evasion.
Governments in the poorest developing countries are being swindled out of EUR 92 billion a year in tax revenues, while the World Bank estimates that just a third of that - EUR 30 billion to EUR 34 billion - would pay for the UN's Millennium Development Goals.
More shockingly still, a UK charity, Christian Aid, maintains that around EUR 7 trillion is hidden away in tax havens.
Tax havens are under investigation, with proposals in the EU and in the OECD being taken forward.
I would like to finish by saying that those who seek to water down these proposals, hiding behind scaremongering on data privacy, are neither serious nor ambitious in supporting global action to tackle the scourge of tax evasion and to promote good governance, good citizenship and social responsibility. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, VAT fraud is not a mere peccadillo.
According to the latest estimates, citizens, and thereby taxpayers, lose up to EUR 100 billion every year, perhaps even more.
What we are trying to do with the reverse charge procedure is effectively eliminate the problem of VAT evasion or at least reduce it.
The first one is that combating tax fraud should not be used as a back door excuse for those who want to open up the debate on tax harmonisation across the EU.
The second point is on the controversial matter of exchange of information.
This document goes much wider and demands automatic exchange in all areas.
And just as this matter should be debated, another matter relating to tax competitiveness should also be debated by the European Union and the Member States, with a view to encouraging economic growth through taxation policies.
It is also necessary to view the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion in a legislative light.
Laws must be transparent and administrative bodies must also act in an appropriate manner.
This is exactly why the issue surrounding the exchange of information is relevant, where we must consider the decisions that have been made by international organisations that have really studied this matter such as, first and foremost, the OECD.
Specifically on the subject of tax havens, we must support the decisions and progress made at the G20 and, above all, we must remember that the measures in this area should be suitable, proportional and effective. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, here are some facts that are worth remembering: according to the OECD, assets amounting to EUR 5 to 7 trillion were stashed away in tax havens in 2008.
These include administrative cooperation, the Savings Tax Directive, debt recovery assistance, a code of conduct, as well as increased cooperation by Belgium, Austria, Luxembourg, the Isle of Man and even neighbouring countries: Switzerland, Monaco and Liechtenstein.
These citizens are the ones who expect us - as their representatives here in Parliament - to learn the lessons and truly guarantee competition, justice, transparency and honesty within the European Union.
However, the rules must be fair and no Member State must benefit from its rules being used to dodge taxes.
However, we must work to change the policy in our country rather than shirking our responsibilities.
In order to avoid unnecessary administrative expense and to create a clearer legal basis, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe has submitted an amendment to the effect that the Member States must not be forced to assist another Member State if the matter concerns less than EUR 1 500 per year.
Finally, I would like to thank Mr Kovács, Commissioner for 18 hours more, or whatever.
Thank you and good luck. (PL) Mr President, in its sixth term, the European Commission adopted a series of legislative proposals as part of the fight against tax fraud and tax avoidance in the European Union.
A key factor here is the proposal for a directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation.
Thanks to its adoption by practically all Member States, the directive which is currently in force was, undoubtedly, the first step in the direction of administrative cooperation in this field, although it was evident that specific results were lacking in terms of its implementation.
However, in this proposal, we have a strengthening of the internal sovereignty of individual Member States in the field of taxation by the application of more specific and effective management of tax receipts by each country, and also an intensification of the process of European integration, which is becoming increasingly necessary in the field of taxation, both from the political and economic as well as the administrative point of view. (DE) Mr President, thank you Commissioner Kovács for your excellent work.
Administrative cooperation between EU Member States in tax matters, which is my remit, is an ambitious project.
We have to work together to fight tax fraud and dubious tax havens.
The view of the Member States that not everything can be solved at European level is a blatant error.
The economic and financial crisis is causing the rise in deficits worldwide which, in turn, increases the importance of the resources assigned to the public budget.
As has already been said, the latest reports on this subject highlight the alarming magnitude of tax fraud in the European Union, amounting to more than EUR 200 billion annually, equivalent to 2-2.5% of GDP.
Our fellow Members who have worked on these reports, to whom I would like to express my appreciation for their efforts, have presented us with a glaring picture of the extent of the fraud.
In this sense, the automatic exchange of information, the lifting of banking secrecy and measures to improve mutual assistance in recovering claims may contribute significantly to making administrative cooperation between the 27 Member States more efficient.
Finally, I would like to wish Commissioner Kovács every success in his future endeavours. (SV) (initially without a microphone) ...
As has been mentioned, the EU's Member States are losing out on billions of euros of tax revenue every year because of failures in the exchange of information between the Member States.
The OECD estimates that 2.5% of global GDP is lost through tax evasion.
So what we have to do is, by collaboration, cooperation, conviction and persuasion, try and get things moving ahead - but we cannot do it by compulsion. (FI) Mr President, these proposals represent excellent efforts to facilitate the fight against tax fraud and improve cooperation between authorities.
In Finland, tax records are public knowledge and the country is one of the least corrupt in the world.
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which cannot keep track of all the legislation in this area, have particular difficulty offering their services in other countries.
I believe that, at least as far as e-Invoicing is concerned, a high-level group was already created in 2008 which finalised a report and recommendations for the European Commission last November.
This endless crisis will destroy the federal project - tax cooperation and all.
The EU needs common legislation, enforced uniformly in all Member States for combating tax fraud and evasion.
Therefore, the main message of these reports is that we must forge better cooperation in Europe.
Of course, tax evasion and tax fraud are not the causes of the economic and financial crisis.
It seems important to me to make it clear once again in this House that we must regain the confidence of the taxpayer through simple tax systems and through low and fair taxes.
However, that is not to say that we should not actively fight tax evasion and tax fraud, because any tax evasion undermines our sense of justice.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, honourable Members, I have found the debate interesting and inspiring.
Like most of you, I am persuaded that our efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and to increase tax cooperation are worthwhile.
I am grateful for your support and for the work of the four rapporteurs, and I am very grateful for the support for these important Commission initiatives.
Promoting good governance in tax matters is a complicated dossier containing several different issues.
The Commission, Parliament and the Council should continue efforts for the approval of the legislative proposals which are on the table or in the pipeline and the work of the Code of Conduct Group on business taxation.
As regards the specific proposals on administrative cooperation, mutual assistance in the recovery of tax claims and the optional and temporary reapplication of the reverse charge mechanism, I also want to thank you for your comments and views.
I am glad to see that the European Parliament and the Commission share views on the action to be undertaken to better combat tax fraud and evasion in the European Union and beyond.
It is clear that there is no one single and global solution for eliminating tax fraud and evasion, but the proposals we have discussed today are important steps forward within the framework of the European Union's anti-tax fraud strategy.
Finally, just one day before the end of the mandate, I would like to repeat my thanks for the support for the Commission's tax and customs initiatives and, in particular, for the cooperation of the ECON and IMCO Committees.
Many arguments could be adduced in this regard, but clearly the OECD model relates to the broader framework of international relations in which the rules of the game are very different from those which apply in the European Union.
The Member States are part of a political project and the relationship between their tax administrations must be consistent with that political project.
Thus, we should bear all this in mind and it is therefore incumbent on us to support this directive.
However, I firmly believe that we in this Chamber, at European institution level, must show every European citizen who honestly pays duties and taxes that we are determined to adopt every measure to keep tax evasion to a minimum so that the decisions on recovering claims for duties and taxes can be properly enforced, no matter which Member State the debtor resides in.
I, too, listened attentively to all that has been said and if I had to draw a conclusion from this important debate, it would be that we all agree that we must employ every means available to fight tax evasion and the different types of fraud that take place in various countries.
We must accomplish this by means of measures such as those that have been proposed today, without harming the trade sector - particularly SMEs - and without increasing bureaucracy.
Like my fellow members, I believe that I should thank the Commissioner for all the work that he has carried out these past years.
Mr Commissioner, obviously we have not always seen eye to eye, yet when we look back at the taxation sector I believe that today we have a fairer and more efficient system for our citizens, namely the citizens of the European Union.
I would just like to make two comments.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 10 February 2010.
The reverse charge system introduced by some Member States, including Romania, has worked very well.
This is why applying a reverse charge to products at a high risk of tax fraud is a reliable procedure which has a positive overall impact on the budget, even though there is a delay in payment to the national budget of the VAT accruing on the transactions liable for such a tax.
Cooperation between Member States is the foundation of this Union; however, that cooperation has always been based on mutual consent.
What we must be careful of in the field of taxation is not taking into account the needs of certain Member States.
The promotion of good governance in tax matters requires action at EU level and outside the EU, as well as across Member States.
The Member States with good governance in tax matters have been able to respond much more quickly and effectively to the economic crisis.
in writing. - (NL) Madam President, the tax authorities face a challenging task in the globalised, all-digital world.
The detection of fiscal and social fraud is complex even in the internal market.
The principle of reciprocity in tax information sharing is also in line with the agreements within the OECD and the G20.
