Implementation of the EU strategy for the Danube region (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on implementation of the EU strategy for the Danube region by Silvia-Adriana Ţicău, Constanze Angela Krehl, Hannes Swoboda, Adrian Severin, Ivailo Kalfin, Karin Kadenbach, Olga Sehnalová, Rovana Plumb, Csaba Sándor Tabajdi, Evgeni Kirilov, Katarína Neveďalová, Vasilica Viorica Dăncilă, Daciana Octavia Sârbu, Ioan Mircea Paşcu, George Sabin Cutaş, Britta Thomsen, Corina Creţu, Claudiu Ciprian Tănăsescu, Ioan Enciu, Cătălin Sorin Ivan, Mario Pirillo, Kinga Göncz, Marc Tarabella, Françoise Castex, Victor Boştinaru, Inés Ayala Sender, Bogusław Liberadzki, Jo Leinen, Michael Cashman, Brian Simpson, Saïd El Khadraoui, Thijs Berman, Eider Gardiazábal Rubial, Ismail Ertug, Edit Herczog, on behalf of the S&amp;D Group; Michael Theurer, Vladko Todorov Panayotov, Renate Weber, Sophia in 't Veld, Jan Mulder, Gesine Meissner, Jorgo Chatzimarkakis, Catherine Bearder, Viktor Uspaskich, Wolf Klinz, Nadja Hirsch, Cristian Silviu Buşoi, Giommaria Uggias, Ramona Nicole Mănescu, Adina-Ioana Vălean, Hannu Takkula, Jürgen Creutzmann, Alexander Alvaro, Holger Krahmer, on behalf of the ALDE Group; Reinhard Bütikofer, Michael Cramer, Eva Lichtenberger, Barbara Lochbihler, Heide Rühle, Elisabeth Schroedter, Isabelle Durant, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group; Peter van Dalen, Oldřich Vlasák, on behalf of the ECR Group - B7-0013/2011); the oral question to the Commission on EU strategy for the Danube region by Tamás Deutsch, Lambert van Nistelrooij, Danuta Maria Hübner, Marian-Jean Marinescu, Iosif Matula, Andrey Kovatchev, János Áder, Zoltán Bagó, Kinga Gál, Béla Glattfelder, András Gyürk, Ágnes Hankiss, Lívia Járóka, Ádám Kósa, Csaba Őry, Ildikó Gáll-Pelcz, György Schöpflin, László Surján, József Szájer, Edit Bauer, Alajos Mészáros, Csaba Sógor, László Tőkés, Iuliu Winkler, Elisabeth Jeggle, on behalf of the PPE Group - B7-0011/2011).
The European Parliament has helped develop the strategy both through its resolution of 20 January 2010 and the activity of its Danube Forum, and will continue to be an active partner as well in implementing and updating it.
We welcome the appointment of the Priority Area Coordinators on 3 February and ask them to devise work programmes and identify the financial resources required, as well as improve cooperation between countries and regions so that we can proceed immediately with the strategy's implementation.
Member States can review their operational programmes and reallocate unused funds for priority projects relating to the Danube region.
Member States must identify priority development areas and prepare relevant projects in good time, making sure that they are integrated projects targeting all the European funds available and, in particular, the opportunities for regional cooperation.
That is why it is important for the regions along both the upper and lower parts of the river to collaborate in a joint strategy for the Danube region under the European Union, aiming to sustain the natural character of the river.
The role and future of macro-regional strategies may be related to the debate over the future use of European funds, although in our view, it is unnecessary for today's debate to extend into a discussion on the future architecture of the cohesion policy and the anticipation of potential financial allocations designated for individual states in the coming financial perspective.
This region connects 14 European countries and 115 million European citizens.
For this reason, it is very important for us to exploit the opportunities for institutional cooperation and for establishing new institutions - particularly in view of the fact that this macro-regional strategy involves eight EU Member States and six non-Member States.
The reason is that this list should be available for all the countries involved, a list of projects which will be implemented jointly, at the same time, to help boost the region's economic development and, by extension, make it more attractive.
The coordination framework should not affect regional and local responsibilities but guarantee the implementation of the appropriate priorities.
This plan must be put into action and the resources already earmarked in the structural programmes must be supplemented both by the contribution from the states involved and also by the possibility of reallocating unused funds from other segments.
This is a question that also needs to be answered at European level.
Mr President, at the end of last year, the European Commission presented a communication - the Action Plan of the European Union strategy for the Danube region.
The instruments, Objective 3 of Cohesion Policy, provide an excellent basis as they cover municipal regions, companies and citizens.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) is saying 'yes' to this strategy.
The active participation of local and regional stakeholders is a guarantee that they recognise as their priorities the actions and projects included in the strategy.
I know, for example, that the river ports on the Danube, either at Vienna or Bratislava, will, after modernisation, make a very significant contribution to the area of multimodal transport, ensuring that not everything is transported just by lorries, as this damages the environment, of course.
The recent Bratislava conference on the Danube strategy, attended by Slovak Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Transport, Ján Figeľ, outlined the main trends and involvement of all the countries on the Danube that are taking part in the strategy.
As a result, following the request made by the European Council in June 2009, the Commission drew up the strategy for the Danube region.
I believe the strategy for the Danube region would provide an excellent basis for resolving these issues. (HU) Mr President, when, in my childhood, I swam in the Danube, I always got covered in oil and smelt of it too, so I hope this will change in the future.
The macro-region of the Baltic states is a very good example for us, and we can transpose a great many positive impulses into practice based on their experiences, primarily in environmental issues. (RO) Mr President, the European Union strategy for the Danube region, drawn up on the basis of the Baltic Sea strategy model, offers a means of coordinating the European Union's policies in a number of areas.
Secondly - I believe that too little attention has been paid to this hitherto, and I agree with all those who believe that ships should be adapted to the river, not the other way round - we should free ourselves of the notion that ships need to be of the same size right along the Danube.
We know that the average distance for freight transport is around 800 kilometres and I am convinced that if the choice available is sufficiently attractive, then that distance, too, could be reduced.
What we have to do is use the money that is available to create the corresponding added value for the Danube and for the citizens, all 115 million of them, who live along it.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 17 February 2011.
The European strategy in this area is targeted at communities, regions and European states, harmonising their needs for economic, social and cultural development, while also complying with the environmental standards of the Danube's natural habitat.
Strategic interconnections between neighbouring states will have a positive influence on energy security and environmental protection, bearing in mind the potential as a source of sustainable energy offered by the Danube macro-region.
in writing. - (EL) The strategy for the Danube region is proof positive of the crucial importance of an 'integrated approach' to the development of areas which face common challenges, challenges which do not stop at the EU's borders and which require common action if they are to be addressed effectively.
