It is a fundamental freedom which is enshrined in Article 16 of the treaty, and to which the Presidency attaches particular importance.
We should bear in mind, therefore, that it is still possible to conclude additional specific agreements afterwards.
By way of conclusion, therefore, Mr President, I should like to emphasise that the Presidency is striving to have the negotiating mandate for this comprehensive agreement dealt with at the same time as the three mandates for the PNR agreements with Australia, Canada and the United States, and that we should very much like to discuss the matter at the Council meeting on 2 and 3 December next.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, Baroness Ashton could not be with us today so I will cover both the EU-US summit and the Transatlantic Economic Council - often called the TEC.
As you know, the summit will take place in Lisbon on 20 November; it needs to demonstrate the added value of the EU-US partnership and its continued relevance in the 21st century.
I would like to underline three elements in particular: the importance of strengthening the strategic components of the Transatlantic Economic Council; the need for the TEC to support and foster cooperation on all matters affecting the regulatory environment for industries and consumers in the EU and the US; and the crucial role of legislators in becoming guardians and actors in the convergence of our approaches.
The next TEC meeting will take place on 17 December in Washington.
As well as working on implementing millennium development goals on food security and helping the poorest countries adapt to climate change, we need to work closely on coordinating our efforts in the recipient countries so as to maximise the effectiveness and impact of our aid and avoid duplication of effort.
On security: recognising that fundamental rights and the security of citizens are complementary and mutually reinforcing; we need to ensure that there is a good balance between the two in all of our work.
I know that Viviane Reding will discuss this important issue, including the agreement on passenger name records, with you later today.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, on 26 May, the Commission recommended that the Council should authorise negotiations on the EU-US data protection agreement and submitted draft negotiation guidelines.
This recommendation for a mandate is now being discussed in the Council.
With your support, I am determined to end this piecemeal approach and to negotiate an umbrella agreement that: provides a coherent and harmonised set of data protection standards and includes essential principles such as the principle of proportionality, data minimisation, minimal retention periods and purpose limitation; is applicable to all future and existing agreements dealing with information sharing for law enforcement purposes; contains all the necessary data protection standards in line with the Union's data protection acquis and suggests enforceable rights for individuals, administrative and judicial redress or a non-discrimination clause; ensures the effective application of data protection standards and their control by independent public authorities.
I also believe that we need to be ambitious.
I am determined to pursue my objectives and I am confident that I can count on the support of the European Parliament in order to achieve a good agreement with the US, an agreement which will ensure a high level of data protection for all individuals and allow us to pursue the necessary and important cooperation with the United States to prevent terrorism and organised crime.
Mr President, Mr De Clerck, Mrs Reding, Mr De Gucht, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) supports the joint motion for a resolution and would like to thank those who have spoken here.
We must understand - ahead of the EU-US summit and now, as the G20 summit takes place - that on many issues - not just economic issues, but also in matters concerning peace and environmental protection - only a joint response by Europe stands a chance of being realised on a global scale.
Mr De Gucht realises this in the case of the Transatlantic Economic Council (TEC), Mrs Reding in the case of data protection, and we also saw in the case of SWIFT that parliaments play an important part when it comes to realising this.
Together, the Europeans and Americans - who still account for 60% of the world's gross domestic product - have a chance to lay down such standards and give a positive response to the challenges of terrorism, matters relating to Iran and the Middle East, climate change and many other issues besides.
It is necessary to ensure data protection, but for a variety of reasons, we also need to have an exchange of data.
If you will allow me to make a further comment, in this instance on matters relating to financial markets, it must of course be said that while legislation has been passed to ensure that the events of two years ago cannot be repeated, the Fed has now, for example, decided to place USD 600 million on the market without consultation, with the result that naturally, there are fears concerning inflation and other things and some turbulence in the global economy.
I would particularly like to concentrate on what Mr De Gucht said, because it needs to be noted that the US has changed since 2 November.
This area will be very difficult, and all the more so since 2 November.
That strategic partnership must be rooted in economic and political freedom.
The more we anchor our partnership in shared respect for our common values, the more strongly we can act to resonate those values in the wider world.
In such a situation, it is all the more important to signal our reliable cooperation and to set clear priorities for our future work together.
Nevertheless, it is important that our representatives, President Barroso and President Van Rompuy, make it clear there that Europe will not allow itself to be held back or dragged down by this.
I am thinking, for example, of whether protectionist tendencies will increase and influence trade and economic policy, or whether President Obama will turn his attention more towards foreign policy areas such as the Iran conflict, the Middle East or the conflict in Afghanistan.
For Europe, and for the EU in particular, this should only be of limited interest, because the EU needs to be able to define its own emphases and objectives, and its own interests.
The emergence of a multi-polar world dictates the need for a new definition of modalities for cooperation between the two sides on all existing bilateral and global issues.
Unilateral actions, such as the quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve, are as worrying as the depreciation of the renminbi. (EL) Mr President, the explosion of interest in the European Parliament on the part of the United States in the wake of the rejection of the initial Swift agreement has now died down somewhat.
It is perhaps a good thing that the initial hoo-hah has abated, because we can develop a really strong long-term relationship between the European Parliament and Congress with a clear head, using the new structures being set up. (DE) Mr President, Mr De Clerck, Mr De Gucht, Mrs Reding, we have heard enough already about how important transatlantic relations are; I do not believe that anybody here is questioning that.
Mrs Reding, you have once again made it clear that you are the right woman in the right post to do that.
You mentioned fundamental principles of European data protection law, and I believe we can make no concessions on these in connection with an EU-US data protection agreement.
We cannot have a race to the bottom here when we are making an agreement that is primarily aimed at protecting our citizens.
Mrs Reding, I believe that when your mandate is negotiated in the Council on 2 and 3 December, it can be assumed that this House will be behind you.
From our perspective, it is now urgently necessary that the Council also accepts this proposal, so that the negotiations can commence as soon as possible.
I should like to conclude, however, by mentioning one more aspect that is particularly important to us as Parliament: only when we succeed in creating a uniform framework within the EU will we gain the trust of our citizens in respect of transatlantic data protection.
The forthcoming NATO summit on 19 November presents a good opportunity for the 21 NATO allies that are also EU Member States to demonstrate their commitment to the new realities. (PT) It is time to urge the US to work towards the peaceful resolution of conflicts, to end military occupation and war, whether it be in Iraq, Afghanistan or the Middle East, to end the embargo on Cuba, to stop supporting the aggressive policies of Israel, which are responsible for the humanitarian crisis in Gaza and the occupied Palestinian territories, and to work towards nuclear disarmament.
We would therefore like to show our solidarity with the struggle of the peace movement, with the workers' struggle and with the many organisations which are building up the 'Yes to peace, no to NATO' campaign, including the demonstration which will take place in Lisbon on 20 November. (NL) Mr President, Turkey's strategic importance to transatlantic relations is obvious.
I hope we can persuade our American allies to continue their multilateral approach in international relations and to show this multilateralism in a practical approach in their relations with the European Union.
On non-proliferation, we should not only keep our capacity to work together but also act in a smart way.
A second important area in which our principles are similar but our approaches diverge considerably is the area of climate change.
If we want real balance, development and security issues need to be divided between the United States and Europe within the framework of international action in general. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would simply like to make three brief points, on behalf also of some of my colleagues on the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
The costs are out of all proportion to the benefit and it is unreasonable to expect this of European ports and enterprises. (BG) Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since President Obama has assumed office, relations between the European Union and the United States have entered a new era of stable cooperation.
The summit in Cancún, which will be starting in a fortnight, will provide a fine opportunity for the US and Europe to adopt the same stance and lead the other countries towards a lasting, binding agreement on combating global climate change.
Kyoto runs out in two years, but we need certainty and time to adapt.
I am sure that, as the Chinese ambassador also emphasised during the meeting with us today, the US, the European Union and China will assume their responsibility when they sit down at the negotiating table and will lead the way in the efforts to achieve a new agreement guaranteeing the safety of future generations. (DE) Mr President, the United States and Europe are the West's companions in fate.
We are convinced that the Transatlantic Economic Council not only can, but indeed must, play an important part in promoting a joint approach by the Economic Union and the US to their trade relations with third countries.
We urge this Transatlantic Economic Council to work towards a common approach and a common strategy for new free trade agreements by the US and the EU, although I realise that this will not be without its problems.
If I may address you directly, Commissioner De Gucht: when it comes to cooperation, it would be good if the Commission and Parliament could learn something from the way that Washington works together in the area of trade policy. (RO) I think that one of the items for discussion during the transatlantic dialogue at the forthcoming European Union-US bilateral summit must be the lifting of visa requirements for the four EU Member States whose citizens are still subject to this travel restriction; namely, Romania, Bulgaria, Poland and Cyprus.
That is what we will demonstrate in a few hours, for example, at the G20 summit; at least, I very much hope so. (ES) Mr President, the Union's most important strategic relationship is the one it has with the United States.
We should therefore also improve our mechanisms for dialogue and coordination with the United States.
It is true that there is a widespread and - in many ways understandable - rush to a commercial agreement, for example, with countries like China.
We derive strength from the will of 500 million people and from a new and more solid institutional structure that must give us the ability to abandon the temptation to hide behind the American giant and instead take the destiny of our people into our own hands, perhaps asking our friends in the United States to state their position on a single seat for the European Union at the United Nations. (RO) I welcome the EU-US data protection agreement, which must be supported in order to strengthen cooperation in the areas of combating crime and terrorism.
Furthermore, 75 US law professors have recently sent a letter to President Obama.
Mr President, I would like to thank Commissioners De Gucht and Reding for their intense but realistic approach to the EU-US summit.
I would like Ms Reding to go into these talks feeling strengthened by the support of the European Parliament and with peace of mind, knowing that we are behind her in securing a deal which is good for our citizens, a deal guaranteeing both our security and our privacy. (PL) Mr President, two years ago, when Barack Obama was elected to the office of President of the United States, it seemed that, after the difficult term of office of his predecessor, relations between Europe and America would be normalised.
The upcoming EU-US summit should be used to express our disapproval and to appeal to be treated as partners.
Cooperation is not only in our interest, but is also in Washington's interest, particularly in view of the new geopolitical order which is emerging. (SK) Relations between the European Union and the US are relations between two great powers, but despite that, I often cannot help thinking that pragmatism is over-ruled by a kind of narrow-minded egotism.
What we should be doing is creating the common standards for future technologies, not creating new trade barriers by working independently.
I am disappointed that Elmar Brok has gone because I want to say to him that this new orientation means we will need new people to work in his transatlantic legislators' dialogue because we have new challenges to meet. (DE) Mr President, I refer to the data protection agreement and would like to point out that all existing agreements absolutely must comply with European data protection standards.
We have to assert ourselves and have our voices heard. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Commission and the Council, ladies and gentlemen, relations between the European Union and the United States must be based on the maximum guarantee of security in order for our cooperation to succeed.
We must eliminate all the problems here, within the European Union.
Visa requirements for citizens of four countries that form part of the 27 Member States is a serious limitation of freedom.
After all, our highest priority must be to protect our citizens.
We need to make sure that the US does not back-track on its Copenhagen commitments and we must encourage them to contribute to a successful outcome of the COP 16 meeting in Cancún.
Regarding the TEC and what its agenda might be, we are currently working with our US counterparts to fix the final agenda for the next TEC meeting, bearing in mind the input from advisers.
I believe the precise date is 29 November.
With the support of the EU-US Senate leaders, I will look to move forward on that at the forthcoming TEC meeting on 17 December.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, after the remarks of my colleague Karel De Gucht on the general agreement and relations with the United States, let me concentrate on the future umbrella agreement on data protection.
As I have already told you, on 26 May this year, the Commission put forward a proposal for a negotiation mandate.
We have to show that those standards are built on our values of justice and fundamental rights and of the right to reciprocity, both of which have to be very clearly put on the transatlantic agenda.
I think that this will also be very important in order to raise understanding of such data protection agreements on both sides of the Atlantic, so here, you could be of much help in the course of the negotiations.
Madam President, I can be very brief, as I, of course, concur with the words of Commission Vice-President Reding, namely, that it has been a good debate and that the next stage will be 2 and 3 December.
I hope, therefore, that the Commission will achieve good results in the short term - hopefully after the Council meeting on 2 and 3 December.
Thank you for this debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 11 November 2010.
On the other hand, both partners must cooperate more closely to promote growth and employment in their own economies, especially as 30 million jobs have been wiped out worldwide in recent years by the economic crisis.
In this respect, the Transatlantic Economic Council remains the most suitable mechanism for achieving the objective of establishing a unified transatlantic market by 2015.
In the EU, the right to the protection of personal data is explicitly established in both Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Article 16 of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I believe that it is necessary, at the forthcoming summit, to call on EU leaders to give Washington a clear indication of our support for the efforts of President Obama on global nuclear disarmament and on the ratification of the new START Treaty, which was signed by the Russian and US Presidents this year in Prague.
Since President Barack Obama triumphed in the elections two years ago, the positions of the EU and the USA have converged significantly, in particular, as regards disarmament, combating climate change, and issues of defusing flashpoints of international conflicts.
This is significant capital and this line must be pursued.
As the exchange of data between the European Union and the United States is increasingly necessary and frequent in the context of the fight against terrorism and organised crime, a general and common legal framework must also be drawn up to protect personal data.
We need constructive, strengthened cooperation in areas such as overcoming the economic and financial crisis, the fight against terrorism, global stability, peace in the Middle East, the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, development aid and climate change.
More intensive dialogue will be advantageous to both sides.
