Development aspects of the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty - Role of minimum income in combating poverty and promoting an inclusive society in Europe (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the subject of poverty: Statements by the Council and the Commission on development aspects of the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty, and the report by Mrs Figueiredo, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the role of minimum income in combating poverty and promoting an inclusive society in Europe (http://www.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/FindByProcnum.do?lang=en&amp;procnum=INI/2010/2039" ).
It is enshrined in Article 208 of the Treaty of Lisbon, and in the European consensus on development, we clearly stated that the overarching aim of EU development cooperation is the eradication of poverty in the context of sustainable development, including pursuit of the Millennium Development Goals.
However, achieving all the Millennium Development Goals, in the context of sustainable development, comes under a collective responsibility under which all partners should honour the commitments they have made.
The European Union is convinced that the developing countries are also responsible for and masters of their own development and that it is up to them, above all, to take responsibility for achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
On 22 September this year, on adopting the final document of the Millennium Development Goal summit, UN Member States also renewed their commitment to work together to improve the economic and social contexts of all people and to do everything within their power to ensure that the Millennium Development Goals are achieved between now and 2015.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, let me first thank you for this opportunity to talk about the challenge of poverty and what the European Union can do on the global level through its development cooperation policy.
It is a challenge that must be tackled, not only for obvious reasons of solidarity and duty, but also for the sake of worldwide prosperity and stability.
Overall, 120 million people moved out of poverty between 2000 and 2005, which corresponds to an annual drop of 2.4%, but there is no time for complacency.
The European Union was instrumental in making this event a success by shaping and voicing a strong common approach among our 27 Member States.
The plan also confirms our commitment to meeting the 0.7% GNI target by 2050, despite the difficult economic and financial context.
Turning the Millennium Development Goals - in particular, the goal relating to poverty eradication - into Millennium Development Realities by 2015 will also remain the overarching priority of my action.
To meet the goals, it is also of paramount importance that we are more creative in enhancing the impact of our aid, in promoting more sustainable and more inclusive growth, and in mobilising other and additional sources of finance for development.
I would like to thank Ms Figueiredo for her report on minimum income schemes.
It has inspired several recent Commission initiatives in the area of active inclusion, in particular, the 2008 Commission recommendation on active inclusion which was endorsed by Parliament and the Council.
The Commission therefore welcomes this report.
At the same time, we fully respect Member State competences as regards the design and functioning of social protection schemes in general and minimum income schemes in particular.
Adequate income is a fundamental component in the fight against poverty for people who cannot work.
Member States are currently taking fiscal consolidation measures to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances.
The Commission shares the view that these measures have to take account of the need to protect the most vulnerable members of society.
The European Commission will present a European Platform against Poverty by the end of this year, setting out concrete measures to support Member States in reaching the target of lifting at least 20 million European citizens out of poverty by 2020.
At the end of 2008, Eurostat said that, even after welfare contributions, around 85 million people would be at risk of poverty, but the situation will be all the worse with further neoliberal EU policies and the so-called austerity measures that are being taken by several Member States.
It is therefore necessary to change policies in order to tackle poverty and social exclusion, as demanded by the millions of demonstrators across Europe, including here in Strasbourg.
The objectives and guiding principles of the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion cannot be mere words in the wind.
Consequently, minimum income schemes based on at least 60% of the median income in each country should be an integral part of a strategy aimed at social integration, involving both general policies and specific measures for society's most vulnerable groups in terms of housing, healthcare, education and training, and social services.
According to the latest United Nations report on the state of the world's cities, 827 million people live in shanty towns today, and that number will continue to grow by an average of 6 million every year.
As has already been emphasised, Europe is not a stranger to this: today, almost 80 million of our citizens are living in poverty - 16% of the Union's population - and a good 19 million of them are children.
The recent economic crisis has resulted in a rise in unemployment.
The Millennium Development Goals must be attained, and we can proceed at international level in exactly the same way we are proceeding with new Member States.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I believe the minimum income report that we have voted through in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is the best way forward and will achieve the widest support.
We must make sure that Member States meet their targets for poverty reduction as outlined in the EU 2020 strategy.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, 80 million people living in poverty in Europe, over 5 million homeless, millions poorly housed, one in five children victims of poverty, and, at the other end of the scale, what do we have?
That is why we are asking the European Commission for a framework directive which aims to set an adequate minimum income.
Numerous Member States of the European Union are using the call for the sustainability of public finances to justify the reduction in social services and reallocations by way of cuts in the health service and in the pension systems, reductions in labour market policy instruments and in services provided for the unemployed and for children and families.
We are doing this ourselves in our EU Member States, and in this assembly, we act as if we simply need to campaign for people in poverty to no longer be excluded.
I would like to point out that the Europe 2020 strategy and the sustainability strategy of the European Union contradict one another, thus making it impossible to combat global poverty.
I am in favour of a minimum wage, but only as set by each country for itself.
Indeed, in Europe, we have the highest average standard of living overall in the world but nowhere else in the world is there such division within our European society as well as between Europe and Africa.
Too many children are poor and face health and educational problems rooted in ongoing poverty.
The fight against this phenomenon is one of the priorities set in the 2020 strategy.
And an adequate minimum income for everyone in Europe is clearly one of those means.
For this reason, this report must be followed up by a framework directive that takes into account national practices. (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as I am concerned, there are three important observations to be made in this debate.
The 2020 strategy does indeed open up some interesting perspectives on how to tackle structural unemployment but it is within the context of managing the current crisis that the European Union needs to find ways of improving levels of employment.
A Malthusian approach which involves asserting what is spent in the name of solidarity is quite simply... (The President cut off the speaker) Madam President, I think we are all aware of the importance of minimum income schemes across the European Union, although not all Member States have them in place yet.
We do need to develop these schemes so that everybody in the EU can live in dignity. (PL) We are holding this debate on poverty during the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
The causes of poverty are varied, and they are often associated with social ills and social exclusion.
However, particularly striking and very shameful is the fact of the occurrence of poverty among working people and even among those who have no children or a small number of children.
At pan-European level, workers need to save EUR 2 billion a year in order to plug this gap in their insurance cover and ensure they have a decent standard of living once they retire.
The majority on the Committee finally decided to propose that the Member States should set a minimum income of 60% of their median income threshold, and some Members even called for a framework law on minimum income.
In some Member States, differently tiered and income-related social services as well as universal services funded through taxation are also part of the social security system.
We must take a legislative initiative on minimum income and organise the financing ... (The President cut off the speaker) (MT) As has already been said, the subject of poverty is occupying a high place on our agenda.
Clearly therefore, we need to encourage as many people as possible to enter the labour market, women in particular.
The existing crises in certain Member States have worsened, social inequalities have widened, and this situation has led to an increase in the number of people living below the poverty line.
Even though the poverty line differs from country to country within the EU, what is certain is that this is a growing phenomenon in our Union, which has the most advanced social model in the world as its development paradigm.
The data on child poverty in my country are devastating.
We welcome the target bringing 20 million people out of poverty by 2020, just as we welcome the efforts to promote employment and social inclusion.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for her contribution and stress that as a minimum income is desirable; setting the amount should be the responsibility of each Member State. (HU) In 1992, the UN declared 17 October the International Day of Poverty.
In 2000, the international organisation committed to halving the rate of people living in severe poverty within 15 years.
Therefore, I believe we need to take an initiative at European level, too, ladies and gentlemen.
It is about living in dignity - the right to live in dignity - and about food, housing, clothing: basic things that are evidently not guaranteed in our prosperous European Union in the year 2010.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that is why I believe that action needs to be taken at European level, too, to secure this minimum income.
That is why we are expressly calling for a guaranteed minimum income scheme to be introduced in all the countries of the European Union.
This would be an important signal of hope to all the most vulnerable persons in Europe, those who are currently affected by poverty and social exclusion. (SL) I am pleased that we are also trying to raise this issue of poverty and social exclusion at the level of the European institutions.
That is very important.
However, in this material, I have also come across a proposal for a universal basic income or unconditional income for all.
This is why Europe must continue its efforts to achieve them.
One possible measure would also be to extend the Erasmus programme, currently intended for students, to other socio-professional groups as well, such as young people without university qualifications or unemployed people included in professional retraining programmes. (BG) Given the European Union's fundamental principle of solidarity and in the context of the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, I am calling for the introduction of guaranteed adequate minimum income levels in all EU Member States, which will support people with insufficient incomes in order to consolidate their economic and social integration and provide a decent living.
Finally, I wish to stress that we will only be able to protect our citizens against social exclusion, especially women and risk groups, as well as ethnic minorities, with the help of an extensive range of concrete political solutions ensuring the provision of resources for social intervention and protection. (DE) Madam President, I would like to appeal once again to the Commission to ensure that, if it establishes a poverty platform, it does not allow this simply to remain empty words, but that it takes up Parliament's initiatives.
If our discussions today are not followed up by concrete actions based on what we have heard here today, I fear that the declarations made by us will fall on deaf ears, mere good intentions with no real impact on misery and poverty throughout the world and in Europe. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, poverty and social exclusion violate human dignity, in other words, fundamental human rights.
Those most at risk are single parents, children and older people.
Yes, we should provide for a minimum income, but with the proviso that it must not, under any circumstances, lead to a new form of indirect or reverse discrimination. (SK) Almost 85 million people in the European Union face the threat of poverty, and 17% of the EU's 500 million inhabitants lived below the poverty line in 2008.
The fight against poverty requires not only active support for wage systems and social protection, but also the creation of decent and permanent jobs for disadvantaged employment groups.
I believe that we have to take account of what these young people are thinking.
They are our future.
There needs to be a practical dimension to this European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
There needs to be an awareness that it is the workers who create the wealth, and that they need decent wages, but that in order to create more wealth, we need more jobs.
The Europe 2020 strategy, Ms Figueiredo's report, activities in the Member States - these are all steps in the right direction.
That means the Millennium Development Goals policy is a policy that also matters to us.
I believe that we are trying to find the right solution and it is inclusive economic growth - of our partner countries and also in the European Union.
I know inclusive economic growth sounds rather simple, but that is exactly what we are trying to address in changing our development policies.
The EU 2020 strategy also goes in this direction.
The Belgian Presidency is committed to developing instruments for combating poverty and social exclusion, particularly through flagship initiatives under the Europe 2020 strategy.
This objective states that at least 20 million people should be removed from the risk of poverty or exclusion by 2020 on the basis of three indicators put forward by the Social Protection Committee, that is, the risk of poverty, material deprivation and living in a jobless household.
Furthermore, the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion aims to raise public awareness of this problem and to convey the message that poverty and exclusion undermine social and economic development.
The Belgian Presidency has been keen to participate in this European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
In reply specifically to Mr Daerden, a round table has been organised today in Brussels.
Another conference on the subject of the social economy is to take place on 27 and 28 October and one on homelessness will be organised on 9 and 10 December.
Written statements (Rule 149) Poverty is a very serious problem which affects 85 million of our fellow Europeans, and so no one should remain indifferent to it.
This pervasive problem is affecting our young people, our elderly, and also increasingly our workers, who have been hit by the loss of 6 million jobs in the last two years alone, and by the low level and instability of their wages even if they manage to stay in their jobs.
Indeed, the impact of this period could not have been more detrimental on the poverty level across the EU, especially for the 17% of Europeans living below the poverty line in 2008.
Our strongest efforts must be targeted at the Europeans who have been hardest hit by the crisis, especially as 2010 is the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
Although unemployment is the main reason for poverty, many Europeans, even those in work, are struggling with poverty on a daily basis and do not have the opportunity to lead life to the full.
At the same time, as a result of the initiative launched by the Franciscan monk, Csaba Böjte, in Transylvania, close to 2 000 children are fed and supervised in 18 children's homes and 40 day care homes.
Firstly, the fact that combating poverty has been taken into account in the 2020 strategy is, for me, a significant advance.
The European Union must be able to encourage Member States to face up to this problem.
Secondly, the European Social Fund (ESF) is an essential European tool in combating poverty.
I am the rapporteur for the European Social Fund and I support its use in order to get back to work the people who are furthest away from the labour market.
It is unquestionable that, in the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, this type of action is completely appropriate.
The year 2010 has been declared European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
At present, there are 80 million people living below the poverty line in the EU, which represents 17% of the EU population.
It is very difficult for someone finishing education to find a job.
Young people are the future of the European Union and of the whole world.
The main aim of income support programmes should be to lift people out of poverty and to enable them to live a dignified life.
There are 1.4 billion people in the world, and around 85 million in the European Union, currently living in poverty.
The European Parliament and the Member States should take further measures to create more jobs and to improve the quality of those jobs and salary levels, as well as to guarantee fair pensions, benefits and family allowances.
In Poland, the minimum income level currently stands at around 42% of the average income.
Romania has the European Union's second highest rate of people living in poverty at 23% of the population.
In the European Union, the year 2010 is European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
Our objective is to reduce the number of the poor by 20 million by 2020.
First place in national strategies to combat poverty should be given to guaranteeing suitable material support for the poor, enabling easier access to the labour market and providing opportunities for education, as well as ensuring a high quality of public services for all.
May the year 2010 be an opportunity for social dialogue to achieve ratification of the European Social Charter by all Member States of the European Union.
There is one choice that we have to make here: is 2010 to be the year of fine words and empty promises on poverty reduction, or do we take a specific measure that helps millions of Europeans?
