This programme is being presented at a decisive moment for Europe, since it is now that we must act.
This programme is the direct outcome of our political dialogue.
Meanwhile, the proposed financial support mechanism for Greece was finally put in place on 11 April.
However, we must do more and ask ourselves why these problems have occurred and how they can be prevented in future.
In short, we must demonstrate that the European Union, and particularly the euro area, is able to rise to the present-day challenges, and we must make use of all the possibilities offered by the Treaty of Lisbon.
By providing itself with more robust structures and with a more coordinated approach, Europe can help public finances embark on a new and viable path and can create a framework that is conducive to a broader, sustainable recovery.
Ladies and gentlemen, in the last 18 months, we have made enormous progress towards putting in place a financial system that is more ethical, robust and responsible.
By presenting the Europe 2020 strategy right after taking office, we have set the scene to help bring Europe back on track - on track for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
Achieving the vision of a sustainable social market economy by 2020 will require a strong effort from all levels of decision making and all levels of society.
I want to underline the importance of social inclusion in our vision for Europe 2020.
The Action Plan contains a comprehensive list of measures to implement our already defined priorities in this field, both at European and global level.
We will project our Europe 2020 objectives on the global market place, for example, through the G20.
This programme identifies 34 strategic initiatives that we are committed to putting on the table before the end of December.
I am sure you agree that this is an ambitious agenda for the next eight months.
At the same time, the programme includes many other initiatives for 2010 and beyond.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (HU) Mr President, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), we welcome the fact that the Commission has ambitiously set to work and presented its 2010 work programme.
If this continues to be the case in the future, then these sorts of debates are pointless.
They would not like it if the 2020 job creation programme was shoved down Parliament's throat.
The European People's Party will support you, but we will criticise you very severely if you deviate from the original programme.
Mr President, Mr Barroso, Commissioners, I would like to thank so many of you for attending today.
I find that very sad.
Mr Barroso, we agree with you that the main issue is competitiveness combined with social security in a sustainable Europe.
Now it is possible to see where the problems have arisen because we still have not implemented what was proposed in the so-called Delors Plan.
Mr Barroso, you referred to the Monti report.
You spoke about the economic crisis and also about Greece and other countries which are in difficulties.
Mr Barroso, we are ready to enter into the special partnership that you referred to.
At present, we have 28 000 flights each day in the European Union.
I believe that, from this point of view, you will have the support of the entire European Parliament.
I have to agree with Mr Swoboda in particular when it comes to a social Europe and more justice.
We believe that the right approach to financial and economic integration is to make new proposals for modifying corporation tax.
However, on the basis of our experience of the financial crisis, we believe that a clear objective for the tax on financial transactions is still lacking.
Mr Barroso, you put a very great emphasis on services of general interest during your campaign for a second period of office.
We therefore welcome the new direction which has been developed by President Barroso.
The Commission must be their ally, not their adversary.
In taking a lead in developing a vibrant, dynamic European economy, President Barroso will have our support.
At this time of crisis, it is important to strengthen the European Union's trade defence system.
I believe that sovereign nation states should rebuild their manufacturing bases and then protect their markets and the jobs of their nationals.
However, my message is also for europhiles.
Mr President, in general - we are not talking about those who have said clearly and honestly that they are against the Union and against membership of the European Union - I feel able to say that there is, nonetheless, in this House, broad agreement on the programme that we have just presented.
I have seen today in the press - and not only in the Eurosceptic or Europhobe press, not only in the tabloids, but also in the quality press - that the European Union now admits that it was mistaken in deciding to suspend flights.
Yet the very people who are against European-level powers are now protesting against Europe.
I can tell you that the Commission is ready to assume its responsibilities, but I believe that we must build an alliance with the European Parliament in order to state clearly what is, and what is not, our responsibility.
It is in this area, in fact, that we need to build this alliance between the European institutions, by also working honestly and loyally with our Member States to produce concrete results for our fellow citizens.
I believe that in this regard, we have a good foundation for our work in the coming years and, after this debate, I feel encouraged - and I believe that my colleagues do too - by your words of support and, in certain cases, by your demands.
Most Members support these efforts and the view of the Commission that it should take on more responsibility, especially in the crisis situation which we spoke about earlier - it is then that we understand how much we need the European Union and action from the Commission.
I would like to take this opportunity to ask the European Parliament once again for these legislative initiatives to be adopted - today we are talking primarily about legislative initiatives - and for this to happen as soon as possible so that we can make up for the lost time that I was referring to.
The Commission work programme for 2010 consists of 14 pages of the usual commonplaces and platitudes.
The Europe 2020 strategy is intended to be the response to the current crisis.
As far as the specific measures are concerned, the approach to economic and financial policy seems sensible, as does the development of a new European supervision architecture for monitoring the financial markets.
The Commission work programme for 2010 has established the right priorities.
I congratulate Mr Barroso on the ambitious Commission legislative and work programme for 2010.
The debate on the Commission's programme is particularly important because it coincides with the beginning of a new era in the European Union.
The European Council, which met on 25 and 26 March 2010, set for the first time as one of the EU's targets a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020.
