CAP simplification (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on CAP simplification by James Nicholson, Janusz Wojciechowski, on behalf of the ECR Group, Albert Deß, on behalf of the PPE Group, and George Lyon, on behalf of the ALDE Group - B7-0566/2010).
On 18 May, the European Parliament adopted with a large majority a resolution to simplify the common agricultural policy (CAP).
Of course, it has not been possible for you to implement this resolution yet, but I would like to ask you, Mr Cioloş, to take into consideration all the demands made in this motion for a resolution when you begin restructuring agricultural policy.
A large proportion of the responsibility lies with the Member States.
In no other agricultural area in the world are farmers burdened with so many requirements and regulations as in the European Union.
As the rapporteur for agricultural reform, I would like to offer you the opportunity to work together with us to find a solution, so that this goal can be achieved.
My farmers in Northern Ireland are facing a reduction of EUR 60 million because of mapping.
The outcome of these assessments shows that the administrative burden in the farming sector has been cut by 36%, which is much more than the programme's general target of 25%.
Last year, my predecessor presented the first response from the Commission services to the list of 39 simplification suggestions that had been proposed by 13 Member States in April 2009.
As for the second pillar, the Commission has launched a study on the administrative burden that stems from implementing rural development programmes for beneficiaries.
The results of this study will be used in our reflection on the CAP for the period after 2013.
As for farmers, their main role is, as I have already said, agricultural production; they are the ones who work with these natural resources and it is also because of this activity that a portion of CAP funding is allocated to that policy.
There is still the need to simplify at Member State level.
I think it should be recognised that there has been an effort to simplify the paperwork during these last few years and months, and we give you credit for that.
Last week, while presenting the proposal for the future common agricultural policy, you mentioned a few integrative measures that could be implemented and that could, in fact, lead, through the outcome produced by these measures, to measures that can be controlled by opinion, by farmers as well as by the Commission, measures for which we can be sure of the scientific effect.
Madam President, Mr Cioloş, ladies and gentlemen, one of our top priorities as Members of the European Parliament is to reduce bureaucracy and simplify legislation and regulations in all the political areas of the European Union.
Commissioner, I would refer you in particular to paragraphs 52 and 53 of the original resolution on transparency of penalties.
Madam President, in May, at the time of the vote in this House on the resolution on simplifying the common agricultural policy (CAP), we pointed out that this simplification must not result in either less aid for farmers or in the abolition of the means of organising the markets.
I am concerned that, despite the report recognising long-term food security and growing global demand, our agricultural competitiveness will be squeezed.
The European Union should create a control mechanism for people to turn to, where humiliations and abuses of this type could be investigated and sanctioned. (RO) Madam President, I would first of all like to welcome the commitment expressed by the Commission in the recent communication it presented to continue the process for simplifying the common agricultural policy.
I would like to mention a few extremely important aspects of the resolution on CAP simplification adopted by this Parliament.
My colleague, Michel Dantin, has mentioned those states which are going too far in their application of European legislation.
In view of the recent decision made by the European Court of Justice concerning the beneficiaries of the European agricultural funds, what measures is the Commission considering in order to continue to ensure that information is published about these people? (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too, like Mr Niculescu, welcome the Commission's intention to keep up efforts towards simplifying the common agricultural policy, but I am also worried about the follow-up given to the report by Mr Ashworth on administrative simplification.
It is high time to lighten the administrative burden carried by our producers, to root out unnecessary legislation, and to give the farmers of the 27 Member States the same chances of understanding what their obligations are but also what their rights are.
At the same time, it is absolutely essential to ensure a sufficiently flexible framework for the common agricultural policy, and especially for the system of direct payments.
I, like you Commissioner, believe that there is a need for accountability of how we spend taxpayers' money, but this bureaucratic burden is hindering the programme and the very people it was intended to help. (RO) Madam President, there is a great deal of talk at EU level about simplifying the common agricultural policy.
Not only the Commission, but Member States, too, must take measures to simplify the red tape involved with the common agricultural policy.
I also hope that the new common agricultural policy will be simpler, more transparent and fairer. (NL) Madam President, this Parliament has been discussing reducing bureaucracy for years and years now.
The European Parliament has expressed its opinion on this matter many times, including recently in the Ashworth report on simplification of the CAP.
As a result, it is vital for the Union's agricultural sector to maintain its production capacity and improve it.
This proposal, in a certain sense, acts upon the recommendations presented by the European Parliament in the resolution of May this year.
We must, however, be sure that the process of simplification will really be carried out, both at European and at national level, that the proposed simplifications are not another somewhat worthless attempt at ignoring the truth and that these same simplifications lead to a reduction and not an increase in expenditure on administration. (DE) Madam President, Mr Cioloş, ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely dangerous to talk about an increase in bureaucracy, because this sort of discussion often backfires.
I am very pleased, Mr Cioloş, that you have proposed simplified rules, in particular, for small farms, in your communication on the reform of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
Ultimately, we want a CAP which increases the number of flowers in the meadows and not the number of pieces of paper on the desks. (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, communication of the general principles that will govern the new common agricultural policy (CAP) has given new hope to small and medium-sized farmers throughout Europe by stressing their irreplaceable role in the future of European farming; this hope must be realised.
I know that you appreciate the point and I think we need to be aware of it.
Commissioner, you are afraid of the big, bad wolf - budgetary control - and farmers are afraid of inspections and Member States are fearful too.
I firmly believe, Commissioner, that the European Parliament will be happy to help you in this task. (GA) Madam President, I agree completely with this idea of simplifying the common agricultural policy (CAP).
The Commissioner should transfer the best practices implemented in the regions and European countries to all other countries and regions. (BG) Madam President, Commissioner, what has been done so far is obviously not enough, as otherwise we would have been debating something else this evening.
Since good practice guides are useful, we are also going to work on these guides, but first of all, let us try and make the CAP simple and clear for the 27 Member States.
Henceforth, with codecision, you, too, have the same responsibility as the Council in this area, and I am convinced that we will be able to work very well together.
