author. - Mr President, in the years to come, growth in Europe will be supply-driven.
Cohesion policy is a major source of European public investment and must work as a catalyst for structural change by investing in research and innovation, resource efficiency, new and sustainable jobs and infrastructure.
It will require an adequate macro-economic and financial framework to achieve its full impact.
It must invest in better links between leading regions and those that are catching up.
It must better exploit territorial cooperation potential.
The Regional Development Committee of the European Parliament has reached a position as to how it sees cohesion policy post-2013.
Mr President, Commissioner Andor, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking Parliament for giving this topic such a prominent place on the agenda at a time when Brussels is having the last of its 'open days', with over 6 000 stakeholders in the city and more than 130 events and seminars intensively working on the issue of the relevance and the future shape of regional policy.
It is a cleverly put-together cohesion policy for all the regions, which ultimately bear the responsibility for ensuring that the growth element of the Stability and Growth Pact takes effect, so that Europe, and its national economies as a whole, remain competitive globally and are able to further improve their position in the international context.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the economic and social situation in Europe continues to pose enormous challenges.
For over half a century, it has been a concrete proof of solidarity between European citizens and it should continue to be so in the future.
The ESF is one of the key tools at our disposal in reaching the Europe 2020 headline targets, particularly those on employment, education and poverty reduction.
We need full alignment between the ESF and Europe 2020 as it will be a major instrument for implementing the integrated guidelines.
Our new Europe 2020 strategy sets out common objectives for the entire Union.
However, Member States will choose their own individual paths to follow in order to reach these objectives with the support of the ESF.
For this to happen, the future scope of the ESF should be broad enough to ensure that all Member States, regions and local stakeholders can design operational programmes that address their particular needs.
The Commission and Member States should work together to establish core priorities, particularly on employment.
This should be facilitated by establishing some common rules for all funds to make coordination between them easier.
The discussions on the future of the ESF are at a decisive stage now.
The Commission will present its proposal for the new ESF together with the other structural funds by mid-2011.
We can see evidence of that now in the Commission in connection with the Europe 2020 strategy.
The Regional Development Fund and the Social Fund should continue to operate together.
European cooperation within and between Member States brings balanced territorial development in Europe a step closer and creates opportunities for all regions.
The Committee of the Regions has made a proposal to that effect and I would recommend that you consider it, at the same time as you consider the wording of our resolution.
One thing is for certain, and that is that regions need our support at the European level.
My group is therefore four-square behind the proposal, in order, for example, to be able to coordinate rural development much better together under the umbrella of cohesion policy than in the past.
In other words, we need employment policy approaches, we need education, we need training, we need people to integrate into the labour market.
That, in turn, is only possible in collaboration with the European Social Fund, under the umbrella of cohesion policy.
We need to really make an effort to improve this and significantly strengthen the social side of cohesion policy.
In the forthcoming discussions and negotiations, my group will be going in to bat for improving and simplifying the usability of the fund.
I believe that Parliament's role has been strengthened now that the Treaty of Lisbon is in force.
The funds are very varied, have very different target groups and different contents.
With that in mind, coordination is very important but the same rules are not.
The Europe 2020 strategy represents our attempt to achieve greater inclusion in the labour market for the different groups.
No region in the European Union is shoved to one side.
I therefore consider it very important that, in this resolution, the impetus is given for us to develop other important criteria alongside the GDP that make it clear what prosperity means and what needs to be done in a region.
That would result in a very different picture.
All three of these sides must be given equal weight in the future reform of the structural funds and also taken into consideration in the support given.
I believe that the oral amendment is well worded and allows us a great deal of free scope and I therefore ask you to support it.
Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, in the discussion on future cohesion policy, we are all, first and foremost, defending our own interests.
The second key question is what we should finance from the European funds.
In the draft resolution on the European Social Fund, much is being said about the fight against poverty, support for the social model, etc.
That is all very well, but in the first place, our economy must prosper, people must have work, and companies must produce and provide services.
The funds should make possible modernisation which, in line with the principle of subsidiarity, cannot be taken on by the state, the regions, communities or families.
Reducing the economic disparities between regions and Member States must continue to be the main goal of the cohesion policy.
Therefore, the only rational criterion is the level of GDP.
Mr President, I would like to draw attention to a fundamental conflict which is already becoming apparent in relation to the European Social Fund (ESF).
The Treaty of Lisbon recommends that the ESF should focus primarily on active labour market policy.
Financing for the European Social Fund should at least stay at its current level.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, it has been suggested that the Commission will withdraw regional development funding to all but the most economically weak areas of the Union post-2013 by removing Regional Competitiveness and Employment Objective funding.
The ESF has been in place since 1957 and was established by the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, the Treaty of Rome.
My position on the future of the ESF is simple and clear and can be summarised in three points.
Today, employment must have our full attention and must be our priority.
Second, an effective European Social Fund must have clear, pragmatic rules that do not discourage operators.
That is why I support my political group, which is calling for greater visibility for the ESF, particularly to improve its uptake.
Just imagine, budget allocations are sometimes returned unused to the European Union, while unemployment rates have never been so high.
Employment, poverty, the economic, financial and social crisis in the European Union, and the subsequent austerity measures in the budgets of the Member States, force us, at European level, to fully address the issues of employment and social policies and to regard the European Social Fund (ESF) as a tool of EU economic policy and the EU budget for meeting not only the treaty objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion but also the objectives of the strategy, the draft of which the Heads of State or Government have just accepted, which include increasing the employment rate and combating poverty.
Cohesion also includes economic and social cohesion.
I also urge you to link in some of the objectives of our Europe 2020 strategy: employability, employment, the fight against poverty, and research and development.
Research and development is certainly very important for Galileo and others.
Finally, Commissioner, I would like to say a word on the conditions of use of the ESF.
And, finally, as regards the return of the money that is not used in the budgets of the Member States, I urge you to imagine abolishing this rule, which is not the right way to use the European Social Funds to further employment and social inclusion. (RO) Social inclusion is a particularly important topic which is well integrated into regional policy.
As we are all aware, it entails much more than simply job creation.
The resolution on the European Social Fund emphasises the role it plays in achieving the EU 2020 strategy objectives.
As a result, as long as regional policy and social policy are interconnected policies which operate successfully together, I believe that we should not agree, under any circumstances, to the separation of the European Social Fund from the Structural Funds.
The European Social Fund must remain part of the Structural Funds, especially as it has proven its effectiveness in every region of Europe, given that it is actually a key weapon in the battle against the economic crisis, in addition to the European Regional Development Fund.
We need a strong, well-funded EU regional policy in order to achieve social, economic and territorial cohesion.
I therefore believe that the regional aspect must continue to enjoy its appropriate place as part of both the revised EU budget and the future budget.
If we want solutions which are appropriate to the needs and realities which we are going to face in the future as well, we must maintain the same framework.
The challenge is to identify the best instrument to enable us to measure the state of development of the European regions as accurately as possible and to have at our disposal the best decision support instrument, especially for deciding on eligibility for European funds.
To pursue regional cohesion policies that are relevant to the objective of the sustainable development of the regions - which, I would point out, is our shared objective - the gross domestic product index must be supplemented by other instruments of measurement, particularly in the social and environmental spheres.
To reduce these differences and to make the regions more competitive, the European Union implemented a regional cohesion and convergence policy based on solidarity and endowed with the appropriate financial resources: the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the cohesion funds.
Nevertheless, despite the progress made, it would be illusory to believe that these differences will disappear in 2013, or even in 2020.
Naturally, this regional cohesion and convergence policy must be pursued alongside other strategies, such as the EU 2020 strategy.
Parliament must maintain a watchful eye on this, as it is essential for all regions, particularly those that are lagging behind, notably the outermost regions. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, future regional and cohesion policy must be aligned with the Europe 2020 strategy priorities, and therefore it must be focused on the objectives of sustainable growth, social inclusion and employment.
The projects must take into account the less developed regions, which have been most severely affected by the crisis.
The multi-level approach must stimulate the integrated development of disadvantaged areas by involving local and regional authorities as well as civil society.
I urge the Commission to take into account the specific characteristics of each region, namely the regional dimensions of the various levels of development, and to simplify the management and control procedures for financed projects in order to ensure their effective and prompt execution. (BG) This topic is particularly important for me, as five of the six Bulgarian regions are in the top 10 poorest regions in the European Union.
We want a strong cohesion policy and structural policy in all the European regions.
This means that the poorer regions must remain the central focus of cohesion policy.
Therefore, GDP must remain the reliable indicator for regional policy.
The acceptance has to develop from the bottom upwards as part of regional policy. (ES) Mr President, in the next few months, we are going to have to discuss and decide upon the future organisation of the Structural Funds, which are essential for bringing us out of the crisis and tackling the Europe 2020 strategy.
Following on from that, Article 9 clearly states that in defining and implementing its policies and activities, the Union should take account of requirements linked to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion, and a high level of education, training and protection of human health.
This issue is highlighted in Article 10 of our resolution on the future of the Social Fund and is, to me, of crucial importance.
I agree with many of the speakers who have argued that we need a framework to establish synergies between all European policies and the Structural Funds.
Indeed, it has a natural ability to withstand globalisation and, consequently, to sustain employment and ensure its fair distribution throughout Europe.
The threshold of 90% seems to me to be an objective that we can actually set today, while at the same time clearly prioritising those who are still under 75%.
Finally, with regard to the priorities of this policy: many people have spoken of social cohesion, particularly through the European Social Fund (ESF), of the fight against global warming and of territorial cooperation beyond borders, which is also a priority of the Commission; I shall not dwell on this matter.
The cohesion funding should be a mechanism for stimulating economic growth across the EU, but needs to have a specific goal as supporting SMEs and entrepreneurs who are the backbone of our economy.
Thus, in my opinion, it would appear in this matter that socialisation of the means of production alone can resolve the problem and bring about real cohesion on our continent. (LT) We all know very well that the objective of European Union cohesion policy is to reduce development disparities among EU Member States and regions.
A strong and properly financed EU regional policy is the basis for ensuring social, economic and territorial cohesion.
In this case, the most important aspects of discussions should be the following: the scope of EU cohesion policy, the validity of objectives, the link with the 2020 strategy and opportunities for implementing EU cohesion policy and simplifying its procedures. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund are financing instruments of EU regional policy which aim to bridge the development divide between the regions and promote regional cohesion.
The restructuring of the policy depends on whether all the parties involved - the regions, the Member States and the EU - are in a position to respond quickly to these new challenges. (HU) Now that the individual policies and directions for the 2020 strategy are already on their way to being implemented in practice, we must realise that we know next to nothing about their funding or financial background.
It is obvious that the European Social Fund has a pivotal role in counteracting this situation, with policies designed to eliminate these differences and bring them closer together.
While we endorse and support the concept of a single policy and the exploitation of synergies in the context of cohesion policy, I would also like to emphasise that where the Social Fund is concerned, we need a higher degree of flexibility and transparency and fewer rules.
I am sure that Commissioner Andor does not need to be persuaded about the successful delivery of the social policy aspects of cohesion policy, thanks to the strong synergy of the ESF and ERDF.
In the coming weeks, the side which believes that future EU policies would be best covered within an integrated approach to planning, implementation and delivery will have to engage in a serious fight with the side which believes that sectorisation of EU resources is the way to go.
Be sure that the latter will find this group against them simply because it is the wrong way to go for Europe. (FI) Mr President, Commissioners, cohesion policy is not simply a matter of solidarity: it is partly a means for us to create added value for Europe as a whole.
There is a good deal of expertise in our region as well as very strong potential based on natural resources, for example.
It will be important in the next financial period that we continue to try to level out the differences between countries with respect to GDP.
Acceleration of the process of reducing disparities in the level of infrastructure strengthened the common market and facilitated investment, which, after all, continues to flow mainly from net contributors to net beneficiaries.
Therefore, it is with concern that I look at a situation in which we are planning a reform of cohesion policy and adding new criteria - very vague social and ecological criteria - to the system for distribution of these funds.
This money should continue to serve the poorest regions as defined by measurable criteria, in particular, concerning the achievement of hard infrastructure objectives. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the aim of the European Social Fund is to narrow the prosperity gap and promote economic and social cohesion.
Commissioners, in my opinion, therefore, you should immediately revise the priorities of the European Funds, including the European Social Fund.
Under a number of new proposals, some of this budget would be redirected after 2013 towards fulfilling the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
We in Northern Ireland receive significant funding from the ESF administered through the Department for Learning and Employment, and I note that in a recent House of Lords enquiry into the ESF, it was noted the ESF continues to make a significant contribution to supporting economic growth in Northern Ireland, aimed at creating a knowledge-based economy with a highly skilled and flexible workforce.
Regional flexibility is of the utmost importance for the successful operation of the ESF.
Post-2013, I believe that the limited resources of the ESF should continue to be focused on assisting the hardest to reach and least skilled into work or back into work through access to training and further education. (IT) Mr President, this resolution is fundamental because it takes on board the important requirement for renewal connected with the creation of an anti-crisis policy for 2020 by striking a balance between necessary innovation and due respect for the fundamental principles of cohesion policy.
Therefore, notwithstanding the architecture of cohesion policy and having reaffirmed the value and relevance of multi-level governance, partnership and the integrated approach as fundamental principles, this resolution affirms the advantages of combining GDP, which must remain the only criterion for determining eligibility, with new and more meaningful indicators for the sole purpose of analysis and assessment; the need to lay down new rules for the European Social Fund, which should nonetheless be maintained under the regulation on general provisions concerning cohesion policy; and the need to simplify procedures and use financial engineering instruments, as Commissioner Hahn also stated.
The challenges facing the European Union are difficult ones: employment, growth, development and competitiveness.
As many people have said, these can only be addressed if the future European financial framework takes into account the importance of regional policy, in order to achieve true economic, social and territorial cohesion, and if it is able to guarantee adequate financing despite the constraints on resources by carrying forward a policy where objectives are set according to priorities and assessed according to results. (RO) Hitherto, the cohesion policy has been a successful instrument in narrowing the disparities between Member States and for displaying solidarity, very much a fundamental value of our EU.
The Council has cut the funding under the draft budget for 2011 to less than EUR 1 000 million because the Member States have no clear idea about fulfilling their obligations.
We in the Committee on Budgets supported the Committee on Regional Development in its request to restore the funding to the draft budget.
I understand that we all know that the crisis has created a challenge for many Member States that are net contributors, as a result of which there is pressure for the next financial perspective to be reduced in money terms.
If we disregard these fundamentals, any other debates (such as how better to align cohesion policy with the achievement of the European Union's 2020 targets) will fail to achieve anything, even with 'EU 2020' in the context of cohesion policy.
I would like to see a tailor-made, bottom-up approach and effective coordination with programmes such as Daphne and PROGRESS.
Measures must be put in place post-2013 which recognise this altered economic position in Ireland and in the BMW region in particular.
The focus of Objective 2 programmes must be building the capacity of the regions in order to effectively contribute to the development of a greener, smarter and sustainable economy in Ireland and the rest of Europe.
Regional flights in the BMW region are an economic and social necessity.
Therefore, public service obligation funding must be retained, as these internal flights would not survive economically otherwise.
We want to capitalise on our successes with this crucial policy and amend it as required to make it more accessible and more visible.
We want a strong, well-financed policy that really helps to bring about economic development for all of our regions.
I supported the needs of potential beneficiaries and succeeded in ensuring that they were taken into account and adapted to the needs expressed in our regions.
The role of the European Social Fund will be enhanced further by the 2020 strategy, as employability is a key issue.
We must provide a second chance for those who have lost their jobs in the crisis which accelerated certain globalisation processes, such as the massive exodus of mass production from Europe, and for those who cannot use their skills on the labour market because there is no demand for them.
However, this will be possible only if Member States can provide, with the assistance of the European Social Fund, the indispensable backing in the area of services, particularly childcare and elderly care.
What is absolutely inevitable is to ensure that supervision and evaluation are more stringent in order to make funding more transparent and more efficient. (DE) Mr President, Mr Hahn, Mr Andor, ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to emphasise how important cohesion and regional policy is for the process of living together and growing together in Europe.
However, I also believe that in future, regional policy and cohesion policy must focus more closely on our cities.
In fact, discussion of cohesion policy is, to a great extent, discussion about the European Union - about what the Union is, how it is supposed to function and how it is supposed to be understood by the citizens.
These two objectives are not incompatible - they make cohesion policy favourable to development.
This means, on the one hand, that the instruments involved are extremely difficult and the procedures are very complicated, but, on the other, it produces a clear effect of cooperation between the European Union, Member States and local authorities.
Many municipal and regional representatives have been talking about how to address the serious problems our cities are facing and about the old and new needs affecting workers, families, and small and large production companies alike.
In this context, I believe everyone has come to understand that, time and again, cohesion policy has been the only real instrument the regions have had available to them for trying to provide solutions.
The first fundamental risk would be to renationalise it: that would be a serious step backwards.
Lastly, it is essential to simplify the procedures for those who have demonstrated efficiency and to make more legally binding the power to penalise those who have not.
We expect the Commission to take action along these lines. (PT) Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, after four consecutive years in which the unemployment rate fell, from 2004 to 2008, the current economic crisis has wiped out much of the progress made.
In Portugal, for example, we have unfortunately reached the record level of 11% unemployment.
The crisis has wiped out years of economic and social progress and exposed the weaknesses in its Member States' economies and, accordingly, in the economy of the EU itself.
The Europe 2020 strategy is showing us which ways to go.
The EU must intensify all its efforts to promote employment and social inclusion as an integral part of its strategy to fight the economic and social crisis.
I therefore welcome the motion for a resolution on the future of the European Social Fund (ESF), which we are debating today, because this fund plays a crucial role in achieving the Europe 2020 targets.
This fund is, in fact, the main financial instrument enabling the EU to fulfil the strategic aims of its employment policy, through improving the education and training levels of the people of Europe.
The ESF must be strengthened as the principal driving force behind Europe 2020, and it needs to be used by the Member States to invest in reskilling, employment, training and vocational retraining.
Lastly, I would like to point out that the ESF reform, to be carried out in conjunction with the reform of the other structural funds, should not only facilitate and simplify its management and improve transparency, but also focus funds on results and achievements that can make a difference to the general public in their daily lives. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, there is no doubt the Structural Funds have been one of the most effective instruments for giving shape to European policies and, above all, for ensuring the solidity of the European economy.
Quality jobs are very important for people's dignity, as well as for their profit-making capacity.
I believe the European Social Fund needs specific and simple rules.
That way, we can truly equip the Europe 2020 strategy with instruments that have proven to be effective, but which have also demonstrated the need for certain updates. (ES) Mr President, firstly, I would like to thank the working group led by the chair of the Committee on Regional Development, which has made it possible for us to have this debate today.
What we need to start doing now, in my view, is to see what mistakes we have made and improve what we have done so far.
The fundamental role that services of general interest, including social services, play in economic, social and territorial cohesion, in job creation and improving quality of life, has so far been ignored in this debate.
At the same time as we are debating how to make EU funds more effective in delivering cohesion, Council and Commission policies on fiscal consolidation are undermining services of general interest which are essential to cohesion.
Another problem is the negative impact that EU market rules are having on regional and local authorities' right to maintain and initiate services of general interest, including social services.
Yes, let us have more effective funds which are result-orientated, but we must stop the nonsense, the madness of stripping our societies of essential public services. (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe a strong and efficient cohesion policy is inconceivable.
Without the political consensus - or political cohesion if you will - required for the development and implementation of the policy, President Hübner's questions and the related draft decision, I believe, support the political consensus between political groups, political families, and maybe even between the various European institutions.
From this point of view, I find and consider unacceptable the siren voices heard in today's debate about the GDP as the number one and exclusive indicator and measure of eligibility for regional development support.
However, in order to assert European solidarity and ensure that Member States can catch up successfully, it is essential that GDP remains the fundamental and exclusive indicator for the distribution of funds at EU level. (EL) Mr President, the European Social Fund is a tool, a basic tool with which to build a better Europe, so that we can forge the solidarity of peoples and states.
The European construct must be stable if people are to live and prosper in it, working in decent jobs with real future prospects.
Commissioners, please never forget that the basic investment of the European Social Fund is man. (PL) Mr President, Commissioners, cohesion policy should be maintained and strengthened in the new financial framework.
In accordance with the principles of solidarity and subsidiarity, which are fundamental principles of the Union, cohesion policy should support those regions which have the greatest distance to make up in terms of infrastructure, the economy, technology, employment or social integration and which, on the strength of their own resources, are unable to bridge this gap.
This support should be for the pursuit of integrated strategies of regional development which also contain objectives established at national and Union level.
It is also an important tool which will be much needed by the Union in the future as well.
The convergence of new Baltic and Central European Member States is by no means complete.
In addition, these funds are also needed by certain regions in Spain, Portugal and Greece.
As a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I think it is very important that we aim for a greater degree of harmony and synergy between regional and rural development policies in the future. (FI) Mr President, cohesion policy has been necessary, and it has been successful.
Secondly, I would like to say that bureaucracy unquestionably needs to be reduced: at present, 30-40% of the money available is spent on that, and it is definitely much too much. (RO) The achievements of the European Union's cohesion policy and the added value it can bring to the EU 2020 strategy are indisputable.
I am doing so in line with my participation in the debate on regional policy, under Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which took place recently, and I am only going to make three points.
Firstly, I would like to point out that this debate on the economic, social and territorial aspects of cohesion policy needs to be consistent with the financial perspectives set for 2014-2020.
Not despite the crisis, but precisely because of the crisis, the objective of cohesion is more important than ever.
Thirdly, I would like to point out that this is especially important for island territories, which are all external borders of the European Union, and therefore, they are very vulnerable in terms of security to illegal trafficking and also to threats from globalisation. (DE) Mr President, as we know, 27 EU Member States with a large number of regions, cities and communities and a population of 500 million have, of course, a huge variety of different needs and problems.
In addition, every EU initiative on a Brussels level has regional and local effects.
Since the 1970s, structural aid has been available for disadvantaged regions in order to ensure that the growth of the economy and of prosperity is geographically balanced.
Therefore, we need to make cohesion policy more efficient and the individual projects more sustainable. (RO) I believe that the European Commission should explain clearly and in detail how synergy is going to be achieved between the cohesion funds and common agricultural policy funds, given that harmonising the operation of these funds would generate more added value for the EU's actions and would also boost our efficiency at achieving our objectives.
Last but not least, I support those who have called today for the rules governing every kind of fund to be simplified, both at European and Member State level.
I believe that structural funding should be made available to all regions across the EU and that adequate support should be provided for regions that no longer have convergence status.
Finally, I believe the European Social Fund should remain part of cohesion policy and not be moved out to sectoral projects.
We must also, of course, ensure that cohesion policy and structural funds have an adequate budget in the future. (PT) Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the aims of cohesion policy, it clearly has European added value.
I also endorse and call on the Commission to carry out an evaluation of the absorption of cohesion policy funds so that measures to improve the absorption rates of these funds can be adopted with the greatest urgency. (FI) Mr President, Europe 2020 was, in the wake of the deepest crisis in European economic history, supposed to represent a new beginning.
The Council is making cuts, the Member States are making cuts, and now it appears that here too in Parliament, the general feeling is that the EU budget should also be cut.
I believe that the debate going on here right now is a little naive. (PL) Mr President, your statement, Mr Hahn, that cohesion and regional policy is in good condition and should be a policy which is close to the citizens, incorporating different, well-designed instruments, is - it seems to me - a good answer to the question which has been asked in this Chamber today.
Overcoming the crisis, which has been a difficult one for all of us, and achieving the objectives of the 2020 economic strategy, necessitate cohesion policy and clear objectives, both for Member States and for regions.
This is why, in order to achieve the major objective of reducing disparities and bringing regions and citizens closer to our area of prosperity and welfare through better channels of communication, we need to add a serious discussion to the post-2013 debate regarding the urgent need to guarantee sufficient funding for the trans-European networks once and for all. (PL) Mr President, cohesion policy covers and unites various wide-ranging developmental objectives, as well as the expectations not only of the regions, but also of various social groups.
This is why the European Social Fund plays such an important role and why we need to coordinate the various political strategies.
Last but not least, Commissioner Hahn, I hope that after 2013, we will have a separate financing line for the European Union's Danube region strategy.
The European Union's Danube region strategy may become one of the European Union's most successful projects. (RO) The timing of today's debate on the cohesion policy after 2013 is just right if we also consider that the Open Days are taking place in Brussels.
A proper balance must definitely be maintained between simplifying procedures and ensuring efficiency and good financial management in order to produce a policy which is easy to implement with a raised profile. (GA) I do not have much time, Mr President.
This is ridiculous and must stop.
Thirdly, I think there is a need to keep both Objective 1 and Objective 2.
I represented my group in Mannheim and I saw the benefits of Objective 2.
Finally, I want to say that there is also a need - even though some of my colleagues in the EPP do not agree with me - to look at GDP as not being the exclusive criterion.
I think that is a debate we need to have and I look forward to it. (PT) The European Social Fund (ESF) is probably the instrument that does the most to promote cohesion.
It is essential to take a local approach to the problems that need solving: in other words, global vision for local action.
We have to take account of the positive experiences of the regions.
In the Azores, an outermost region where unemployment generally reaches record levels, the unemployment rate is now 6.5%, the lowest in Portugal.
That is largely due to the forward-planning strategy used for employment, which sets out which factors to address and how to achieve the desired targets, and also to the use of the ESF as an operational instrument of this strategy, acting on education and training and furthering employment.
Applying cohesion policy across the board is the only way to ensure the success of the Europe 2020 strategy. (PL) Mr President, cohesion policy or regional policy could be one of the key drivers of the European Union's development.
As far as the European Social Fund is concerned, it appears that we will be unable to implement the ambitious proposals of the Europe 2020 strategy.
As some of you may already know, there is a leaked document on the future of the common agricultural policy towards 2020, which also addresses the territorial challenges of the future.
I think we all agree that a truly united Europe will only be built in the medium and long term if the levels of economic development are balanced across Europe.
It is indispensable for the efficient implementation of the EU 2020 strategy and for reaching its objectives that regions with different levels of development all benefit from the process.
We must prevent Europe splitting in two due to the deceleration of the catching-up process of Member States that joined the EU starting from 2004. (SK) In all of these strategies and frameworks, we must bear in mind the fundamental fact that Europe is not a project to construct an open-air museum.
The global financial crisis is a warning for us against the unrealistic and the irresponsible. (CS) Mr President, I would like to express my thanks for today's presentation and for the subsequent fruitful discussion.
The fact that there is agreement on the need for a cohesion policy is undoubtedly good news for everyone, and the fact that there is agreement within this Parliament is, of course, even better.
Therefore, we should be thinking about how we can enable these small and medium-sized businesses to hire new employees and also to play a more active role on international export markets.
However, the research and transport infrastructures are also important concerns.
New jobs, which are urgently needed in Europe at the moment, can be created in these areas. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, cohesion policy is the great pillar of European solidarity.
It is through cohesion that we achieve the objective of reducing regional disparities and stimulate harmonious development throughout the European Union.
This group of regions faces major challenges and must continue to benefit in future from special provisions regarding the implementation of European policies.
Gross domestic product must remain the principal eligibility criterion, but we must take other indicators into account to provide a more complete picture of the regional situation.
Mr President, this has been a very lively and committed debate.
I would like to thank everyone involved.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, for me, too, this has been an extremely useful and helpful discussion about the future of cohesion policy and, within that, the future of the European Social Fund.
I agree with everyone who stressed that this is a crucial financial instrument to support the Europe 2020 strategy and its three objectives: it is smart, sustainable and it involves inclusive growth.
The two are interlinked, and we have to make the ESF capable of serving a wide range of objectives within a social agenda.
We have to ensure that there is innovation in terms of what the ESF funds, and in terms of how the ESF is funding these objectives.
I am completely open to working with Members on particular issues such as simplification, improving evaluation, strengthening conditionality, exploring the opportunities of financial engineering and cooperating with other sources of finance, because the challenges are enormous.
Written statements (Rule 149) By voting today, Thursday, 7 October 2010 on a resolution, the European Parliament is demanding that the Commission give thought to significantly improving cohesion policy instruments.
The various projects that the Commission is due to carry forward in this geographical area will be carried out in the medium and long terms.
I agree that in order to achieve the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, especially in the areas of employment and social affairs, we must strengthen the ESF and increase its effectiveness, while improving this fund's financing procedures.
It is certainly worth mentioning that the common position presented in the draft resolution emphasises the call based on experience from the current programming period for the structure of the cohesion policy for the period after 2013 to be simple, fair, and transparent.
At the same time, I consider it important to maintain the European Social Fund as part of the regulation on general provisions relating to financial resources within the framework of the cohesion policy.
Their role in the success of the EU 2020 strategy is crucial.
Like the vast majority of my colleagues in the Committee on Regional Development, I feel it is imperative to guarantee for the future a strong and well-financed cohesion policy that is aimed at all European regions.
Cohesion requires solidarity between all regions.
While GDP must remain the main criterion, the Commission should also look at other indicators that might better account for regional difficulties.
We all know that the European Social Fund is the main financial instrument available to the European Union for supporting Member States' employment policies.
We are currently facing a crisis scenario at EU level and Member States have different capabilities for managing the situations triggered by the economic and financial crisis.
The future European Social Fund must support regions' efforts to train human resources so that they are able to comply with their development guidelines at the lowest possible labour costs. , in writing. - During its history, the ESF has always adapted to the current economic priorities of the EU.
It is evident that the ESF has to adapt itself again, because circumstances have changed.
The ESF is not a crisis management tool per se, but now it has to function during a period of crisis.
The majority of public workers are women.
Enhancing women's labour market participation is a key goal for EU 2020 and for all reasonable political decision makers - women's participation is particularly important in order to protect and reshape our social model.
Therefore, we should help those who lose their jobs due to budget cuts.
When we talk about the future of the cohesion policy and particularly about the objectives, priorities and structure of the policy, we must mention the EU-wide integration of EU and regional energy markets and the strategic infrastructural network promoting the use of renewable energy sources, because urban and rural development projects financed from structural funds constitute a very important part of EU energy investments.
These include district heating investments, certain energy efficiency projects and local and regional energy network development projects.
We must improve the future use of existing EU funds in a way that supports energy efficiency measures, and encourage a wider use of structural funds and Cohesion Fund sources for this purpose.
As regards energy policy, the funds used for research, development and demonstrations should be doubled by 2020 compared to the current level.
This should include a significant increase in funds allocated to renewable energy, smart grids and energy efficiency.
in writing. - It will be crucial to link and accommodate the EU future cohesion policy to the EU 2020 strategy, because only this link can provide for sustainable economic growth, competitiveness and the creation of new jobs.
EU 2020 will be an important component of the future cohesion policy; however, it cannot become its substitute.
A radical simplification of the rules of financing is badly needed in order to make EU funds better available at the local and NGO level.
When preparing the framework for the next financial period, it will be important to engage in time the representatives of the regions and the business sector.
The draft motion for a resolution of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is correct in highlighting the importance of supporting SMEs and creating synergies between the structural funds, because while the European Social Fund is a success story, errors are still made and it continues to struggle with many problems, especially during the financial and economic crisis.
Moreover, the opportunities provided by and the positive effects of the European Economic Recovery Plan will also decrease in the future.
The regional aspect must be fully considered as part of the proposed EU budget review and in the future financial framework.
GDP must remain the main criterion for determining eligibility for assistance under the regional policy.
However, other indicators must also be accepted after carrying out an extensive evaluation proving their viability.
The principle of subsidiarity, multi-level governance, strategic planning and simplified implementation of the regional policy must be linked effectively in order to achieve an ideal balance between quality, performance and financial control.
The cohesion policy has its supporters, but also its critics.
There are a number of expert studies showing that the cohesion policy functions in principle, and creates the desired added value, and I therefore see critical voices more as a warning against procedural failures and a call for improvement in the future.
We know that the situation has changed since 1974 and that the cohesion policy is now an important instrument for the development of European regions and towns.
It is necessary to have a discussion on the level of support in different regions, which will result from negotiations between the Council and Parliament.
By contrast, Poland, for example, consists of 16 regions.
I have received many reports that far from promoting the application of EU funds, officials in the Latvian Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Regional Development are impeding this process by demanding illegal payments from ordinary people in Latvia.
All of this gives no opportunity for a region such as Latgale to make full use of the funds earmarked for the implementation of cohesion policy.
This policy, which promotes the balanced development of Europe's regions, accounts for one third of Community expenditure between 2007 and 2013.
With its humanist tradition, Europe should remain at the forefront of the debate on new ways to assess our fellow citizens' wealth and well-being.
European regional policy after 2013 must cover all the regions, while being sufficiently flexible to take into account regional and territorial differences.
In order to exploit fully the potential for growth of the regions and to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion in the European Union, it is essential for us to focus on the goal of competitiveness, as well as on cohesion.
