Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (IT) Mr President, I voted in favour of the report on the labelling of textile products because I think that Europe could and should do more to support enterprises in the industry.
The proposal made by the Commission was purely technical and aimed to simplify the current provisions regarding labelling.
Firstly, textile products comprising non-textile parts of animal origin - fur and leather - must show this information on the labels in order to allow consumers to make informed choices.
During this process, I have not disguised my own scepticism regarding the introduction of origin labelling.
Thus, the agreement will not lead to the introduction of mandatory origin labelling.
Unfortunately, yesterday's debate highlighted the fact that Commissioner Tajani does not share this view.
If we do not succeed in avoiding this, I will then take up the fight against it. (IT) Mr President, the proposal for a regulation on which we are being called to vote undoubtedly has the merit of bringing together in a single text all the existing legislation relating to textile products.
This regulation will make it possible to simplify and improve the existing regulatory framework on the development and use of new fibres, as well as supporting the development of innovative products and encouraging innovation in the textile and clothing sector.
While I consider that we could have gone further by introducing a specific article regulating the indication of origin of textile products, I voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation. (IT) Mr President, this regulation is vital for the European textile industry because it guarantees a free market in compliance with rules that prevent the irregularities and illegal practices of the past.
I would like to thank the Hungarian Presidency for having included the issue among its priorities, but I would also ask for the debate to be accelerated, or else we run the risk, for example, of providing safeguards for European consumers with regard to foodstuffs but not with regard to manufacturing products. (IT) Mr President, the report on the labelling of textile products which we endorsed today marks an important step towards simplifying legislation for the benefit of consumers and all the European manufacturers working in the industry.
With this regulation, we are laying down new rules on labelling in the textile industry; we are focusing increasingly on innovation in the sector and on speeding up the integration of European legislation, in order to benefit from innovative products safely.
The text proposes, in fact, to combine the three directives on the labelling of textile composition into a single European regulation, simplifying the existing regulatory framework and improving the transparency of procedures.
Therefore, we cannot help but applaud the positive result achieved today in safeguarding European production.
We hope that a further step forward can be taken soon with the approval of legislation regulating indications of origin in this sector as well. (DE) Mr President, in my opinion, this report is attempting to solve two major problems.
This means that the process of including new fibre names in the standard list of names must be made more transparent and must involve less red tape.
I would like to see a discussion on this point in the near future in the European Parliament and I would like the Commission to submit a proposal. (IT) Mr President, quality, labelling and traceability: these are the consumer protection tools that guarantee product excellence.
Until today, Europe was the only market in the world without legislation on this issue, which put it at a disadvantage relative to its main trading partners.
Consumers will no longer run the risk of buying textile products that are potentially harmful to their health perhaps because they have been treated with chemical agents.
Adoption of this regulation finally guarantees due protection of the rights of over 500 million European citizens.
Let us just look at the subjects of some of these reports: indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs; approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to units of measurement; permissible sound level and exhaust system of motor vehicles; narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors; controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors; braking devices of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors; driving position and the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors; rear-mounted roll-over protection structures; excise duty applied to manufactured tobacco; denominations and technical specifications of euro coins; textile names and related labelling of textile products ...
However, it is actually a question of whether we can secure broadband connections and cheap data transmission for our citizens in future.
I will very briefly say that, when we are trying to look into the future, it is quite impressive that the negotiators, and our rapporteur in particular, have succeeded in achieving such a broad majority in favour of the report that we voted on today.
Therefore, it makes sense to coordinate the use of these frequencies efficiently throughout Europe.
Broader access to the radio spectrum is important not only for businesses, but also for the citizens of the European Union.
In particular, we must not allow this regulation to put at risk the direct wireless transmission used in Germany in regional theatres, at rock concerts and in churches.
I would also like to ask the Commission to sit down with the Member States and work closely with them in this area and not to interfere in their national powers. (DA) Mr President, following today's vote on the lobbyists register, I think it is important to state that lobbyism is essentially a good thing.
I would also like to contest the vote on paragraph 9.
I am not sure that we obtained quite the right result in the vote on paragraph 9, but if we did, there is something not quite right with the perception of reality in this House.
In this regard, it should be logical for it always to be possible to guarantee that people can come to us in confidence.
In any case, I will never be involved in breaking this confidence. (IT) Mr President, making it easy for citizens to scrutinise how decisions are made, together with the processes, elements and resources that influenced them, helps both to ensure greater transparency and to close the gap between the European institutions and citizens, which is often discussed in relation to legitimacy and to the so-called democratic deficit in the European Union.
The approval of the Stubb-Friedrich report by this House led to the creation of a joint working group.
First of all, I think that it should be mandatory.
It is worth noting that the three MEPs who were exposed in terms of the 'amendments for money' scandal are all former government ministers.
Our generation is witnessing an epical shift in wealth and enterprise from Europe to Asia.
Of course, it is my own country, my own capital city of London, which will be most adversely affected by these new restrictions, but the EU as a whole has an interest in preventing this haemorrhage of wealth, of jobs and of enterprise from Europe to younger and more virile economies.
The European Union must emphasise the importance of social responsibility.
The European consumer, of course, certainly benefits from India's cheap labour force, as reflected, for example, in lower prices for products, but that should not be allowed if India's primary producers are going to suffer.
It is important that the Commission incorporates into the free trade agreement legally binding clauses relating to human rights, social and environmental standards and the social responsibility of companies, and that it ensures, moreover, that these demands are met. (DA) Mr President, it is, of course, interesting, and in its way charming, that there can always be Members of this Parliament that are against free trade.
However, I would like to say that I fully support it.
I would call on both parties in this matter, in other words, both the EU and India, to try to find a solution to this problem that both respects copyright, because that is absolutely essential, and, at the same time, ensures that practical means are provided to enable the many poor people in India to obtain cheap medicines.
Finally, there are some critics who believe that we should not follow the bilateral path in the negotiations and enter into bilateral agreements.
We need to do something to make sure that we do not founder any more than we are already doing in the WTO.
It is quite simply necessary to have these bilateral agreements, and therefore I welcome them. (DA) Mr President, it is amazing every time we discuss free trade in this Parliament.
We invest significant sums in each other's economies, we have common interests at global level and yet the negotiations are only progressing slowly.
Europe should make a strong appeal to Japan to get out of the bunker and ensure that something is done about these technical barriers.
That is pretty much the case in many areas with Japan, but I recognise Japan's right, for instance, to protect its rice market, to protects its rice farmers, to pay its farmers higher prices than those on world markets and to say no to massive imports which would obliterate its peasant farmer population, in the same way that I recognise our economies' rights to protect certain sectors of their activity.
I would have preferred other resolutions that, in my opinion, seemed more appropriate.
There must be a level playing field, but only in clearly defined sectors. (DA) Mr President, I would actually have been surprised if I had not heard the French Members intimate that protectionism is a good thing.
We must move on to the forests and, in this regard, we are today debating our report on the Commission Green Paper on forest protection and information in the EU.
This is a typical leftist method of solving crime problems - by banning everything and everyone and, what is more, for 30 years.
Mr President, as I have said, this is very important for many Mediterranean countries, including your own country, Greece. (DE) Mr President, the forests are our future and our cultural landscape.
This makes it all the more important for us to take into consideration the economic aspects of our forests.
Forests are necessary for conversion to a green economy, for example, through production of biofuels from forestry by-products.
I would instead like to put resources into research, education, information and innovation with regard to how to prevent the effects that climate change will have on our forests.
I am in complete disagreement with the views and ideas it expresses about Europe's current and future role in the world.
It defends an aggressive raw materials strategy and asks for, and I quote, 'a less rigid distinction between military and civilian crisis management operations'.
It is the right of people to defend their legitimate interests and struggle for a better future without any interference from the mighty political, economic and military powers. (IT) Mr President, first of all, I would like to say - and I hope this will not be deducted from my speaking time - that, on the subject of hypocrisy, there are very few of us who believe in certain things.
Having said this, I stated in my explanation of vote that I voted in favour.
However, I continue to believe that the Member States believe in it much less than we ourselves do.
Therefore perhaps it should be pointed out - as was reiterated to Baroness Ashton this morning and on other occasions, too - that, unless Europe stops being partly economic and becomes more political instead, our role probably cannot be carried out as well as it could be, either. (PL) Mr President, I agree that European foreign policy must take account of the external dimension of the European area of freedom, security and justice.
That is why I welcome any action which contributes to the promotion of peace, stability and the rule of law in countries and regions in crisis.
The report acknowledges that there should be political and economic integration with the EU's neighbours and also calls for a cohesive approach in negotiations on a new agreement with Russia, paying attention to the rule of law and protection of human rights there.
Thanks to the Socialist Group's amendments, a more constructive language for the dialogue on Russia and Iran has been achieved.
While I support the efforts and the commitment of the rapporteur, I should also stress that the EU is still far from having a coherent long-term strategy in this area.
Firstly, the EU should define its common strategic interests, for example, concerning energy security and Neighbourhood Policy.
Secondly, the EU should increase its own capability regarding the planning and coordination of civil and military operations and crisis management.
Finally, thirdly, within the EU budget, there should be a joint budget for joint action. (PL) Mr President, the increasingly significant interdependency of international organisations in the face of economic, environmental and energy problems requires constant adjustments to the foreign relations of individual states.
The report's main theme is a call to protect the strategic autonomy of the EU in the field of security and defence.
However, it does not take the EU's lack of military experience into account, but, at the same time, calls for further efforts to expand the EU's operational options.
For countries such as Poland, the basis of its defence policy remains the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation.
Tightening the strategic partnership between the EU and NATO and the proposal to strengthen mutual support for action could considerably slow down the procedures involved in taking operational decisions.
It is entitled 'A secure Europe in a better world' and was adopted by the European Council on 12 December 2003.
I voted in favour of it, and I hope this Parliament will continue to make a contribution towards the goal of enhancing EU strategic autonomy in security affairs.
In particular, what we need is a redefinition of the major threats to our security after the collapse of the so-called Islamic terrorist threat and the emergence of new dangers like the financial crisis. (FI) Mr President, I supported the report, but I wonder if the European Union has the ability to work to promote peace and stability in our neighbouring countries, by which I now mainly mean Syria, Libya and Egypt.
Our actions in Libya will show the actual state of our security and defence policy.
The EU's main objective in Libya is to protect the civilian population and to support the attempts by the Libyan people to establish a democratic society.
Libya has, in any case, shown that the EU is not a military power: our actions have been dependent on the independent initiatives of the Member States.
The examples in North Africa make us realise now that the EU's need for military preparedness and capability at the gates of Europe remains a fact.
Unfortunately, they are not very nice words.
In the last 15 months - a period that has presented ample opportunities throughout the world to prove its credentials - our so-called common policy has failed to make any positive impact.
I have to answer my citizens about what service this is giving them, and I still, after the lengthy debates on these reports, struggle to come up with an answer. (SK) Mr President, the submitted report talks about human rights as a priority agenda of the EU in international organisations, while particularly emphasising the rights of women and children, and freedom of expression.
At the same time, the report calls on Member States to support the position of the EU in these organisations.
The EU is still a very limited global actor; its role in the UN system and in all multilateral organisations does not match its democratic, economic and cultural weight.
This report addressed this deficit and calls for removing some obstacles to the full participation of our Union to the global context.
It has its own Parliament, its own currency, its own president, its own foreign minister, its own external borders, its own flag, anthem, passport and driving licence.
And, as Members of this House I am sure will privately be able to let them know, that is not an unmixed blessing.
Written explanations of vote I voted in favour of this document, codifying Council Directive 89/396/EEC of 14 June 1989 on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs.
Codification is an effective means of consolidating the rules governing a certain area in a single legislative act.
Codification is also a suitable means of developing European Union law which is simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
I welcome the efforts that have been made towards clarifying Union law in order to make it more accessible to all EU citizens.
Therefore, bearing in mind the importance of trade in foodstuffs, I am voting for this proposal for a directive on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs.
This system will contribute to better information on the identity of the products, and will also help to develop international trade.
I totally agree that the recommendations of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission should be taken into consideration as I think that the proposal in question is simply limited to a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
This proposal concerns the straightforward codification of the rules already in force on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs, without making changes to their substance on which Parliament might need to give an opinion.
This report relates to the proposal for a directive of Parliament and of the Council on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs, in a codified text.
Simplifying the lives of European citizens is one of the EU's concerns.
Many legislative changes have been carried out by the Commission and by Parliament in order to achieve this objective.
I am happy to finally be able to adopt a directive that, in consolidating Directive 89/396/EEC, makes the public's lives easier by simplifying and clarifying EU law.
in writing. - Trade in foodstuffs occupies a very important place in the internal market.
It is therefore a useful source of information when foodstuffs are the subject of dispute or constitute a health hazard for consumers.
The overriding principle in work on its future form is simplification of a policy whose main aim is to ensure food security for Europe.
At the same time, by retaining the wording of the original texts, the codification is being carried out in full compliance with the procedures involved in adopting acts in the EU.
in writing. - I voted for this report on a proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs.
The aim of this proposal is the codification of existing legislative texts on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs.
in writing. - The report of MEP Sajjad Karim contains a legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs (codified text).
The purpose of this proposal is to undertake the codification of Council Directive 89/396/EEC of 14 June 1989 on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs.
I voted 'in favour'.
Based on the opinion of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, this proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs concludes that the proposal in question is restricted to the straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
For this reason, I voted in favour of Parliament's proposal, which takes over the Commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
We are in favour of this directive on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs, not least because criminals all too often falsify codes for illegal purposes.
I voted in favour of this document, codifying Council Directive 80/181/EEC of 20 December 1979 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to units of measurement and the repeal of Directive 71/354/EEC.
Codification is an effective means of consolidating the rules governing a certain area in a single legislative act.
Codification is also a suitable means of developing European Union law which is simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
I welcome the efforts that have been made towards clarifying Union law in order to make it more accessible to all EU citizens.
In view of this, and taking into account the importance of measuring instruments for most areas of human activity, I am voting for this proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to units of measurement.
This system will contribute to better performance in the areas of public health and safety, as well as administrative operations.
With due regard for the opinions of the legal services of Parliament, the Council and the Commission, which have concluded that the Commission proposal was confined to straightforward codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance, I welcome the adoption of this proposal at the first reading.
This report relates to the proposal for a directive of Parliament and of the Council on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to units of measurements, as a codified text.
They are used in almost all fields of human activity and it is therefore necessary to ensure the greatest possible clarity in their use and set rules for their use within the European Union for economic, public health, public safety or administrative purposes.
in writing. - I voted for this report on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to units of measurement.
This proposal is confined to codification of the existing texts relating to units of measurement, without any change in their substance, so I am voting in favour.
in writing. - As I understand, the report contains a legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to units of measurement.
The purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of Council Directive 80/181/EEC of 20 December 1979 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to units of measurement and on the repeal of Directive 71/354/EEC.
I voted 'in favour'.
Based on the opinion of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, this proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to units of measurement concludes that the proposal in question is restricted to the straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
For this reason, I voted in favour of Parliament's proposal, which takes over the Commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
I voted in favour of this document, codifying Council Directive 70/157/EEC of 6 February 1970 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles.
Codification is an effective means of consolidating the rules governing a certain area in a single legislative act.
Codification is also a suitable means of developing European Union law which is simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
I welcome the efforts that have been made towards clarifying Union law in order to make it more accessible to all EU citizens.
I am therefore voting for this proposal for a directive on the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles, as I believe that the proposed system of codification drafted using a data processing system is more efficient.
This proposal relates to the straightforward codification of the existing laws on the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles.
This report relates to the proposal for a directive of Parliament and of the Council on the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles, in a codified text.
Many legislative changes have been undertaken by the Commission and Parliament in order to achieve this objective.
In 1987, the Commission recommended that all acts that had up to 10 amendments be codified, so that Community legislation would be easier to understand.
To address this issue, since 1994, there has been an interinstitutional agreement between Parliament, the Commission and the Council on an accelerated working method for the adoption of codified acts.
I am pleased, therefore, that we can finally adopt a directive codifying Council Directive 70/157/EEC of 6 February 1970, which approximates the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles.
in writing. - Directive 70/157/EEC is one of the separate directives of the EC type-approval system provided for in Directive 2007/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 September 2007 establishing a framework for the approval of motor vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles, and lays down technical prescriptions concerning the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles.
Those technical prescriptions concern the approximation of the laws of the Member States to enable the EC type-approval procedure provided for in Directive 2007/46/EC to be applied in respect of each type of vehicle.
It is desirable to take into account the technical requirements adopted by the UN Economic Commission for Europe (UN/ECE) in its corresponding regulations annexed to the Agreement of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions.
in writing. - I voted for this report on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to units of measurement (codified text).
This proposal is confined to the codification of the existing texts relating to the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles, without any change in their substance, so I am voting in favour.
in writing. - The European Parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles will help to achieve the main purpose of the proposal - to undertake a codification of Council Directive 70/157/EEC of 6 February 1970 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles.
Based on the opinion of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, this proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles concludes that the proposal in question is restricted to the straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
For this reason, I voted in favour of Parliament's proposal, which takes over the Commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
The importance of the transport sector to the European economy is reflected in the employment that it directly provides for more than 10 million people and in the 5% of gross domestic product (GDP) that it represents.
One of the EU's objectives is the transparency of the Community acquis as a way of bringing Europe closer to its citizens, so that they can benefit from the specific rights that are given to them.
I voted in favour of this document, codifying Council Directive 87/402/EEC of 25 June 1987 on roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver's seat on narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors.
Codification is an effective means of consolidating the rules governing a certain area in a single legislative act.
Codification is also a suitable means of developing European Union law which is simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
I welcome the efforts that have been made towards clarifying Union law in order to make it more accessible to all EU citizens.
I am therefore voting for this proposal for a directive on protection structures for narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors.
This report concerns the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver's seat on narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors, as a codified text.
Simplifying the lives of EU citizens is one of the EU's concerns.
In 1987, the Commission recommended that all acts that had up to 10 amendments be codified, so that Community legislation would be easier to understand.
To address this issue, since 1994, there has been an interinstitutional agreement between Parliament, the Commission and the Council on an accelerated working method for the adoption of codified acts.
I am pleased, therefore, that we can finally adopt a directive codifying Council Directive 87/402/EEC of 25 June 1987 on roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver's seat on narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors.
in writing. - Council Directive 87/402/EEC of 25 June 1987 on roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver's seat on narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors has been substantially amended several times.
The directive mentioned above is one of the separate directives of the EC type-approval system provided for in Council Directive 74/150/EEC, as replaced by Directive 2003/37/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 May 2003 on type-approval of agricultural or forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units, and repealing Directive 74/150/EEC, and lays down technical prescriptions concerning the design and construction of agricultural or forestry tractors as regards the roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver's seat.
Those technical prescriptions concern the approximation of the laws of the Member States to enable the EC type-approval procedure provided for in Directive 2003/37/EC to be applied in respect of each type of tractor.
Consequently, the provisions laid down in Directive 2003/37/EC relating to agricultural and forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units, apply to this directive.
in writing. - I voted for this report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver's seat on narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors (codified text).
This proposal is confined to the codification of the existing texts relating to narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors, without any change in their substance, so I am voting in favour.
in writing. - The European Parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver's seat on narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors is very timely.
The purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of Council Directive 87/402/EEC of 25 June 1987 on roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver's seat on narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors.
Based on the opinion of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, this proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver's seat on narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors concludes that the proposal in question is restricted to the straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
For this reason, I voted in favour of Parliament's proposal, which adopts the Commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
We are in favour of this directive on roll-over protection structures on narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors.
This report, which I voted for today, relates to specific Union legislation on the EU approval system for narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors, establishing technical rules on roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver's seat on tractors.
In this particular case, the technical rules imposed on the Member States allow the EU approval system, established in Directive 2003/37/EC, to be applied to every model of tractor.
I therefore believe that it is essential to find solutions in order to narrow this gap, thereby demonstrating that the main purpose of the EU is the well-being of its people.
I voted in favour of this document, codifying Council Directive 86/415/EEC of 24 July 1986 on the installation, location, operation and identification of the controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors.
Codification is an effective means of consolidating the rules governing a certain area in a single legislative act.
Codification is also a suitable means of developing European Union law which is simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
I welcome the efforts that have been made towards clarifying Union law in order to make it more accessible to all EU citizens.
I am therefore voting for this proposal for a directive on the installation, operation and identification of the controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors.
This report relates to the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the installation, location, operation and identification of the controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors, in a codified text.
Simplifying the lives of European citizens is one of the EU's concerns.
On 1 April 1987, the Commission recommended that all acts that had up to 10 amendments be codified, so that Community legislation would be easier to understand.
To address this issue, since 1994, there has been an interinstitutional agreement between Parliament, the Commission and the Council on an accelerated working method for the adoption of codified acts.
I am pleased, therefore, that we can finally adopt a directive codifying Council Directive 86/415/EEC of 24 July 1986 on the approximation of the legislation of the Member States on the installation, location, operation and identification of the controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors.
in writing. - Council Directive 86/415/EEC of 24 July 1986 on the installation, location, operation and identification of the controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors has been substantially amended several times.
Directive 86/415/EEC is one of the separate directives of the EC type-approval system provided for in Council Directive 74/150/EEC, as replaced by Directive 2003/37/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 May 2003 on type-approval of agricultural or forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units, and repealing Directive 74/150/EEC, and lays down technical prescriptions concerning the installation, location, operation and identification of controls.
Those technical prescriptions concern the approximation of the laws of the Member States to enable the EC type-approval procedure provided for in Directive 2003/37/EC to be applied in respect of each type of tractor.
Consequently, the provisions laid down in Directive 2003/37/EC relating to agricultural and forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units, apply to this directive.
in writing. - I voted for this report for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the installation, location, operation and identification of the controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors (codified text).
This proposal is confined to the codification of the existing texts relating to the controls on wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors, without any change in their substance, so I am voting in favour.
in writing. - The report considers the European Parliament resolution on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the installation, location, operation and identification of the controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors.
The purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of Council Directive 86/415/EEC of 24 July 1986 on the installation, location, operation and identification of the controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors.
I voted 'in favour'.
Based on the opinion of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, this proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the installation, location, operation and identification of the controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors concludes that the proposal in question is restricted to the straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
For this reason, I voted in favour of Parliament's proposal, which takes over the Commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
I am in favour of the report because it aims to protect operators of agricultural machinery, as the controls must be easily accessible and not represent a hazard.
I voted in favour of this document, codifying Council Directive 76/432/EEC of 6 April 1976 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the braking devices of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors.
Codification is an effective means of consolidating the rules governing a certain area in a single legislative act.
Codification is also a suitable means of developing European Union law which is simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
I welcome the efforts that have been made towards clarifying Union law in order to make it more accessible to all EU citizens.
I am therefore voting for this proposal for a directive on the braking devices of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors.
in writing. - Council Directive 76/432/EEC of 6 April 1976 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the braking devices of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors has been substantially amended several times.
Directive 76/432/EEC is one of the separate directives of the EC type-approval system provided for in Council Directive 74/150/EEC, as replaced by Directive 2003/37/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 May 2003 on type-approval of agricultural or forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units, and repealing Directive 74/150/EEC, and lays down technical prescriptions concerning braking devices.
Those technical prescriptions concern the approximation of the laws of the Member States to enable the EC type-approval procedure provided for in Directive 2003/37/EC to be applied in respect of each type of tractor.
Consequently, the provisions laid down in Directive 2003/37/EC relating to agricultural and forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units, apply to this directive.
in writing. - I voted for this report endorsing the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on braking devices of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors (codified text).
This proposal is confined to the codification of the existing texts relating to braking devices on wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors, without any change in their substance, so I am voting in favour.
Based on the opinion of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, this proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on braking devices of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors concludes that the proposal in question is restricted to the straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
For this reason, I voted in favour of Parliament's proposal, which takes over the Commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
I am in favour of the report as it aims to regulate and simplify legislation on braking devices of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors.
In order to safeguard and protect agricultural or forestry tractor operators, machinery should have EC type-approval.
I voted in favour of this document, codifying Council Directive 80/720/EEC of 24 June 1980 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the operating space, access to the driving position and the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors.
Codification is an effective means of consolidating the rules governing a certain area in a single legislative act.
Codification is also a suitable means of developing European Union law which is simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
I welcome the efforts that have been made towards clarifying Union law in order to make it more accessible to all EU citizens.
I am therefore voting for this proposal for a directive on the operating space, access to the driving position and the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors.
This report relates to the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the operating space, access to the driving position and the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors, in a codified text.
On 1 April 1987, the Commission recommended that all acts that had up to 10 amendments be codified, so that Community legislation would be easier to understand.
This would go on to form part of the conclusions of the Presidency of the Edinburgh European Council, which took place in December 1992.
To address this issue, since 1994, there has been an interinstitutional agreement between Parliament, the Commission and the Council on an accelerated working method for the adoption of codified acts.
I am pleased, therefore, that we can finally adopt a directive codifying Council Directive 80/720/EEC of 24 June 1980, and which approximates the legislation of the Member States on the operating space, access to the driving position and the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors.
in writing. - Council Directive 80/720/EEC on the approximation of the laws of the States relating to the operating space, access to the driving position and the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors has been substantially amended.
Directive 80/720/EEC is one of the separate directives on the EC type-approval system provided for in Directive 74/150/EEC, as replaced by Directive 2003/37/EC and of the Council of 26 May 2003 on type-approval of agricultural or forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units, and repealing Directive 74/150/EEC, and lays down technical prescriptions concerning the design and construction of agricultural or forestry tractors as regards the operating space, access to the driving position as well as the doors and windows.
Those technical prescriptions concern the approximation of the laws of the States to enable the EC type-approval procedure provided for in Directive 2003/37/EC to be applied in respect of each type of tractor.
Consequently, the provisions laid down in Directive 2003/37/EC relating to agricultural or forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units, apply to this directive.
This proposal is confined to the codification of the existing texts relating to access to the driving position and the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors, without any change in their substance, so I am voting in favour.
Based on the opinion of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, this proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the operating space, access to the driving position and the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors concludes that the proposal in question is restricted to the straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
For this reason, I voted in favour of Parliament's proposal, which adopts the Commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
In the interests of safety, it is essential for the rules on the operating space, driving position and door and window sizes of agricultural tractors to be codified in a manner that is comprehensible and accessible to citizens.
I therefore voted in favour.
This report, like those concerning the rules applied to tractors, is aimed at undertaking the codification of Directive 80/720/EEC of 24 June 1980, which concerns the harmonisation of Member State legislation on the operating space, access to the driving position and the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors.
The amendments tabled do not affect the content itself, merely making the changes to the form required by the codification process, presented in the 22 official languages.
Once again, I would like to reiterate the importance of this legal process in order to allow easier comprehension and greater clarity of EU legal texts, whose main beneficiaries are the European public and its bodies.
A Europe that is clear and simple for the entire public is the key factor in developing a sense of belonging, which is vital to the European project.
I voted in favour of this document, codifying Council Directive 86/298/EEC of 26 May 1986 on rear-mounted roll-over protection structures of narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors.
Codification is an effective means of consolidating the rules governing a certain area in a single legislative act.
Codification is also a suitable means of developing European Union law which is simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
I welcome the efforts that have been made towards clarifying Union law in order to make it more accessible to all EU citizens.
I am therefore voting for this proposal for a directive on roll-over protection structures for narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors.
This proposal confines itself to merely codifying the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
This report relates to the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on rear-mounted roll-over protection structures of narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors, in a codified text.
On 1 April 1987, the Commission recommended that all acts that had up to 10 amendments be codified, so that Community legislation would be easier to understand.
This would go on to form part of the conclusions of the Presidency of the Edinburgh European Council, which took place in December 1992.
To address this issue, since 1994, there has been an interinstitutional agreement between Parliament, the Commission and the Council on an accelerated working method for the adoption of codified acts.
I am pleased, therefore, that we can finally adopt a directive codifying Council Directive 86/298/EEC of 26 May 1986, and which approximates the legislation of the Member States on rear-mounted roll-over protection structures of narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors.
in writing. - I voted for this report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on rear-mounted roll-over protection structures of narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors (codified text).
This proposal is confined to the codification of the existing texts relating to rear-mounted roll-over protection structures of narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors, without any change in their substance, so I am voting in favour.
Based on the opinion of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, this proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on rear-mounted roll-over protection structures of narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors concludes that the proposal in question is restricted to the straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
For this reason, I voted in favour of Parliament's proposal, which takes over the Commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
This report is aimed at clarifying and simplifying Council Directive 86/298/EEC of 1986, along with various amendments already made to it, on the subject of rear-mounted roll-over protection structures on narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors.
This directive and the corresponding changes set out technical rules on the design and manufacture of agricultural and forestry tractors, and on their respective approval system, which requires EU-level harmonisation with a view to creating the conditions necessary for road safety.
This European harmonisation also ensures that if the protection of workers is at risk when they are using tractors, the Member States can implement the necessary and required measures, bearing in mind compliance with the Treaty and technical regulations on the protection structures specified in this directive.
I am voting for the amended Commission proposal having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 December 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts and, in particular, to point 4 thereof.
The Consultative Working Party, consisting of the respective legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, met on 23 November 2010 for the purpose of examining the aforementioned proposal submitted by the Commission.
An examination of the proposal for a Council directive codifying Council Directive 92/79/EEC of 19 October 1992 on the approximation of taxes on cigarettes, Council Directive 92/80/EEC of 19 October 1992 on the approximation of taxes on manufactured tobacco other than cigarettes, and Council Directive 95/59/EC of 27 November 1995 on taxes other than turnover taxes which affect the consumption of manufactured tobacco, resulted in the Consultative Working Party's concluding, without dissent, that the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance.
I voted in favour of this document, codifying Council Directive 92/79/EEC of 19 October 1992 on the approximation of taxes on cigarettes, Council Directive 92/80/EEC of 19 October 1992 on the approximation of taxes on manufactured tobacco other than cigarettes and Council Directive 95/59/EC of 27 November 1995 on taxes other than turnover taxes which affect the consumption of manufactured tobacco.
Codification is an effective means of consolidating the rules governing a certain area in a single legislative act.
Codification is also a suitable means of developing European Union law which is simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
I welcome the efforts that have been made towards clarifying Union law in order to make it more accessible to all EU citizens.
I am therefore voting for this proposal for a directive on the structure and rates of excise duty applied to manufactured tobacco.
With due regard for the opinions of the legal services of Parliament, the Council and the Commission, which have concluded that the Commission proposal was confined to a straightforward codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance, I welcome the adoption of this proposal.
This report concerns an amended proposal for a Council directive on the structure and specific rates of excise duty applied to the consumption of manufactured tobacco, in a codified text.
On 1 April 1987, the Commission recommended that all acts that had up to 10 amendments be codified, so that Community legislation would be easier to understand.
This would go on to form part of the conclusions of the Presidency of the Edinburgh European Council, which took place in December 1992.
To address this issue, since 1994, there has been an interinstitutional agreement between Parliament, the Commission and the Council on an accelerated working method for the adoption of the codification, which should be carried out in complete compliance with the EU legislative process.
I therefore voted in favour of this proposal, codifying Council Directive 92/79/EEC of 19 October 1992 on the structure and specific rates of excise duty applied to the consumption of manufactured tobacco.
in writing. - The Treaty aims to maintain an economic union with healthy competition and properties that are similar to those on the domestic market.
As regards manufactured tobacco, the achievement of this aim presupposes that the application in the Member States of taxes affecting the consumption of products in this sector does not distort conditions of competition and does not impede their free movement within the European Union.
As far as excise duties are concerned, the harmonisation of structures must, in particular, result in competition in the different categories of manufactured tobacco belonging to the same group not being distorted by the effects of charging the tax and, consequently, in the opening of the Member States' national markets.
The imperative needs of competition imply a system of freely formed prices for all groups of manufactured tobacco and implementation of this policy needs to guarantee a high level of human health.
in writing. - I voted for this report on the amended proposal for a Council directive on the structure and rates of excise duty applied to manufactured tobacco (codified text).
This proposal is confined to the codification of the existing texts relating to the structure and rates of excise duty applied to the consumption of manufactured tobacco, without any change in their substance, so I am voting in favour.
in writing. - The report of Sajjad Karim contains the European Parliament legislative resolution on the amended proposal for a Council directive on the structure and rates of excise duty applied to manufactured tobacco.
It is known that the purpose of this proposal is to undertake a codification of Council Directive 92/79/EEC of 19 October 1992 on the approximation of taxes on cigarettes, Council Directive 92/80/EEC of 19 October 1992 on the approximation of taxes on manufactured tobacco other than cigarettes and Council Directive 95/59/EC of 27 November 1995 on taxes other than turnover taxes which affect the consumption of manufactured tobacco.
I voted 'in favour'.
The Consultative Working Party with authority on this issue has considered the proposal for a Council directive codifying Council Directive 92/79/EEC of 19 October 1992 on the approximation of taxes on cigarettes, Council Directive 92/80/EEC of 19 October 1992 on the approximation of taxes on manufactured tobacco other than cigarettes, and Council Directive 95/59/EC of 27 November 1995 on taxes other than turnover taxes which affect the consumption of manufactured tobacco.
The Consultative Working Party concluded that the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance.
I therefore voted in favour.
I voted in favour of this document, codifying Council Regulation (EC) No 975/98 of 3 May 1998 on denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation.
Codification is an effective means of consolidating the rules governing a certain area in a single legislative act.
Codification is also a suitable means of developing European Union law which is simpler, clearer and more understandable to citizens.
I welcome the efforts that have been made towards clarifying Union law in order to make it more accessible to all EU citizens.
I am therefore voting for this proposal for a regulation on denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation.
With due regard for the opinions of the legal services of Parliament, the Council and the Commission, which have concluded that the Commission proposal was confined to a straightforward codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance, I welcome the adoption of this proposal.
This report concerns a proposal for a Council regulation on denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation, in a codified text.
On 1 April 1987, the Commission recommended that all acts that had up to 10 amendments be codified, so that Community legislation would be easier to understand.
This would go on to form part of the conclusions of the Presidency of the Edinburgh European Council, which took place in December 1992.
To address this issue, since 1994, there has been an interinstitutional agreement between Parliament, the Commission and the Council on an accelerated working method for the adoption of codification, which should be carried out in complete compliance with the EU legislative process.
I am therefore voting in favour of this report, codifying Council Regulation (EC) No 975/98 of 3 May 1998 on denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation.
The fact that they have one European and one national side is an appropriate expression of the idea of European Monetary Union between the Member States.
in writing. - I voted for this report on the proposal for a Council regulation on denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation (codified text).
This proposal is confined to the codification of the existing texts relating to denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation, without any change in their substance, so I am voting in favour.
in writing. - The report of Sajjad Karim contains a legislative resolution of the European Parliament on the proposal for a Council regulation on denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation.
Taking into account the likelihood of the accession of new states to the euro area, this initiative provides a new opportunity to prevent the activity of money counterfeiters.
I voted 'in favour'.
Based on the opinion of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, this report on the proposal for a Council regulation on denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation concludes that the proposal in question is restricted to the straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
For this reason, I voted in favour of Parliament's proposal, which adopts the Commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
I support this report because this proposal involves no more than a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. - With this 'whereas, according to the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance, the EP adopts its position at first reading, taking over the Commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission'.
The 10 reports from the Committee on Legal Affairs focus solely on the codification of various acts, as established by common accord by the Legal Service.
The resolution adopted today fully supports the Commission's position, which is in line with the recommendations of the Consultative Working Party of the Legal Services of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
I support this proposal for the committee to continue its work on this important document on the basis of the amendments adopted by Parliament at first reading, and I hope that the Council will also take a favourable approach towards promoting access to information about textile products.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this important resolution on textile fibre names and related labelling and marking of fibre composition of textile products.
With the adoption of this resolution, Europe has achieved a unanimous commitment to protect consumers through the indication of the country of origin and the adoption of a new mechanism for traceability of textile products.
I voted in favour of this report because it is important that consumers be fully informed when buying textiles.
Thanks to the report, clear labelling of textiles that have any animal content will be mandatory in future.
I am in agreement with the rapporteur in that a balance should be struck between implementing a high level of protection for consumers and the need to simplify the regulatory framework for textile products.
I agree that the right balance should be struck between a high level of consumer protection and the simplification of the regulatory framework for textile products.
Extending compulsory labelling should not impose a disproportionate burden on enterprises without bringing real added-value for consumers, who may even be confused by an excess of information on the label of textile products.
This should examine, in particular, consumer views with regard to the amount of information that should be supplied on the label of textile products, and investigate which means other than labelling may be used to provide additional information to consumers.
The proposal for a regulation adopted by the Commission on 30 January 2010 is aimed at simplifying the existing regulatory framework, bringing the three existing directives on naming and labelling textile products together in a single regulation.
At first reading, on 18 May 2010, Parliament approved 63 amendments with a large majority.
It also adopted a number of substantive amendments, including rules on origin marking, indication of animal-derived materials, multi-fibre textile products, and so on.
In its assessment, the Council rejected all substantive amendments proposed by Parliament.
I voted for this report, the recommendation for second reading, because it restores the vast majority of Parliament's amendments at first reading, including those relating to origin marking, indication of animal-derived materials and multi-fibre textile products.
Equally important will be the study that the Commission will have to submit by September 2013 to determine whether there is a causal link between allergic reactions and the chemicals or mixtures used in textile products.
In January 2009, the Commission adopted the proposal for a new regulation on textile names and related labelling of textile products.
The aim of the proposal is to simplify and improve the existing regulatory framework for the labelling of textile products with a view to encouraging the development and uptake of new fibres.
By transforming the three existing directives into a single regulation, the proposal facilitates the process to adapt legislation to technical progress whilst allowing fibre users to benefit more readily from innovative products on the market.
I welcome this proposal, and I consider it particularly significant that the new regulation contains a specific reference to 'Made in' labelling.
It is crucial, in fact, to continue along this path in order to furnish the European Union with the tools to compete with and face its main trade partners, such as the United States, Canada, China and Japan, on the globalised market.
Furthermore I wish to emphasise here what is, in my view, the most important aspect of the agreement reached with the Council, namely, the commitment by the European Commission to present, by 30 September 2013, after it has carried out a suitable impact assessment, a report accompanied by legislative proposals regarding indication of origin labelling, traceability and the use of new technologies.
In general, the report proposes that labels should show as much information as possible about the composition of the product and that we should call on the Commission to investigate whether imported products are damaging to human health due to their composition, in order to improve consumer protection.
However, at the same time, the report proposes rejecting any unnecessary administrative burden for goods manufacturers.
I voted in favour of this resolution, which has the merit of simplifying the existing system concerning the labelling of textile products, as well as encouraging the development and uptake of new fibres and shortening the time between the submission of an application and the adoption of a new fibre name.
These new rules would allow consumers to benefit more readily from innovative products.
In view of this, I am voting for the adoption of the regulation tabled by Parliament and the Commission.
However, I believe that the amendments tabled by the rapporteur are important.
In order to prevent consumers from inadvertently purchasing products made from animal-derived materials (fur and leather), I supported this report, which provides for mandatory labelling containing the phrase 'non-textile parts of animal origin'.
This regulation is aimed at establishing rules on the use of textile fibre names and related labelling of textile products, as well as rules on the quantitative analysis of binary and ternary textile fibres mixtures.
The aim is to make the process of adding new fibres to the harmonised list of textile fibre names more transparent, and to adapt the legislation to technological developments in the textile industry.
The amendments reintroduced by the rapporteur cover the issues of identifying the origin of the textile, non-textile parts of animal origin, a review clause, a request for a study on hazardous substances, language-independent symbols or codes for fibres, requirements for the technical file to be attached to the application for the authorisation of a new textile fibre name, multi-fibre textile products, self-employed tailors, laboratories testing textile mixtures, and the mandatory indication of the fibre composition for felts and felt hats.
This recommendation for second reading concerns the Council position on the adoption of a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on textile fibre names and related labelling and marking of fibre composition of textile products.
The textile sector is very complex and represents a significant share of economic activity in the Member States.
The rapporteur has managed to reach an agreement on issues as controversial as origin marking, non-textile parts of animal origin, hazardous substances and others.
Furthermore, he has managed to include a review clause which allows obstacles to the proper functioning of the Internal Market to be eliminated.
The Council can therefore quickly adopt this legislation with a view to its entry into force in January 2012, which would greatly benefit consumers.
I am therefore pleased with the consensus that has been reached, and I am voting in favour of this regulation repealing Council Directive 73/44/EEC, Parliament Directive 96/73/EC and Directive 2008/121/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council.
The aim of this proposal for a regulation is to simplify and improve the existing regulatory framework for the labelling of textile products, with a view to protecting and encouraging the development and uptake of new fibres.
The proposal facilitates the process of adapting legislation to technical progress by transforming the three existing directives into a single regulation, thereby avoiding the transposition of merely technical updates and shortening the time between the submission of an application and the adoption of a new fibre name.
The simplification of the existing regulatory framework has the potential to encourage innovation in the textile and clothing sector, whilst allowing consumers to benefit more quickly from innovative products.
At first reading, in 2010, Parliament approved amendments to rules on origin marking, indication of animal-derived materials, use of language-independent symbols and a review clause, but the Council did not accept everything.
The initial aim of this proposal was to simplify and improve the existing regulatory framework for the labelling of textile products.
During its negotiations with the EU Council of Ministers, Parliament included new provisions in the regulation, such as those requiring the indication of animal-derived materials in textile products and conducting a study to determine whether there is a causal link between allergic reactions and the chemicals used in textile products.
The presence of animal-derived materials should be clearly indicated, so as to prevent consumers or individuals who suffer allergies from running the risk of inadvertently purchasing real fur products when they would prefer not to do so.
The Commission will have to prepare a study by 30 September 2013 to determine whether there is a causal link between allergic reactions, and the chemicals or mixtures used in textile products.
This amendment introduces a requirement to indicate the presence of non-textile parts of animal origin in textile products.
In order to eliminate potential obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market caused by diverging provisions or practices by Member States, and in order to keep pace with the development of electronic commerce and future challenges in the market for textile products, it is necessary to examine the harmonisation and standardisation of other aspects of textile labelling with a view to facilitating the free movement of textile products in the internal market and achieving a uniform and high level of consumer protection throughout the EU.
Subsequently, however, our group mentioned the need to safeguard the textile industry and the 'Made in' label, but no response to this position was given in the negotiations with the Council.
The resolution on textile fibre names and related labelling and marking of textile products which has been adopted by the European Parliament is particularly important for the textile sector in the European Union.
It will enable the more rapid introduction to the market of new fibres which will help innovative textile firms in particular in the practical application of their research and development.
The resolution was the subject of a long debate between the European Parliament and the Council.
I endorsed this document because it proposes laying down rules on the presence of non-textile parts of animal origin in certain products, as well as indicating products' origins precisely.
Above all, this regulation should provide for requirements to indicate non-textile parts of animal origin when labelling or marking textile products, so that consumers can make a choice on the basis of the information in their possession.
Although some of the manufacturers of products opposed this initiative, referring to existing laws on the requirements for labelling parts of animal origin, an improvement has now been made, and it is a very real indication of the EU's consumer oriented thinking.
However, the compulsory marking of the origin of products from third countries would have been ineffective and expensive in itself to accomplish.
It is difficult to make an impromptu estimate of the added value to the consumer that such a requirement might bring, especially as, in the global world, products are rarely manufactured or originate in just one country.
in writing. - I welcome the Commission's proposal, as it simplifies the existing regulatory framework and has the potential to encourage innovation in the textile and clothing sector, whilst allowing fibre users and consumers to benefit more readily from innovative products.
The new rules on labelling of textile products are crucial for preventing the problems that arise if consumers are poorly informed.
The presence of animal-derived materials must be clearly indicated, so as to prevent consumers or individuals who suffer allergies from running the risk of inadvertently purchasing real fur products when they would prefer not to do so.
The initial aim of this proposal is to simplify and improve the existing regulatory framework for the labelling of textile products.
During the negotiations with the EU Council of Ministers, the inclusion of new provisions in the regulation was very important, such as those requiring the indication of animal-derived materials in textile products and conducting a study to determine whether there is a causal link between allergic reactions and chemicals or mixtures used in textile products.
in writing. - The report of Toine Manders is aimed at helping the buyers of textile products.
I voted 'in favour'.
For the majority of people, the origin of the products plays a very important role in their decisions about what they want to spend their money on.
The text being examined today is, unfortunately, very different from the one approved by this House at first reading.
The substantive difference lies in the fact that this report makes no reference to the origin marking to be included on textile product labels.
Parliament has unfortunately bowed to the Council's short-sighted decision not to endorse the much-needed origin marking, and I therefore feel I must vote against today's report.
This report is a recommendation for second reading on the Council position at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on textile fibre names and related labelling and marking of fibre composition of textile products.
The Council rejected all substantive amendments proposed by Parliament at first reading, as it believes that these would not be compatible with the intended simplification.
The main amendments proposed by Parliament and reintroduced in the report, which I voted for, relate to issues that I believe to be of the utmost importance for the European market.
Of these, I would like to highlight origin marking and the inclusion of a requirement to indicate the country of origin of textile products imported from third countries.
The current absence of harmonised rules on origin marking puts the EU at a disadvantage as regards its main trade partners, such as Canada, China, Japan and the US, which require origin marking for imported goods.
At first reading, Parliament approved 63 amendments to the Commission proposal on a regulation on textile fibre names and related labelling of textile products.
Some of these amendments were of a technical nature while others were related to the substance, including rules on origin marking, indication of animal-derived materials, the use of language-independent symbols and a review clause.
The technical amendments were largely accepted by the Council, but it rejected all substantive amendments proposed by Parliament.
in writing. - In its position at first reading, adopted on 18 May 2010, the European Parliament approved, by a very large majority, 63 amendments.
Parliament also adopted a number of substantive amendments, including rules on origin marking, the indication of animal-derived materials, the use of language-independent symbols and a review clause.
I believe the Commission will continue its efforts to find an acceptable solution in this matter.
The Dutch Party for Freedom (PVV) is voting against this recommendation of the European Parliament.
The original Commission proposal envisaged a simplification of formalities in order to make it easier to introduce new textile fibres.
The European Parliament has added a requirement that, in future, businesses will be obliged to state where a textile product comes from via what is known as country of origin labelling.
We do not support Parliament's position in this regard.
Even if the so-called country of origin is specified, other parts of the production process can take place elsewhere.
The PVV will thus also be voting against this recommendation.
I welcome the agreement that has been concluded between the European Parliament and the Council on the extremely complex issue of textile names and related labelling of textile products.
I believe that consumers should be informed about the social conditions under which a textile product has been manufactured in order to give them greater responsibility for the working conditions of workers in the textile industry.
We must obviously not overload the labels with information, but social labelling could enable working conditions in the European Union and worldwide to undergo lasting change thanks to a citizen-based approach by consumers when they make purchases.
Textile products which comprise non-textile parts of animal origin, such as fur or leather, should, in future, state this clearly on the label.
As regards the Manders recommendation on textile names and related labelling of textile products, I voted in favour of the compromise proposal by the political groups because I am in favour of a compulsory system of labelling of the country of origin of third-country textile products.
The Lithuanian textile and clothing sector is one of the most specialised in Europe, with 1 000 enterprises involved in this sector employing 40 000 people.
For me, and the majority of Lithuanians, it is therefore important for the new rules on the labelling of textile products mentioned in this report to help protect the reputation of our textile sector.
European consumers have the right to know what they are buying.
The use of any products of animal origin must be clearly shown on the label of the textile product.
Therefore, both Lithuania and Europe should be interested in increasing efforts to improve quality control and transparency.
in writing. - Following today's vote on labelling, consumers will no longer face the risk of mistakenly buying textiles containing real leather or fur.
I believe that consumers have the right to know what the products they buy are made from, and this report ensures that any animal-derived materials will be indicated on textile product labels.
This is good news not only for people who do not want to buy products that contain real fur or leather, but also for those who suffer from allergies.
I am disappointed that this report did not make origin labelling compulsory for textile products, but I am encouraged that the Commission will come forward with an assessment report to address such issues in the future.
I have voted in favour of the report on naming and labelling textile products.
The compromise reached by several groups in the European Parliament also takes into consideration existing problems involving counterfeit products in the European textile sector and calls for transparent and coherent trade regulations to ensure protection for consumers.
The text on which we have voted not only proposes to combine the three directives on the labelling of textile composition into a single European regulation applicable to all the Member States, but it is also designed to simplify the procedure for recognising new fibres.
I am voting for this proposal as it amends certain aspects of Regulation (EC) No 1215/2009, so as to extend its validity to 31 December 2015 and make certain adjustments resulting from the entry into force of bilateral agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Serbia.
Given that the interim agreements/stabilisation and association agreements (SAAs) grant trade concessions to Bosnia and Herzegovina on the products identified in the autonomous trade preferences, these concessions have to be withdrawn from Council Regulation (EC) No 1215/2009.
The termination of the trade preferences would take from the beneficiaries an objective economic advantage in their trade with the EU.
Moreover, their economic recovery could be seriously jeopardised.
The European Union has granted the countries of the Western Balkans exceptional unlimited duty-free access to the EU market for nearly all products.
The key aim of these measures is to revitalise the Western Balkan economies through privileged access to the EU market.
In turn, economic development is to foster political stability in the entire region.
These trade preferences were granted for a period ending on 31 December 2010.
I agree that the validity of the exemption provisions should be extended to 31 December 2015.
The termination of the trade preferences would take from the beneficiaries an objective economic advantage in their trade with the EU.
I support the introduction of exceptional trade measures for countries and territories benefiting from the Stabilisation and Association process.
Everyone is aware that trade is a driver of economic development and these trade measures will revitalise the economies of the Western Balkans.
In addition, granting the Western Balkan countries privileged access to the European Union market will also enable us to encourage more rapid integration of their economies with that of the European Union.
This extension is aimed at addressing the widespread economic crisis, given that terminating trade preferences would compromise these countries' economic recovery, and would have consequences for the whole stabilisation and transition process of the Western Balkans.
This report focuses on a proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1215/2009, which introduces exceptional trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the EU's stabilisation and association process.
The countries of the Western Balkans are in this situation, and products originating from them enjoy duty-free status and exceptional unlimited access to the EU market.
These measures are aimed at mitigating the crisis and revitalising the economy of these countries.
I therefore agree with the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, as well as the extension of these measures until 31 December 2015, subject to the necessary adjustments resulting from the new bilateral agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia.
This report is aimed at extending exceptional, unlimited, duty-free access to the EU market for nearly all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process.
The pretext of this is to revitalise the Western Balkan economies through privileged access to the EU market, in the belief that any economic growth resulting from this will foster political stability throughout the region.
These measures cannot, however, be considered in isolation from the situation of severe economic and social crisis that exists today in the Balkans, particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Kosovo.
The secession of Kosovo and the role of the EU in this are indicative of that, and the internal process dubbed 'reform and transition' represents the current stage of this process of the imposition of imperial rule over the region.
This report is aimed at extending exceptional, unlimited, duty-free access to the EU market for nearly all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the so-called stabilisation and association process.
The pretext of this is to revitalise the Western Balkan economies through privileged access to the EU market, in the belief that any economic growth resulting from this will foster political stability throughout the region.
These measures cannot, however, be considered in isolation from the situation of severe economic and social crisis that exists today in the Balkans, particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Kosovo.
The main objective of these measures is to revitalise the economies of the Western Balkans through privileged access to the EU market.
In addition, economic development has promoted political stability throughout the region.
These trade preferences were granted for the period that ended on 31 December 2010 and which currently apply to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Kosovo.
Moreover, it could seriously jeopardise the economic recovery.
In order not to disrupt trade, it is therefore desirable to extend the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1215/2009 to 31 December 2015.
I welcomed this important document because, through Regulation (EC) No 2007/2000, the European Union has granted exceptional unlimited duty-free access to the EU market for nearly all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the Stabilisation and Association process.
The key aim of these measures is to revitalise the Western Balkan economies through privileged access to the EU market.
In turn, economic development is to foster political stability in the entire region.
The trade preferences were granted for a period ending on 31 December 2010 and currently apply to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Kosovo, as defined by UNSCR 1244/99 for all the products under the scope of Regulation (EC) No 1215/2009.
Products originating in Albania, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia or Montenegro continue to benefit from the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1215/2009 when so indicated or from any measures provided in the same regulation which are more favourable than the trade concessions provided for in the framework of bilateral agreements between the European Union and these countries.
This proposal amends certain elements of Regulation (EC) No 1215/2009 in order to permit the extension of its validity to 31 December 2015 and make certain adjustments consequent to the entry into force of bilateral agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia.
in writing. - I strongly support the amendment of certain elements of Regulation (EC) No 1215/2009 in order to permit the extension of its validity to 31 December 2015 and make certain adjustments consequent to the entry into force of bilateral agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia.
Under Regulation (EC) No 2007/2000, the EU granted exceptional, unlimited, duty-free access to the EU market for nearly all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the Stabilisation and Association process.
The key aim of this measure is to revitalise the Western Balkan economies through privileged access to the EU market.
The economic development that comes about as a result will foster political stability throughout the region.
in writing. - When the European Union adopted Regulation No 2007/2000, it granted exceptional unlimited duty-free access to the EU market for nearly all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the Stabilisation and Association process.
The key aim of these measures is to revitalise the Western Balkan economies through privileged access to the EU market.
In turn, economic development is to foster political stability in the entire region.
Moreover, their economic recovery could be seriously jeopardised.
Therefore, I agree with the rapporteur who strongly supports the amendment of certain elements of Regulation (EC) No 1215/2009 in order to permit the extension of its validity to 31 December 2015 and I voted 'in favour'.
In order to stimulate the economies of the countries in the Western Balkans, they have been given privileged access to the European market.
The preferences remain in place for goods from Albania, Croatia, Macedonia and Montenegro.
If these trade preferences were to come to an end now, this would jeopardise further economic growth in these countries.
I have not voted in favour of the report because, as has already been explained, some points in the new regulation are not clearly worded.
This report aims to extend the validity of Council Regulation (EC) No 1215/2009, which adopts exceptional trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the EU's Stabilisation and Association Process.
The EU has granted exceptional, unlimited, duty-free access to the EU market for nearly all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the Stabilisation and Association process.
These trade preferences were granted for a period ending on 31 December 2010.
The termination of the trade preferences would withdraw from the beneficiaries any objective economic advantage in their trade with the EU.
I voted in favour of this proposal, which is aimed at extending the validity of these measures until 31 December 2015.
Under Regulation (EC) No 2007/2000, the EU granted exceptional, unlimited, duty-free access to the EU market for nearly all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the Stabilisation and Association process.
These 'exceptional trade measures' with the partners in the Western Balkans, under the EU Stabilisation and Association process, are indeed preferential tariff measures which guarantee easier access to the EU market for the partner countries' exports.
Thus, Parliament had to await the adoption of the Szjer report on comitology in March in order to proceed further.
The delay has created hardship in some receiving countries, and particularly in Kosovo, and Parliament has been wrongly blamed for this.
I am voting for this proposal as I agree with the guiding principle that runs through it.
The EU is indeed the world's largest economy.
The need for a single Internal Market is critical if Europe is to become a leading player in the global economy, with a focus on the service sector and the knowledge economy, but, at the same time, the Digital Agenda and the digital economy can serve as a spearhead for realising the Internal Market for all parts of our economy.
This requires the ability to become a leader in terms of broadband and Internet use.
Opening Europe up to new services and increased mobile traffic lays the ground for new opportunities for culture and content, broadcasters and public services within the framework of broadband while, at the same time, ensuring the same opportunities for broadcasting.
I voted in favour of this resolution on a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the first radio spectrum policy programme.
I agree with the rapporteur's opinion that the need for one single internal market is crucial for Europe to take a leadership in the global economy, with a focus on the service sector and the knowledge economy.
The Digital Agenda and the digital economy can serve as a spearhead for making the Internal Market real for all parts of our economy.
We must aim to make Europe the best and do what is best for Europe: free up spectrum for new services and increased mobile traffic, laying the ground for new opportunities for culture and content, broadcasters and public services within the framework of broadband.
Europe must be in the lead in this process of change, creating the best opportunities for a competitive European knowledge economy characterised by vitality, change and innovations.
That requires access to Internet and broadband applications with the greatest capacity and the highest speed.
The Digital Agenda and the digital economy represent one of the most important objectives of the EU 2020 strategy, aimed at closing the digital gap, and increasing the productivity, cohesion and competitiveness of European industry, and ensuring better access to the single market for the EU's consumers and companies.
We must overcome the digital divide so that by 2020, all EU citizens have access to broadband services at a speed of at least 30 Mbps.
I voted in favour of this report because its aim is to create maximum opportunities for business and individual consumers to take advantage of wireless Internet, radio and television services, freeing up radio spectrum.
I congratulate Mr Hkmark on preparing such a topical report on the radio spectrum policy programme.
I voted in favour of it since I firmly endorse all measures aimed at supporting and implementing the internal single market.
Europe needs to adopt advanced systems for broadband and Internet use that are accessible to all and are also able to reach rural and outlying areas, as required by the Digital Agenda.
At the same time, it is important to ensure security for private individuals, producers, users and public authorities.
Moreover, the high cost of fibre optics and the growing demand by users for high-speed connections mean that the technological framework must be reviewed in both legislative and operational terms.
To that end, multiannual radio spectrum legislative programmes need to be prepared in order to establish strategic planning and to meet the growing demand for broadband access, particularly because official estimates suggest that data traffic will double every year until 2013.
This is connected with the idea that securing a wireless broadband connection is essential in order for all citizens to have access to new and innovative services.
I fully agree with the deadline proposed by the Commission as regards making the 800 MHz band available for electronic communications services by 1 January 2013.
The other bands should be released by 1 January 2012, as stipulated in the Commission proposal.
In my opinion, we should push for the allocation of more frequencies to mobile services, with a minimum target of 1 200 MHz.
We need to allocate radio spectrum more efficiently in the EU to ensure that we do not remain behind other developed countries progressing towards the digital society.
The measures advocated in the first radio spectrum policy programme are vital for reducing the digital divide and offering rapid, reliable telecommunications services in rural and isolated areas with a view to revitalising them.
I believe in the ability of this programme to create the conditions necessary for successful competition with the new technology markets of China and the US, as well as maintaining European leadership in the telecommunications industry.
I voted in favour of this report, which will enable the exponential demand for access to high frequency-consuming mobile Internet to be met in the short term, in particular, through the allocation of the entire 800 MHz band, freed up by the changeover to digital television in our various countries, to electronic communications services.
At the same time, we are promoting innovative technologies (femtocells, cognitive technologies) in order to respond qualitatively to the demand for use of frequencies.
This will contribute to the objectives that the Union has set itself, including that of bridging the digital divide, so as to ensure that all Europeans have broadband access by 2015.
in writing. - I voted to reject Amendment 20, second part; Amendment 69, second part, as this had been recommended by both S&amp;D voices on the Culture Committee, on which I sit as a substitute member.
I voted in favour of this report as it presents a set of measures that make a significant contribution to universal access to less-favoured or remote areas, such as rural areas or islands.
The Digital Agenda, the digital economy and this, the first policy programme for five years, are therefore aimed at stimulating our economy and realising the Internal Market in all its aspects.
I would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur on the result that has just been achieved due to an effort at finding a compromise between all the groups in an ambitious and encouraging report.
This report is on a proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the first radio spectrum policy programme.
This should be done on the basis of cooperation between the Member States, mindful of the fact that the spectrum is a public good, which is important in outlining and improving a range of services for the public, including in areas of public services.
We agree with the need to plan and organise the radio spectrum on the basis of the necessary cooperation between Member States, as it is a public good, which is important in improving services, particularly public services.
While mentioning that the radio spectrum is 'a key public resource for essential sectors and services', the report points the way towards the 'possibility to trade spectrum rights' and invites the Commission to adopt measures 'to ensure that Member States allow trading within the Union of spectrum usage rights'.
We still do not know about these proposals, and thus far, we have not voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - The European Union is the world's biggest economy.
The need for one single internal market is crucial for Europe to take leadership in the global economy, with a focus on the service sector and the knowledge economy.
The Digital Agenda and the digital economy can serve as a spearhead for making the internal market a reality for all parts of our economy.
It is crucial for the European telecom industry to regain global leadership, but also in order to take the lead in the development of information technologies as such and in the emergence of new services and applications.
We must aim to make Europe the best and make what is best for Europe: opening up new services and increased mobile traffic, laying the ground for new opportunities for culture and content, broadcasters and public services in the framework of broadband and, at the same time, securing the same opportunities for broadcasting as of today.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report for the reason that a renewed economic and social approach with regard to the management, allocation and utilisation of the spectrum should be adopted.
As highlighted in the Single Market Act, the establishment of a radio spectrum programme is key for the enhancement of the digital society and the development of technology.
I believe that the Commission should take a holistic approach towards the proper coordination of the management of the spectrum across the EU in view of the fact that this public good is a scarce and finite resource and is crucial to the furtherance of consumers, citizens and businesses within the single market.
The modern information society and the scarcity of frequency bands make strategic planning and harmonisation of the use of the spectrum essential.
Of course, this relates to mobile and wireless broadband communications, radio and television broadcasting and also radio communications at concerts or in theatres.
The goals of introducing complete broadband coverage of the EU by 2013 and universal high-speed Internet access by 2020 are praiseworthy, but perhaps not entirely realistic.
The EU must endeavour to overcome the digital divide that results in huge disparities within Europe - between urban and rural areas in particular - so as to ensure all citizens have equal access to services, especially those involving new technologies.
We must aim to do what is best for Europe: free up the spectrum for new services and increased mobile traffic, open up new opportunities for culture and content, broadcasters and public services in the framework of broadband and, at the same time, secure the same opportunities for broadcasters as they enjoy today.
Wireless broadband is essential for ensuring that new and innovative services are available to all citizens.
This requires separately allocated radio spectrum in order to guarantee troublefree connections.
It is good that new radio spectrum is to be made available as the Member States are switching from analogue to digital television.
Europe needs the greatest broadband capacity and the fastest speeds to keep up with rising economic powers, like China and India, in the modern economy.
Let us work to ensure that the next generation's Googles and Facebooks originate in Europe.
I supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the first radio spectrum policy programme.
I believe that a common radio frequency spectrum policy will provide European Union Member States with new possibilities for developing information and communications technology industries.
Countries that border the European Union's eastern neighbours will have difficulty freeing up frequencies if the neighbouring countries do not do likewise.
I was responsible for the opinion on the radio spectrum policy programme in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, and I am very pleased with the text that has now been voted on.
The lack of spectrum must not be allowed to hinder innovation while we are developing new technology and services.
The main aims of the radio spectrum policy programme are broadband access for the entire EU by 2013 and fast Internet connections by 2020.
In addition to considerations about the 'digital dividend' to be shared among Internet services (that is to say, the 800 MHz band), we have to look to the future and survey the opportunities afforded by the next potential radio bands, such as the 700 MHz band.
The best capacity and the fastest speed would offer the best basis for competition and innovation.
It is therefore especially important that we in the EU understand the importance of setting sufficiently ambitious targets in order to remain competitive in this sector.
One of the strategy's major lines of action aims to guarantee Internet access throughout Europe by 2013 and high-speed broadband coverage of at least 30 Mbps by 2020.
Many relatively isolated rural and island areas depend on wireless connections from mobile Internet for access to high-speed broadband.
On 1 January 2013, the 800 MHz frequency will be used for mobile Internet, and will provide wireless users with high quality access and thus reduce the digital divide.
This project goes even further still, by providing a new frequency band in the 1.5 to 2.3 GHz range by 2015.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
Radio frequencies serve the public interest in a wide range of areas in the Member States.
The aim is for the European telecommunications industry to regain its global leadership and increase productivity, cohesion, competitiveness and access to a single market.
The European Union has the largest economy in the world and yet it is lagging behind other international players in digital strategy and digital economy.
Europe must take initiatives on broadband and Internet use in order to become a leader in the development of this area.
Wireless broadband is essential if we are to ensure that all citizens have access to new, innovative services.
As far as the radio spectrum is concerned, our policy must have realistic yet ambitious objectives so that European companies are able to compete in the world market on a sounder footing.
in writing. - The rapporteur, Gunnar Hkmark, believes that it is crucial to defend the dates as set out by the Commission (for example, the 800 MHz band should be available for electronic communication services by 1 Jan 2013).
Bands already designated by the Commission should be freed up by 1 January 2012, according to the Commission's proposal.
The Union has to work to get more frequencies allocated for mobile services, with a target of a minimum amount of 1 200 MHz.
It is necessary to get the right principles in place that can enable additional spectrum releases in the future.
The economic recovery is based, among other things, on the utilisation of new technologies and the digital economy.
Although the EU has set ambitious targets in its emblematic initiative entitled 'Digital Agenda', such as broadband cover for all EU citizens by 2013, with speeds of 30 Mbps or more by 2020, it is still lagging behind the USA and Japan in terms of competitiveness.
It is a technical, but necessary, parameter if we are to create a clear trend towards greater productivity, cohesion, competitiveness and access to a single market for European industry as a whole, and that is why I voted for this particular report.
Spectrum policy has a prominent place in the Digital Agenda for Europe and is crucial for the realisation of the policy objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
Mobile broadband is playing an increasingly important role in the delivery and innovation of services in other fields such as healthcare, education, culture and public administration.
The harmonisation of frequencies will lower the costs of deploying mobile networks and the cost of mobile devices for consumers, and boost competition and consumer choice.
I voted in favour of the establishment of the radio spectrum policy programme for all of these reasons.
I therefore voted in favour of this report.
If it is both a shared resource and a scarce resource, we need to understand how it is utilised today; in other words, we must carry out an in-depth study of all the stakeholders in the spectrum, including the civil security and military services.
We have the densest network of public Internet access points - my country has a population of 3.2 million, 2.1 million of whom use the Internet.
The connection with Europe could potentially help convince international companies to establish shops and invest in Lithuania.
On the basis of this report, the main objective of the radio spectrum policy programme is broadband coverage by 2013 for all citizens of Europe, and high speed Internet by 2020.
In my country and throughout Europe, there are families who struggle to feed and educate their children and do not even consider having a computer, never mind high speed broadband.
This improved network will also contribute to making Europe's digital economy more competitive, in the hope of developing an innovative and creative environment that can foster future advances in digital technology.
European legislation must therefore respect Member State sovereignty when looking for a common European interest in the use of these frequencies.
On the other hand, the interests of Slovakia are in harmony with those of other Member States here.
European coordination is important here, because Internet technologies are not restricted by borders, and their benefits increase with the number of users.
The aim of this proposal was to make a start on solving the issue of released frequencies as soon as possible, in order to give Europe an advantage over the other strong economies.
The amendments mentioned require the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure to be amended accordingly, which will be done with this report.
There has been much discussion in recent weeks about the role of lobbyists within the European Parliament.
Today, this register, in which lobbyists will have to register themselves, is being reformed.
This register must be kept in a manner consistent with the right of Members to perform their parliamentary duties without restriction and must not be used as a pretext to deny their voters access to Parliament's premises.
I voted in favour because I believe all measures aimed at fostering and increasing the transparency of Parliament's work are to be welcomed.
The submitted change to the Rules of Procedure comes in response to the corruption revealed in recent months, with three MEPs accepting a corrupt proposal from investigative journalists.
I therefore very much welcome the introduction of the common register of lobbyists and lobbying organisations.
The European Commission has already introduced such a register, and the European Parliament is therefore only extending its application to MEPs, officials and other staff of the European Parliament.
On the other hand, this register will not, admittedly, be an adequate instrument for resolving the problem of corruption.
I support this decision because it makes a significant contribution towards strengthening transparency by approving the conclusion of an agreement between Parliament and the Commission on the establishment of a common transparency register.
In a representative democracy, it is important that Union institutions be able to establish and maintain open, transparent and regular dialogue with the public, their representative associations and civil society.
Following the increase in Parliament's powers under the Treaty of Lisbon, it has become essential, in the interests of transparency, to establish a common register between Parliament and the Commission for the registration and monitoring of organisations and individuals participating in the development and implementation of EU policy.
It is therefore necessary to modify Parliament's Rules of Procedure in order to institute the mandatory registration of any lobbyists in contact with Members of Parliament, the European institutions and their staff.
This information should be accessible to the general public.
If you want to be able to make valid comments on a subject of a technical nature, you normally seek information from those people who are most knowledgeable about these issues.
Lobbies play a useful and essential role in legislative work, providing that there is transparency.
In order to achieve this, the report adopted establishes new rules and creates a 'transparency register' which is common to both the Commission and Parliament.
I regret that registration is not mandatory, but as the saying goes: 'Chi va piano va sano'.
I voted in favour of the report on the amendment to Parliament's Rules of Procedure following the establishment of a common transparency register because the principle of transparency should govern all those involved in decision making and in implementing EU policy.
The common transparency register following the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement on transparency between Parliament and the Commission entails the amendment of the Rules of Procedure so as to incorporate the new situation, and so that it can be workable in Parliament's main legal instrument.
Transparency is a right for citizens, and it helps to maintain the credibility of the European institutions: Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
The EU must set an example in terms of the transparency of its institutions, so I welcome the amendments proposed by the rapporteur to modify Parliament's Rules of Procedure in line with the decision made by the Conference of Presidents at its 18 November 2010 meeting.
The amendment being proposed to Parliament's Rules of Procedure is aimed at establishing and maintaining a common register for the registration and monitoring of organisations and individuals who participate in any way in the drafting and implementation of EU policy.
At the time, it was the first EU institution to do this, with the Commission subsequently adopting one with similar objectives in 2008.
The arguments put forward this time are, however, different, focusing on the new powers of Parliament following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Measures helping to increase this transparency are therefore welcome and necessary.
Based on existing systems which were created and launched by Parliament in 1996 and by the Commission in 2008, it seeks to address certain recent problems, although the argument for it in the report is the new powers entrusted to the European Parliament following the Treaty of Lisbon's entry into force.
Some aspects of it are positive, but we have serious doubts about other amendments.
We support greater transparency, but it is not always clear that this is the aim of all the adopted amendments.
One of the important corrective measures necessary is to improve the rules on lobbying firms' reporting of expenditure incurred for lobbying activities.
Equally important is transparency with regard to the financial resources from which a lobbying and consulting company draws its revenue.
Given the fact that pressure groups, whether they represent private or public interests, play an undeniable role in European affairs, there must be greater transparency regarding the relations they have with our institution.
I support, in particular, the idea of a 'legislative fingerprint', which enables those lobbyists met by parliamentarians during the legislative process to be registered.
It is indeed vital that we do all we can to regain or strengthen the confidence of the citizens in the functioning of the European institutions, and that is the direction in which this register quite rightly takes us.
I endorsed this document because the Treaty on European Union and, in particular, Article 11(1) and (2) thereof, provides a framework for, and seeks to foster relations between, the European institutions and European political leaders, on the one hand, and civil society, EU citizens and representative associations, on the other: 1.
The institutions shall, by appropriate means, give citizens and representative associations the opportunity to make known and publicly exchange their views in all areas of Union action. 2.
The institutions shall maintain an open, transparent and regular dialogue with representative associations and civil society.
It is noted that the register must be kept in a manner consistent with the right of Members to perform their parliamentary duties without restriction and must not be used as a pretext to deny their voters access to Parliament's premises.
Parliament and the Commission are setting a good example by establishing a common transparency register to provide accreditation for lobbyists and other interest groups.
in writing. - The scope of the register covers all activities carried out with the objective of directly or indirectly influencing the policy formulation or implementation and decision-making processes of the European institutions.
The vote by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is an important step forward but our work on transparency continues.
Not only the European Parliament but also the European Union as a whole is suffering from a huge credibility problem.
Although Parliament has finally reached an agreement on the transparency register, no doubt bowing to the pressure of the recent lobbying scandal, this register will be powerless.
As these measures are a step in the right direction, I have voted for the report.
Setting up a common transparency register and improving all the rules on transparency in the European Parliament are required to increase citizens' confidence in Parliament's activities and ensure the necessary transparency for these activities.
I voted for both Casini reports and I look forward to the strongest possible proposals from the European Parliament's working group on the transparency and regulation of lobbying activities.
In view of this, I voted in favour of this report on the amendment to Parliament's Rules of Procedure following the establishment of a common register for the registration and monitoring of organisations and individuals who participate in any way in the drafting and implementation of EU policies.
in writing. - I support this report on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between Parliament and the Commission on a common transparency register.
Any actors seeking to influence decision making and policy implementation at a European level are expected to join the common register, which will make both registration and access to information about lobbyists easier.
This is but a first step forward towards transparent relations between European institutions and lobbyists.
Following the Treaty of Lisbon, Parliament has taken on the status of colegislator in almost all areas, thus making it the focus of much attention from lobbyists.
In view of this, and in the interests of transparency, which should guide the dialogue between these stakeholders and Union institutions, Parliament and the Commission have agreed to establish a common register to list and monitor individuals and organisations involved in drafting and implementing EU policy.
It is, however, the duty also of the representatives of the Member States to provide information and transparency in their dealings with European citizens.
However, in order to quantify these influences, we must have mandatory listing of all lobbyists in a register that is common to all the institutions.
The Council should also participate in the common register, which should be made mandatory and serve as a dynamic instrument in guaranteeing the transparency of the decision-making process.
The Treaty on European Union seeks to recognise and foster relations between the institutions and European politicians, on the one hand, and civil society, EU citizens and representative associations, on the other.
In particular, the institutions shall maintain an open, transparent and regular dialogue with representative associations and civil society.
The Casini report emphasises the importance of amending the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure following the establishment of a common transparency register.
I voted in favour of this report, which confirms the importance attached to transparency by the European institutions, because I share the view that the establishment of this register will help in controlling all the organisations and persons involved in making and applying the EU policies.
in writing. - I supported today's report calling for a joint register of lobbyists and interest groups to be set up.
This is a first step towards greater transparency in both the European Parliament and Commission.
A 'transparency register' will improve ease of access for citizens wishing to find specific information regarding which organisations and individuals have contact with both MEPs and Commission officials.
Transparency in the activities that involve the European institutions, even though it has recently ended up tarnished, is a prerequisite for legitimacy and a basic factor in the establishment of proper, open relations with representative associations.
I therefore believe that creating a common register for Parliament and the Commission in order to bring together all information on the organisations and individuals who have contact with the institutions will not only streamline bureaucratic procedures by providing for a single registration, but will also be a clear improvement leading towards an increasingly open and transparent dialogue with said lobbyists.
It is a first step towards providing more transparency in the institutions' work and ensuring compliance with the Union's public administration rules.
The transparency register, as it will be called from now on, is not obligatory, but lobbying individuals or organisations will be forced to register if they want permission to gain access to the European Parliament.
This will increase transparency and provide more comprehensive information on individuals or organisations who contact Members of the European Parliament about certain issues or with certain proposals.
Between Parliament and the Commission, there are approximately 4 600 organisations accredited as interest groups.
This report, which I voted for, follows the institutional agreement on the creation of a joint space for registering and exercising scrutiny over lobbyists and other interest groups in the Commission and Parliament.
The establishment of a common register by Parliament and the Commission to bring together in a 'one-stop shop' all information on the actors in contact with the institutions is a step forward on the way to greater transparency.
Transparency in the political institutions is, in my view, crucial for an open dialogue with civil society.
Their exclusion is unjustified, because these actors have specific interests and play just as active a part in decision making as many other representative associations.
I voted in favour of this report because transparency of political institutions is a prerequisite for legitimacy.
The European Parliament was the first European institution to address the phenomenon of an increasing number of interest groups at European level, and it is therefore necessary to examine the consequences of this evolution.
According to the new draft, registration is not obligatory, but currently, only the representatives of registered interest groups are allowed access to the premises of the European Parliament.
I believe that this common register is another step forward towards greater transparency in the European institutions, and will also increase citizens' faith in the work of the institutions.
I voted in favour of this report as it is important to clarify matters at a time when the role of lobbies is still giving rise to much debate and, at times, conjecture among European citizens.
We consider these structures to be the direct product of democratically elected bodies.
They represent the general interest, and should therefore be distinguished from lobbyists, who defend individual interests.
Nevertheless, this register is an important step forward because, in many areas, the lack of transparency surrounding the role of lobbies can present a real democratic problem.
The existence of a register of organisations and employees involved in decision making and the implementation of EU policy thereby strengthens transparency in the dialogue between these representatives of civil society and Union institutions while, at the same time, establishing binding measures in the event of an infringement of the code of conduct in the annex to the agreement.
in writing. - Transparency of political institutions is a prerequisite for legitimacy.
I supported this report which establishes a common register for lobbyists (transparency register) between the European Parliament and Commission.
The scope of the register covers many activities carried out with the objective of directly or indirectly influencing the policy formulation or implementation and decision-making processes of the European institutions.
This agreement with the European Commission provides only for voluntary registration, even though lobbyists not included in the joint register will no longer be able to obtain a long-term access badge to the European Parliament.
We need clear rules to prevent people and organisations from influencing EU decision making in a non-transparent manner.
If you want to be able to make valid comments on a subject of a technical nature, you normally seek information from those people who are most knowledgeable about these issues.
Lobbies play a useful and essential role in legislative work, providing that there is transparency.
In order to achieve this, the report adopted establishes new rules and creates a 'transparency register' which is common to both the Commission and Parliament.
I regret that registration is not mandatory, but as the saying goes: 'Chi va piano va sano'.
I voted in favour of the report on the amendment to Parliament's Rules of Procedure following the establishment of a common transparency register because the principle of transparency should govern all those involved in decision making and in implementing EU policy.
I believe, however, that this register should be mandatory and extended to all the European institutions.
In 2006, the Commission proposed a 'one-stop shop' to register lobbyists of the Commission and Parliament.
Under this agreement, permanent access to the Parliament premises is allowed only to the registered interest representatives.
I believe that Parliament and its Members should lead by example as regards the transparency of their activities and the clarity of their aims.
The public has a right to it and it helps maintain the credibility of the European institutions: Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
I would like to highlight that Parliament was the first institution to analyse the phenomenon of pressure groups, having launched the register for lobbyists in 1996.
In 2006, the Commission proposed the creation of a 'one-stop shop' register for lobbyists in the Commission and the European Parliament, through the 'European Transparency Initiative'.
Indeed, transparency is essential to the functioning of the European institutions, which are often accused of a lack thereof.
As such, I welcome the adoption of the draft agreement on the creation of a 'transparency register', and I am certain that it will constitute a significant step forward in the European institutions' transparency and will contribute to consolidating the European project among the public.
It should be easy to scrutinise how decisions are made, what are the influences behind them and finally, how resources [...] are allocated'.
The institutions' transparency and the clarity of their representatives' actions should be an intrinsic element of real and genuine democracy.
Unfortunately, we know that there is sometimes a great difference between the nice-sounding words that are said and what is done.
Parliament was the first European institution to broach the subject of the increasing number of lobbies at European level, having launched the register for representatives of interest groups in 1996.
The Commission later also began initiatives in this area, and a working group was established in 2008 between Parliament and the Commission.
In 2009, the group approved a joint declaration and a proposal for a common code of conduct.
In 2010, a new working group approved a draft agreement for the establishment of a 'transparency register' which ensures the widest possible participation of all categories of operator, while respecting their different or specific identities.
The report states that the 'transparency of political institutions is a prerequisite for legitimacy.
It should be easy to scrutinise how decisions are made, what are the influences behind them and finally, how resources [...] are allocated'.
However, there is often a big gap between theory and reality, despite Parliament having been the first EU institution to deal with the phenomenon of the growing number of interest groups at European level and, in particular, with the consequences of this development for the legislative process.
Following various reports and in-depth debates, Parliament launched its register for representatives of interest groups in 1996.
In November 2010, the working group was able to approve a draft agreement for the establishment of a 'transparency register' which ensures the widest possible participation of all categories of operator, while respecting their different or specific identities.
in writing. - Transparency of political institutions is a prerequisite for legitimacy.
Parliament was the first European institution to address the phenomenon of an increasing number of interest groups at European level and, in particular, the consequences of this evolution for the legislative process.
The common register ensures the widest participation of all categories of operators while respecting their different or specific identities.
This will be a step forward towards greater transparency in the European institutions, and I hope it will contribute to giving the European project greater legitimacy among Europe's citizens.
It is a well-known fact that there are more than 15 000 lobbyists active in Brussels trying to influence the legislative texts that are adopted there, and that they intervene at all stages of the legislative process.
Registration should be mandatory not only for these organisations, but also for all groups outside Parliament, including those which are meant to fulfil a role provided for by the Treaties (trade unions, churches, philosophical organisations, local authorities, etc.), including groups composed, in part or in whole, of Members of Parliament, such as the European Friends of Israel, because in that instance, they are acting as interest groups and not as parliamentarians.
The merging of the lists of lobbyists registered at the Parliament and the Commission represents a first step towards compiling an exhaustive register of the lobbies active in Brussels and, subsequently, towards greater citizen access to democratic checks and balances in the decision-making process.
Indeed, I consider these structures to be the direct product of democratically-elected bodies (town, departmental, regional councils, etc.).
The approval of a common transparency register, following a broad majority vote in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is another step towards greater transparency in parliamentary activity.
A common register between the European Parliament and the Commission that is public and accessible online will make it easier for citizens to check the various stakeholders with whom MEPs interact.
The next objective will therefore be to make registration mandatory for all lobbyists.
We also expect that, like the other European institutions, the Council will adhere to the indications of Parliament and the Commission and participate in the register.
It should be easy to scrutinise how decisions are made, what the influences behind them are and, finally, how resources, i.e.
Thirdly, the new mechanism provides additional information such as the number of individuals involved in all the activities relating to the register, and the level of EU resources received by the registrant.
The common register will be a step forward towards greater transparency in the European institutions, which hopefully will help give the European project greater legitimacy in the eyes of its citizens.
These organisations have been listed to date in two different registers, one for each institution.
This agreement was awaiting validation and was put to the vote in the European legislative assembly.
I voted in favour of this text because it will enable greater transparency in respect of the actions of interest groups.
It is true that under this text, it is not mandatory to be listed on this register but Parliament will require such registration for any organisation that wishes to use its premises.
The common register is due to become available online in June.
in writing. - Transparency of political institutions is a prerequisite for legitimacy.
The Parliament was the first European institution to address the phenomenon of an increasing number of interest groups at European level and, especially, the consequences of this evolution for the legislative process.
After several reports and thorough discussions, the Parliament launched its register of interest representatives in 1996.
The joint register will be a step forward towards greater transparency in the European institutions, which hopefully will contribute to greater legitimacy of the European project among its citizens.
No pressure group representing commercial interests should obtain a permanent pass to the European institutions.
Parliament and the Commission are setting a good example by establishing a common transparency register to provide accreditation for lobbyists and other interest groups.
Moreover, the compulsory nature of the register for all lobbyists who want permanent access to Parliament and to the Commission is an important step in increasing the transparency of relations between those organisations and the European institutions.
In addition, the Council of Ministers is not yet involved, which means that we do not even have all the key legislative bodies on board.
The Commission is now paying more attention to the activities of former Commissioners in the period immediately after they have left Brussels.
As these measures are a step in the right direction, I have voted for the report.
I fully support the decision we have made today on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the European Parliament and the Commission on a common transparency register.
Parliament has kept a register of interest groups since 1996 and should be an example for other institutions in this regard.
The European Commission did not create its register of lobbyists until 2008, and the Council of the European Union still does not have one.
The decision taken in the European Parliament will combine the registers of lobbyists and interest groups currently kept separately by the two abovementioned institutions.
In my opinion, this decision is an important step in increasing transparency and I am waiting impatiently for the EU Council to join the common register.
Institutions earn their credentials by operating in a transparent manner.
Citizens must have easy and unimpeded access in the decision-making process to the influence and activity of interest representatives.
It is a fact that, at European level, the European Parliament was the first institution to deal with the emergence of a large number of interest groups.
Consequently, the common register is a first and important step in controlling and safeguarding transparent action by interest groups.
Parliament was the first EU institution to tackle the phenomenon of the growing number of interest groups at European level and, in particular, with the consequences of this development for the legislative process.
After several reports and thorough discussions, the Parliament launched its register for interest representatives in 1996.
The resolution was adopted in plenary on 8 May 2008.
Subsequently, in November 2010, the working group was able to adopt a draft agreement on the establishment of a transparency register, as Parliament had reached its main objectives.
I believe that the common register is a step towards greater transparency in the European institutions, so I voted in favour of this report.
The activity of interest representatives from a variety of areas in relation to Union institutions - in this instance, Parliament and the Commission - has undeniable advantages.
However, it is essential to safeguard the transparency of the EU institutions' actions so as to ultimately ensure their legitimacy and the thorough consideration of their scope, without misuse of power.
It must always and, in all circumstances, be easy to scrutinise how any decision was made, what factors influenced it and, above all, how resources - which means taxpayers' money - were used.
Parliament was the first European institution to set up a register of lobbyists in 1996.
The resolution adopted today highlights the fact that the establishment of a common register ensures the widest participation of the various categories of operators while respecting their differences and specific identities.
This mechanism provides important information such as the number of individuals and organisations involved in all the activities relating to the register and the level of EU resources received by registrants.
Brussels, which is considered by some to be second only to Washington as a mecca for lobbyists, needs proper regulations and clearly-defined principles of cooperation between decision makers and representatives of various interest groups.
We should remember that lobbying, interpreted as advocacy by various social groups, is an indivisible part of contemporary democratic systems.
Once again, Members have expressed their support for the introduction of transparency.
A common register of lobbyists will increase transparency in EU institutions.
I believe that all lobbyists should be registered.
During the election campaign, my party demanded mandatory registration of lobbyists on a register that is common to all EU institutions.
Transparency is an important component of democracy and a requirement for the participation of citizens, which makes it an essential means of gaining their trust.
Representative democracy can function only when citizens communicate with their elected representatives and ask them to promote their interests.
No regulation should therefore restrict one of the basic rights of citizens.
I therefore support the proposed common register, which takes account of the varying nature of interest groups, and distinguishes between those that lobby with the aim of boosting their profits and those that address elected representatives with the aim of achieving the greater good of society as a whole.
In view of this, and considering the importance of the issue of legitimacy and informing citizens for the effectiveness and proper functioning of European policies, I voted for the draft agreement on the establishment of a common transparency register.
The proper functioning of the Internal Market depends on the stability of the financial system and on the trust put by European citizens and consumers in financial institutions and transactions.
During the recent financial crisis, many financial institutions around the world failed at great cost to the taxpayer.
I support the Commission's initiative to take a critical look at the soundness of financial institutions and of the financial system as a whole, and at the regulation and supervision of the system, in order to prevent any repeat of the crisis in the future and to ensure that the financial sector meets the needs of the real economy and displays the greatest possible degree of social responsibility.
It is of paramount importance that our group promotes a balanced approach to resolving the global financial crisis.
The final report attaches greater importance and gives more power to the role of the European Supervisory Authorities.
The approach based on the 'comply or explain' principle is proportionate and can be applied to a large number of financial institutions.
I voted for this report because it represents Parliament's contribution to the discussions on means of ensuring more effective governance in financial institutions in Europe.
This discussion is particularly important for finding ways of avoiding a repeat of the financial and, ultimately, economic crisis that hit the whole world in 2008.
Several things will need to be done in order to ensure the smooth and sustainable functioning of the European financial market, the most important of which, in my opinion, are a targeted approach responding to the needs of the real economy and the implementation of a policy of increased social responsibility and risk assessment by boards in order to avoid a financial crisis in the future.
I voted in favour of the alternative motion for a resolution on corporate governance in financial institutions as it tables proposals which would ensure improvements in corporate governance structures throughout the EU, taking into account the fact that the financial sector must respond to the needs of the real economy, contribute to sustainable growth and demonstrate greater social responsibility.
The smooth functioning of the Internal Market depends on the stability of the financial system and, consequently, on the trust put by the European public and consumers in financial institutions and transactions.
I also join the rapporteur in calling for a cost-benefit impact assessment of the Commission's proposals, with a focus on the need to preserve competitiveness and contribute to economic growth.
As such, there is an urgent need to find mechanisms and solutions that enable risk reduction and create a permanent dialogue between the supervisory authorities, auditors and the institutions.
This situation led the Commission, through its Communication of 4 March 2009, to introduce a genuine programme of reforms of the financial markets' regulatory frameworks and supervisory regimes.
Bearing in mind the economic and financial crisis we are currently experiencing, it is never too much to redouble one's efforts with regard to the financial sector, beginning with corporate governance which, most of the time, does not take customers into account, whether they are savers, depositors, etc.
I am therefore voting in favour of the report on corporate governance in financial institutions, and I hope that this will contribute decisively to their strength.
This report recognises some important issues and evidence, like the fact that the financial sector should respond to the needs of the economy, contribute to sustainable growth and demonstrate greater social responsibility, as well as that 'during the recent financial crisis, many financial institutions around the world failed at great cost to the taxpayer'.
According to the rapporteur, everything, or almost everything, boils down to tired arguments about creating an effective and adequate governance system in terms of risk management, enforcement of rules, ethics in the behaviour of some of those involved in the financial markets and institutions, and so on.
We are aware of the contribution that some of these guidelines may make towards appreciably and temporarily improving the workings of the financial system.
The only important points that the report makes are the acknowledgements that 'the financial sector should meet the needs of the real economy, help to promote sustainable growth and display the greatest possible degree of social responsibility', and that 'during the recent financial crisis, many financial institutions around the world failed at great cost to the taxpayer'.
This challenge, as important as it is complex, can be met by means of a package of measures which will have either direct or indirect impact.
Financial institutions should give greater attention to the implementation of measures to raise awareness about the risks, as better information about risk at all levels of society - and among employees - is often crucial in improving risk management.
Having noted, and I quote and now utter the following euphemism - 'a lack of values and ethics in the behaviour of certain actors in the financial markets and institutions' - this Parliament has set off on a pathetic crusade to inject some ethics into the sector.
in writing. - The worst impact of the recent financial crisis has been on ordinary consumers.
Were it not for the support of taxpayers, such banks would have collapsed with disastrous effect on different sectors of the economy in various Member States.
Therefore, I voted in favour of this report.
It is noted that there is a lack of values and ethics in the behaviour of some actors in financial markets and institutions.
Financial markets and institutions have to take into account, as part of their corporate social responsibility, the interests of all parties involved, including clients, shareholders and employees.
Effective risk governance is one of the most important factors for preventing future crises.
Therefore, an effective governance system needs to be established in all financial institutions, with adequate risk management, compliance, internal audit functions (and, in the case of insurers, actuarial functions), strategies, policies, processes and procedures.
The financial crisis has highlighted the lack of effectiveness of the current corporate governance principles.
It is now vital for the lessons to be learnt from what has happened to avoid a similar situation recurring in the future.
in writing. - I welcome this report.
The aim of the Green Paper under consideration here is to draw conclusions from the global financial crisis triggered by the bankruptcy of the Lehman Brothers bank in autumn 2008 following the inappropriate securitisation of US subprime mortgages.
The Commission regards the strengthening of corporate governance as central to its financial market reform and crisis prevention programme.
Labour Euro MPs backed this report which, thanks to amendments adopted at the committee stage, calls for Commission action to raise financial firms' corporate governance standards.
Labour Euro MPs opposed the rapporteur's amendments to weaken the committee report, including a lower requirement for representation of women, a slower timetable for action on pay reform and less information on staff pay.
The Commission must now complete its consultation and swiftly bring forward ambitious proposals to ensure that governance of financial firms will help prevent, not facilitate, future crises.
The recent financial crisis reinforced the need for us to look at the moral issues relating to managing financial institutions in a more responsible way.
The EU must have a productive, social and environmental model with a long-term outlook that respects everyone's interests: companies, shareholders and workers.
in writing. - The aim of the resolution is to strengthen corporate governance, which is considered by the Commission to be the major element of the programme of financial market reform and crisis prevention.
The introduction of corporate governance may increase European citizens' confidence in the stability of the financial system, but the markets are reacting by bringing in their own mechanisms and the role played by the rating agencies must not be underestimated.
The report is a move in the right direction, but in some areas, it is not specific enough, which is why I have abstained.
This report on corporate governance in financial institutions sets out a range of measures to be implemented in the companies governing financial institutions.
In order to prevent this situation from repeating itself, Parliament proposes that corporate governance must, particularly in the financial services sector, take account of the interests of other stakeholders - depositors, savers, life insurance policy holders, etc. - and of the stability of the financial system, owing to the systemic nature of many of the players involved.
For example, the report fails to recognise that the commercial banks' ability to make money from speculative financial investments was a very important factor in the crisis.
As such, there is a need to strike a balance between these institutions' freedom to conduct their business, in what is an essentially private matter, and the economic impact that another crisis in the financial system could have on the real economy, and for the lives of everyone as members of a community.
The key player on this in the EPP (Karas) was on our line, and as rapporteur for CRD IV (the Capital Requirements Directive), he will be given the task of dealing with corporate governance rules for financial institutions (the follow-up to this INI).
The most important revelation to emerge from the financial and economic crisis was that we have an extremely greedy system.
I have therefore voted in favour of this report.
The importance of this agreement is due to the fact that India is the seventh largest economy in the world.
I would like to highlight the need to ensure the free trade agreement (FTA) does not limit the powers that the Indian Government needs to resolve problems of poverty and inequality.
The final FTA should include a binding state-to-state dispute settlement mechanism, provisions on mediation regarding non-tariff barriers to trade (NTBs), on anti-dumping measures and on compensation rights, and a general safeguard clause based on Articles XX and XXI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).
However, it also highlights the need for the Commission to include robust and effective safeguard clauses in the FTA and to insist, during negotiations, that India ratify the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT).
I voted in favour of this important resolution on the state of play of the EU-India free trade agreement negotiations.
Both parties expect to reap significant benefits from the removal of tariffs, and the liberalisation of trade in services and company start-ups, but I share the disappointment expressed in the resolution as regards the slow rate of progress of negotiations on the free trade agreement (FTA).
I agree with the position set out in the resolution that if economic cooperation between the EU and India is based on common universal values, it may become an example for cooperation with other countries.
We supported this resolution and tabled a question to the Commission because we believe it is fundamental at this moment in time, when oil prices have been at an all-time high for some months.
By calling for a rise in de minimis aid from EUR 30 000 to EUR 60 000 for the next three years, we want to send out a strong signal to the sector, which, in recent years, particularly because of the entry into force of the common fisheries policy and new restrictive measures, has seen some small- and medium-scale modes of fishing cut back, if not killed off completely.
Therefore, this aid - which we should remember is granted at national, not European, level, and is therefore dependent on each individual Member State's economic resources - could be seen by many people as causing an imbalance in competition, but in reality, it would provide a little relief to a sector that is increasingly on its knees.
I voted against the resolution tabled by the European right, as it promotes an ultraliberal vision of the EU's trade relations with India.
The right systematically opposed the amendments that I tabled on behalf of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament in order to rule out any liberalisation of public services, strongly condemn child labour, request legally binding clauses on corporate social responsibility and demand respect for the principle of equal pay for equal work with regard to Indians who will come and work in Europe in the future.
However, during further negotiations, it is crucial to address some important issues.
The key factor to achieving this goal is for developed countries to want to open their markets to developing countries, which also includes India.
This will allow the EU to make a contribution in such areas as sustainable development, eradication of poverty and protection for human rights.
I consider regrettable the European Commission's decision not to wait until Parliament has adopted its report on Europe's future international investment policy and that it has decided to go ahead and offer India a mandate to negotiate for an investment chapter.
This situation could undermine the national policy initiatives on environmental, social or fiscal legislation.
We want a free trade agreement between the EU and India that helps to promote sustainable development, and that is accompanied by clear clauses concerning respect for ILO standards, environmental rules and corporate social responsibility obligations.
The Treaty of Lisbon stipulates that trade policy must contribute to sustainable development, eradication of poverty and the protection of human rights.
As far as the EU-India Free Trade Agreement is concerned, I chose to vote for the resolution proposed by my political group as I felt that it is more balanced than the resolutions proposed by other political groups.
The resolution from the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament highlighted the importance of a free trade agreement with India, while mentioning the continuing inequalities in this country and the need to include in the agreement some clauses on human, social and environmental rights.
Although the most extreme poverty has not disappeared, it is no less true that surges and flows of prosperity have raised India to a more prominent international role, and have revealed that its economy and society are prospering and innovating quickly and efficiently.
A free trade agreement (FTA) between the European Union and India could be a successful conclusion to the process of commercial interaction which has been deepening in recent times.
I hope that, as well as sharing values, the EU and India will continue trying to understand each other better and benefiting from this deeper understanding, as well as from any profits that may result from this contact.
This motion for a resolution of the European Parliament concerns a free trade agreement (FTA) between the European Union and India.
If we take into account the importance of strategic relations between the EU and India, as well as the safeguarding of matters relating to agriculture, respect for human rights and the issue of child labour in particular, environmental preservation and compliance with the International Labour Organisation's recommendations on social and copyright issues, all the conditions for voting in favour of this motion for a resolution are in place.
Beyond its specific content, it also provokes a wider discussion on free trade, its role, its objectives and its consequences.
The liberalisation and deregulation of world trade has greatly weakened the productive sectors of the weakest EU economies, such as Portugal, which have been run according to the interests of big business in the European powers.
What is needed are urgent and profound changes to current trade policy in order to take into account the specificities of each EU Member State, with international trade aiming for complementarity rather than competition.
This is necessary for the establishment of fair and equitable economic relationships that are mutually beneficial, are at the service of the development of peoples and countries, and are not solely beneficial for a small number of financial institutions and companies.
As you frequently remind us, common foreign policy must fulfil the global objectives of the European Union which are defined, in particular, in Article 3 of the Treaty, and where the elimination of poverty features prominently.
Now, for all those years that you have been signing free trade agreements with every country in the world, and especially those that systematically practise social, monetary or environmental dumping, all you have done is to create poverty for all those victims of relocations and closures of companies directly linked to unfair competition.
As the French winner of the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences, Maurice Allais, pointed out, free trade is only mutually beneficial if it is between countries with comparable levels of development, and further to that, I would add, if it is in targeted areas with the strategic sectors of each country remaining protected.
Both parties expect to secure significant benefits from the elimination of tariffs and the liberalisation of trade in services and company formation, and reaffirm their commitment to tariff reductions and further liberalisation of company formation and trade in services.
Market access is being hampered by non-tariff barriers to trade, such as health and safety requirements or technical barriers, quantitative restrictions, conformity procedures, trade defence mechanisms, customs procedures, internal taxation, and a failure to adopt international norms and standards.
The Commission must take due account of any negative impact on European agriculture, particularly in the areas of the opening up of markets, GMOs, milk, beef, intellectual property protection and origin labelling.
With regard to agriculture, Parliament has focused on the sensitive areas, highlighted the sanitary and phytosanitary standards (SPS) and expressed its support for effective safeguard clauses.
However, there is still a great deal to be done in the area of intellectual property.
However, it promotes the liberalisation of the trade in services between the European Union and India.
The EU is India's largest trade partner, with trade in goods and services worth approximately EUR 84 billion in 2009-2010.
In view of this, we cannot fail to take into consideration the fact that the objectives of the common commercial policy must be fully coordinated with the overall objectives of the European Union.
According to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the common commercial policy must be conducted 'in the context of the principles and objectives of the Union's external action' and must contribute 'inter alia, to sustainable development, the eradication of poverty and the protection of human rights'.
As such, it is very important that the following not be forgotten in these negotiations: the use of child labour, and the failure to comply with international social and environmental standards, which constitutes a form of dumping, detrimental to European companies and workers.
It is therefore essential that the Commission clarify these points before concluding a trade agreement.
in writing. - Given the size of India's market (more than 1 billion inhabitants) and its impressive growth rates (averaging over 7% a year since 2000), coupled with high levels of protection, India is one of the EU's obvious partners for concluding one of the new generation of EU FTAs launched as part of the Global Europe strategy in 2006.
The EU-India Summit on 10 December in Brussels instructed both sides to speed up the negotiating process to pave the way for the conclusion of negotiations in 2011.
To show the validity of the agreement, the resolution highlights the fact that the Indian and European economies are complementary: the reality is somewhat different, because there are several industries, including precisely the textile industry, in which there is no complementarity at all but rather competition, and often unfair competition, carried out by our Asian counterparts.
For these reasons, I have decided to vote against the resolution.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the state of play in the EU-India Free Trade Agreement (FTA) negotiations.
This agreement is of particular importance; in fact, if the cooperation between the EU and India currently being negotiated is based on a system of shared universal values, it may serve as a model for cooperation with other countries.
I would like to highlight the emphasis in these negotiations on the protection of the small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) sector in India, with the suggestions that all development cooperation programmes between the EU and India should be aimed at strengthening SMEs through measures to help finance market-driven local projects.
Given the significant profits that both parties will be able to make, I hope that the negotiations between the EU and India will be able to continue, with a view to quickly establishing a free trade agreement (FTA) which is ambitious, balanced and comprehensive.
The EP is very much divided on the free trade agreement with India.
The first compromise (by EPP, ECR and ALDE) was adopted with 390 in favour, 276 against, and 10 abstentions.
The hope of sending a strong message to the negotiators to conclude the FTA with India failed.
The very worst in the EPP, ECR and ALDE compromise was avoided.
We are strongly against the EU-India Free Trade Agreement because, even though that country is making progress in worker protection and health and in the fight against counterfeiting, we have to bear in mind that it is still an unfair competitor towards our businesses.
That clearly means it would help India 10 times more than it would Europe.
I voted, together with my colleagues from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, against the resolution that deals with the negotiations for a free trade agreement between the European Union and India because it does not take sufficient account of the social standards with which all trade agreements must comply.
According to 'Save the Children', the Indian non-governmental organisation, an estimated 60 million children still work today in fields, restaurants or factories in India.
By rejecting this position, the majority of the right in the European Parliament has placed European and Indian commercial interests above the protection of children's rights, and I am unable to endorse this unacceptable position.
I voted against the European Parliament resolution on the negotiations for the free trade agreement between the EU and India.
This report is entirely consistent with policies of increased liberalisation, especially in the public service sector, and with standards which have deleterious effects not only on the supply of medicinal products, but also on the development of research.
This is the broadest agreement ever concluded by the EU in this area, and it seeks more to protect the interests of big multinational corporations than to engage in a balanced partnership between all parties and to contribute to India's economic and social development.
This agreement is certainly not a 'win-win' initiative as this resolution would have us believe.
In particular, Japan is the third largest economy in the world in terms of gross domestic product (GDP).
As such, it is essential to raise questions of investment and trade in services in all trade discussions with Japan, ensuring that market opening does not compromise either European or Japanese rules on the protection of public services and cultural diversity.
I would reiterate my firm belief that the European Union and Japan should contribute towards a successful conclusion of the Doha Development Agenda negotiations, and I am concerned that bilateral negotiations may disturb this objective.
Lastly, I would insist that effective safeguard measures be available to prevent any surge in imports resulting from the possible liberalisation of trade between the EU and Japan that may cause, or threaten to cause, serious injury to EU industry.
The EU and Japan are significant partners and investors in each other's economies with a combined volume of Foreign Direct Investment worth EUR 200 billion in 2009.
Japan is the EU's sixth largest trading partner, while the EU is Japan's third biggest trading partner.
I agree with the provision that the time has come to conclude an EU-Japan Free Trade Agreement (FTA), but before beginning negotiations, Japan must make significant commitments on removing non-tariff barriers, which limit market access opportunities for European businesses, in other words, public procurement obstacles, insufficient recognition of international standards with respect to medical devices, and preferential treatment for national champions in financial services.
Bilateral trade volumes between the EU and Japan lag behind the bulk of the EU's trade exchanges with its other main trading partners because of the negative effects of Japanese non-tariff barriers (NTBs).
Unlike the European right, which spoke out very strongly in favour of opening negotiations on the conclusion of a free trade agreement, I defended a more cautious approach.
That is why my group opposed the present text presented by the European right and stressed the need to launch specific impact studies assessing the consequences of stronger trade relations for all the sectors concerned (in particular, the automotive sector) and for employment in Europe, before we open any negotiations.
Indeed, it is wrong that the European Union, the region in the world that is most open to foreign investment, cannot operate on the markets of its industrialised partners under fair conditions.
I voted in favour of this report because I entirely agree that following the natural catastrophe that recently struck Japan, and which was the greatest in the country's history, the EU can and must help this country's economy to recover quickly.
Specifically in the case of Japan, the European Parliament resolution proposes exploiting the opportunities offered by international public procurement and services markets, particularly as it is observed that EU and Member State interest in these areas has increased.
The report nevertheless draws attention to the fact that questions of investment and trade in services need to be raised in trade discussions with Japan in order to ensure that the further opening up of the market does not compromise either European or Japanese rules on the protection of public services, the environment and cultural diversity.
I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on EU-Japan trade relations.
In light of these figures, I feel there is an urgent need to start negotiations on the free trade agreements in order to encourage closer cooperation between these two trading partners and enable them to face common challenges together, such as the global economic crisis and the relentless political and economic rise of China.
The precondition for commencing negotiations and strengthening trade relations remains the obligation on Japan to remove non-tariff barriers and barriers preventing access to Japanese public procurement contracts.
During the vote on trade relations between the EU and Japan, I decided to vote for the resolution tabled by the political group which I belong to.
This resolution highlighted the need to remove the non-tariff barriers which the Japanese market is subject to and to deregulate access to the Japanese public procurement market before signing a free trade agreement with this country.
Trade relations between European countries and Japan go back several centuries and have been growing closer since the end of the Second World War.
Japan has been one of the most notable success stories of economic and social recovery in world history, today being a respected country, worthy of admiration.
The tenacity and courage that its people have been demonstrating in the face of these difficulties should be inspiring for a Europe which often seems too self-absorbed and is not always sufficiently aware of what is going on beyond its borders.
I believe that both parties would have much to gain from a free trade agreement (FTA) that would strengthen their trade relations and remove barriers which have unjustifiably hindered relations.
This motion for a resolution of the European Parliament concerns a free trade agreement (FTA) between the European Union and Japan, the third largest economy in the world in terms of gross domestic product (GDP).
For these reasons, I am voting for this report.
Blinded by profit, this approach limits democracy and sovereignty, and creates greater dependency in countries such as Portugal that need to create employment, and produce and create wealth in order to raise the standard of living; that do not need more deindustrialisation, less agricultural production and less fishing.
I endorsed this document because, in 2009, the EU and Japan represented together more than a quarter of world GDP and more than 20% of world trade, and Japan and the EU are significant investors in each other's economies.
The Council and Commission have noted that Japan's capacity to remove regulatory barriers to trade is a precondition for launching negotiations on the EU-Japan Free Trade Agreement (FTA), thus fostering closer economic integration between the two strategic trading partners.
The multilateral trading system, embodied by the World Trade Organisation, remains by far the most effective framework for achieving open and fair trade worldwide.
I believe that the European Union and Japan should contribute towards the successful conclusion of the Doha Development Agenda negotiations.
The EU-Japan FTA would not only yield benefits in terms of an increase in the bilateral trade in goods and services, but also foster cooperation on the EU's horizontal priorities, such as cooperation in the field of innovation, regulatory cooperation and the fight against market abuse, and cooperation on tackling broad environmental challenges, etc.
in writing. - If Japan demonstrates a real willingness to eliminate non-tariff barriers, I believe the EU should enter into negotiations with Japan with a view to signing a free trade agreement.
As such, it is necessary to strengthen trade relations between the EU and Japan by focusing on the removal of non-tariff barriers to trade and investment, including numerous restrictive rules and regulatory measures for EU companies in accessing the Japanese market.
in writing. - Since the EU and Japan are close economic partners, they represent more than 20% of world trade but bilateral trade volumes are not as large as they could be.
EU exports to Japan, as a ratio of Japan's GDP, are less than 2%, considerably below the ratio in the EU's other main markets (the US, China, Korea and India).
There is therefore a considerable unrealised economic potential that could be explored by reinforcing trade ties between the two blocs.
This document highlights the fact that the European Union and Japan are very important to each other as trade partners.
The resolution takes into account the WTO system and the fact that in 2009, for example, the EU and Japan represented together a quarter of world GDP, and that in 2010, bilateral trade between the two regions was worth EUR 120 billion.
The resolution also emphasises that the EU is very much in favour of the conclusion of a free trade agreement with Japan, but that in order for this to happen, Japan must abolish non-tariff barriers and remove all obstacles to the development of cooperation.
As a result, it is not yet possible to estimate fully the extent of the crisis that has hit Japan, and there is no justification for accelerating negotiations on a free trade agreement.
The rules-based multilateral trade system put in place by the World Trade Organisation (WTO) represents the most suitable framework for regulating and promoting open and fair trade, and the EU is in favour of incorporating developing countries into the international trade system.
At the same time, bilateral agreements such as the one being analysed at present are specific mechanisms that can help achieve the mentioned objectives.
I voted in favour of this resolution on trade relations between the EU and Japan as I am convinced that the EU-Japan Free Trade Agreement (FTA) has the potential to benefit both economies.
in writing. - Our group did not sign or support this resolution, and we presented our own where we stated, among other things, the following: '1.
Expresses its utmost sympathy for the courage and determination with which the Japanese people are confronting the catastrophes of 11 March and their terrible aftermath and calls on the Commission and Member States to help Japan with all means to rebuild its social and economic life; 2.
Believes that the continuation and deepening of current trade relations between the EU and Japan can play an important role in this regard and calls on the Commission to concentrate all efforts on assuring this; 3.
We support the text on EU-Japan trade relations because Japan ensures protection and respect for workers and the global economy, despite being a third country.
Reducing and simplifying the rules and making fair, open trade simpler can only improve its relations with Europe.
Reciprocal investment in the two economies is worth EUR 200 billion a year: the EU is Japan's third largest trading partner and, in turn, Japan is the sixth largest trading partner for the EU.
The report also calls for an assessment of any negative impact that such decisions might entail, but we certainly think that the removal of barriers to trade and investment can only be positive.
I voted in favour of the oral question on trade relations between the EU and Japan, given that Japan is one of the main investors in the European Union.
Ironing out our differences will make an important contribution to both economies.
I wholeheartedly support the development of trade cooperation between the European Union and Japan, which should result in the conclusion of a bilateral free trade agreement.
The fact that in 2010, the total amount of bilateral trade between the EU and Japan was EUR 120 billion demonstrates that both sides are extremely important to each other as partners.
Both sides are also significant investors in each other's economy, with a combined volume of Foreign Direct Investment worth EUR 200 billion in 2009.
It is also worth highlighting the fact that the rapid economic growth of developing countries (BRIC), the economic slow-down resulting from the global financial crisis, and the pressing need to gain access to raw materials and renewable sources of energy, are absolutely key challenges which are common to both parties, making negotiations an even more urgent necessity.
In documents relating to the subject of the resolution, both the Council and the Commission have stated that a precondition for launching negotiations is that Japan should remove regulatory barriers to trade, in particular, non-tariff barriers, which place a significant restriction on access to the Japanese market for European entrepreneurs.
I believe that we should speed up the process at the highest decision-making levels, which would result in closer trade relations between these two strategic partners.
Japan's willingness to open bilateral talks on a free trade area with the European Union provides us with an opportunity to build closer political relations and to increase economic benefits, both for the EU and for Japan.
In view of the fact that Japan is only the sixth largest of the European Union's trade partners, Japan's potential for cooperation with the EU in the field of trade and investment is still unexploited.
The main obstacle making it significantly more difficult for European businesses to gain access to the Japanese market is non-tariff barriers.
I believe that the aeronautics sector could become one of the models for cooperation between the EU and Japan.
Eligibility should be extended to public actors and producer groups, shifting to area-based remuneration and including in situ and ex situ conservation measures.
Active SFM should be clearly mainstreamed and prioritised in research and practice, and should also take into account public ownership of 40% of EU forests.
This strategy should be directed towards both forest protection and the sustainable use of timber resources, as forests provide solutions to the problems associated with climate change.
It should be pointed out that, in accordance with the subsidiarity principle, forest strategy should continue to be primarily a matter for the Member States, but the European Union should take action to support, coordinate and supplement forestry policy initiatives by the Member States, taking into account differing regional conditions.
Forests are the main repository of carbon and have a vital role to play in the fight against climate change.
Forests make up biospheres which store carbon and are particularly important to environmental conservation and protection against natural disasters.
All these aspects are vital not only to the quality of life enjoyed by European citizens, but also to agriculture and rural development.
I would like to stress that sustainable forest management is of pivotal importance to the European Union's achievement of its climate goals and to carbon dioxide capture from the atmosphere.
Furthermore, forest-based industries provide more than 2 million jobs, contributing to economic growth and employment.
I voted for this report as I think that the European Union must strengthen its strategy for improving the sustainable management and conservation of forests.
Currently, there are 2 million people employed by the forestry sector in the EU, mostly in small and medium-sized enterprises, and the sector earns 300 billion per year.
It is estimated that there are 16 000 people employed by the forestry sector in Ireland alone.
The forestry industries contribute to economic growth, they create opportunities for growth and employment in rural areas, and they encourage rural development through local industries and tourism opportunities.
Forests are a valuable resource for the agricultural sector, the environment and biodiversity, especially in terms of the ecosystems they contain and in terms of soil fertility and protection against soil erosion.
There are significant development opportunities associated with the European forestry sector in terms of carbon capture and CO2 pools.
I welcome what the report says about recognising the importance of forestry in socio-economic and environmental terms and the request to the Commission to adopt a coherent approach to help the sector achieve its full potential.
I voted in favour of this report.
Forests and wooded land cover more than 42% of the EU's surface.
Forest-based industries, with a turnover of more than EUR 300 billion, provide more than 2 million, mostly rural, jobs, contributing to economic growth, jobs and prosperity through the provision of timber and opportunities for tourism.
The EU forestry strategy and forest action plan also need to be updated to include the climate-change dimension and wider forest protection issues.
While I am not sure that we need a legislative initiative prohibiting building on land cleared by fires, I am in favour of discussing robust, long-term solutions to help curb this terrible phenomenon of forest fires caused by arsonists wanting to clear land for building.
I voted on this report because it presents the European Parliament's reaction to the Green Paper published by the Commission, intended to begin public consultation on forest protection and preparing forests for climate change throughout the European Union.
In the report, Parliament welcomes the Commission's Green Paper and calls for the EU forestry strategy to be updated, while properly taking into account the application of the subsidiarity and proportionality principles and including the climate-change dimension and broader forest protection issues.
Parliament also reaffirms its view on the need for increased levels of funding for forest protection measures through the rural development pillar of the common agricultural policy, particularly given the new challenges entailed in climate change.
Among many other measures, such as strengthening coordination at EU level and information exchange between Member States, the Commission is also urged to consider submitting a legislative proposal prohibiting building on land cleared by fires proven to have resulted from arson.
The Forest Action Plan adopted in 2006 set four important objectives.
In practical terms, the conclusions show that, while attention has been focused on improving long-term competitiveness, the objectives of improving the environment, enhancing quality of life and promoting coordination and communication have not been implemented strongly enough.
Forests provide livelihoods for millions of workers, entrepreneurs and 16 million forest owners.
The forest-based industries in the EU provide more than 2 million jobs, mostly in SMEs, and have a EUR 300 billion turnover.
There are also more than 350 000 people employed in forest management.
From this perspective, it is important to pursue the objectives set out in the forestry strategies.
This fact, combined with climate change, provides sufficient grounds for mobilising all EU Member States and making equal, consistent efforts to manage the Union's forests.
Taking this into account, and not forgetting the importance of these green spaces for the environment, I consider it essential that measures be taken to combat the negative effects of climate change recorded at global level in recent years.
Forests and wooded land cover more than 42% of the EU's area.
Even though forestry policy is primarily a matter for the Member States, it is nevertheless up to the EU to coordinate and complement the Member States' initiatives and forest programmes, giving them added value, and defining a common EU strategy and action plan.
I therefore support the creation of new instruments and increased funding for measures designed to protect the EU's forests, particularly in order to address the new challenges brought about by climate change.
Information on forest resources, the state of the forests and the impact of climate change is equally essential in order to ensure that any decisions made relating to the forests bring about the greatest possible socio-economic and environmental benefits.
The economic, social and environmental importance of forests at an international, European, regional and national level is generally well known and legitimised, to some extent, in international agreements and relevant cooperation and financing programmes.
Climate change has a huge impact on forests in every region of Europe, but with varying intensity.
Any reform made to the approach of European Union policies to forests must not simply be reduced to the challenges posed by climate change, but take into account all the aspects relating to forests' contribution to sustainable development at regional, European and global level.
Another aspect concerns the instruments and schemes at EU level supporting the forestry sector, which are very lightweight compared with those applied in other business sectors and given the current and future contribution made by forests to achieving the sustainable development targets.
However, any reform made to the approach of European Union policies to forests must not simply be reduced to the challenges posed by climate change, but take into account all the aspects relating to forests' contribution to the sustainable development of the environment, the rural economy, etc.
Its content stresses the need to plan, for the future, sufficient and ambitious financial resources for the forest and the timber industry.
I therefore support the adoption of this text and, at the same time, renew my support for the adoption of a specific financial instrument to protect the Union's forests.
The timber industry provides a total of 2 million jobs, mainly in SMEs, and creates revenue of EUR 300 billion.
The ratio of felling to increment is stable throughout the Union, and is in the region of 60%, but this ratio is projected to increase to more than 100% in some countries, with, as a result, a reduction in standing timber after 2010.
Forests provide 2 million jobs, many in small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and a turnover of EUR 300 billion.
When discussing the protection of forests as an economic and environmental resource, I cannot forget, being Portuguese, that combating forest fires - something from which my country has greatly suffered - must be an absolute priority for any European policy in this area.
This report deals with the Commission Green Paper on forest protection and information in the EU: preparing forests for climate change.
Forests and wooded land currently cover more than 42% of the EU's area and constitute an important source of revenue, generating more than EUR 300 billion a year and providing more than 2 million jobs.
On top of this, forests are essential for all of us and are part of our identity.
However, despite their importance, they have not been granted the financial investment that they merit.
I welcome the adoption of this report, which draws attention to the neglect the sector has suffered and calls for recognition and appreciation of the diversity of species existing in the EU, as well as of the need to implement a modern and active forestry policy that is able to take advantage of the area of biomass and of carbon credits, as well as of traditional activities.
Forests and wooded land currently cover more than 42% of the EU's area, providing a means of subsistence for millions of workers.
The conservation of forest heritage represents an important contribution to the welfare of populations, as well as contributing to job creation in rural areas.
It is inseparable from preventing forest fires: disasters which decimate extensive areas of forest annually in southern Europe, particularly in Portugal.
The report takes a wide-ranging approach to the forestry issue, focusing on certain aspects which we believe to be important.
However, it is essential to put theory into practice, especially when it comes to mobilising enough financial resources through Union support programmes and measures to enable the monitoring of forests' ecological and phytosanitary state and, wherever necessary, their reclassification, including reforestation.
It is also essential to recognise the diversity of forest ecosystems in Europe and the multifunctionality of many of them, such as, for example, the Mediterranean's montado agro-forestry pastures.
This report takes a wide-ranging approach to the forestry issue, focusing on certain aspects which we believe to be important.
However, it is essential to put theory into practice, especially when it comes to mobilising enough financial resources through Union support programmes and measures to enable the monitoring of forests' ecological and phytosanitary state and, wherever necessary, their reclassification, including reforestation.
Forests and wooded land currently cover more than 42% of the EU's area, providing a means of subsistence for millions of workers.
Their conservation represents an important contribution to the welfare of populations, as well as contributing to job creation in rural areas.
It is inseparable from preventing forest fires, disasters which decimate extensive areas of forest annually in southern Europe, particularly in Portugal.
It is also essential to recognise the diversity of forest ecosystems in Europe and the multifunctionality of many of them, such as, for example, the Mediterranean's montado agro-forestry pastures.
in writing. - Forests and other wooded land account for more than 42% of EU territory, providing a livelihood to millions of workers and entrepreneurs and 16 million forest owners.
Forest sector industries provide more than 2 million jobs, and forestry employs 350 000 people.
Last week in Ireland, forest fires - on a scale not seen for a long time - caused severe destruction on lands in Donegal, Sligo and other regions of the country.
Forestry industries generate revenues in excess of EUR 300 billion, and provide work for approximately two million people.
These are the figures that we must bear in mind in order to understand the importance of a European strategy for sustainable forestry management and in order to protect this significant European heritage more effectively.
We must remember the important role that forests play in terms of socio-economic services as well as their crucial role in the fight against climate change.
With revenue of more than EUR 300 billion, the timber industry in Europe provides more than 2 million jobs and is an important pool for growth.
Finally, it is vital for debates on the future of the common agricultural policy after 2013 to take account of the role played by forests.
Rural producers and public bodies must qualify for forestry measures under the second pillar of the CAP: the EU must support forest planting within the framework of national programmes for rural development.
The specification of a European forest protection strategy is part of the EU's overall commitment to the fight against climate change.
Particularly positive points in the report that has been approved are the proposal for a specific regulation on the prohibiting of building on land cleared by fires proven to have resulted from arson, and the request for suitable funding for forestry strategies, which is currently at a very low level.
We therefore urge the European Commission to continue along this route, by presenting a White Paper on forest protection to deal with these issues.
I endorsed this document because EU forests and other wooded land account for more than 42% of the EU's surface.
Forests provide livelihoods for millions of workers, entrepreneurs and 16 million forest owners.
This ratio is projected to increase in several countries to over 100%, causing a decline in growing stock after 2020.
The proposals include increasing competitiveness in the long-term, improving and preserving the environment, improving quality of life, and promoting coordination and communications.
The forests and the forestry industry are already making a significant contribution to the production of local raw materials.
The forests are also a recreational area for many of the citizens of Europe and play an important role in preventing climate change.
One of the most important of these is climate change.
It is the job of the Member States, with the support of the European Commission, to protect and develop our forests for future generations so that they can continue making a contribution in future to our natural habitats, our society and our economy.
The fact that we now have requested within this report legally binding sustainability criteria on energy-creating biomass is an important initiative.
The EU biofuel legislation, along with legislation for renewables, has driven our forest use in an unsustainable direction.
If we consider forests solely as a source of renewable energy, we totally have missed the point of combining sustainable industry and environment protection.
Forests are an important source of livelihood and well-being within our borders.
Therefore, this valuable natural source should be used for production rather than short-sighted energy.
The report calls for excessive sustainability criteria to be applied to forest management within the EU, without taking into consideration regional factors and the powers of the individual countries.
The main points which exceed the authority of national forestry policy and weaken the forests in economic terms are the provisions concerning timber supplies within Europe.
The EU should make a greater effort to ensure that sustainable forest management is put into practice in Europe and that we act as a model for other countries.
The EU must enhance its strategy for combating the factors causing deterioration of the forests, such as uncontrolled deforestation, fires and air pollution.
At the same time, biodiversity conservation, protection against natural disasters and CO2 capture from the atmosphere are crucial to improving our citizens' quality of life and to preserving the environment.
in writing. - I voted for this important report.
EU forests and other wooded land cover more than 42% of the EU's surface area.
In addition, 40% of EU forests are state-owned.
This ratio is projected to increase in several countries to over 100%, causing a decline in growing stock after 2020.
Crucially, the European Union must step up its strategy to combat those phenomena which harm the forest, such as forest fires and atmospheric pollution.
The capacity of the forest to recover from these threats and resume its normal development in the face of the impact of climate change depends on biodiversity, not just of trees, but also of all the other organisms that live in the forest, particularly wild animals.
Capitalism and ecology are mutually incompatible.
Forests and wooded land currently cover more than 42% of the EU's surface and are an industry which provides approximately 2 million jobs, with an annual turnover of EUR 300 billion.
These numbers reflect a need for European policy on forests to make them sustainable, both in environmental and economic terms.
This is especially the case in southern European countries and, in particular, my country, Portugal, which loses thousands of hectares of forests every year to fires.
In the fight against climate change, it is crucial to protect the forest.
Better use can be made of the forest in this fight, not only through preventing felling, but also through afforestation and reforestation programmes.
Sustainable forest management must aim to reconcile aspects relating to production and those relating to forest protection.
Moreover, the report focused on establishing a general context concerning forest protection, namely subsidiarity, diversity of threats according to different forest types, the central role of Sustainable Forest Management and the importance of forests for competitiveness and employment.
Dying forests throughout Europe represent both an environmental problem, in terms of natural habitats and climate change, and an economic problem.
The 5 million people who work in the forests and the 16 million forest owners produce an annual turnover of EUR 300 billion.
Current environmental conditions are responsible for bringing about changes in European forests.
We have to expect that in the long term beech trees will disappear completely in the Mediterranean region and that coniferous forests will decrease in area throughout continental Europe.
I voted against a part of paragraph 36 because the provision it contains is, to say the least, unrealistic.
The Commission Green Paper report entitled 'Forest protection and information in the EU: preparing forests for climate change' presents European Parliament's concerns on the matter.
Forests and wooded land currently cover more than 42% of the EU's surface and there are more than 16 million forest owners.
These figures reveal the importance of forests for all EU Member States, but particularly for Portugal, which has forests with very specific characteristics and plays an important role in regional planning and combating forest fires.
I voted in favour of this report since it advocates measures that I think contribute to combating forest destruction, especially fires, pests, forest fragmentation, changes in species composition and an increased demand for woody biomass.
in writing. - I welcome the Commission's Green Paper on forest protection and information in the EU.
Since forests are the main absorber of carbon, sustainable forest management is key to achieving the EU's climate change goals.
We need to bring protection and production together in the management of our forests in order to ensure the viability of their environmental, social and economic functions.
The EU has a role to play in promoting best management practice that suits the needs of local actors and communities, and in incentivising forestation efforts compatible with local conditions and native species.
I voted in favour of this report since I consider it absolutely essential to strengthen European policies on the conservation and sustainable management of forests, whose incalculable economic, social and environmental value it is important to preserve.
I have voted against paragraph 36 (split 2) and against paragraph 37, because issues of environmental planning come under regional or national authority, which means that decisions in these areas must be made by regional or national parliaments.
In my opinion, any intervention on an EU level would be an intervention in subsidiarity and would therefore go too far.
in writing. - This is a good report with good proposals, which include recognising the generally positive trend in terms of carbon storage in forests in Europe, but also the fact that carbon storage still remains far below natural capacity, and that the forest sector could reverse to a source, due to pressures; calling for Commission proposals to complement the Timber Regulation, in order to ensure that all timber or timber products placed on the European market are sourced from sustainably managed forests; urging the Commission to study options for payment for ecosystem services; and calling for a legislative proposal on forest fire prevention, including consideration of a 30-year ban on building on land where there has been a forest fire.
A framework of Commission guidelines should be established; binding sustainability criteria should be introduced, including mandatory national forestry programmes; payment for ecosystem services should be formalised; and forest protection policies should be strengthened by reintroducing the fire prevention regulation.
in writing. - Forests provide us with many essential eco-services, ranging from regulating the water cycle to preventing soil erosion and sequestering carbon.
The environmental and economic benefits of forests require that they be afforded urgent, continuing and long-term protection, and this is especially important in the context of climate change, in terms of both mitigation and adaptation.
This report covers a wide range of issues and is the result of much hard work and fruitful negotiation involving all the main political groups.
Forests are part of our countryside and our heritage and are crucial to our well-being.
I am therefore pleased at the strong political message that Parliament has sent in this, the International Year of Forests.
If we are to preserve our forests as we know and love them, we must be at the forefront of the fight to ensure sustainable management of forest areas and to protect them from the threats that hang over them.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the resolution on the EP's annual report on the CFSP.
It gives an overview of the strategic role that the EU should play outside its borders, in particular, as regards the contribution to the development of democracy and respect for human rights.
The reports on the CFSP of the EU and its role on the international stage, which was supported by the main coalition of the political representatives of capital in the European Parliament, namely the conservatives, social democrats and liberals, illustrate its acutely reactionary character and anti-grassroots role.
The political staff of the bourgeois classes in the European Parliament are demanding the strengthening of the imperialist character of the EU, its further militarisation and the development of its military capabilities and those of the Euro Army, especially 'flexible' battlegroups and rapid reaction forces, such as those being prepared with EUFOR Libya for land operations in Libya, in which Greece is heavily involved as leader of the Balkan battlegroup.
in writing. - I voted to oppose the measures in this report relating to the Mercosur Trade deal.
This deal would result in major job losses at farm and industry level across rural areas in Ireland and the EU as a whole.
I voted in favour of this report.
The Treaty of Lisbon gave the EU great powers, with which the EU should further develop its foreign policy objectives and defend its interests worldwide with the overall aim of contributing to peace, security, solidarity, conflict prevention, the promotion of democracy, the protection of human rights, respect for international law, etc.
The EU's ability to influence the international order depends not only on coherence between its policies, actors and institutions, but also on a strategic concept of EU foreign policy which must unite all Member States behind the same set of priorities and goals, so that they speak with one strong voice in the international arena.
Our adoption of this annual report reflects the strong position and role of the European Union in the field of international relations.
The Albertini report contains ideas that I agree with, but there is an underlying problem.
That means that the Member States would have to give up further large portions of sovereignty over foreign policy to EU bodies, which would be charged with reaching a common position to be presented in the international community and in all multilateral forums.
We agree that in certain contexts, the EU must strive to speak with a single voice in order to be stronger on the global stage and to represent the desires that are common to all its Member States, but that cannot come about at the cost of the Member States' freedom to draw up their own foreign policies.
I voted against the report.
I voted in favour of this report because the Council's annual report provides a consistent overview of the direction and actions of the common foreign and security policy (CFSP).
However, the Council's report does not contain any possible approaches to resolving those conflicts and issues.
The Council should seek to ensure that the report is more than just a catalogue of country-based events and developments.
I consider it of the utmost importance to adopt a position which is harmonious with the Member States' foreign policies, since such cohesion will lead to peace, security, solidarity and conflict prevention at international level.
It will also lead to sustainable development and increase the EU's capacity to influence the international order.
I therefore urge the continuation of the work already under way to form a united front which will improve relations between Europe and other world powers, promote a more effective response in situations of international crisis, and improve Europe's standing on the world stage.
I did not vote in favour of paragraph 85 of the Albertini report which welcomes the resumption of the negotiations on an association agreement with Mercosur.
I voted in favour of this report as the Council's annual report provides a clear view of the policies and actions of the EU's common foreign and security policy (CFSP) and contributes to strengthening interinstitutional dialogue.
This year's report is similar in structure to the 2009 common foreign and security policy (CFSP) report.
I endorse the rapporteur's emphasis on the need to move from a mere description of CFSP activities towards a dialogue with a strategic approach.
This report is on the annual report from the Council to the European Parliament on the main aspects and basic choices of the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) in 2009, presented to the European Parliament in application of Part II, Section G, paragraph 43 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006.
It is a report based on the new institutional framework established by the Treaty of Lisbon and, in accordance with its restructuring, presents more transparently the EU's CFSP.
Whilst I acknowledge that it could be improved, particularly by detailing events by country, describing the necessary means for achieving EU foreign policy objectives and by making a more qualitative assessment of this policy, which includes strategic and organisational recommendations for the future, I welcome the drafting of this report and hope that the EU continues to develop an effective multilateralism that is one of the hallmarks of the geostrategic concerns of the EU.
We must remember the track record of these institutions and their tragic consequences: Iraq, Afghanistan, the Balkans and Libya, and other countries that are also on the list.
Development cooperation and aid policy, which, in the current international context, should constitute one of the principal pillars, if not the principal pillar, of a foreign and security policy, is relegated to an extremely secondary role.
The support given to Israel's policies of aggression and occupation and to the policy of non-compliance with United Nations resolutions, as practised by Israel and other countries like Morocco, are other factors that we also denounce here.
This is yet another report which essentially reaffirms support for the development of the European Union's common foreign, security and defence policies.
The results of this are largely catastrophic, as is clear from the cases of Afghanistan, Palestine, Iraq, Libya and other countries.
in writing. - The report was adopted in the Committee on Foreign Affairs by an overwhelming majority.
Mr Albertini's proposal cannot have my vote because there are too many points on which we cannot agree.
Another point on which we cannot agree is the call to increase our efforts for Turkey to join Europe.
That is why I will vote against the report.
The remainder either tagged along or complained when they were forced to give an opinion.
In reality, the Union's foreign policy essentially involves distributing funding and engaging in trade, often in ways that are at variance with its professed political principles.
The Union's interests are neither an amalgamation nor an extension of those of the Member States.
I endorsed this document because it is aimed at ensuring that national defence systems are consistent with EU defence systems, as well as coordinating strategies with the most important global actors, such as the United States, Russia, China, Turkey and the Arab countries.
Effective multilateralism should be the overriding strategic concern of the Union and, in this context, the EU should take a leading role in international cooperation, support international institutions, facilitate international consensus and advance global action.
I voted in favour of adopting the annual report on the main aspects of the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) in 2009.
I hope that Mrs Ashton, the High Representative, will take our recommendations into account.
in writing. - I voted for this report and take the view that, in order to be consistent with the EU's own values, EU foreign policy and external action must give priority to promoting democracy and the rule of law, good governance and fair societies, given that a rule-based democratic society is the basis for upholding human rights as well as for enhancing stability.
Reiterating the position that human rights need to be firmly mainstreamed into EU foreign policy, I believe that the new institutional structure of the EU, with particular reference to the EEAS and its dedicated department, offers an opportunity to enhance the EU's coherence and effectiveness in this area; urge the VP/HR to proactively pursue, through bilateral relations with third countries and active participation in international fora, the engagement of third countries in respecting human rights as well as to speak up against human rights abuses and not to refrain from taking adequate measures if they are violated; considering the growing grave violations of freedom of belief, call upon the Commission to conduct a thorough evaluation and to mainstream freedom of belief into the EU human rights policy.
The Albertini report on the annual report from the Council to the European Parliament on the main aspects and basic choices of the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) in 2009 represents an important crossroads for the future of the Union's foreign policy.
It is really important that Parliament should unanimously call on the Council not to limit the scope of the CFSP annual report to a mere description of policy activities but, as the report rightly points out, to 'make it a policy- and solution-focused tool'.
We must also stress that 'the report should provide more than a catalogue of country-based events and developments and should also address the question of the effectiveness of the EU foreign policy as well as of the means necessary to pursue the objectives of European external action'.
The EU should continue to develop its foreign policy objectives and promote its values and interests at international level, with the general aim of contributing to peace, to security, to solidarity, to conflict prevention, to the promotion of democracy, to the protection of human rights, to gender equality, to respect for international law, to support for international institutions, to effective multilateralism, to mutual respect between nations, to sustainable development, to free and fair trade, and to the eradication of poverty.
I am also convinced that Europe would benefit at least as much as Turkey from its accession.
Jacques Chirac said that the European Union and Turkey have a 'shared destiny'.
Turkey is a founding member of the Council of Europe and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and of the Western European Union (WEU).
in writing. - The report was adopted in the Committee on Foreign Affairs by an overwhelming majority where I voted 'in favour' too.
It must become more autonomous in order to be seen throughout the world as a strong and independent player.
However, we have not yet identified any signs of movements in this direction.
This would have a highly counterproductive impact on the future of the EU and would make it difficult to agree on a common European approach or attitude to important issues, as the crisis in Libya has demonstrated.
For this reason, I have voted against this report.
The EU needs a coherent foreign policy strategy based on the objectives and principles established in Article 21 of the Treaty on the European Union (TEU).
EU action on the international stage is based on the principles that guided its creation, development and enlargement, with the objective of promoting the following values all over the world: 'democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity, and respect for the principles of the United Nations Charter and international law'.
I voted in favour of this report on the annual report from the Council to Parliament on the main aspects and basic choices of the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) in 2009, as I agree with the majority of the observations made by Parliament.
I would stress the fact that the report does not propose possible approaches for resolving the conflicts and issues that it presents in such a transparent way.
In view of this, I support the rapporteur's request that the Council not limit the scope of this report to a mere description of the activities of this policy, but rather transform it into a political tool that is focused on solutions.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the grounds that the Council's 2009 annual report on the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) - whose transparency I commend - stresses the importance of the European Union continuing to develop its foreign policy objectives, and to promote its values and interests at international level, with the general aim of contributing to peace, to security, to solidarity, to conflict prevention, to the promotion of democracy, to the protection of human rights, to gender equality, to respect for international law, to support for international institutions, to effective multilateralism, to mutual respect between nations, to sustainable development, to free and fair trade, and to the eradication of poverty.
My vote in favour is based on the wisdom of this report, which not only embraces the innovations of the Treaty of Lisbon in matters of foreign policy and security, but also calls for greater coordination between the recently created European External Action Service, the Member States and the Commission.
The EU must be consolidated as a strong and credible player on the international stage, and to do this, we have to move towards an unequivocal message to promote our values, such as democracy and human rights, in our foreign relations, but also in the pursuit of our interests, such as those connected with energy security.
I believe that it is right in its concept of transatlantic relations, particularly the EU and NATO, and in underlining the need for civil and military cooperation in crisis management.
Performing that role requires a more strategic external action and a single foreign policy uniting all the Member States.
That seems utopian to me in view of the ongoing events in the Middle East and in the Mediterranean countries.
I voted against the report because it seeks to limit national powers while creating new agencies and tackling new military operations, which would entail increased spending, and it also wants to give added momentum to Turkey's accession negotiations.
The Treaty of Lisbon was supposed to help Europe find a single voice on foreign policy, but last week we saw more proof of the lack of cohesion in EU foreign policy: after Osama bin Laden was killed last Monday, the Heads of State of the EU issued no less than five different statements within 24 hours.
I am pleased to see that the report emphasises the need to involve Parliament in the process.
The European Union's fundamental aims include defending peace, human rights and democracy.
The promotion of our values must be based on an ambitious external action and diplomacy strategy.
The Treaty of Lisbon has given the Union a voice through the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy/Vice-President of the Commission.
Our CFSP cannot tolerate division.
This vote is therefore a call for improved coordination between all institutions: the European External Action Service, the European Commission, the Member States and, of course, the European Parliament.
In a changing world, our Union needs to be more than a purely economic Union.
The CFSP should be one of the vehicles used to achieve that.
I voted in favour of this report.
In order to strengthen the EU's influence at a global level and, therefore, indirectly, the influence of the individual Member States, we need the insight and the determination to ensure increased cooperation and coordination between the different levels.
We must not put unnecessary obstacles in the path of the European External Action Service (EEAS) to enable it to live up to its founding principles.
I have also voted in favour of the amendment, which, at the same time, calls on Baroness Ashton to make full use of her powers.
As a member of the Committee on Budgets and an advocate of the greatest possible transparency, I have, of course, also voted in favour of the amendment calling for separate budget lines for each mission.
I believe this would enable the experience acquired to be turned to account from a political, strategic, technical, legal and operational point of view and, in the long term, could provide a starting point for improving interventions under way and for criteria to be applied to emerging crises so as to make for the best possible balance between strategic interests and available resources.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the resolution on the development of the common security and defence policy following the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty.
I think that the new provisions on the common security and defence policy introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon offer a strong political statement of the Union's intention to act as a force for stability in the world.
They provide a clear legal framework for reinforcing its capacities to pursue its foreign and security policy through a comprehensive approach drawing upon all the instruments available to the Union and its Member States, to prevent and manage crises and conflicts, as well as to build lasting peace.
I voted in favour of this report.
I think that the European Union needs a strong and effective security and defence policy to prevent conflicts, protect its citizens' security and reaffirm its basic values, by making its contribution to supporting international law, the promotion of respect for human rights and democratic values throughout the whole world.
The international system is undergoing rapid and profound change.
In a turbulent global context, and at a time of economic and financial crisis, the EU must enhance its strategic autonomy to uphold its values, pursue its interests and protect its citizens by developing a shared vision of the main challenges and threats and by aligning its capabilities and resources to adequately respond to them, thereby contributing to the preservation of international peace and global security.
The amendments proposed in this document will improve the flexibility of Europe's military capabilities.
This will help establish a simpler contribution from Member States to the shared costs of European military operations.
The disbanding of the Western European Union and introduction of a reciprocal defence clause in the Treaty marks a step towards a common defence policy.
Apart from the objections that can be made to this approach on principle, I cannot understand how anyone can think that the EU can ever speak with one voice on such sensitive subjects, in which the interests of the individual Member States are very often different, if not quite openly conflicting.
It is virtually impossible for the Member States to reach agreement and put forward a single, agreed position on events of this magnitude.
I voted against the report.
I voted in favour of this report because the European Union must continue to enhance its security strategy, uphold its values, pursue its interests, and protect its citizens, thereby contributing to the preservation of international peace and global security.
The new provisions of the common security and defence policy (CSDP) introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon provide a clearer legal framework for reinforcing the implementation of foreign and security policy, drawing upon all the instruments available to the EU and its Member States, to prevent and manage crises and conflicts, and to build lasting peace.
When conducting foreign and security policy, the EU must ensure consistency and coherence between the different areas of its external action and between external and internal policies.
I would like to stress that a credible external security policy requires closer cooperation between the Member States, mutual trust and solidarity.
I am concerned that, more than a year after the Treaty of Lisbon entered into effect, there are still no clear signs of a comprehensive EU approach to foreign and security policy, within the framework of which it would be possible to overcome the traditional procedural and institutional barriers restricting the EU's ability to act.
I am concerned about the unwillingness of EU Member States to define a common position on the crisis in Libya, or on UN Security Council Resolution 1973 and how to implement it.
I would like to point out in this context that the Treaty of Lisbon provides the possibility of entrusting the implementation of crisis-resolution operations to a group of Member States, although only within the framework of a Council decision defining the objectives, scope and terms of their implementation.
In this context, we should insist on a tough and principled position towards the regime of President Lukashenko in Belarus.
in writing. - (DE) For a variety of reasons, I have voted in favour of the Gualtieri report.
Out of 29 amendments tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, 21 have been included in the report.
It will also lead to sustainable development and increase the EU's capacity to influence the international order.
I therefore urge the continuation of the work already under way to form a united front which will improve relations between Europe and other world powers, promote a more effective response in situations of international crisis and improve Europe's standing on the world stage.
The Treaty of Lisbon should represent a new political model in Europe, both in terms of the need to pool the resources of Member States in order to achieve optimum results, and of working on shared strategies and operations that will also make Europe into the political union its founding fathers dreamed of years ago.
The Gualtieri report clearly underlines the fact that the European armed forces are not adequate to build a common European defence system or to reach the targets for the Union's internal and external security set out in the Treaty of Lisbon.
The Treaty of Lisbon was a step forward for the EU.
It has brought greater political and institutional involvement in relations between Member States, bringing them even closer on key foreign and domestic policies and strategies.
The tabled document maximises the EU's role, strengthening the synergies between Member States, and between them and the EU institutions.
The development of the CSDP is even more relevant given the current economic/financial crisis, which makes it advisable to share resources between Member States in order to effectively ensure public safety, crisis/conflict management and the establishment of lasting peace.
The idea behind this resolution is that the common security and defence policy (CSDP), following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, envisages the Union's firm political intention to act as a force of stability in the world, with a clear legal framework for making it more able to pursue its objectives.
The current report evaluates the development of the common security and defence policy (CSDP) in the wake of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
It is a report based on the new institutional framework created by the Treaty of Lisbon, according to which the European Union must speak with a single voice and, based on its restructuring, present common foreign and security policy in a more transparent way.
Whilst I recognise the need for public debate on foreign and defence policy towards setting out Parliament's future policies on this matter, I welcome the drafting of this report and hope that the EU continues to develop an effective multilateralism, which is one of the hallmarks of its geostrategic concerns.
The transformation of the EU into a European pillar of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO), as advocated by the Treaty of Lisbon, entails involvement in conflict zones at international level.
This is within a framework of collaboration with the United States, which assumes leadership in the process of affirming an imperial hegemony and guaranteeing the control of markets and resources, some of which are becoming increasingly scarce.
The development of the common security and defence policy (CSDP) serves the interests of the EU's industrial-military complex, but not the interests of the people or of peace.
As pointed out by the amendments tabled by our group, military intervention or any sort of military approach to conflict resolution, with the alleged aim of stabilising certain regions or countries, is the wrong track.
The development of the common security and defence policy is a threat to peace.
in writing. - This report, which is in five parts - headed respectively Security and foreign policy, Security and defence, External and internal security, Security through operations and Security in partnership - provides a clear vision of how the EU should pursue its common security and defence policy in order to become an autonomous strategic player and to act as a force for security and stability in Europe and the world.
As I think this kind of policy should be on the list of national competences, I feel I must vote against this report.
Enhancing strategic autonomy in security affairs entails, for the EU, the capacity to agree upon common political objectives and strategic guidelines, to establish strategic partnerships with relevant international organisations, including NATO, and with other countries, to collect adequate information and generate joint analyses and assessments, to harness and, where necessary, pool financial, civilian and military resources, to plan and run effective crisis management operations across the extended range of the Petersburg-type missions, and to frame and implement a common defence policy, laying the first tangible foundations on which to build common defence.
It is necessary to draw upon all the instruments available to the EU and its Member States in order to prevent and manage crises and conflicts and to build lasting peace.
France has entered into a transaction with Russia involving warships; a Russia that, in the recent past, occupied Georgian territories in the course of hostilities.
Although the Baltic nations have repeatedly expressed their concerns, European Union officials and institutions have not responded in any way to prevent French involvement in a military transaction with Russia.
However, within the European Union, the growth of one nation's economy must not be achieved at the cost of another nation's security.
This kind of action is contrary to the existing solidarity principle within the European Union.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Gualtieri report.
However, I underline once again the need for enhanced cooperation between the EU and NATO.
Recent events in North Africa and Asia show that the European Union needs to strengthen its foreign policy and the alliances in which it participates.
The threat of terrorist attacks, which is still very real, points to the need to strengthen European security standards.
in writing. - I voted for this report and particularly welcome calls for increased controls of private security companies through their regulation, licensing and monitoring.
I voted in favour of the report on the development of the common security and defence policy following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The key to the future will lie in strengthening our political ability to define common strategies and objectives in an increasingly coordinated and timely manner.
The report provides a clear vision of how the EU should implement its general security policy and defence policy in order to become the strongest autonomous strategically acting player, with the aim to provide security and stability in Europe and the world.
We therefore need to decide how Europe should behave: should it always be 'united' whatever the consequences, or should it always leave the Member States free, in which case the European Union itself must adapt?
For the reasons given above, I have decided to abstain, while waiting to see what the European Union will do as a really 'great' organisation.
I believe that better harmonisation of already existing instruments and reaching consensus on the strategic aims of the common security and defence policy in the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon are of paramount importance.
While relying on existing financial, civilian and military resources, Europe can take even more decisive actions in the event of natural and man-made disasters and be even more involved in averting and managing crises and conflicts, and in establishing a lasting peace in third countries.
I strongly support the report, which calls for better coordination of them.
I voted in favour of this report because it provides a vision of how the EU could become an independent strategic force for security and stability in Europe and throughout the world.
There was also general agreement with our group's call for the EU to improve the planning process of humanitarian aid missions as a matter of urgency.
I voted in favour of this report on the development of the common security and defence policy (CSDP) following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The common security and defence policy is an integral part of the common foreign and security policy (CFSP).
Both dimensions have been placed within the legally binding institutional framework of EU principles, namely, democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity, and respect for the principles of the United Nations Charter and principles of international law, including the responsibility to protect.
In addition, their objectives have been merged with the general objectives of EU external action.
On this matter, I support the rapporteur's proposal to enhance cooperation with EU national parliaments in exercising democratic scrutiny over the CFSP and the CSDP, with the goal of mutually reinforcing their respective influence on the political choices made by the other European institutions and by the Member States, while fully respecting national parliaments' defence policy prerogatives.
I therefore voted in favour of this report.
The Treaty of Lisbon lays the foundations for the European Union to establish itself as a credible and influential player on the international scene.
in writing. - I decided to abstain at the final vote because we lost Amendment 1 on reference to NATO, Amendment 3 against a nuclear dimension in the common security and defence policy, Amendment 4 against flexible use of Battlegroups, Amendment 5 against using Battlegroups for mixed civilian-military tasks, Amendment 6 deleting a provision on defence research, Amendment 7 deleting a provision on defence research, Amendment 8 deleting reference to the US Department of Homeland Security, Amendment 9 deleting reference to CSDP cooperation with Frontex in the Mediterranean, and despite the fact that we won Amendment 2 on European External Action Service/Commission permanent working structures and Amendment 1 saying no to NATO developing civilian capabilities.
The report outlines the need for the European Union to operate in the global context as a stabilising force, endeavouring to keep the peace, strengthen international security and manage crisis situations.
I voted in favour of this report because I join the chorus of disappointment in Parliament at the European Union's lack of a genuinely global and uniform post-Lisbon approach to the common security policy.
There has been a lack of solidarity in the management of the migrant crisis, revealing that when national interests are at stake, the EU forgets about noble concepts, as it has taken no interest in the problem.
in writing. - I voted in support of our common foreign and security policy report, with the hope that such a policy would take shape at last.
The euro is under constant pressure and the problem is, in part, generated by the same lack of European ambition and coherence.
The Schengen Area is rolled back on a daily basis and national barriers re-emerge as the European spirit and legislation are ignored or broken by fellow Member States.
A non-existent common foreign and security policy assisted by a huge External Action Service would seriously undermine European credibility in the world.
It is entirely fair for the EU to have more effective representation in international organisations and for this representation to be valued, inasmuch as the EU is the organisation that contributes the most to development aid.
The EU's principles and values, which promote more effective and preventive multilateral action, make it an important international player in the emerging interpolar world order.
It must also reinforce its position in international bodies in the area of economics and monetary stability, in accordance with its role as one of the principal economic powers at international level.
in writing. - I voted in favour of Mara Muiz De Urquiza's report on the EU as a global actor and its role in multilateral organisations.
I would like to stress once again the need to better coordinate actions of the EU Member States in the UN and, in particular, in the UN Human Rights Council.
We consider that the new institutional structure of the EU and establishment of the Directorate for Human Rights and Democracy in the EEAS system and Brussels-based COHOM Office offer good opportunities to increase the coherence, visibility and credibility of the EU actions in the UNHRC.
Taking into account these examples and our common experience in the past with the UN Human Rights Commission and, since 2006, with the UN Human Rights Council, we suggest that clear membership criteria should be introduced in the UNHRC, and the EU should stand firmly behind this initiative.
The Treaty of Lisbon enhances the EU's capacity to join various international organisations, entrusting it with a wider range of competences in its external action and offering it an opportunity to have a clearer and stronger single voice in the world.
The Treaty also encourages cooperation with relevant international and regional organisations and groups of states, offering the Union an opportunity to become an effective global player.
The EU's commitment to effective multilateralism is the guiding principle of European external action.
I voted in favour of this report.
Global challenges, such as financial markets, energy security, combating poverty, climate change and human rights violations require joint and coordinated action.
The Treaty of Lisbon, by introducing the Union's legal personality, enhanced the EU's capacity to join various international organisations and provided the opportunity to assume a stronger and more influential position globally.
Hitherto, the representation of the EU and its Member States in international organisations has been fragmented, which has prevented the EU from speaking with a single voice in the international arena.
The EU must become an influential global actor and be able to defend its position.
I supported this resolution because I am convinced that the European Union's desire to bolster its presence within international organisations is entirely legitimate.
With its newly improved status, the Union will now be able to express its position within the United Nations General Assembly.
The European Union could stand up for European interests and, consequently, the interests of Member States.
This is the purpose and aim of this report.
If the European Union gains a place on the UN Security Council, such a conflict may have a very adverse impact on the European Union's image.
For this reason, I voted against both point 20 and the whole report.
While we can agree that in certain areas, such as monetary policy, the EU can represent the prevalent position in the appropriate multilateral organisations, it is difficult to accept the idea that the European External Action Service might take on the role of representing a common position of the Member States on the world stage when very often, the countries of Europe have such different interests that it is impossible to achieve a common position.
By voting against the report, I intend to show my opposition to its proposed future scenario in which national diplomacy would substantially be superseded by Union diplomacy, to the detriment of the Member States' diplomatic autonomy.
The EU should make better use of its foreign policy instruments so as to ensure better use of its leverage in multilateral organisations and to take the lead in addressing current and future international crises more effectively.
In addition, there is a need to involve non-state actors more in multilateral policy making and to promote and facilitate improved consultation with civil society organisations and social partners in the future governance structures of international organisations.
The timing is particularly appropriate with a sharp increase being noticed in the number of political and humanitarian crises in the world, which gives rise to the need for the European Union to deploy its foreign policy instruments more effectively so as to ensure better use of its leverage in international organisations and to take the lead more effectively in resolving current and future international crises.
On the other hand, the globalisation processes also offer a wide range of opportunities, challenges and threats for global governance, while revealing social loopholes and failures, including in areas such as the financial markets, energy security, the fight against poverty, climate change policy and human rights violations.
This is a good opportunity for the EU to make use of its foreign policy instruments and to assume leadership through a more effective approach to current and future international crises.
I therefore commend the attention given to the EU's position in the United Nations system, in the international financial institutions and in other multilateral institutions, and I agree with the reform proposals which strengthen several of the positions that we have taken.
In this respect, like the rapporteur, I believe that there is still a long way to go on the path to credible, consistent and visible EU external action, as there is no European strategy for every organisation of which the Member States or the EU are part.
Moreover, there is already an example of good practice: our presence in the World Trade Organisation (WTO).
Only a handful of champions of a federal Europe would like to hear it speak with one voice, yet diversity and diplomatic cooperation constitute the real value of Europe, whether within the United Nations or elsewhere.
I welcome the adoption of this report, which calls for a stronger role for the European Union in the structures of multilateral organisations (United Nations, international financial institutions, North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, World Trade Organisation, and so on).
This report invites the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy/Vice-President of the Commission to do something that I consider very important, namely, to seek common EU positions on the subjects to be decided in the Security Council in order to implement these positions through joint voting practices and to avoid a repetition of past dissensions.
For the Union's definitive affirmation as regards foreign policy and in the light of the objectives set out in the Treaty of Lisbon, there is a need to continue working towards the EU having a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council one day.
This European Parliament resolution is on the EU's role in the United Nations (UN) system, in international financial institutions, in multilateral security organisations, in 'summit diplomacy' and in other multilateral organisations, and calls for its role at multilateral level to be strengthened.
There is a clear need to better coordinate the action of the Union, as such, with that of the Member States.
I believe the Union should play an active and leading role in the reform of global governance so as to make international institutions and organisations more legitimate, effective and suited to shared responsibility.
The House's insistence on the need for a comprehensive review of the UN Security Council and the need to make it more legitimate, representative of regions and effective by assigning the Union a permanent seat therefore remains an objective that will be hard to achieve in the short term.
This report by Mrs Muiz De Urquiza is on the EU's performance as a global player and its role in multilateral organisations.
The world is currently experiencing a major growth process in globalisation terms, in particular, with the revolutions and transition to democracy of countries that have traditionally been closed and governed by totalitarian regimes, which constitutes a set of opportunities that the EU should not neglect.
Effective multilateralism constitutes the guiding principle of EU foreign policy, in line with the commitment set out in the 2003 European security strategy.
This report seeks to legitimise and consolidate a path that has gradually been forged on the backs of the people in an affront to their sovereignty: to national sovereignty and its legitimacy.
It is seeking to replace the Member States, thereby corrupting the spirit of bodies like the United Nations General Assembly, where each country and its people still have the same weight, irrespective of their size.
The report also proposes increasing, particularly through the European External Action Service, the resources placed at the disposal of a political and diplomatic agenda whose goals include increasing the EU's weight and influence in various forums and organisations, with a view to exploiting them.
The majority in Parliament is seeking to consolidate a path and a policy that goes over the heads of the organs of national sovereignty and the sovereignty of the peoples, presenting the EU as having a legitimacy that only the Member States and their peoples have, however much it costs them.
They are seeking to legitimise the EU in multilateral organisations - the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO), the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the World Bank - and are seeking to replace states with regional integration organisations, for example, in the United Nations General Assembly, where each country and its people still have the same weight, irrespective of their size.
They are proposing to increase, particularly through the European External Action Service, the resources for implementing a political and diplomatic agenda whose principle goal is increasing the EU's weight and influence in these organisations, with a view to exploiting them.
in writing. - The EU is the largest contributor of development aid and the most important trade bloc, but representation of the Union, as such, in multilateral organisations remains fragmented.
This over-representation - particularly in the Bretton Woods institutions - often results in dissonance among the European voices and is perceived as hugely problematic by the emerging powers, which consider the status quo to be unfair.
The effects of the Treaty of Lisbon necessarily mean that the role played by the European Union in international organisations must be revised.
However, as we have seen all too often recently, the so-called single voice with which Europe should approach multilateral issues is often damaging to the Member States' own prerogatives and autonomy of decision.
I believe that hitherto, the representation of the EU and its Member States in multilateral organisations, informal summits and international regimes has been fragmented, often ineffective, and still varies considerably.
I also take the view that EU Member States should increasingly consider and rely on the EU as a multiplier of power in achieving the objectives they cannot achieve independently, and that speaking with one EU voice not only increases the chances of success but also improves the legitimacy and credibility of the EU as an important international actor in the emerging interpolar world, without it losing its identity of course.
These relations will help resolve economic and commercial issues, as well as those regarding the environment.
The contribution of the European Union must also have an added value in multilateral organisations or summits where not all of its members are represented.
Unfortunately, recent, and also current, political and humanitarian crises in the world, have called for prompt, decisive action by the EU.
The Union must take into account its own consolidated representation and that of Member States in multilateral organisations.
The current rapid increase in the number of political and humanitarian crises is worrying, which is an indication of the need to implement such a strategy for the EU.
At the moment, the Union is not fulfilling its role properly as a global actor.
I think that the enhancement and importance of its role in multilateral organisations mark real progress in terms of establishing its global significance.
in writing. - I voted against paragraph 20 because I do not believe that the time is yet ripe for the EU to have a single seat on the United Nations Security Council.
The external dimension of the European Union needs to be enhanced, since Article 21 of the Treaty on European Union promotes an international system based on stronger multilateral cooperation in which the Member States guarantee that the Union can assert their interests and values on the international scene.
New permanent structures for the EU's external representation have been established under the Treaty of Lisbon, but this new dimension does not yet allow the Union to participate as a single entity in its own right in the work of many international bodies.
Given the increase in political and humanitarian crises in the world, the EU needs to make the best possible use of its foreign policy instruments so as to ensure better use of its leverage in multilateral organisations and its ability to take the lead in addressing current and future international crises.
Each Member State is entitled to express its own views within international bodies.
Governments are elected, unlike Baroness Ashton, the European Commission and the European Central Bank, yet this text seeks to make the latter our sole representatives.
I voted against this attempt to give the kiss of death to State sovereignty on the international arena.
The EU cannot forget its role as a leading actor on the world stage in every respect.
The economic, financial and food crises, climate change and conflicts have made us realise that we urgently need to create a form of global governance, or what Jacques Attali calls a 'world State'.
Naturally, Europe has a role to play in this new global political arena as a soft world power based on standards, rules and leading by example.
The European Parliament has adopted a resolution on the role that the European Union should play in multilateral organisations.
As a general principle, the strengthening of the EU's role in multilateral frameworks has been approved.
The EU and the Member States need to take steps to increase the EU's role and strengthen its position within the UN (changes to support for the UN, in particular, with regard to humanitarian policies and aid and the issue of conflict resolution).
Within the framework of cooperation with international financial institutions, the EU must find a solution to the problem of external economic and financial representation, which limits the EU's influence.
I voted in favour of this report as I agree with its vision and ambition for an EU that has a strong presence on the international stage.
Apart from the value of each Member State per se, the EU, as an organisation, can contribute its organisational experience to the international community.
With regard to the EU's aspiration to be a global player, it is therefore essential to strengthen internal coordination in order to speak with one voice.
In the current context, it is very important that the EU be able to establish itself as a global player, capable of responding effectively to the demanding challenges that are posed at global level.
As such, it will have to commit to increasing internal coordination so that the EU can talk with one voice, thereby increasing not just the prospects for success of its actions, but also its legitimacy and credibility at international level.
In particular in those fields where it has exclusive or shared competences, it considers essential, with regard to the EU's aspiration and need to be an effective global actor and to safeguard its position, a strengthening of the internal coordination necessary to speak with one voice, the ability to shape multilateral cooperation and lead collective action in addressing international challenges, namely those arising from the responsibility to protect, and the need to enhance human security, as a means of achieving global security.
The final text of this report emphasises the strategic role that the European Union must play in international organisations.
To achieve this, there is a need, above all, to promote active, concrete participation so as to strengthen both internal and external cooperation.
The European Union should therefore play a more active and leading role in the reform of global governance.
I am talking, in particular, about the need to reform the United Nations (UN) system to assign the Union a place and, in particular, about its representation on the UN Security Council.
That involves a demanding degree of coordination of the Member States' positions, but it would result in the increased coherence, visibility and credibility of EU actions at international level.
For more consistent and better-integrated cooperation, it should have observer status in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO), be more closely coordinated with the Council of Europe, and participate fully in the activities of the G7/G8 and G20.
To be specific, it clarifies the roles of the EU in international credit institutions, in the UN system, in multilateral security organisations and in other multilateral organisations in general, such as the World Trade Organisation, the Council of Europe and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development.
Following the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Union's diplomatic activities have been beefed up with a view to raising Europe's profile on the international stage.
I welcome the adoption of this report, which calls for better representation for the Community institutions in international organisations.
The Europe of 27 is stronger now.
The new Member States have increased the Union's economic and demographic strength.
However, the balance and coordination between Member States has been thrown out of kilter by enlargement.
I have voted in favour of this report.
It must speak with a more powerful and more unified voice and respond much more quickly, in order to be able to act as a trustworthy and reliable partner.
The rising economic importance of Asia, the revolutionary movements in Africa, the increased terrorist threat, the need to establish joint and sustainable European raw materials strategies and ever more frequent violations of human rights are just a few of the problems with which EU diplomacy has to contend today.
This distribution of tasks could also make it possible to strengthen cooperation with the EU's most important trade and military partner, namely the United States.
