Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (PL) Mr President, alternative investment funds are of very great significance to the Union's economy.
The proposals which have been submitted improve the transparency and efficiency of systems of supervision, and the greater effectiveness of legislation will bear fruit in an improvement in the stability and credibility of financial institutions, and, as a result, an improvement in the European economy. (IT) Mr President, today's vote represents a significant step forward by the European Union in the regulation of alternative investment funds.
This is, in fact, the first time that this sector has been regulated, and I believe that the paper we have voted on has paved the way to achieving - soon, I hope - a true single market in financial products.
I voted in favour of the compromise that was achieved and, finally, I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Gauzès, on his mammoth task.
Fortunately, after the work between the shadow rapporteurs and excellent cooperation, as well as the good work by the Commissioner and the Belgian Presidency, we came to an acceptable solution that now works and which keeps markets open, increases transparency and ensures that European investors can continue to invest in markets outside the EU.
From now on, they will be able to travel to EU Member States without a visa.
I feel that Taiwan and its people deserve such a decision and I welcome this decision by the European Parliament. (DE) Mr President, I and my group welcome the fact that the citizens of Taiwan can now travel freely to the European Union.
The Commission has still not got under way with this.
I hope that Mrs Malmström will finally begin a discussion on visas with Kosovo in order to make it clear that the citizens of Europe's newest state can travel just as freely as the citizens of Taiwan. (SV) Mr President, the European Energy Programme for Recovery is an instrument used to finance investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy.
The launching of energy efficiency projects will create new jobs, make the economy greener and also enable us to be less dependent on oil-producing countries, which is particularly important in these times of crisis.
The negotiations were very difficult and the Member States did everything they could to try and wriggle out of their earlier promises.
During the negotiations, I endeavoured to introduce simpler rules and transparency in the application process.
Mr President, yesterday, the President of the European Council, Herman Van Rompuy, made an extraordinary speech in which he said that it was impossible to be outside the European Union in a globalised world.
It was thanks to their patriotism that Europe was not united in tyranny, that sovereignty and independence were restored and, indeed, that the European Union became possible.
The EU-US agenda is full as ever, and both parties should use the opportunity to advance common positions on issues such as financial regulation, climate change, deepening of treaties and the fight against terrorism.
Our economic partnership is a key driver of global economic prosperity.
I believe we also need to discuss issues such as a zero-tariff game, where current trade between the US and the EU can be enhanced and competitiveness can be increased by engaging in such a process.
Finally, Parliament must not wait for the Administration to determine what we do in TEC.
We are also serious in taking into account our relations with partners such as the United States, Canada and Australia.
After the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, the European Parliament now has to give its consent to the agreements between the EU and third countries on the transfer of Passenger Name Record (PNR) data, with a view to concluding those agreements.
This is a very valuable initiative, precisely because it is proper coordination at regional, national and European level that can make the Innovation Union project a success.
Therefore, I endorsed the resolution on European Innovation Partnerships within the Innovation Union flagship initiative, and I think we should all be involved in action for innovation, because, as I have said, it is very important for the future. (LT) I voted for this very important resolution because I feel that the European Union's role in the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe is particularly important for achieving the objectives set by the OSCE.
Furthermore, it must be stressed that although they are very different structures, both the European Union and the OSCE follow the same principles and values, that is to say, respect for human rights and democracy.
They should be an example to other OSCE Members. (IT) Mr President, I voted in favour of this resolution because I believe that it makes useful and interesting proposals for facing future demographic challenges.
Members States' social policies must devote particular attention to young people, the true driving force behind development and growth.
We must encourage the immediate inclusion of young people in the labour market and their ongoing training to promote professional growth.
The family must also be protected by means of more incisive and substantial measures because forgetting the family means overlooking one of the essential components of society.
As Altiero Spinelli said, 'creating Europe depends on you as well', and this is now a real possibility. (PL) Mr President, the demographic changes which have taken place in the European Union over the last few decades have drawn attention to the necessity of reforming the system of social and retirement care and developing an effective migration policy.
Of course, I endorsed the report. (PL) Mr President, I endorsed the Mann report on the demographic challenge and solidarity between generations.
The question of the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of age in access to goods and services is a key issue.
If we are talking about solidarity, we should always remember, too, about this specific aspect of solidarity - solidarity between generations.
They have full rights as members of the local, regional, national and European community.
I fully agree with paragraph 24, which speaks about an end to a compulsory retirement age so that people can choose when they want to finish working, but, at the same time, seeks to maintain a pensionable age, so that people who want to retire can do so and receive their benefits.
I was particularly pleased to see that a number of my amendments on carers and family carers were taken into consideration, in particular, paragraph 125, which speaks about family carers, including the right for them to choose whether they wish to care or not, and also the ability to combine caring with paid work, and to ensure that they have full access to social security schemes and old age pensions.
As I said at the beginning, solidarity between the generations is crucial, especially in the current economic situation. (LT) I voted for this document by Thomas Mann because it reflects the problems of intergenerational interaction.
Usually, we talk of the European Union's demographic problems from the point of view of young people.
This document attempts to combine the specific characteristics of all the generations and related problems in health, education, labour and similar sectors, seeking balanced solutions to those problems.
As far as the older generation is concerned, we should be grateful for its contribution to the development of the European Union, both economically and culturally.
In the whole of Europe, the only country that is reproducing at sustainability level is Albania, or Turkey if you count Turkey as a European country - and nowhere else.
According to one UN report, Europe, including European Russia, is scheduled to lose 100 million people over the next 40 years.
These are not projections about what might happen if we do not do something, as there is nothing we can do about it now since the decline in birth rates has already happened.
However, I wonder whether one part of the problem is the way in which the state has expanded and squeezed out the private sphere, has annexed to itself jobs and duties that were traditionally discharged within a family - childcare, education and social security.
We now face a choice between demographic collapse or importing 100 million people to sustain our numbers and pay our pensions.
This should be the top issue in Europe and it is not one we can address by arguing about changes in employment regulation. (HU) I welcome the Commission's proposal that our research framework programmes should go through a simplifying process.
We need a new scheme that has greater confidence in tenderers and which, in addition to strengthening scientific and technical evaluation processes, also takes into account the simplification of financial and administrative processes.
Naturally, there is a degree of risk in any financial transaction, but the exaggerated administrative control of such risks also increases the total costs of the whole process.
We must strive to ensure that our research is attractive and accessible for the world's best researchers, European enterprises and universities.
This also requires the harmonisation of rules and procedures as soon as possible, which should be done even during the Seventh Framework Programme, but certainly during the preparation of the eighth.
For this reason, I, too, voted in favour of this proposal. (PL) Mr President, the foundation of Europe's economic development is investment in education as a form of investment in human capital and innovations which contribute to the creation of modern methods and technologies.
By subsidising this kind of research, Europe has the opportunity to improve competitiveness in the global arena, create jobs for thousands of people and improve the quality of life of all Europeans.
In order to maintain the highest standards in the framework programmes, the rapporteur has endorsed the maximum possible reductions in bureaucracy and simplification of administrative procedures.
Needless to say, I endorsed the report. (IT) Mr President, facilitating access to the support system envisaged in the framework research programme means giving great impetus to the competitive capacity of the entire European production system.
In fact, despite the high quality of their output, such businesses often do not succeed in gaining easy access to the resources that are necessary for boosting their production standards even higher.
It is also useful to point out, as the rapporteur did, that the voting was extremely timely because it followed immediately from the intermediate evaluation of the Seventh Framework Programme and the preparation of the eighth.
I thank the rapporteur for her work. (LT) I voted for the document on simplifying the implementation of the research framework programmes in the European Union.
It is important to establish a level playing field for scientists from all EU Member States, to provide equal payment for research activities, without dividing scientists according to their country's standard of living, because scientific progress is a matter for the whole of the European Union, not just individual countries.
It is also important to ensure equal conditions for all research institutions, and not to divide them according to their size and financial capacity.
This is particularly important for research institutions in the new EU Member States.
Therefore, it is important to provide opportunities, not just for universities, but for non-profit research institutes and other scientific organisations, to submit applications and participate in research programmes.
Yesterday, the Court of Auditors issued a report on the sugar sector and one of their recommendations was that price formation be subject to regular monitoring by the Commission and that the Commission and the Member States ensure that competition law is correctly enforced in the sector, thus ensuring the treaty objective that supplies reach consumers at reasonable prices.
We need to do it in the whole food chain. (IT) Mr President, I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because for years in Europe, we have seen frequent crises affecting the livestock sector.
I am referring to problems in the milk and dairy sector and the problem of cereal price volatility, which has seen severe speculation.
With a view to CAP reform after 2013, it will be necessary to tackle the matter with commitment and come up with measures necessary for limiting the impact of price volatility in the agricultural sector once and for all.
Secondly, during the week, I attended an agriculture seminar here and the same situation applied to fish coming into the European Union, particularly from Vietnam, some of which could even be polluted.
In the livestock sector, the same applies, where third countries exporting commodities into the European Union can do so at an advantage compared to those within the European Union.
A sine qua non for the European Union in addressing all these issues is to ensure that the same standards of regulation, the same checks and balances, and the same stringent enforcement applies to products coming in from third countries as to our own producers within the European Union.
Written explanations of vote Given that Ireland has requested assistance for 850 cases of redundancy at SR Technics Ireland Ltd, operating in the air transport sector in the NUTS III Dublin region, I voted in favour of the resolution, as I agree with the Commission's proposal, along with the respective amendments introduced by Parliament.
I also agree with the request for the institutions involved in the process to make the necessary efforts to speed up the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) and with Parliament's position, deploring the Commission's serious shortcomings in carrying out programmes for competitiveness and innovation, particularly during an economic crisis which greatly increases the need for such support.
in writing. - I wholeheartedly welcome the approval of €7.45m in EU aid to help retrain 850 workers made redundant from SR Technics.
The support provided by the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) is urgently needed by the workers, their families and the North Dublin community, deeply affected by the closure of this company, which brought the loss of more than a thousand skilled jobs.
I led an SR Technics delegation to meet Commissioner Špidla in mid-2009, when the availability of this fund was confirmed to us.
I voted for the report on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund: SR Technics from Ireland, which will provide significant aid for the workers affected by the consequences of major changes to the structure of world trade.
The Irish company SR Technics has particularly suffered from the impact of the current economic and financial crisis on the aviation industry: it has lost significant maintenance contracts, forcing it to make more than 1 000 workers redundant.
Another mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund has been approved, in this case for the application from IE/SR Technics from Ireland.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) has recently demonstrated on more than one occasion that it is a useful tool for combating unemployment, which is one of the frequent side-effects of globalisation.
For these and other reasons, I wholeheartedly support Mrs Matera's report.
We must give priority to aid for European citizens and we must always keep this in mind.
In the situation in which they are plunged as a result of the neoliberal policies advocated by the European Union, one could feel entitled to vote against the beggarly sum that the Eurocracy is reluctantly granting them.
This support is essential for helping the unemployed and the victims of relocations that occur in the context of globalisation.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of reduced labour costs in a number of countries, particularly China and India, with a damaging effect on countries that respect workers' rights.
The aim of the EGF is to help workers who are victims of the relocation of businesses, and it is crucial in facilitating access to new employment in the future.
The EGF has already been used in the past by other EU countries, so we should now grant this aid to Ireland, which has requested assistance for 850 workers made redundant from the company SR Technics Ireland Ltd, operating in the air transport sector, in the NUTS III Dublin region.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) receives annual funding of EUR 500 million with the aim of providing financial support to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns.
Estimates indicate that between 35 000 and 50 000 employees could benefit from this support each year.
In order for the employees of a company to receive this support, at least 500 workers must have been made redundant within a period of four months.
Therefore, the Irish company SR Technics Ireland Ltd is fully entitled to funding, because it has made 1 135 people redundant.
I am voting in favour of the report, because SR Technics Ireland meets all the requirements for receiving support.
The mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in the case of the Irish air transport company SR Technics does apply to the 1 135 jobs and could help to save them.
Therefore, I have voted in favour of this report.
I say this with regret, as this measure implies crisis and a series of problems related to the economy, the labour market, workers and their families.
European solidarity and the defence of European needs are values which must be defended and protected.
This is the message that the European Parliament and the European Union wish to give out and I hope that there will be greater sensitivity in the transmission of this message, partly to combat lazy anti-European rhetoric and instead show just how essential support and assistance at the European level really is.
In the context of Ireland's request for assistance for 850 redundancies at SR Technics Ireland Ltd, operating in the air transport sector in the NUTS III Dublin region, I voted in favour of the resolution as I agree with the Commission's proposal, along with the respective amendments introduced by Parliament.
I also agree with: asking the institutions involved in the process to make the necessary efforts to speed up the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF), while emphasising that assistance from the EGF must not replace actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor fund the restructuring of companies or sectors; the Commission's proposal of an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused European Social Fund (ESF) resources, following Parliament's frequent reminders that the EGF was created separately as a specific instrument, with its own objectives and deadlines, and that it is therefore necessary to identify appropriate budgetary headings for transfers; Parliament's position regretting the severe shortcomings of the Commission in implementing programmes on competitiveness and innovation, particularly during an economic crisis which heightens the need for such support.
I therefore support European aid for a sector that is vital to the relaunch of the Irish and European economy.
Ireland's request for the deployment of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for 850 redundancies at the company SR Technics Ireland Ltd meets all the eligibility criteria set in law.
In effect, under Regulation (EC) No 546/2009 of 18 June 2009 amending Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 on establishing the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the scope of the EGF was temporarily widened as it was expected to be able to intervene in situations like this, as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis, if there are 'at least 500 redundancies over a period of four months in an enterprise in a Member State, including workers made redundant in its suppliers or downstream producers'.
in writing. - With the adoption of this report, the EP requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the EGF and, overall, recalls the institutions' commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the EGF, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis.
It emphasises the role that the EGF can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market.
I voted for the European Parliament Resolution on the mobilisation of the EGF for granting aid to redundant workers.
In October 2009, Ireland submitted a request for assistance to use the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in connection with the redundancies which were made in the company SR Technics, operating in the air transport sector in the Dublin region of Ireland.
In Ireland, 1 135 redundancies were recorded between April and August 2009, including 850 made at the company SR Technics Ireland Ltd.
While acknowledging the important role played by the EGF in reintegrating redundant workers into the labour market, which is also corroborated by the 11 or so applications approved in 2010 alone, amounting to a total of more than EUR 30 million, I believe that this instrument is still not sufficiently well known and used by Member States.
I also urge the European Commission to analyse the redundancies made during the economic crisis in the public sector and to develop a similar instrument to the EGF, which will support workers made redundant in the public sector in various Member States.
In this case, the MEP is basically accused of offences relating to his management and accounting activities as chair of the board of the Polish Youth Card Association and Campus Sp.
The offences of which he is accused have nothing to do with his activities as an MEP, and in this case, we should therefore proceed to waive his immunity.
in writing. - (DE) The Polish citizen and Member of the European Parliament, Krzysztof Lisek, has been accused of three crimes by the district prosecutor in Koszalin in Poland.
I voted for the proposed waiver of immunity because I believe that the tabled request should be granted - provided that it is reasoned, even if just on the basis of reasonable suspicion - for the sake of the dignity of the institutions and in what should also be the interests of those involved.
during a period prior to his election to the European Parliament, and whereas the offences with which Mr Lisek is charged have nothing to do with his activities as a Member of the European Parliament, and whereas no cogent evidence has been adduced as to the existence of any fumus persecutionis, the EP has decided today to waive the immunity of Mr Lisek.
in writing. - I voted against the Gauzès report on the AIFM Directive because it disadvantages an important part of the United Kingdom's most important industry - financial services.
It has lumped all funds not already covered by the UCITS Directive, from investment trusts to hedge funds, in a single mixed bag of expensive legislation.
This will inevitably mean a loss of talent from London to countries outside the EU.
As usual, EU legislation adds expensive costs to industry which disproportionately affects SMEs and therefore favours the big players.
It is applied at a low threshold which will particularly affect PE funds by bringing small funds quickly under the directive when they have made just a small number of investments.
Given that alternative investment fund managers represent around USD 1 000 billion of assets and therefore play an important role in financing the European economy, and given that the financial crisis arose in the investments market, although these funds were not directly related to the origin of the crisis, it is considered necessary to regulate all actors involved in financial services, and especially so to regulate these high risk funds: this will protect investors and foster stability in the markets.
Such regulation plays a crucial role, because it replaces regulation at national level with regulation at European level, and provides for conditions for taking into account the specificities of the various funds covered, on the basis of their systemic risk.
The establishment of rules of conduct for all financial services is being considered at a time of crisis, as is promoting a truly single market by making a framework of common European rules possible.
The rules proposed by this directive provide greater transparency on the management of the funds themselves, as well as on how they are marketed within the European Union - by means of a simple authorisation in various Member States - and in third countries.
in writing. - I voted against the Gauzès report on the AIFM Directive because it disadvantages an important part of the United Kingdom's most important industry - financial services.
It has lumped all funds not already covered by the UCITS Directive, from investment trusts to hedge funds, in a single mixed bag of expensive legislation.
This will inevitably mean a loss of talent from London to countries outside the EU.
As usual, EU legislation adds expensive costs to industry which disproportionately affects SMEs and therefore favours the big players.
It is applied at a low threshold which will particularly affect PE funds by bringing small funds quickly under the directive when they have made just a small number of investments.
The financial crisis that has hit the European Union hard has its roots in the 'unbridled' activity of numerous investment funds, particularly those from the United States.
In order to protect the future of the European market from the excesses of these alternative funds, I voted for the report by my colleague, Mr Gauzès.
This text represents a major step forward in financial regulation.
This European authority for financial markets will be set up on 1 January 2011 and will deliver, under strict conditions, a 'passport' permitting the activity of managers of alternative funds located in the European Union.
The directive requires them to be authorised or registered, to respect operational and organisational requirements, and observe rules of conduct and transparency.
At a later date, managers of funds located outside the European Union will be subjected to the same rules as those applying to European funds.
I voted in favour of this report because I feel it is necessary to provide European savers with clear and safe financial instruments.
I am convinced that we can only attempt to avoid further market destabilisation through strict and specific regulation.
I also support the idea of a European 'passport', which is being implemented by means of the authorisation and supervision applied to all alternative fund managers established and operating within the Union.
The recent difficulties in the financial markets have shown that many of the strategies deployed by managers of alternative investment funds are vulnerable to some or even many risks affecting investors, other market players and the markets themselves.
I voted in favour of Parliament's position as I agree that it is necessary to ensure that the actions of alternative investment fund managers should be subject to rigorous scrutiny in terms of governance.
It is necessary to clarify the powers and duties of the competent authorities responsible for implementing this directive and to strengthen the mechanisms needed to ensure effective cross-border cooperation in the field of monitoring.
The overblown financial system and its speculative action and lack of transparency were what caused the financial crisis.
However, neither the Commission directive nor the European Parliament's report guarantee real supervision and control of hedge funds and private equity.
With its numerous exemptions and the terms laid down in the report for the purpose of supervision, speculation and a lack of transparency would appear to be here to stay.
That is why I voted against the report.
Although growth in the European Union is still suffering the consequences of the 2008 economic crisis, I voted in favour of Mr Gauzès' report because it helps rationalise the financial system through better control of investment funds.
A long time has passed since Poul Rasmussen's own-initiative report which, back in 2008, proposed that strict limits should be imposed on these 'financial black holes'.
The text we have adopted will be revised in four years' time.
Managers of alternative investment funds, which account for nearly USD 1 000 billion in assets, play an important role in the financing of the European economy.
Although these funds are not directly at the root of the financial crisis, their management must not escape the need to regulate all actors in the financial services.
As the document says, the new rules aim to control the activities of managers and ensure greater transparency in the management of these funds, to protect investors and promote the stability of the financial markets.
However, in truth, we have not got to the bottom of this issue: these speculative funds have not been abolished and there is still a derivatives market, meaning that the mechanisms allowing speculation still exist.
The Council and the majority of the European Parliament yielded in the face of enormous pressure from the financial lobby.
The new European regulations establish common requirements for the authorisation and supervision of hedge funds, but they are far from preventing the continuation of serious systemic risk.
We cannot, therefore, vote for this proposal.
I voted in favour of it because, even though it has its shortcomings, it would be unacceptable to allow certain investment funds to continue to act with complete impunity when we know that they have helped exacerbate and spread the crisis.
I deplore, in particular, the weakness of the provisions on leverage, the weakness of the guarantees regarding offshore funds, which will be able to obtain a passport, and the weakness of the obligations incumbent on private equity funds, which are often experts in stripping the assets of unlisted companies.
However, what more could we have expected from a text that is aimed at regulating not speculative funds but their managers, and which seeks to manage risk rather than to prevent this speculation?
I voted for the text on managers of alternative funds because it is vital to legislate on this section of the financial markets, which implement strategies which are extremely risky and harmful to employment and the real economy.
It is important for these systems to be in place to prevent the regulatory crisis of 2008 from occurring again.
I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on Alternative Investment Fund Managers, since I believe that fund managers must be registered and must respect certain basic rules of conduct.
They, in fact, manage approximately USD 1 000 billion of business and therefore play a leading role in the financing of the European economy.
This activity, as is ably described in the report, concerns entities and products that are very diverse, such as alternative and private equity investment funds, property funds and raw material funds.
These characteristics make it a priority to take action at a European level which takes the form of a streamlined and specific regulation directed at all operators providing financial services.
A regulation designed to guarantee greater stability of the financial system and better protection of investors; instruments that can be used to bring into being a true single market of European financial products.
The Gauzès report is, unfortunately, a lost opportunity when it comes to achieving the effective regulation of the speculative funds that are at the root of the crisis.
Despite the destructive role they have played, and the risk that these funds bring to bear on current financial architecture, the Council and the Parliament have given in to the intense lobbying of the financial sector to retain these extremely remunerative tools which benefit a minority.
I therefore voted against this report which allows alternative funds located outside the EU to be marketed within it without having to comply with new European rules.
This is a gaping hole which destroys all the progress made by this new legislation.
I think that at a time when all countries are struggling with financial difficulties, alternative investments, if they are properly understood and properly used, can have a beneficial effect and contribute to an improvement in the economic situation.
I should like to pay tribute to Mr Gauzès' excellent report on the directive on alternative investment fund managers.
Thanks to this report, it will be possible to introduce more transparency, supervision and codes of conduct into the regulation of financial markets.
I voted against this text and the European Parliament amendments that it contains.
The financial crisis which occurred in 2007 was led by major investment banks which had a series of alternative investment funds, or hedge funds, in their portfolio.
This directive approves a series of standards which, in being met, will make these financial mechanisms more transparent and able to be controlled, and thus act as another source of funding for the European economy, rather than the reason for its collapse.
Given the huge EUR 1 000 billion turnover of these funds, any mistake in their application could have an extremely negative effect on European financial stability.
This directive is extremely important and timely, since financial and stock market speculators and dishonest investors will always try to exploit these funds for their personal enrichment.
The directive provides for certain restrictions and offers the EU the possibility to prevent the vulgar exploitation of these funds.
The stricter regulations which are being introduced in the financial sector as a result of the banking and financial crisis must cover all types of financial instruments.
We also need regulations on short selling, because this played a role in the financial crisis.
For this reason, I have voted in favour of this report.
Alternative investment fund managers, who manage around USD 1 000 billion of assets, play an important role in financing the European economy.
The management of these funds should not be exempt from the regulations governing the entire financial services sector.
The current financial crisis shows that the malfunctioning of the global financial system is partly due to key operators in the system being overly exposed to risk and partly due to weaknesses in the systems for managing these risks.
The Commission's proposal and the report seek to achieve greater stability in the financial system and to increase the protection for investors.
For this reason, I have voted in favour of the report.
In Europe, alternative investment fund managers are responsible for managing a substantial volume of invested assets.
They represent a significant proportion of the trading on financial instrument markets and can exercise considerable influence on the markets and companies in which they invest.
I am certain that the impact of alternative investment fund managers on the markets in which they operate is significant, but the recent financial difficulties have highlighted the fact that the activities of investment fund managers can also contribute to extending and disseminating risks throughout the financial system and the economy.
The aim of this directive must also be to create incentives for transferring offshore funds to the Union, thus guaranteeing advantages in terms of the regulation and protection of investors while also setting the correct level of income for managers, funds and alternative investors.
I am voting against this report because it is content with regulating just the behaviour of alternative investment fund management companies, without touching on the nature or composition of the financial products in question.
The financial crisis has highlighted the need to subject the activities of the various players in financial markets to strict scrutiny, particularly bodies involved in the management and administration of alternative investment funds.
In actual fact, the impact of alternative investment fund managers on the markets in which they operate is largely beneficial, but the recent difficulties in the financial markets have demonstrated that their activities are vulnerable to a whole range of risks, and adequate management of these requires a coherent framework across the European Union.
Indeed, the establishment of a harmonised regulatory and monitoring framework at a Community level is proven to be suitable for the cross-border nature of the risks inherent in the activities of alternative investment fund managers, thus helping to strengthen the internal market.
The EU directive on hedge funds, private equity funds and other alternative investment funds, launched by the European Commission in April 2009, in response to the financial crisis, and in accordance with guidelines agreed at the G20 summit, has finally been approved by a very wide majority.
These new rules would make the international financial system more responsible and transparent and make it possible to limit speculation.
According to the directive, investors in speculative funds based in countries outside the EU (hedge fund managers are often resident in tax havens) will be forced to abide by the same conditions imposed on all European enterprises in order to operate within the EU market.
The reason why they did so was that, by the time of the vote in that Committee, the text was by far more ambitious that the final agreement reached with the Council.
The Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left voted against this report on speculative funds.
Despite its number of pages and the energy that its rapporteur seems to have put into it, this report is incredibly weak.
The proposals announced are even frequently at odds with what ought to be done to prevent a repeat of the subprime financial crisis of autumn 2008.
The report will therefore not enable the European Parliament to put pressure on the Commission and the Council to make them stop this budgetary restraint policy that is gradually destroying all our social policy instruments.
Regulation restricting the activities of businesses should be a solution only when the error in question cannot be corrected - for example, where human health or life is at stake.
The role of public institutions is not to deprive people of responsibility for their decisions, but to ensure they have the information they need when making decisions.
Let us not forget that natural support for research and education comes from private sources, or investment funds, which lend money to promising entrepreneurial projects and invest in the development of new technologies, all with an awareness and a weighing up of the possible risks.
I regard the submitted report as a compromise which addresses some of my concerns over regulation in this sector.
Regulation (EC) No 539/2001 establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa requirement to enter the European Union.
Consequently, I gave my support to the position of the rapporteur in allowing this transfer.
The European Parliament is therefore confirming the confidence it has in the major process of democratisation which has been undertaken in recent years.
The decision to waive the compulsory visa requirement for Taiwanese nationals also takes into account their fulfilment of the technical conditions on travel document security.
The introduction of biometric passports in 2008 is one of the constructive measures implemented so far.
Finally, I think that the decision made by the Taiwanese authorities to lift the visa requirement for citizens from Romania, Bulgaria and Cyprus is appropriate, given the need to respect the criteria of reciprocity.
in writing. - (LT) This regulation lists the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the Union's external borders, and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement.
It is very important to establish a common immigration policy, while developing trade and economic relations between the European Union and Taiwan.
Economically, Taiwan has seen significant growth in recent years, and its income per head of population is currently the highest in the world.
Therefore, lifting the visa requirement for Taiwan will enhance trade and economic relations with the EU.
Given the existing trade relations between the EU and Taiwan, I believe that this decision will have a positive impact.
Most of the countries in this region that have a similar level of development have already obtained visa exemption, and this decision reinforces the EU's decision to prioritise policies which contribute to economic growth and the creation of more and better jobs, along with policies that contribute to competitiveness.
This decision will have a favourable economic impact on relations between the EU and Taiwan, which is already our 19th most important trade partner.
I welcome Taiwan's adoption of the measures necessary to ensure a high level of passport and identity card security, with the introduction of biometric passports, as well as the measures announced to prevent the various Member States of the EU from being treated differently.
In recent decades, Taiwan has seen a manifest process of democratisation and significant economic growth, and today it is in 25th place worldwide.
The EU and Taiwan maintain economic and trade relations and cooperate in the fields of research, science, technology, education and the environment.
I voted for this new amendment to Regulation (EC) No 539/2001, which provides for the inclusion of the US Northern Mariana Islands and Taiwan on the white list of countries which have had the visa requirement waived for entering the European Union, as I believe that it provides European citizens with greater freedom of movement.
At the same time, I hope that Taiwan, in turn, will respect its commitment to remove Romania and Bulgaria from the list of states which are still subject to the visa requirement.
The ability to travel relatively easily within the Union places all the more importance on our external borders, and on the need to adopt, without compunction, a policy regarding entry into Europe that is adequate, first and foremost, to the needs of the Member States' citizens.
Confirmation of this decision will constitute tacit recognition of Taiwan, and will be a violation of international law and the United Nations Charter by the EU, because Taiwan has never been a sovereign state: in fact, this has been repeatedly recognised by the UN General Assembly, which has never accepted the country's participation in the UN.
This is another US-aligned position to have violated China's sovereignty, as also occurred recently when a Member State sold weapons to Taiwan's supposed 'authorities'.
It is unacceptable that the majority of this House still supports the violation of states' sovereignty and territorial integrity, as happened in the case of Kosovo in relation to Serbia, and as is happening in the case of Southern Sudan in relation to Sudan.
The European Parliament voted, on 11 November, in favour of transferring Taiwan to the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement to cross the external borders of the Member States, and I strongly welcome the adoption of this resolution.
Firstly, many other countries in the same geographical zone (Hong Kong, Macao, Japan, South Korea ...) have already benefited, for some time now, from this very visa exemption.
The list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas is established on the basis of a careful case-by-case assessment of the situation in the country concerned, taking into account illegal immigration, security issues, the European Union's external relations and the principle of reciprocity.
Understandably, given that these criteria are likely to change over time, the legislation on the subject provides for a procedure to review the list of countries, so that it is possible to change the number of countries which enjoy exemptions from visa requirements.
Over recent decades, Taiwan has, in fact, undergone a major process of democratisation, which has led it to strike up an important economic and trade relationship with the European Union.
I therefore believe that today's decision was an important one, which can underline the EU's consistency with recently adopted decisions that have made Taiwan the EU's fourth most important partner in Asia.
In recent decades, Taiwan has undergone many changes.
Institutional reforms, the dynamism of civil society and respect for freedoms and civil rights have contributed to political stabilisation in Taiwan.
In political terms, Taiwan has completed a process of far-reaching democratisation.
The numbers of illegal immigrants to the EU from Taiwan are very low.
The citizens of most EU Member States, with the exception of Cyprus, Romania and Bulgaria, do not require a visa to enter Taiwan.
The citizens of these three Member States are also to be included in visa-free travel arrangements in the very near future.
I am certain that lifting the visa requirement for Taiwanese citizens will contribute to a still greater improvement in commercial relations and relations in the areas of research, education, culture and environment, and to an increase in tourist travel between the EU and Taiwan.
I voted in favour of this report because the main aim of the proposal is to develop a common policy on immigration, thus helping to strengthen commercial relations between the European Union and Taiwan at the same time.
After its first democratic elections in 1996, Taiwan embarked upon a major process of democratisation with important institutional reforms for the respect of civil liberties and citizens' rights that have helped to consolidate its political stability.
From an economic point of view, it has enjoyed significant growth and maintains important economic and commercial ties with the European Union, cooperating in the sectors of research, science, technology, education, culture and the environment.
The liberalisation of visas for Taiwan will strengthen our commercial relations and promote closer cooperation in the sectors of culture, education, environment and research, and also encourage an increase in tourism in both directions.
We owe this to the citizens of Taiwan, partly in the name of regional consistency, because we have already granted exemption from visa obligations to other countries and entities in the same geographical area with a similar level of economic development.
The criteria established for third countries whose nationals are subject to visa requirements are checked by a case-by-case assessment of the situation in the country in relation to issues such as illegal immigration, public order and security, and of the EU's external relations, regional coherence and the principle of reciprocity.
The Commission is assisted by the Member States during the process of revising the lists.
Putting a third country on either the positive list or the negative list is their responsibility.
Taiwan's inclusion on the positive list is completely fair and rewards the economic and democratic progress that it has made.
Bearing in mind the fact that China plays an important role in global politics, and that Taiwan remains a 'sore point', we should not be taking premature and ill-considered steps.
It is important that we stop these scandals and ensure that the Schengen rules are followed.
The principle of reciprocity should apply to visa requirements, but the example of the USA, which openly uses visa requirements as a threat during negotiations, shows that this is not always the case.
It is also important to distinguish between the different third countries.
Liberalising visa requirements for Taiwan will strengthen the trade relationships between the country and the European Union and will facilitate closer collaboration in the sectors of culture, education, environment and research, as well as promoting the growth of tourism in both directions.
As was detailed very precisely in the Commission proposal, the principle of the visa exemption is certainly to be supported, given that the level of economic development, education and democratic governance of Taiwan is comparable to the OECD countries in the region - South Korea and Japan.
Taiwan does not represent a threat to the European Union either in terms of illegal immigration (only 45 Taiwanese illegal immigrants have been identified between 2006 and 2008) or in terms of public security.
I agree with the rapporteur because it is important to develop a common policy on immigration, helping to strengthen commercial relations with Taiwan, which is the European Union's fourth Asian partner and a country marked by political stability and institutional reforms, where civil liberties and citizens' rights are respected.
I consider the application of this type of assistance to projects in the field of energy essential, especially in a time of crisis, as it stimulates the European economy by creating new jobs.
Regulation (EC) No 663/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council established the European Energy Programme for Recovery (EEPR) with a view to contributing to the economic recovery by granting a financial envelope of EUR 3.98 billion for years 2009 and 2010.
That is why I voted in favour of this text.
I congratulate the rapporteur for her outstanding work and the encouraging result achieved.
I voted in favour of this measure because I believe that setting up an ad hoc fund to reduce energy dependency and use renewable and local energy (even if it amounts to only EUR 146 million) represents an important indication for my Parliamentary group on the method to be followed in terms of a shrewder application of the European Union budget.
I am, in fact, convinced that this financial instrument takes on even greater significance in the light of the financial crisis because it can help businesses recover more effectively and can, in the future, constitute a pilot project for the creation of a more generous energy fund.
I also believe that the measure is useful in allowing the implementation of projects that will be able to contribute to economic recovery and achieve the energy targets established for combating climate change.
Prioritising energy efficiency and the use of renewable energies represents an essential step forward.
The development of other sources of renewable energy and the promotion of energy efficiency contribute to 'green' growth to ensure a competitive and sustainable economy and in order to combat climate change.
In supporting these policies, the EU will create new jobs and opportunities in a 'green' market, thus encouraging the development of a competitive, safe and sustainable economy.
I would also like to call attention to the fact that the Eighth Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development has energy security, the fight against climate change and the environment as its priorities.
Only in this way will it be possible to maintain the competitiveness of our industry and promote economic growth and job creation.
in writing. - Conservative MEPs believe that in the current financial and economic climate, proposals for new EU expenditure must be subjected to rigorous scrutiny.
With regard to this particular instrument, we were concerned in terms of the budgetary principles of the EU budget and of budget discipline.
Conservative MEPs can therefore support the compromise proposal as an exception, and in no way setting a precedent.
The best response to a slump in demand like the one that has affected the world economy in recent years is to stimulate circulation of the existing money supply.
The public sector is certainly the best place for action to be undertaken to achieve that.
I believe that the exchanges of experience between local and regional authorities in Member States are conducive to the development of viable energy efficiency projects, which also respect the commitments for combating climate change.
However, the European Union must implement the financial mechanisms required to achieve the EU 2020 strategy objectives.
Overall, I am voting in favour of the proposals presented in this report aimed at the recovery of the European economy through greater financial support for projects in the field of energy.
Through financial incentives, these projects will not only be able to aid the recovery of the European economy, but also enhance security of energy supply and the reduction of greenhouse gases in the EU.
The possibility of boosting its efficiency through the implementation of funds at local and regional level is another positive aspect of this.
This will allow the management of 'spill-over effects', such as making local and regional economies more dynamic through small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), social integration or the attractiveness of regions.
I voted for this report because it advocates the inclusion of assistance measures for projects in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy in the European Energy Programme for Recovery.
Financing projects in the area of energy efficiency and renewable energy will stimulate economic recovery, create job opportunities and help in the battle against climate change, and may become an important way of responding to the financial crisis.
The EU's energy dependence is well known, as is the way that the Member States have been attempting to deal with it by diversifying their energy production methods and opting for renewable energy.
This effort has been dramatically slowed by the emergence of the economic and financial crisis in which we are immersed.
A programme of awarding Union assistance in the field of energy to promote economic recovery could constitute a means of reversing the recent trend and regaining the initiative, with the aim of increasing the Member States' energy self-sufficiency.
This is an amendment to the regulation establishing the European Energy Programme for Recovery, which made provision for grants of EUR 3.98 billion for 2009 and 2010.
I would remind you that that sum was not used, and the Sustainable Energy Financing Initiative proposed by the Commission is now in the process of being created to make use of the funds that still exist.
The unused money - EUR 146 million - will be channelled into this new financial instrument, which will go towards sustainable energy projects, particularly in urban areas.
Specifically, it will cover: public and private buildings incorporating renewable energy and/or energy efficiency solutions; investments in highly energy-efficient combined heat and power, including microgeneration, and district heating/cooling networks, in particular, from renewable energy sources; decentralised renewable energy sources embedded in local settings and their integration in electricity grids; microgeneration from renewable energy sources; clean urban transport to support increased energy efficiency and integration of renewable energy sources, with an emphasis on public transport, electric and hydrogen vehicles, and reduced greenhouse gas emissions; local infrastructure, including efficient lighting of outdoor public infrastructure.
These projects are most effective when implemented at municipal, regional and local level, but in duly justified cases, it may be more effective to aim at national level.
As the current financial and economic crisis and the resulting lower budgetary income are having a particularly adverse effect on the finances of local and regional authorities, it should be ensured that the difficult budgetary situation of those authorities does not hinder them from being able to access the funding.
I am happy that a short-term economic impact is required, and that the time between receipt of an application for a project and the financial decision should not exceed six months.
As we know, the EU's dependence on countries supplying oil and gas is increasing.
The report is particularly relevant for Lithuania, which is becoming increasingly dependent on energy from Russia.
I also hope that the report will not drown in red tape.
The Europe 2020 strategy is highly ambitious with regard to achieving objectives in these areas.
The use of surplus funds to support projects relating to energy efficiency and renewable energy in the European Energy Programme for Recovery (EEPR) is therefore laudable, especially against a backdrop of financial crisis.
The emergence of investment projects in these areas is vital for economic growth and a cleaner economy.
I completely support the notion that we must allocate EUR 146 million to projects in the field of energy.
First, this decision will give the green light to all those who are seeking a significant cost reduction in the manufacturing, transport and transit sectors.
There will be cost reductions, which means that income will go up and, in turn, by implementing a balanced fiscal policy, EU countries will be able to overcome the consequences of the global financial crisis more swiftly.
The allocation of EU funds to projects in the field of energy is a good stimulus for the heads of EU governments, local authorities and businesses.
Research and development are essential to healthy economic growth and are indispensable for achieving the EU's objectives with regard to climate change or increasing energy efficiency.
This is one of the reasons why research and innovation lie at the heart of the Europe 2020 strategy.
On the one hand, it is important that the regulations on subsidies are clear, in order to prevent abuse as far as possible.
I voted in favour of this report since I believe it is important, particularly at a time of crisis, to support and revitalise the economy, while, at the same time, focusing on sectors that are not yet saturated but instead require development and investment.
I also agree with the rule that the instrument should be limited to financing measures that have a rapid, measurable and substantial impact on economic recovery within the Union, increased energy security and the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
The difficulties that the major economic systems have experienced may allow Europe to recover.
In the current situation, the only strategy that retains some prospect of success is investing in innovative solutions in order to break with the current technological and scientific paradigms.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe earmarking unused funds under the European Energy Programme for Recovery (EEPR) for the creation of a specific financial instrument to support initiatives on energy efficiency and renewable energy is something worth welcoming.
In fact, the funding of this type of project, which is completely in line with the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, makes a key contribution towards the development of a sustainable economy, combating climate change and promoting employment, while also constituting a particularly suitable method given the economic and financial crisis that we are experiencing at present.
The amendment to the legislation on the European Energy Programme for Recovery will make it possible to use the available funds to finance projects including: refurbishing public and private buildings to improve energy efficiency or to switch to renewable energy; constructing renewable energy plants and integrating them into electricity grids; developing clean urban public transport solutions, such as electric and hydrogen vehicles; and developing local infrastructure, including efficient street lighting, electricity storage and the provision of smart metering and smart grids.
Funds will be targeted at supporting local and regional authorities in projects that should prove economically and financially efficient, so as to ensure a return on the investment in good time.
A total of EUR 146.34 million should be made available from January 2011 to 31 March 2014.
In the difficult economic circumstances that we are experiencing, this financial instrument, by enabling EUR 146 million in uncommitted credits to be earmarked for projects in energy saving, energy efficiency and renewable energies between now and 2014, will contribute to supporting growth and encouraging the economic recovery within the European Union, while combating climate change and promoting the protection of the environment.
I support this provision and vote in favour of the report by my fellow Member, Mrs Van Brempt.
in writing. - In 2009, the EU adopted a programme to aid economic recovery for Europe (EEPR) by granting EUR 3.98 billion for energy projects by the end of 2010.
That Community financing was allocated to three sub-programmes in the fields of gas and electricity infrastructure projects, offshore wind electricity projects (OWE), and carbon capture and storage projects (CCS).
Thanks to the Greens, we managed to get a provision which would allow to use the uncommitted funds for the creation of a dedicated financial instrument to support energy efficiency and renewable initiatives, in particular in urban settings.
Of the funds earmarked for gas, electricity and wind energy infrastructure, a good EUR 146 million was left unused.
These funds may create new jobs, which will contribute to the development of a competitive and sustainable economy.
Today's vote sees the establishment of a new and important fund to finance projects in the renewable energy and energy efficiency sector through innovative financial instruments.
The fund has two aims: promoting energy saving and improvements in the environment and, at the same time, giving fresh impetus to Europe's economic recovery.
Furthermore, the new financing instrument represents an important opportunity for the development of local entities, above all, those in the south of Italy.
In fact, the fund could also be integrated with other European funds, such as the European Regional Development Fund, for example.
The scale of the economic and financial crisis Europe is currently suffering is leading it to seek solutions capable of providing a balanced response to the requirements of the modern world, notably by making use of existing financial resources.
I welcome the initiative to channel the unused sum of EUR 114 million allocated to the energy sector, as part of the European Energy Programme for Recovery, into initiatives in support of energy efficiency and renewable energy, in the spirit of the EU 2020 strategy.
The intention is for these new investment projects to contribute to creating jobs and increasing competitiveness in the sector.
I support the report's stress on the importance of increasing decentralised investments, since the beneficiaries of the initiatives will be public authorities at the various levels of government, whether municipal, regional or national.
The role of the various parties involved will thus be strengthened and valued, demonstrating the success of the coordination carried out under the Covenant of Mayors.
During a period of serious crisis and on the eve of a crucial G20 meeting, the EU and the US, which account for half the world economy between them, must be more committed than ever to working closely together on global economic recovery and on establishing measures for regulating the global financial system.
Joint action is needed on the great challenges faced by the world - the struggle against climate change, achieving the Millennium Development Goals, the Middle East peace process, the specific situations of Afghanistan and Iraq, and even the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
Such action must be the result of increased strategic dialogue and cooperation between the EU and the US, within the framework of existing multilateral institutions, notably the United Nations, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and NATO.
The transatlantic partnership, jointly representing half of the global economy and united by the common values of democracy and human rights, stands moreover as a guarantor of world stability.
I voted for this text as it highlights the challenges that await this collaboration and the obligations that hang over it.
The revival of the dialogue between our two great powers, and the promotion of multilateral negotiations which characterises the policy of the new Obama administration, accentuate the importance of this text.
in writing. - (LT) I support this resolution.
Furthermore, in creating a new business culture, it is necessary to enhance the use of innovations, creativity and information and communication technologies and increase cooperation in the fields of education, research and science.
I voted in favour of the resolution as I agree that the Transatlantic Economic Council (TEC) is the most suitable mechanism to manage the transatlantic economic relationship, and that the partners should make the most of the TEC to overcome existing barriers to economic integration and achieve a transatlantic market by 2015, based on the principle of a social market economy, which will act as a positive response to the current economic and social crises.
I also agree with the call for cooperation within the TEC on all matters affecting the regulatory environment for industries, especially small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), following the approach of the EU 'Small Business Act' when considering legislation with a transatlantic impact.
The partnership between the United States and the European Union is based on shared history, culture, interests and values, and they also share responsibility for addressing global issues and common challenges.
With their integrated economies, together they represent around half the global economy: this transatlantic partnership is the main engine of global economic prosperity.
I also call for there to be open dialogue between the parties on how to achieve greater tolerance and respect for diversity in their respective communities, in the context of respect for all fundamental human rights.
The dominant global position that the United States and the European Union occupy imposes a responsibility that we cannot shirk.
It is, rather, a question of asserting the advances in civilisation that have characterised our countries for decades.
The desire to achieve well-being for our peoples by democratic means - through the free market, more humane working conditions, social systems that work and all the other achievements that make our countries what they are today - counts for much more than a dominant position in an international league table that can provide raw data but not convey emotions or reflect quality of life.
All that applies not only to the management of global economic relations, but also to more sensitive issues in areas such as foreign policy or environmental policy (together with their implications for industrial and energy policy).
Greater coordination today can produce a better world tomorrow, and it is not our intention to give up that ambitious goal.
The resolution voted on today in Parliament, which I supported, stresses the importance of ever greater cooperation between our countries, and of continually strengthening our relations, particularly in a context of economic crisis and terrorist threats against the West.
I also welcome the fact that the monetary issue has been included in the resolution, since it demonstrates our desire to overhaul the international monetary system at a time when currency wars are harming EU growth.
These options tend to lead to greater exploitation of the workers and people, thereby exacerbating economic and social asymmetries between EU countries.
We believe that with the anti-NATO demonstration on 20 November, and the general strike called by the CGTP-IN for 24 November, the Portuguese people will move the struggle against these policies up a gear.
I believe that relations between the European Union and the United States can improve still further, as indicated in the joint motion for a resolution, by strengthening economic cooperation and rules regarding the protection of personal data, and asking the United States authorities for greater transparency in terms of their foreign and defence policy.
It is important that EU-US relations are stepped up, particularly in terms of trade, and that they take account of both shared values and contrasting positions alike, on which a constructive dialogue needs to be developed.
Overall, I have a positive opinion of the joint motion for a resolution and therefore I shall vote in its favour, in the hope that it provides an impulse for increasing cooperation between these two important players in world politics and economics.
The European Union and the United States are two areas that have been severely affected by the economic and financial crisis; and, at a time when the effects can still be felt, we have desired to reaffirm, in the European Parliament, our will to find a common response to this crisis and the need to strengthen economic cooperation in order to emerge together definitively from this difficult period.
I believe that, to this end, the conclusion of a transatlantic market by 2015 is a good way of further developing the economic relationship between our two areas and being stronger in the face of the fits and starts of the global economy.
Furthermore, as the United States and the EU are old partners which share many values (democracy, respect for human rights), we would like a transatlantic inquiry set up to shed light on suspicions of torture in Iraq.
Finally, now that the terrorist threat is appearing to get clearer, I hope that the EU and the United States will collaborate fully in this domain, without, however, taking measures that might be too intrusive of the private lives of individuals.
in writing. - I supported the resolution on the Transatlantic Economic Council, except some amendments advanced by the ALDE.
This latter will become a crucial instrument to overcome the still existing barriers for free trade and to realise the Transatlantic free trade market within the next five years.
in writing. - The EU-US relationship is one of the most important relationships that the EU has.
I welcome the resolution calling for the settling of differences between the two trading blocs over issues such as the visa waiver and PNR.
in writing. - (FR) I endorsed the resolution in which the European Parliament presents its recommendations to the Council on the way in which transatlantic issues should be addressed at the forthcoming EU-US summit.
Given the weight the European Union and the United States carry in the global economy, and the current economic situation, it seems crucial for the two partners to step up their cooperation in order to promote growth and jobs.
That is why I endorsed, in particular, the two oral amendments tabled by my colleague, Mr Brok, which stressed the need for better coordination of monetary policies within the context of transatlantic relations.
This common cause includes increased cooperation in Afghanistan, far more intensive integration with North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) missions and submission to American demands to share bank data of European citizens via the SWIFT agreement.
It is, moreover, absolutely essential that, prior to the negotiations on such an agreement between the EU and the US, regulations be adopted on the protection of private individuals in the processing of personal data by bodies, institutions and other organisations of the EU and the Member States, as set out in Article 16 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
I voted against this betrayal of the general interest and democracy.
The EU-US relationship is based on a shared commitment to democracy, to the rule of law and human rights, to combating terrorism, and to preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction; these are our shared interests and values.
The strength of the transatlantic relationship and commitment to it are taking on even greater importance in the face of the current international financial and economic crisis.
This relationship remains a major priority for the European Union.
Besides the fact that the EU and the United States share a number of common interests and values, such as the promotion of peace, democracy, respect for human rights, and the market economy, they have the world's most important bilateral trade and investment relationship: the transatlantic economy is worth USD 4 280 billion.
The full importance of this relationship can also be seen in the context of development cooperation, given that together, the United States and the European Union provide almost 80% of development aid.
Lastly, our partnership is vital for making the world a more stable place and for discussing major multilateral issues, such as climate change, energy, the economic and financial crisis, crisis management, development cooperation, regional matters, non-proliferation and disarmament, and security.
However, we must learn good practice from each other and strengthen our partnership in order to ensure the effectiveness of actions.
We must find ways of promoting links between the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and regional or federal trading schemes in the US.
We must also seek a transatlantic partnership on strategic energy issues - on security of energy supply and policies to move towards low carbon energy sources.
EU society is not completely prepared for innovations, so countries must respect each other's choices.
The motion for a resolution includes some positive points and the EU should attempt to strengthen its position in these areas, such as combating the global economic and financial crisis and cooperating on transport and industry.
On the other hand, the motion still has some deficiencies regarding foreign and security policy, in particular, with regard to the fight against international terrorism.
Transatlantic relations have always been a crucial part of European foreign policy.
Even in a globalised world, in which some experts see the axis shifting from the west towards the powers of the east, I am still firmly convinced that the EU-US relationship is pivotal to stability, growth and prosperity, not only on both sides of the Atlantic, but throughout the world.
We have strong roots in common; we share culture, lifestyles, outlooks and markets; and, most of all, we have always been the standard bearers for values, ideals and needs, whether ideological, economic or social, which have cast us in a leading role on the world stage.
I also welcome the call for the EU and US to cooperate with China on resolving the international dispute over exchange rates without applying protectionist or retaliatory measures, also taking into account the fact that the market pressures to which EU Member States are subjected are different to those experienced by the US, especially as regards sovereign obligations and the existence of monetary union.
The relationship linking Europe and the United States is unique and historic.
in writing. - I abstained at the final vote.
Among other things, one of the main positive aspects (on which not all our group agree) of this resolution that should be emphasised is in paragraph 29, where the EP states that the international undertakings given regarding the MDGs, the achievement of many of which is lagging behind schedule, can only be honoured if the industrialised countries maintain their commitments and set aside 0.7% of their GDP for overseas development aid by 2015.
In some areas of activity, the EU may also be able to make a useful contribution.
I therefore supported the resolution on EU-US relations.
Security requirements for air transport have led the EU to sign, with different States, agreements for exchanging Passenger Name Record data (PNR data).
On the one hand, the fight against organised crime and terrorism, fostered by new communication media, and, on the other, the protection of privacy and of fundamental freedoms which these same communication media are jeopardising.
I thought it important to offer my support to this text that perpetuates transatlantic cooperation against organised crime and terrorism, while devoting a large part to the guarantees necessary for European citizens' freedoms.
in writing. - (LT) I support this resolution.
Acts of terrorism that have shocked the globe and growing organised crime in the areas of drug and human trafficking demand improved efforts to combat crime and terrorism.
For such actions to work, they must go hand in hand with more effective, focused and faster exchanges of data both within Europe and globally.
As an institution representing citizens, in this process, the European Parliament must be informed by the Commission of all issues relating to the transfer of personal data, so that it might express its position on planned agreements.
Parliament aims to enhance data protection in the transfer of Passenger Name Record (PNR) data to institutions in third countries.
It is very important for the use of personal data to be effective, for the use of information to be sufficiently flexible, and for it also to allow people's privacy to be protected.
For the purpose of combating terrorism, every citizen is a potential terrorist and, as a result, their personal data are recorded, in breach of basic human rights and institutional guarantees to ensure they are respected.
That is why I voted against the motion.
Freedom is one of the cardinal principles on which this House is based.
This value is the foundation on which the European institutions are built, the power source that enables the market to drive a varied and complex economy, and the air that our citizens breathe as they travel to study or work in cities that once were places that they needed a passport and even a visa to reach.
The checks on this procedure must be continual and constant and must prevent any leakage of data.
We cannot allow people to see this as wanting to cast freedom aside, just as we cannot allow pressure for freedom to endanger the security of the people of Europe.
In my view, the document puts forward an excellent compromise to balance these two opposing principles.
I welcome the adoption of the European Parliament resolution on the global approach to transfers of Passenger Name Record (PNR) data to third countries, and on the recommendations from the Commission to the Council to authorise the opening of negotiations between the European Union and Australia, Canada and the United States, which I voted for.
This is an approach which strikes the right balance between European Union Member States' security requirements and strict respect for citizens' rights and freedoms.
The passenger name record is an extremely sensitive database which therefore needs to be protected to prevent any kind of damage being caused to those whose names feature in it.
In the current digital era, data protection, the right of informational self-determination, personal rights and the right to privacy have become values which play a vital role and must be protected with special care.
Given this fact, I believe that the EU must respect and promote a key principle in data protection policies, and that any agreement or policy measure must also stand the legal proportionality test, demonstrating that it aims to achieve treaty objectives.
I voted broadly in favour of what this motion for a resolution proposes.
In the name of combating and preventing the global threat of terrorism and other forms of transnational crime, I welcome this initiative and the spirit of cooperation and commitment between the EU, the United States, Australia and Canada.
Nevertheless, I consider proportionality to constitute a fundamental principle of data protection policy.
The transfer of Passenger Name Record (PNR) data is an important element in the fight against terrorism and transnational crime.
However, the number of countries requesting transfers of PNR data by airlines is steadily increasing, and so close monitoring is required to ensure that European citizens' personal information is not used for purposes other than those for which it was collected and that its transfer is in line with European data protection standards.
I therefore fully support the resolution adopted today by the European Parliament, which is aimed at providing a strict framework for the transfer of passenger data to third countries.
Those countries will have to offer guarantees as to the use, storage and collection of such data, which should prevent their abuse and ensure that our citizens' rights are respected.
In order to ensure the continued security of international transport, especially in the face of the risk posed by terrorism, it is vital for countries to be able to exchange information on passengers - PNR data, collected by airlines.
However, it is just as vital to ensure that these provisions do not jeopardise citizens' fundamental freedoms or result in some people being discriminated against because of their origin or religion.
The European Parliament has one clear demand to make before the Commission starts negotiating the methods of exchanging PNR data with the United States, Canada and Australia: the protection of personal data is too sensitive a subject for these negotiations to be conducted exclusively among Member States, behind closed doors.
The data transferred must be used only within a strictly defined context and must not be transferred to a third country.
The protection of personal data is a sensitive issue in EU-US relations, as in the case of the agreement on the transfer of banking data (SWIFT agreement).
A general EU-US agreement on data protection is currently under discussion, as well as a new agreement on the exchange of Passenger Name Record (PNR) data.
Through today's vote on the joint resolution, Parliament has reiterated its demand that PNR information gathered should not, under any circumstances, be used for exploitation or profiling purposes.
Finally, Parliament once again calls on the Commission to provide factual evidence that 'collecting, storing and processing PNR data is necessary' and also invites the Commission to 'envisage less intrusive alternatives'.
If Parliament is not heeded, it will have the chance to use its right of veto.
I voted in favour of this resolution because I consider the recommendation from the Commission to the Council to authorise the opening of negotiations on agreements between the European Union and Australia, Canada and the United States on the transfer and use of Passenger Name Record data to be important.
These agreements should ensure that the determination to fight terrorism and criminality will not call into question the protection of civil liberties and fundamental rights, not least the rights to privacy, informational self-determination and data protection.
Personal data, their protection and the individual right to this same protection are subjects that have increasingly been attracting interest from political decision makers and civil society itself.
Europeans are also encountering the growing tension between the individual's right to privacy and the collective right to security.
All these issues have taken on worrying proportions since 11 September 2001 and remain current.
Terrorism and other forms of organised crime are fought today with rapid and effective information exchanges between security agencies, rather than by conventional police forces.
For all these reasons, I believe that it is essential to open negotiations with our partners, so that we can face collective dangers together, and to ensure that the data exchanged between the parties comply with the principles of appropriateness and proportionality to the intended purposes.
Those responsible for this capitulation by the European Parliament, which goes against positions taken in the past, are now seeking to nuance it by referring to alleged principles of 'proportionality' and 'necessity', which are always debatable and subjective to assess.
The argument that there are Passenger Name Record data now that are already being transferred to third countries without any sort of checks does not hold.
I voted for the resolution on the comprehensive strategy pertaining to transferring air passenger data to third countries, for it is necessary to lay down a binding legal framework to these transfers which are increasingly being used as part of the fight against terrorism.
Indeed, it has been evident for several years now that exchanging these data helps in the fight against terrorism and international crime.
Furthermore, I must stress that the new global approach to PNR data presented by the Commission in October and aimed at establishing general criteria specific to all PNR agreements is very positive in my view.
It will create a more structured and more coherent framework for these agreements, and will provide significant guarantees in terms of the protection of personal data.
Passenger Name Records (PNR) are another weapon in the fight against terrorism.
In the digital age, however, it is crucial to pay particular attention to the enforcement and protection of civil liberties and fundamental rights, including the right to privacy and data protection.
The collection of passenger data must not just be useful; it must be necessary too.
The principle of proportionality must also be invoked to prevent the planned measures from going above and beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives set.
There can be no question, therefore, of using the data for the purposes of exploitation or profiling.
Since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Parliament has made a major contribution to the efforts to conclude these agreements, and therefore it must be fully and regularly informed of any developments relating to PNR data.
If this is to change in future, it is important that the balance between freedom and security is preserved.
Just as questionable is the issue of whether the FBI needs to know the name, address, e-mail address, credit card number and number of suitcases of people travelling to the USA and whether it should be permitted to store this data for up to 15 years.
If fundamental rights are infringed in order to create a sense of security, the infringement must be as limited as possible and the rights of those affected must be reinforced.
It is true that evaluating and processing Passenger Name Record (PNR) data at an international level can help in combating terrorism and organised crime.
Therefore, the European Parliament must take a consistent approach on this issue (in a similar way as in the case of SWIFT), in order to protect the fundamental rights of EU citizens.
There are currently a number of regulations governing the transfer of PNR data to third countries with which the EU has concluded agreements.
Therefore, the EU must put in place uniformly high security standards, which will guarantee a coherent approach in future.
This is what I expect from an efficient EU foreign policy strategy for the transfer of PNR data.
The reasons that make it necessary and useful to use and exchange Passenger Name Record (PNR) data with third countries for security purposes need to be made transparent and understandable.
At the same time, the parties involved need to show that they are fully aware of the implications that such actions may have on private life and of the need for them to be carried out under a set of uniform, explicit and strict data protection rules, which must be enforced even when data are transferred to other countries.
The use and exchange of PNR data will not only improve people's security, but also facilitate their lives and their movements across borders.
The European Parliament voted in plenary today in favour of a joint motion for a resolution on the renegotiation of PNR agreements and the adoption of strict data transmission criteria, in order to achieve passenger safety predicated, as always, on respect for personal data.
I voted for the motion for a resolution on Passenger Name Record data as part of the European Union's foreign strategy because, by establishing a series of basic common principles for agreements with third countries, it safeguards European data protection standards.
Combating terrorism and other forms of transnational and organised crime is impossible without data exchange that is more effective, more guided and faster, both within Europe and at international level.
This makes it essential that the security measures adopted do not compromise the protection of civil liberties and fundamental freedoms, or the greatest possible respect for private life and data protection.
in writing. - Several groups agreed on this text that basically recalls Parliament's determination to fight terrorism and organised and transnational crime, and, at the same time, its firm belief in the need to protect civil liberties and fundamental rights, including the rights to privacy, informational self-determination and data protection.
On 21 September 2010, the European Commission presented its global approach to transfers of Passenger Name Record (PNR) data to third countries.
The European Parliament's motion for a resolution confirms once again the importance of the principle of proportionality.
The needs of security and freedom are in a delicate balance.
The European Parliament maintains its position that PNR data must not, under any circumstances, be used for data mining or profiling.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on innovation partnerships because I consider them an essential element of the actions committed to as part of this flagship initiative.
In the current climate of austerity in public budgets, of significant demographic change and of ever increasing competition at global level, Europe's competitiveness and, above all, our future standard of living, depend on our ability to integrate innovation into products, services, companies, and social processes and models.
I therefore consider it crucial that innovation has been put at the heart of the Europe 2020 strategy.
It is essential that the responses that are found to these challenges help to create a Europe that is fair from the economic, social and environmental sustainability points of view.
I welcome the 'Innovation Union' initiative, whose goal is to integrate Europe in innovation terms by cooperating in a well-coordinated way at regional, national and European level.
I applaud the European innovation partnerships, which are an innovative concept aimed at creating synergies between existing initiatives and, potentially, new European and Member State initiatives in the field of innovation.
I call on the Commission to guarantee funding for the partnerships, bringing together the resources of the European Union, the Member States, the regions, and other public and private actors for this purpose, following clear and transparent criteria.
Full advantage must be taken of Europe's innovation potential.
Many efforts and ideas which, by themselves, remain in the abstract, can now be part of a system and can be brought to fulfilment to meet specific needs.
The topics are highly pertinent today, and every effort must be made to ensure that all relevant players take part.
The European Parliament resolution on European Innovation Partnerships within the Innovation Union flagship initiative is a specific initiative aimed at devising an integrated European innovation policy.
What makes it all the more important is that we need to acknowledge that we have not achieved all our objectives included in the Lisbon Programme from 2000.
Indeed, innovation and the expansion of the R&amp;D sector must be one of the drivers of future economic growth.
I voted to adopt this resolution, while also taking into account the further themes which will be dealt with after the pilot project has been assessed.
I voted for this resolution because I believe that the principle of innovation partnerships in the public and private sectors can boost research and innovation activities and help revive demand during the crisis.
They also have an important role in achieving the Europe 2020 strategy objectives in terms of creating a more competitive economy and a fairer, greener society.
They are, therefore, an important tool at a time when the Member States are struggling with important economic issues, where I believe a commitment to innovation could be an effective strategy.
in writing. - The concept of the European Innovation Partnership is a vital part of the commitments under the flagship initiative.
The group which I am part of in the European Parliament, the S&amp;D, wholly endorses the 'Active and Healthy Ageing' pilot European Innovation Partnership and puts forward suggestions for two additional partnerships in the areas which would benefit urgently from the created value added.
Ladies and gentlemen, I was pleased to hear the results of today's vote on the motion for a resolution on innovation partnerships.
I think that work on this document has led to the development of an unequivocal and ambitious position.
The Innovation Union initiative is very important and is, at the present time, the most concrete attempt at an integrated European innovation policy.
I would like to emphasise that it is important to take account of the Europe 2020 strategy in our work, because Europe 2020 includes an increase in attention to research, innovation and education in the future.
The EU must also continue to support other areas of innovation despite the financial crisis through which we are living, as without it, we will not successfully realise the ambitious objectives already set out for the EU in the EU 2020 strategy.
The idea behind it is to enable us to meet future challenges, such as climate change, energy and food security, health and an ageing population, in an appropriate way and to raise them to a transnational level.
Therefore, I have voted in favour of this report.
I voted for this resolution because I believe that in the current climate, innovation partnerships constitute an important instrument in building a Europe that is economically, socially and environmentally sustainable.
I also welcome the choice of subject for the first partnership: active and healthy ageing.
in writing. - With the adoption of this text, Parliament states that the Innovation Union initiative is the most significant to date and a concrete attempt at an integrated European innovation policy, whose success depends upon well-coordinated cooperation at regional, national and European level, with the maximum involvement of all relevant players at each level.
The European Innovation Partnerships represent an innovative concept aiming to create synergies between existing and, where necessary, new European and Member State initiatives in the field of innovation and maximise and accelerate the delivery of results and benefits to society.
Parliament therefore welcomes the first proposed topic for European Innovation Partnership, on active and healthy ageing, and the suggested approach by the Commission to first run a pilot project testing the most suitable format for these partnerships before launching any further ones, and calls on the Commission, when running the first pilot project on active and healthy ageing, to include social innovation which leads to a better quality of life, prevents disease, improves social networks within public sectors and among social partners, and promotes the introduction of new technologies supporting the quality of life.
At the present time, when we are coming out of the crisis and are standing before the new challenges which await the EU after 2013, innovation is one of the most important ways - if not the most important way - to consolidate the EU's position in the world.
It will also contribute to preserving the diversity of these areas by using good practices and the experience of other parties.
The development of new types of production or services and the innovative use of resources will contribute to the rational and effective development of local, regional and national markets.
Cooperation at a variety of social levels is slowly becoming an essential requirement, especially in the field of research and education.
Innovation partnerships are the next step - and also a very obvious one - in a developing Europe.
The aim of the 'Innovation Union' flagship initiative envisioned by the EU 2020 strategy is to launch innovation partnerships to streamline research, development and the arrival of inventions on the market, starting with the area of healthy ageing as a pilot project.
It seems relevant to me for other areas to be covered, such as young people, researchers, and small and medium-sized enterprises.
I therefore call for more and better investment in education, research and development: these priorities must not only be protected from budget cuts, but must even have their budgets increased.
The European Parliament would also like to contribute to the successful implementation of this promising initiative and is therefore calling on the Commission not only to inform Parliament of the progress of this pilot project, but also to outline Parliament's involvement in determining the strategic orientation of future partnerships.
The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) is an integral part of the Euro-Atlantic, Eurasian security architecture with a comprehensive concept of security, including political and military, economic and environmental, and human dimensions.
However, in spite of its importance, the OSCE is the sole organisation among those dealing with security issues that lacks an international legal personality and consequently, there are many political and practical legal implications.
This organisation has an essential role to play on a number of issues, including non-proliferation, disarmament, economic cooperation, and protection and promotion of human rights.
However, the lack of a legal personality and problems with the decision-making mechanism weaken this organisation, because it is not always able to respond to crises appropriately or in a timely manner.
I agree with the proposals expressed in the resolution on the necessity to continue the dialogue on the legal framework of the OSCE, and the call on Lithuania, which will hold the OSCE Chairmanship in 2011, to ensure continuity and progress in the process of strengthening the OSCE.
There is no doubt that security is a stumbling block where the strengthening of the EU political integration process is concerned.
In particular, it is worth stressing the need for appropriate implementation of a common foreign and security policy that takes account of the specific nature of individual countries and yet achieves a degree of effectiveness in proportion to the role that the European Union will come to play on the international stage.
So far, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe has shown that the way in which it performs its duties is absolutely compatible with these principles, and therefore greater involvement by the EU's institutions in this organisation would be desirable.
I also believe that taking greater responsibility may help the Member States reach common positions, thus consolidating relations among the 27 countries on these topics as well.
I voted to strengthen the OSCE, which must be based on harmony between the three main pillars that the organisation is founded on: political and military, economic and environmental, and human.
The effectiveness of the actions taken against security threats and challenges depends on the proper coordination and operation of these three strands.
The OSCE must be a key factor in the response mainly to new threats, such as organised crime, terrorism, cyber attacks, human and drug trafficking, as well in the activities aimed at warning about, preventing and resolving conflicts.
One other reason why I voted for strengthening the OSCE is the human rights aspect, involving respect for minorities' rights and fundamental freedoms, which are key elements in the OSCE's integrated security concept.
I voted in favour of this resolution because I advocate intensifying the efforts of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to mitigate human contributions to global warming.
More effective cooperation between the Member States and the OSCE on combating the threats and problems caused by economic and environmental factors could make a crucial contribution to security, stability, democracy and prosperity in the region, since there are economic and environmental factors underlying the conflicts themselves.
We live in a world in which security has become a fundamental concept, whether it is security in its traditional sense relating to defence, or economic, environmental, energy supply or transport security.
That is why the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) is taking on a crucial role at a more global scale as an integral part of the Euro-Atlantic and Euro-Asian security architecture, which stretches from Vancouver to Vladivostok.
I agree with the final recommendation in the sense that Parliament should reflect on its participation in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and study the possibility of establishing a standing delegation.
At this time, I would stress that the EU cannot fail to speak up in the OSCE on sensitive issues such as the defence of human rights and observance of international law.
The European Union and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) share the same principles and values in areas such as the promotion of human rights, conflict prevention, the development of democratisation, the protection of minorities, and also more recent challenges such as climate change.
It is essential to develop synergies between the EU and the OSCE to achieve these common aims.
I therefore think that it is important for the EU to make an effort to strengthen its role in the OSCE, given its global nature and the diversity of its members.
For some years, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which was founded during the cold war as an institution for monitoring and confidence building purposes, has been undergoing an identity crisis.
In theory, the three main players in the OSCE are the USA, Russia and the EU.
Ultimately, a sensitive approach will be needed not only in relation to Russia, but in relation to all the Eurasian states which are represented in the OSCE but who are not members of the EU.
As the report takes this into account, I have voted in favour of it.
There is a need to maintain a balance between the three dimensions of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE).
It is both sensible and beneficial to reinforce the interaction and promote the synergy between the EU and the OSCE.
For this reason, I have voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
The role of the latter is important and essential in a whole series of sectors, particularly for the part it plays in security and the defence of democracy.
Even if these two organisations have different needs, objectives and structures, it is important that there are no contrasting positions or overlaps liable to cause conflicts of competence.
I voted in favour of this resolution, since I support both its content and its spirit.
Clearly, given its Member States, the European Union is both the fulcrum and the base of the OSCE, so I hope that it has a leading role within it.
I voted for this resolution because I understand that the OSCE should be used to its full potential.
Profound reflection is therefore needed on how the European Union can take on more responsibility and participate more actively in achieving common goals.
in writing. - By adopting this resolution, Parliament emphasises the need to maintain a balance between the three dimensions of the OSCE, developing them coherently and comprehensively and building on what has already been achieved.
It stresses that security threats and challenges should be tackled through all three dimensions if action is to be truly effective, including contemporary ones such as organised crime, terrorism, cyber threats, human and drug trafficking, energy security, as well as activities relating to early warning mechanisms, and conflict prevention and resolution.
It emphasises that the strengthening of the OSCE should not come at the price of weakening the existing institutions and mechanisms or affecting their independence, when they have not yet been reformed or alternatives have not yet been agreed, particularly as regards the work of the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR).
Finally, it calls on the OSCE to further strengthen its capacity to ensure respect for and the implementation of principles and commitments undertaken by its participating states in all three dimensions, inter alia, by enhancing follow-up mechanisms.
Ladies and gentlemen, as many of you know already, Lithuania will take over the Chairmanship of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in January 2011.
This chairmanship could be a unique opportunity for my country to take initiatives to strengthen regional cooperation, increase energy security and combat corruption.
As well as its political and military dimension, the OSCE also plays a crucial role in promoting respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The EU must also play an important role in this field.
The coordination of EU and OSCE activities in the field of human rights is a common interest we all share.
This event symbolised a moral and political commitment to the principles of democracy and human rights.
I have voted in favour of this report because the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) has lost a great deal of its influence over the last ten years.
In the motion for a resolution, the European Parliament praises the activities of the OSCE in the past and calls on the Member States, the Commission and the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy to come up with proposals as to how the Union can effectively become involved in the OSCE and can contribute constructively to achieving the shared objectives.
Anyone who wants to avoid military intervention in crises must take preventative political measures in good time.
The OSCE represents a forum for seeking such solutions.
I am therefore in favour of strengthening the OSCE, particularly in relation to the spreading of democracy and compliance with human rights.
The OSCE monitoring and field missions are an important part of the expansion of the free world.
If we are talking about strengthening the OSCE, we should, at the same time, think about the extent to which the OSCE can replace the activities of EU representatives in various conflict regions.
The aim of this discussion should be to achieve higher efficiency in the spending of public funds, which, in a time of cost cutting, is undoubtedly a priority for our voters.
I voted for the report on the demographic challenge and solidarity between generations because, under the current circumstances of the unprecedented demographic problems posed by increased life expectancy and falling birth rates, they constitute one of the most urgent social policy challenges of coming years.
That will be possible, firstly, through ensuring that young people are guaranteed jobs and, secondly, through making good use of the contribution that older people can still make to society, notably in terms of voluntary work and of their continuing to work beyond the established retirement age.
While emphasising that a society which respects human dignity is based on the principle of justice between the generations, I believe that this report is important in terms of combating prejudices and discrimination in every form and against every group in society as well.
I maintain that the migration of citizens, their successful integration, including into economic life, and their social inclusion, can provide a means of tackling demographic change.
The report also proposes adopting new provisions against age discrimination with regard to accessing goods and services.
Thus, the number of young people aged 0 to 14 would drop from 100 million to 66 million in 2050.
Faced with this situation, the EU must provide a suitable solution in order to protect employment among older people, but also among young people.
I voted for this initiative report by the European Parliament which calls on Member States to think about the possibility of scrapping legal retirement ages but which also provides the broad outlines of a policy enabling us to fight against discrimination, to set lifelong learning as a goal, to promote a reflection on new ways of organising work within businesses - particularly with a view to reducing stress.
Furthermore, this resolution contains many initiatives highlighting, for instance, the fight against youth unemployment or in favour of a decent pension and proposing a European Pact for the over-50s.
I welcome the recognition given in the report to the good and the benefit to EU society achieved by all those engaged in voluntary work, working to develop the local community and to provide a care service in the community or the family.
Moreover, I support the initiative of the European Parliament with regard to seeking a review of healthy ageing in the EU and to presenting an Action Plan for the Year 2011, which would aim to help increase the dignity, health and quality of life of older people.
in writing. - (LT) I support this report.
There were some very good points in Mr Mann's own-initiative report on the demographic challenge and solidarity between generations, in particular, concerning the importance of the intergenerational contract in our modern-day societies, youth unemployment and the need to address the challenges faced by the elderly in parallel with those faced by young people.
in writing. - (LT) I voted for this report, because we must strive not for conflict and competition between generations, but equal opportunities and solidarity.
However, I did not support the European Parliament rapporteur's opinion that early retirement should be eliminated.
The Member States themselves must reach a decision on the implementation of early retirement provisions, taking into account their country's situation and practice.
Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that both demographic changes and age discrimination are undermining intergenerational solidarity and economic growth.
Such discrimination severely constrains access to the labour market for both older and younger workers.
In recent years, EU Member States, faced with a dramatic decline in the birth rate, have had to cope with an increasingly ageing population.
This situation makes the Lisbon objective of having half the population aged between 55 and 64 in employment absolutely essential, even if it has been missed this year.
I voted in favour because I believe that establishing a fair balance between generations is the only way for the younger generation to be given real assurances and to increase their participation in the labour market.
I also believe the time has come for the European Union and the Member States to examine the new questions posed by the generational challenge.
People in this age group bring added value to the world of work, and therefore preparatory measures should be taken to involve them more.
I therefore agree with the proposal to review the social security system so as to allow the over-sixties to keep their jobs after they have reached retirement age.
In my opinion, the rapporteur quite correctly proposes two measures relating to the effects of the unevenness of demographic development on the financing of social expenditure and the financial situation of pension systems in all Member States.
I agree with the rapporteur's view that older people are not a burden for the economy and society but, on the contrary, a great benefit because of their experience of life and their knowledge.
I voted against the report.
It addresses the demographic problem and solidarity between the generations in a very conservative manner.
The problem of youth unemployment is growing.
Although the main instruments for promoting justice between generations fall under the jurisdiction of the Member States, the EU plays a crucial role in terms of surveillance, monitoring the correct and effective implementation of Union anti-discrimination legislation, and in terms of promoting the exchange of best practices and action plans.
It is essential for the EU and the Member States to promote new initiatives for active, healthy and dignified ageing.
It is also necessary to establish long-term prospects for young people, and to take measures to encourage mobility during their studies, ensure high quality vocational training and create new jobs, thus securing their full participation in society.
I also intend to do everything possible to find a solution to the uncertainties surrounding the size of the old-age pension that my generation will encounter in my country.
Given these factors, I believe that the EU must devise an effective policy so that workers can remain in the labour market and not be subjected to age discrimination.
Equality and solidarity between generations within the European Union are becoming one of the most important challenges for European social policy in the coming decades.
Overall, therefore, I am voting in favour of the measures proposed in this report.
I also believe that the ageing of the population provides an important opportunity to improve competitiveness and encourage potential innovation, thereby promoting growth and creating jobs.
Finally, I should like to express my concern about the high rate of youth unemployment in the EU, and the need to create more jobs and establish long-term prospects that enable them to ensure their full participation in society.
It seems to me that the report on the demographic challenge and solidarity between generations that we have voted on works along these lines.
in writing. - I support this report, which makes a number of important proposals to tackle the demographic challenges we face in a spirit of solidarity between generations.
Both the young and the elderly experience different forms of age discrimination, particularly as regards access to the labour market and certain social services.
While Member States control key instruments such as national budgets, pension and healthcare services, the EU can further the reach of anti-discrimination legislation, particularly to protect older women in the labour market.
Their work is, in itself, an example of intergenerational support and needs socio-economic recognition, although not as a substitute to the development of quality care services.
This trend can only be countered by economic policies focused on growth, respect for workers' rights and the provision of quality public services.
With regard to paragraph 24, giving older employees the option of continuing to work after the compulsory retirement age if they wish to must not lead to pressure being exerted on these employees which will result in the practice of employing people after retirement age becoming widespread.
However, a society of solidarity cannot look at ageing in this way.
On the other hand, however, it puts forward basic measures that, in practice, put the rights of older people and of workers in general at risk.
Some examples of this are: encouraging private pension systems, thus prioritising the financial sector and forgetting the serious consequences that these practices have already had, notably in the United States, where they left millions of pensioners destitute, forcing the state to intervene; encouraging state intervention to increase part-time work and flexible work, brushing aside the consequences of these practices, such as the devaluing of labour, low wages, precarious work, and increased numbers of workers with incomes below the poverty line; encouraging an increase in the age at which the pension can be claimed.
We voted against the report for all these reasons, although we acknowledge that it has certain positive aspects, which are, however, threatened by the neoliberal policies that the report advocates.
As Europe goes through this period of financial, economic and social crisis, it is faced with a serious problem: unemployment.
This predicament affects young people particularly badly and is creating a worrying situation that will have dire consequences for Europe's future competitiveness.
I voted in favour of this resolution because, while recognising the principle of subsidiarity and the competence of the Member States in this area, I think the European Union should make its own contribution by encouraging dialogue among the various actors on solidarity between generations.
Only by doing so can we ensure a less uncertain future for the younger generations.
There are particularly interesting things in this text, like the fact that youth employment should not be set against retaining over-50s in the labour market, as well as the emphasis placed on lifelong learning and the fight against age and gender discrimination in the labour market.
The current unevenness of demographic development has significant effects on the financing of social expenditure and the financial situation of pension systems in all Member States.
In his non-legislative report, Thomas Mann proposes two measures; on the one hand, to increase employment among young people and, on the other, to put back the retirement age.
I agree with the rapporteur's view that older people are not a burden for the economy and society but, on the contrary, a great benefit because of their experience, their life's work and their knowledge.
In this regard, I agree with the rapporteur, who is proposing concrete measures for establishing a basis for open dialogue, and calling on the Commission and the Council to introduce an intergenerational balance in all Member States and at EU level.
The principle of justice between the generations will be one of the main political challenges of the next few years.
As demographic change is influencing relationships in our society, it is particularly important that one generation is not living at the expense of another.
This not only applies to financial and budgetary policy, but also includes protecting the environment, the available resources and the climate.
As a result, we must examine all our political decisions in this light.
It is important that we devote our attention to this subject in order to maintain the sense of solidarity within our society in future.
I have voted in favour of the report on the demographic challenge, but against the paragraph which calls on the Member States 'to give consideration to regulated labour migration (immigration from third countries into the EU)'.
in writing. - Ireland's society is ageing at an unprecedented rate.
This report was careful to emphasise the solidarity between the generations and is clever to ensure that nobody thinks that there is one single solution to the ageing society and the problems that are entailed with it.
Young people are unquestionably a key resource in whom we must invest in order to revitalise the European Union economy as a whole.
In fact, the strengthening of growth and employment, to be achieved through equal access to education opportunities and the labour market, is, in my view, a step that needs to be taken in order to attain certain important growth targets, such as improving competitiveness and innovation potential.
I voted against the Mann report because it is imbued with liberal thinking which uses an ageing European population as an excuse to advocate reforms to the public systems of social protection in Europe, particularly by undermining the healthcare and pay-as-you-go pension systems, by encouraging their privatisation and a later retirement age, which I reject.
This House is becoming known for implementing specific policies designed to improve equal dignity and quality of life for everyone, in all of our countries, while also recognising the known differences between regions.
I therefore appreciate and draw attention to the space devoted to balancing family life with work and private life, in particular, the space and the role attributed to women, including older women, in applying the principle of justice between generations.
We are called upon at all levels - it is important that civil society as well as secular and religious associations are involved - to respond with suitable policies to create a solid Europe without discrimination on account of age or gender, a Europe that will not grow old without seeing strong, new generations emerge.
Raising the retirement age as far as possible beyond 64 years old, as promised in the EU 2020 strategy, promoting casual work, replacing pay-as-you-go pension schemes with capital-funded pension schemes are some of the measures to which the European Parliament will be committed if it votes for this report.
The demographic challenge and solidarity between generations are the key points for a better future.
We must, therefore, staunchly resist all factors reducing demographic growth, particularly: inadequate welfare payments, the slow and difficult nature of integration into the labour market proper, long periods spent in insecure or temporary employment, and a lack of support for young couples are among the reasons for young people postponing forming a family and having children.
Moreover, ever higher life expectancies mean the number of older people is increasing, along with the resulting consequences.
If we add to this the low birth rate in many of the 27 Member States, intergenerational solidarity is akin to Proust's Madeleine with European societies remembering things past.
To paraphrase Mr Mann's excellent report: Europe must rise to the demographic challenge, and Jean Bodin's famous formula: 'the only wealth is man' now makes perfect sense.
To maintain a fair society, one that works in solidarity, in other words, one in which we refuse to burden future generations with our public debts and in which balance between the number of pensioners and the active population is favoured, there is only one solution.
It will inevitably require action using a number of approaches: job and retirement flexibility, a humanist and realistic immigration policy, and clear complementarities between the pay-as-you-go and capital-funded financing systems, the reason why the MR delegation voted against paragraph 99 on this last matter.
The question of discrimination against vulnerable ethnic groups is very important and requires a separate assessment.
For example, in Latvia, there are over 200 000 Latgallians, who cannot even receive primary education in the Latgallian language.
Older employees should be given better opportunities for participating in the labour market.
The development that has taken place in the European Union and its various Member States over recent decades has brought changes and consequences which are socially evident and which require support from the European institutions.
In this context, the work of the European institutions should contain and provide support for this inequality, which causes a lack of social cohesion.
Development and social cohesion must not be enemies of progress but an integral part of it for more robust integration and coexistence in society.
In this context, the demographic challenge due to the ageing of the population means that we must accelerate the process and reconsider some social structures and programmes in order to adapt them to this new landscape.
Nonetheless, in the 2011 budget, the increase in funds for lifelong learning programmes was pitiful, despite the claims in the EU 2020 strategy and despite the Member States' promise to invest in education for all citizens, regardless of age.
The report acknowledges that we need to create instruments to support the ongoing education of citizens and strengthen those which already exist, such as the Grundtvig programme and the Leonardo da Vinci programme.
The motion is a move in that direction, which is why I voted for it.
In a European Union in which ever more people are living ever longer, in which the birth rate is generally low, and in which the demographic pyramid is already inverted, it is important that we reflect on the 'demographic challenge and solidarity between generations'.
I therefore welcome this timely report.
On the other, birth rates in the Member States have remained at low levels for decades, and the older generations account for an ever increasing proportion of the population.
Active ageing means a process of maximising the potential for people to stay healthy, participate in the life of their communities and improve their quality of life as they grow older.
I am firmly convinced that 2012 should be declared the European Year for Active Ageing and Solidarity between Generations, with a view to highlighting the contribution that young and older people make to society.
I voted in favour of adopting strong measures from Member States to counter the grey or black economy maintained by an 'undeclared' workforce, the victims of which are women in most cases, which is more than adversely affecting the EU labour market, rather than just promoting measures aiming to protect their own workers.
I also voted for Member States and the Commission to cooperate as well on the supervision of care services, as part of which Member States could consider setting up a network of national care contact points which could be used both at national and European level to obtain information about the care services provided and their quality, as well as to lodge complaints about the quality of these services.
Equality between generations will be one of the main challenges for European social policy in coming years.
I have voted in favour of the report on the demographic challenge and solidarity between the generations, because the recommendation to change the way in which pensions are financed in the original report was not adopted by the European Parliament.
I am very much opposed to the requirement to encourage private pension provision and to ensure that, on average, public sector pensions are no more generous, both in terms of contributions and benefits, than comparable private sector pensions.
In addition, private sector pension funds should not play a more important role in diminishing the future burden of providing state pensions.
The pay-as-you-go system must not, under any circumstances, be replaced by capital-funded systems.
in writing. - We Greens have supported the text because paragraph 99 (on private/capital-funded systems) was deleted, and because the rest of the text has taken some positive Green points on board.
For instance, measures concerning the retirement age should be based on the needs of the persons concerned; periods spent working, learning, caring or volunteering are complementary and provide valuable experience at all ages; there is a need to combat age discrimination and to set country specific targets for access to training and lifelong learning for older workers, broken down by age group and gender.
The part of this report that proposes a reduction in the tax and administrative burden for companies is positive: this is an important goal for reducing competition from third countries where tax, production and labour costs are appreciably lower than in Europe.
It is a pity that amendments that we find unacceptable have been used to insert parts that are not at all pertinent to the report and whose aim is to encourage the integration of people from outside the European Union.
That decision, which was supported by a majority in this Chamber, forces us, regretfully, to vote against the report.
I take this opportunity to emphasise that a humane society is necessarily based on the principle of justice between the generations, and that age discrimination jeopardises solidarity between the generations, leads to poverty and is forbidden by the founding treaties.
Work is more than just paid employment and both young and older people contribute substantially, including through their work in the family, to making our society more humane and improving the stability of services and workplaces.
In this report, we call on governments to facilitate and recognise voluntary work that provides care in the community and family care, and to resolve issues of legal responsibility in that regard without delay.
It is a fact that the whole of Europe is facing demographic changes, which include the ageing of society, low birth rates, population migrations from poorer countries to wealthier ones, longer life expectancies, delays in entering the labour market, the growing number of one-person households and households without children, etc.
Therefore, it is essential to reform the Stability and Growth Pact, so that Member States can meet their obligations to make their pension systems more stable.
Mr Mann's report on the demographic challenge and solidarity between generations sheds light on the challenges raised by demographic change, in particular, unemployment and job insecurity, education and discrimination affecting vulnerable groups.
It highlights the need for intergenerational solidarity and puts forward some pertinent suggestions, namely, an initiative regarding a European 50-plus pact which includes combating age discrimination, the objective of full employment up to the legal retirement age and helping to reintegrate older disabled people.
I refuse to see our older people working up to their death as we saw in the 19th century.
The Member States are facing a series of demographic and social challenges that make it necessary to establish solidarity between generations.
Given the current situation, the European Parliament believes in the need to initiate a dialogue aimed at intergenerational relationships.
The report cuts across many sectors, going from education to employment with regard to both old and young people, to health policy and welfare payments, to family and birth rate policy, and even to the development of welfare systems, culminating in migration policies to solve the problems of an ageing society.
I hope that the initiatives included in this report can be implemented and that justice and dialogue between generations can be the reality in the European Union.
For these reasons, the EU labour market will experience mostly negative structural changes.
In Lithuania, these demographic problems are further compounded by the mass exodus of Lithuania's young people to work abroad.
Lithuania needs these young people's talents, experience and diligence to overcome the demographic challenges mentioned.
We must also stop the social exclusion of elderly people.
We must persuade our economy and society that the elderly are not a burden.
Among other things, the report encourages Member States to promote working beyond the legal retirement age and wants Member States to provide incentives to the over-60s to remain in work longer through the adaptation of work places to their health status.
Above all, elderly people must be entitled to a decent pension, enabling them to live life with dignity.
Nevertheless, I welcome the fact that the European Parliament has rejected one passage explicitly calling for the replacement of the pay-as-you-go system with capital-funded systems.
Point duly made. (The explanation of vote was cut short pursuant to Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure) As always, Mr Mann has done a very good job on a sensitive subject.
As a result, I was able to vote in favour of the report.
As a Member of the European Parliament from Saxony, a region which is hard hit by demographic change, and as a Member of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and rapporteur of the own-initiative report on future innovation policy in the EU, I would like to say that at EU level and, above all, in the Member States, we must, of course, continue to combat demographic change and make the regions more attractive for young people, in particular, by increasing economic growth, creating jobs and developing a tailor-made education policy.
However, I would also like to emphasise the special importance of older workers in SMEs with regard to innovation.
For this reason, we must combat age discrimination in the workplace.
Let us not become confused over terminology - the report we have adopted is more about finding new labour resources than about solidarity.
However, by deliberately giving a new meaning to words like 'solidarity' or 'work-life balance', we are destroying genuine solidarity and taking children away from their parents.
Despite this, I voted in favour of the submitted report.
Research makes a fundamental contribution to economic growth, job creation and the creation of clean, sustainable energy.
I am in favour of increasing research funding in the European Union as it is vital to set up a European Research Area which will guarantee the highest standards of excellence, effectiveness and efficiency in research in order to attract and retain the best scientists in Europe and promote an innovative European economy based on knowledge and expertise.
Europe must invest in research to develop new products and services which will enhance the quality of citizens' lives.
I voted for this framework programme because I believe that it encourages the research community, academia, civil society organisations, companies and the industrial sector to participate in research projects.
I therefore supported the European Parliament's initiative aimed at simplifying the implementation of the European Union's framework programmes for research.
My fellow Members and I have thus estimated that the European Commission communication on simplifying the implementation of research framework programmes proposes serious and creative measures aimed at removing the obstacles encountered by participants in the framework programmes.
The resolution reflects the fact that the current system is excessively control-oriented, which results in wasted resources and in low participation.
I support strongly what this report says on taking action for simplifying the implementation of the EU framework programmes for research.
Since the research community itself is asking that the rules be adjusted, the procedures and requirements simplified, and more trust placed in EU research funding, it is quite clear now that there is a need to streamline the funding and administration of research to ensure that research and innovation are effective and widespread across Europe.
in writing. - (LT) I voted for this report.
Science, education and innovation are pillars of economic growth and job creation.
Europe must invest in innovation if it is to develop new products and services.
These will create new sources of employment and growth, something that will both render Europe more competitive and improve its quality of life.
This is a particular problem for smaller organisations, such as SMEs, high tech start ups and smaller institutes, universities and research centres.
I agree that in debating the Eighth Framework Programme for research, most attention should be paid to the simplification of administrative procedures to ensure uniform interpretation and application of rules and procedures used in all programmes and instruments.
The European Union is very well aware that research and innovation are the key to the future where they will not only create new products, but also new jobs and resources and, by extension, economic growth.
In these circumstances, the increase in red tape associated with accessing the funding for those involved in research and innovation programmes will only help dampen and reduce the enthusiasm of those participants who are already showing signs that they have started to lose confidence in this process.
The current system should be replaced by a system which inspires more confidence in applicants.
A balance needs to be struck between confidence and control and between taking risks and the dangers risks involve in order to ensure that research funds are managed properly.
I am firmly convinced that science, innovation and research are the main drivers of economic growth and job creation in Europe.
It is no accident that research and innovation lie at the heart of the Europe 2020 initiative.
It is therefore time for Europe to invest more in these areas: to compete on the world stage, the European Union must develop innovative products and modern services.
As a result, the number of applications for funding is increasing on a daily basis, meaning that a general simplification of the financial accountability requirements is needed, together with harmonisation of the currently highly diverse rules and procedures.
I voted in favour because I agree that we need to respond swiftly to the research community, which has been clamouring for these changes.
I endorse the approach taken by the rapporteur of basing the funding system not on results, which may lower the scientific ambition of researchers, but on scientific criteria and, hence, on excellence.
This report proposes the simplification of monitoring financial aspects and the strengthening of technical and scientific evaluation by a peer review based on excellence.
However, the report marks only the beginning of a process that is not simple.
It is imperative to simplify access to funds for research, developing a culture of evaluation based on a partnership of trust between all those involved so as to strengthen research and innovation in Europe, making it an attractive place to live, work and be happy.
Research and development are crucially important to achieving the goals to which the European Union has committed itself under the Europe 2020 strategy.
European programmes in the field of research and innovation have been increasing significantly in recent years, both in terms of applications made to them and in terms of their budgetary allocation.
However, it is difficult for small and medium-sized organisations to handle the complexity and bureaucracy inherent to these programmes.
I voted for this important report, which aims to simplify the rules relating to the financing and implementation of the Seventh Framework Programme (FP7).
There is a wide consensus in favour of this report as such, as simplification is essential to improving the competitiveness and impact of research in Europe.
In a Union whose strategy is focused on developing a knowledge economy, it is essential for Europe's main instrument for financing R&amp;D to respond directly to the needs and concerns of the scientific community: • for making the programme more accessible; • for a more attractive European Research Area; • for a greater focus on excellence; • for a stronger basis of support for technological innovation and for transferring technology to European companies.
I voted in favour of simplifying the implementation of the research framework programmes, given that it is a fundamental aspect of facilitating scientific and educational development.
The current system should be replaced by a system which inspires more confidence in applicants.
The rise in the number of applications for funding has been met with the increase in control mechanisms, in an attempt to ensure that EU funds are used properly.
A balance needs to be struck between confidence and control and between taking risks and the dangers risks involve in order to ensure that EU research funds are managed properly from a financial perspective.
I voted for this report because I believe that there were certain shortcomings with the implementation of the Seventh Framework Programme (FP7) for research which prevented it from being put into practice in the ideal conditions.
I think that this proposal from Parliament will provide the solutions needed to simplify the procedures for allocating grants and to get small entrepreneurs and those recently entered in the system more involved, as well as increase synergy between the FP7 and other European funds, including the Structural Funds.
First of all, I should like to congratulate Mrs Carvalho on the work she did on this report and on the vote obtained, both in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and in this Chamber.
Naturally, this success was the result of her work and commitment to the issues of innovation, research and science.
I know that research and innovation make essential contributions to economic growth and job creation, which are essential to the EU's economic recovery in the current situation, and also contribute to the Europe 2020 strategy.
That is why, as the rapporteur says, it is important to move towards administrative and financial simplification.
This report points out a route to be followed: I hope that is what is done.
Combating the brain drain must remain a priority for the European Union.
To do so, we must reshape and simplify the administration and funding of research framework programmes.
Financial resources must be allocated more directly, benefiting our businesses, universities and research laboratories.
As highlighted by the report, the overall trend must be towards shortening the average time-to-grant and time-to-pay in order to encourage further participation in these research programmes.
My vote in favour of this report is based on three factors.
The second factor relates to the importance I personally attach to SMEs as key components in economic development and the development of the European Union's global competitiveness.
Last but not least, I welcomed the contributions regarding the future Eighth Framework Programme, which must be more transparent, flexible and easily accessible.
It is essential to simplify access to the framework research programmes in order for there to be motivation for potential interested parties to access them and for important funds not to be squandered.
We cannot forget that research makes a vital contribution to economic growth, to job creation, and to sustainable and environmentally friendly energy.
However, the 2020 strategy aims to improve the framework conditions and access to funding for research and innovation to ensure that innovative ideas can be turned into goods and services creating growth and jobs.
We had to take these measures to remain attractive in order to attract and keep the best scientists in Europe and remain competitive in a global economy.
I welcome the draft report which intends to promote a balance between trust and control, between risk taking and risk prevention, while ensuring sound financial management.
It is important that all who provide funding should be able to dispose of the results of research projects carried out with common EU funds free of charge.
We must devote our attention to green technologies.
The report aims to simplify procedures and reduce costs.
We live in a global economy, where competition is no longer represented by local, national or European businesses.
We need to create new, high level positions, promote sustainable mobility, improve education and technical skills and coordinate them with the needs of the labour market.
I enthusiastically welcome the adoption of this report, since, as it deals with promoting research and innovation, which are engines of the European Union's current and future growth, it gives voice to the common sentiments of the people most affected by it: the need to simplify and monitor the financial and administrative aspects of projects, whilst simultaneously strengthening the scientific and technological evaluation process.
This European Parliament report must be given due consideration during the required simplification of the Seventh and Eighth Framework Programmes for Research, Technological Development and Demonstration, and of all programmes promoted by the European Commission in the field of science and research.
I welcome the simplification measures already introduced by the Commission in the implementation of the Seventh Framework Programme, and I support the Commission in its efforts to achieve greater simplification and clarification of the rules, so as to avoid giving rise to discrepant interpretations and to reduce the risk of error, thus cutting audit costs.
Science, education and innovation are pillars of economic growth and job creation.
Europe must invest in innovation if it is to develop new products and services.
Research and innovation are at the heart of the Europe 2020 strategy.
However, it is particularly difficult for smaller organisations - SMEs, high-tech start-ups and smaller institutes, universities and research centres - to cope with the procedural complexity involved in accessing the funds earmarked for this sector.
The scientific community is urgently calling for harmonisation of the rules and procedures and for a general simplification of the financial accountability requirements.
I believe that far more research activities are needed to measure the impact of environment and climate policies on employment and I ask the Commission to make this area a priority as part of the Eighth Framework Programme.
I should like to start by stressing the excellent work done on this report by my colleague, Mrs Carvalho, giving me an opportunity to publicly congratulate her.
Given the crucial role played by research in economic development and job creation, it is important to avoid at all costs excessive bureaucracy and unjustified delays which prevent the scientific community from participating.
I therefore welcome the simplification proposals put forward in order to promote the attractiveness and accessibility of EU research funding.
Since 1984, the successive framework programmes for research and technological development have evolved considerably, while growing in terms of both budget and the number of areas covered, which is certainly a positive thing.
This is why I have voted in favour of a report that consolidates a series of principles and lines of action such as closely linking this matter with the future of the financial perspectives after 2013, the tri-annual review of the Financial Regulation and the application of tolerable risk of error in the area of research, all of which will be fundamental for preparing the Eighth Framework Programme.
in writing. - We in the Greens/EFA Group supported the report mainly because it includes some of our key issues such as civil society organisations.
See the Buzek report on the Seventh Framework Programme, Amendment 278 (Annex I, Chapter IV - Capacities - Research for the benefit of SMEs - Activities - paragraph 1, indent 2a (new)): support civil society organisations or networks of civil society organisations in commissioning research from research performers; open standards; decrease loss of time for researchers in bureaucratic processes; simplification is essential for all small actors, including SMEs, but civil society organisations should not be forgotten; open science and repositories (reference to the Berlin Declaration); seek complementarities between the FP and the CIP; international cooperation with developing countries may require specific rules.
I welcome the report in that it aims to support the research sector, with the prospect of economic growth, by simplifying the procedures for implementing EU programmes.
It is important to streamline the stages of programme access, in line with the principles of transparency, simplicity, consistency and legal certainty, to facilitate matters for small and medium-sized enterprises, universities, research institutes and local bodies.
Creation of a web portal for research participants will enable them to quickly access programme information and will improve coordination with third countries through the exchange of best practices.
I endorsed the report on simplifying the implementation of the research framework programmes.
Taking into account the key criterion for evaluation - the cooperation of industry with science - projects which do not include the participation of partners from the small and medium-sized enterprise sector have a poor chance of being undertaken.
The success rate for the participation of Polish groups is 18.56%, while for subsidies granted, it is 13.72%, compared to the EU average of 22.28% and 20.56% respectively.
Simplifications in the implementation of FP7 will contribute to an increase in the innovativeness and competitiveness of the EU economy in the global economic arena.
Today, we are voting on an important document about simplifying procedures for accessing framework programmes for research and innovation.
Indeed, science, education and innovation are the foundations for economic revitalisation and the creation of new jobs.
We need to invest in research and innovation if we want to focus on new products and services to make Europe more competitive and, at the same time, improve European citizens' quality of life.
Over recent years, the European research and innovation programmes have become notably broader in scope.
This has also brought an increase in rules and administrative procedures which, in turn, have caused greater difficulties in participating in European tenders.
I voted in favour of the resolution, hoping for greater procedural uniformity in order to allow easier and more open access to European funding, which often remains largely unused, partly because of procedural difficulties.
Europe must invest in innovation if it is to develop new products and services.
The coordination of rules and procedures and the simplification of research funding and administration are long overdue.
This will make Europe more competitive and will improve quality of life.
I voted in favour of the report because we cannot weigh down our top facilities with an unsustainable administrative burden if we want our support for European research to be effective.
However, the text of the resolution and the debate on it have again confirmed my belief that public funds should be used to secure basic public services; other activities, including research and entrepreneurial activities, should be financed from private sources.
The role of this Parliament should be limited to two areas.
The first is the creation of a basic legislative framework to facilitate this type of business.
If we are asking in the resolution today for a simplification of the mechanisms and instruments used in the current system of public grants, we are solving the result and not the cause of the problem.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because livestock farming is going through an extremely difficult time as a result of increased animal feed prices.
Prices on the international market have already increased by more than 16% on average since June.
The practical result is the transfer of these increases to real market prices, even in a year when cereals are widely available.
These increases in animal feed prices are causing terrible damage to the already difficult situation of many of our livestock farms, which will be unable to pass on the increases in what they sell because of the crisis and are unlikely to be able to absorb them.
in writing. - (LT) I voted for this report.
The livestock sector in the EU is facing serious problems, including the rising costs of inputs, such as fuel and fertilisers, the high cost of complying with EU regulations, greater competition from third country imports and the low prices being received by producers for meat products.
To protect European producers and this important sector of the economy, the European Commission must ensure that the post-2013 CAP is adequately financed, in order to guarantee the viability of all EU farmers, including livestock farmers, and that the conditions exist for fair competition.
I voted for this resolution on the crisis in the livestock sector because I believe that the market management mechanisms in the livestock sector need to be strengthened.
With this in mind, measures need to be implemented to limit the impact of price volatility and speculation.
The new European External Action Service could provide an extremely suitable instrument capable of helping anticipate strategic changes in third countries and promote the European agricultural model all over the world.
I wish to end by pointing out that an assessment of the economic impact of introducing new welfare regulations must be carried out and current legislation should be fully enforced before introducing new regulations.
The market economy model developed in Europe over the decades should make us proud.
With regard to the primary sector, the transition in many regions from an economy based primarily on arable and livestock farming to one based essentially on services has been correctly managed.
The management of this transition has been underpinned by public intervention designed to ensure income stability for companies and to exclude food prices from the pressures of competition.
The statistics also bring new issues to everyone's attention.
I am referring to the safeguarding of food supplies, a factor to which everything else is inevitably connected, and to the quality and balance of the foods that will be available on the market in the coming years.
I welcome the fact that this report addresses the main problems in the livestock sector, and I am sure that satisfactory results will continue to be obtained for the sake of public health and European consumers.
Food market trends in recent years have been characterised by a series of paradoxes.
One of these is that, while shelf food prices have been rising, farmers, including livestock farmers in the EU, are facing an income crisis which is threatening the existence of their farms and reducing them to poverty.
In the case where competition from imports from third countries, which do not impose the same high standards, is not kept under control - let me remind you of the incident involving the milk powder from China infected with melamine - these costs will cause a drop in EU production in this area.
Consequently, I believe that the recommendations contained in the resolution, if adopted by the Commission and applied, will meet the demands of livestock farmers.
Hence the reason I voted in favour of it.
European producers are at a competitive disadvantage in relation to producers from third countries as their production costs are higher, largely due to the requirement to comply with the extremely high standards in terms of animal health and welfare, food security, environmental protection and working conditions.
Given this fact, I believe that the European Commission must actively guarantee an adequate supply of cereal for providing animal feed.
The role of rural development is essential to keep our territories alive, both because of its end product and because it is so widespread.
This is why the European Union - including through the common agricultural policy, above all, in its post-2013, reformed incarnation - and each Member State must promote its continued existence, not only by coming up with innovative techniques for farming and economically and environmentally sustainable management, but also by strengthening their wider role as guardians of the environment and the land protecting them from the market crisis by reducing production costs, making the best of their products and greater organisation on the market.
It seems to me that the report on the crisis in the EU livestock sector that we have voted on works along these lines.
The markets should be governed by the reality of stocks and needs and not by speculation; that is the message that the European Parliament wants to send to the European Commission by adopting the resolution on the crisis of livestock farming in the European Union.
That is the risk we are running and it is well identified in this proposal.
It is also clear that the sector's crisis could result in a significant drop in meat production throughout the EU, leading not only to the disappearance of small and medium-sized producers, but also to a market supply crisis, increased prices and greater dependence on imports.
I cannot forget milk production, which is an important issue for Portugal, so I would remind you that the policy of former Commissioner Fischer-Boel regarding milk quotas was severely criticised, and firmly and persistently opposed by farmers.
The resolution that has been put to the vote acknowledges the serious crisis being experienced in the livestock sector, made worse by increased cereal prices, and calls on the Commission to table proposals for measures that could support the sector.
It also calls on the Commission and Council to ensure that the common agricultural policy after 2013 will have sufficient funding to ensure the viability of all the EU's farmers.
However, by defending guidelines that caused the problems currently faced by the sector, particularly small and medium-sized producers, it shows itself to be profoundly contradictory, and even contrary to the interests of these producers.
The crisis in the livestock sector has been particularly influenced by the increase in cereal crop prices (above all, in Italy and Spain, since in countries like the United Kingdom, grazing livestock is most widespread) and the consequent rise in the costs of production.
The downward trend in the sector is also partly due to the volume of imports from third countries.
The problems in the sector could put food safety in the EU and provisions of meat for its citizens at risk.
In particular, I believe that we need to introduce market control mechanisms and pay greater attention to the content of the bilateral agreements concluded with third countries, such as in the recent Mercosur case.
For this reason, it is important for us to take measures which will help livestock farmers to emerge from this difficult period in a stronger position.
In addition to the rise in the feed price, two points are particularly important to me.
The first is that the high European product and safety standards which our livestock farms have to comply with must be applied to imported products that are sold in the European Union.
This would help to ensure that European farmers are not at a major competitive disadvantage to producers in third countries and, at the same time, would guarantee that all the products sold in the European Union are of high quality.
The second point is about making agricultural policy simpler and more transparent.
This would really make life easier for all the farms within the European Union.
The motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development includes a number of good proposals of this kind which will bring about a permanent improvement in the situation of livestock farms.
The acceptance of unauthorised GMOs and the establishment of a threshold 'for adventitious GMOs which are not yet authorised in the European Union', and which have not yet undergone full scientific testing, have resulted in a flood of authorisations of GMOs in the USA and, in particular, in developing countries.
Countries outside the EU now have an increasing influence over authorisation practices within the EU, with the result being an ongoing decline in the health and environmental safety levels of authorised GMOs.
This would increase not only the potential risk presented by genetic engineering in agriculture, but also the potential risk of a new outbreak of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE).
The current situation in the livestock sector is very difficult and some areas are unprofitable because of the high production costs.
Another factor which has an impact on European farmers is the growing competition from third countries where production costs are lower and the increasing tendency in trade policy to exchange larger quantities of food imports for services, without at least requiring the same production standards.
Against the background of the difficult market situation and the discussion which has been initiated about the future of agricultural policy in the EU, Parliament needs to make a clear commitment to giving all areas of agricultural production the necessary security to allow them to plan for the future.
The European livestock industry is currently undergoing a major crisis, because rocketing production costs are pushing European producers closer and closer to their survival threshold.
These very high production costs are directly related to high feed prices and our dependency on third countries for our cereals and protein plants.
I expect the Commission to include in its forward-looking legislative proposal on the future of the common agricultural policy (CAP) efficient market instruments and the necessary funding to ensure that the feed and cereal market remains stable and to guarantee livestock farmers the security to plan for the future.
We also need a European protein plan which will promote the cultivation of protein and leguminous crops and reduce the dependency of the dairy sector with regard to this strategic type of feed.
In Europe, we have the strictest animal welfare and hygiene regulations in the world.
The livestock sector bears the consequences of stringent regulations required by our institutions, the most stringent in the world in terms of food safety and quality, the environment, animal health and welfare.
When, sooner or later, food safety is a matter of global concern, Europe must react to maintain the viability of livestock farming when it is under threat.
This is why the economic impact of the regulations required, namely, legislation on animal welfare, must be assessed and incorporated into long-term planning for the future of the agricultural sector and the livestock sector in particular.
I am voting for this resolution because the increasing costs of the factors of production and the costs inherent in compliance with EU regulations are currently making the profitability of European livestock farming unviable: the prices obtained by some farmers for basic meat-based products are below production cost.
This resolution advocates measures that could end up helping to combat the crisis in this sector, which is being damaged by speculation on the commodities market, as well as by scrupulous compliance with EU regulation.
The crisis in the livestock sector is not only the result of rising production costs.
We must move away from supporting multinational agribusinesses and large-scale hobby farmers like the Queen and instead support small farmers who can only survive by running their farms on a part-time basis alongside another job.
This report does not deal with this problem in sufficient detail and, therefore, I have abstained.
The problem with the state of the livestock sector is prevalent across the whole EU.
The livestock sector is faced with the widest variety of challenges: rising feed prices, market speculation, increasing energy prices and growing expenditure associated with the enforcement of European regulations.
All of these factors have made production in Europe more expensive.
In Bulgaria, only 10% of livestock farmers own their land, which consequently means that only these 10% can benefit from direct payments.
I voted in favour of the important resolution on the livestock sector in the hope of improving the lot of livestock farmers and the whole sector, which is in crisis due to strong speculation for a rise in animal feed prices.
I voted for this resolution because I think that it is a good idea to call attention to the crisis that the livestock sector is currently experiencing and its consequences.
The motion for a resolution on the crisis in the livestock sector which has been adopted by the European Parliament calls for the introduction of new market management mechanisms in the livestock industry and of safety nets in all the cereal sectors.
However, the motion for a resolution also includes important liberal requirements for pragmatic thresholds for GMOs in imported feeds and a review of the ban on feeding meat and bone meal.
In order to guarantee a supply of feed for the European livestock sector, we must relieve farmers of their burden of red tape and create a framework of legal certainty.
This resolution on the livestock sector is yet another call by Parliament to take into account the growing difficulties faced by our European farmers.
With farmers having to comply with more and more rules on traceability, hygiene, animal welfare and respect for the environment, their production costs are now spiralling out of control: fuel, fertilisers and, above all, cereals, currently amount to 60% of the total cost.
We call on the Commission and on Commissioner Cioloş for more measures to curb price volatility and to create a safety net.
However, the resolution refers to the demands adopted in the Bové report and calls for measures to curb speculation and price volatility, as well as pointing out the key demand of the Häusling report for a crop protein plan to reduce dependence on protein crop imports (mainly GM soy) and the specific needs of extensive grassland beef production.
Just as the foundations for the new common agricultural policy are being prepared, in the hope of keeping European agribusinesses competitive in comparison with those from third countries, which enjoy the undoubted advantages of more land and appreciably lower labour costs, a new threat has arisen for our livestock farmers in the form of a huge increase in the cost of animal feed linked to the rise in cereal prices.
Furthermore, the motion for a resolution contains absolutely no criticism of the common agricultural policy, which really needs to be reduced before 2013, when the next multiannual financial framework is to be decided.
I abstained from the vote on the resolution.
The resolution fails to take a critical view of the basis for the common agricultural policy system, which absolutely must reduce its share of expenditure ahead of the 2013 decision on a new long-term budget.
The livestock sector in the European Union is under serious threat, largely as a result of the recent increase in cereal prices.
It is not just market volatility associated with the economic crisis that we are experiencing, but there is also a serious threat of disturbance in all branches of the livestock sector, making the adoption of a series of genuine measures capable of combating the crisis that we are witnessing urgently required in order to prevent future negative developments.
As well as the necessary technical rules on food safety and animal welfare, it would be desirable if other improved measures capable of preventing the current situation developing into something more serious could be implemented, for example, the release of cereal stocks stored in intervention, in order to make it possible to minimise the issue of price volatility and prevent the delicate situation that we have been witnessing from getting worse.
Ladies and gentlemen, the food sector is one of the priority sectors both for Lithuania and the whole of the European Union.
Livestock holdings have faced a serious threat from the recent increase in cereal prices in the EU, as well as extreme climatic conditions and speculation.
EU livestock production systems are important for maintaining livelihoods.
Lithuania may face serious consequences as a result of the crisis in the livestock sector.
The agricultural sector, which employs around 8% of our workers, is an important part of our economy.
Wheat and other grains are the principal areas of production.
According to EU statistics, the number of livestock has fallen by 25% since 1990.
A further drop in the number of livestock in the EU may cause significant changes in production, which would upset the supply of food in the EU.
Such fluctuations may cause serious disturbances in the livestock sector.
I am much more in favour of food safety for consumers: not taking a risk when you do not know how big it is and what impact it could have.
Secondly, we have seen in recent years that viruses that occur in living animals can rapidly mutate.
