Governance and partnership in the Single Market - Single market for Europeans - Single market for enterprises and growth - Public procurement (continuation of debate) Mr President, many thanks for the information you have given us, Mr Barnier.
The internal market has been in existence for 20 years, but it is not yet complete.
Everything which strengthens the internal market also increases Europe's competitiveness and, therefore, its independence.
It is important for us to support venture capital funds, project bonds and e-commerce, combat piracy more effectively, create a common consolidated corporate tax base, regulate public procurement and put in place the four freedoms: the free movement of people, goods, services and capital.
Mr Barnier, Mrs Győri, ladies and gentlemen, Article 3 of the Treaty of Lisbon, which enshrines the social market economy, represents a new approach and a new political task for the future.
I am pleased that the European Commission has made the first move in this direction.
This is a very important question, because it forms the basis for social cohesion and will enable us to ensure that the internal market is regarded by people in the European Union as a social component.
This is essential if we want the citizens of Europe to regain their trust in the political system in the European Union.
In particular, the Commission must finally acknowledge the decisive significance of social rights in the internal market and put the focus on the social impact of European legislation.
This is why it is important for Parliament to remind the Commission once again about the social clause which is enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon.
I would like to thank Mr Barnier for assuring us that he will take this into consideration and will follow this route.
If the internal market is developed on this basis, we will give you our support and our policy will be moving in the right direction.
The recognition of professional qualifications, the European qualifications passport and the full transferability of pensions within the European Union are all issues which interest the citizens of Europe and which will ensure that the internal market is a market for the people.
Finally, I would like to appeal strongly to Commissioner Barnier to ensure that, as this large package on the Single Market now goes further through the system, we also promote communication about it.
Now, more than 20 years later, we have a situation where we have 23 million unemployed, there is pressure on wages and working conditions and on public services, there are nearly 18 million working poor and there is increasing inequality in Europe.
I believe that he made an absolutely key point when he said that there are some bottlenecks, in other words, some critical points, that we need to accept and that we need to deal with if we want to make progress, some of these being social and environmental in nature.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, it gives me very great pleasure to be able to welcome the excellent reports from the three rapporteurs, and indeed to thank all the Members - not just those on the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, but also those on the many other committees represented here, who have joined us in what has been a great enterprise.
We had a feeling that the completion of the essential foundation of the EU 2020 strategy for smart growth and jobs and innovation - the Single Market - was not really reflected as a political priority.
I hope that this is a lesson he will absorb in the future work that he may do in this Parliament.
Again, I want to thank all of you who are engaged in that great effort on behalf of all European citizens. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) Mr President, I would like to put a question to Mr Harbour, who is a fellow MEP for the West Midlands in the UK.
I work with small enterprises all the time, and I can tell her that small enterprises in the Midlands supplying the great companies in the car industry, just down the road from where she and I live, are working overtime at the moment because of new opportunities that we have created by giving them a framework to go and attack a market numbering 500 million people - that big an area.
The social dimension must be defined as the top priority and the new agenda for the Single Market must be configured so that it improves social justice.
Universal access to viable and high quality public services is a vital political issue.
Unfortunately, I also have to note that there are many other initiatives which go far beyond the objective of the internal market.
Better access to banking services; easier recognition of professional qualifications; full portability of pensions: these are the fields in which citizens need solutions in order to study, work and invest in different Member States throughout their lives.
Finally, the European Parliament is proposing an idea to organise an annual Single Market forum, and this platform should enable a genuine discussion with citizens.
The viability of the Single Market and the future of the European Union, too, depend on how they behave and the decisions that they take. (SV) Mr President, the EU is certainly more than the Single Market, but without the Single Market, there is no EU.
By the way, Mr President, I fully support the remarks made by Malcolm Harbour. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, I think that many of my fellow Members will have remembered that the background to this package for the Single Market comes from the Monti report, and the Monti report recommended a considerable compromise between those who advocate more competition, if you like, and those who advocate giving more weight to social, environmental and tax-related aspects.
I would like to highlight three items which seem particularly important to me, further to what Mrs Turunen said a little while ago on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
I believe we have indeed struck a balance here in Parliament - and I hope you can carry it over into the Commission - which is to say 'yes' to more competition through innovation, 'yes' to more capital investment, but 'yes' also to a social clause, 'yes' to environmental standards that ensure that competition does not lead to regulatory dumping.
Those are the two aspects that I believe are fundamental to our compromise.
In the proposal put out by the Commission 10 days or so ago, it is an optional measure: in other words, instead of building up an aspect of the Single Market, the Commission is tearing one down.
The last point I want to highlight very quickly is the notion of reciprocity, in exactly the same terms as you have done.
In relation to the lack of time, I am pinning my hopes on Commissioner Barnier being able to turn these 12 measures into legislative measures. (SV) Mr President, Mrs Győri began her speech by saying that we need a driving force for the economy.
That is true, we do need that, but I would like to add that we also need a driving force for social justice and for a sustainable society.
Sweden, for example, finances a large part of its welfare system by means of its VAT rules.
If we want to support the European economy, we must stop businesses relocating. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to agree with the report before us in essence.
In the past, proper progress has not been made in one area or another, precisely because the strategy was not adequately checked by the various Directorates General and the Commission to ensure that it was coherent.
We must work together across all the groups in the European Parliament and with the Commission to ensure that this situation changes.
The key note of the last few metres of the internal market race, the final spurt, as I call it, is the guiding principle of the social market economy, which means taking seriously the rights of employees, companies, citizens and all those involved in the world of business and making sure that we achieve a fair balance between the various Member States and also between the differing interests of the stakeholders.
We want to see a final effort being made to put the fundamental freedoms in place in the internal market.
Firstly, and here we are all in agreement, Commissioner, there is a proposal for a legislative framework for public procurement, public/private partnerships and service concessions which should protect small operators, SMEs and awarding local authorities, and which will guarantee reciprocity between the EU, the industrialised countries and the major developing countries.
Then there is the need to ensure that we prioritise the common consolidated corporate tax base and a clear VAT framework.
Finally, we must ensure that innovation is funded, in order to stimulate strong and sustainable growth in major European infrastructure projects, through the creation of Eurobonds.
I should like to finish by stressing how important it is, to my mind, that we have reached a satisfactory compromise on the key issues of being able to guarantee social rights in the different legislations of the Single Market and of protecting services of general interest within the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I strongly believe that Europe has to throw its weight to push Member States to interconnect and invest in their infrastructure as a precondition for a common energy market and security of supply.
It is vital that in these difficult economic times, we look to enhance our competitiveness, increase growth, create jobs and drive innovation.
By carrying out a rigorous monitoring process, and by reducing the time it takes to transpose directives, Member States will be able to increase trade and ensure a well-functioning Single Market.
We must urgently identify the obstacles faced by Member States in implementing this directive and by the professionals themselves. (NL) Mr President, as we were debating Mr Louis Grech's excellent report, I gained the impression that both Parliament and the Commission were aware of the need to make the internal market more socially oriented.
Follow your social heart and ensure that the internal market becomes a market for everyone, not just the plaything of large companies.
I therefore urge you to put forward a proposal which will make it quite clear that social rights should not be subordinated to the principle of unbridled competition.
I firmly believe that, if the group of economically stronger Member States, such as France and Germany, in particular, found the will to unify accounting rules and to create a common accounting and taxation system, it would be possible, through enhanced cooperation under Article 20 TEU, to lay the foundations for a common accounting system, which other Member States could gradually join.
The initiative that was brought forward by the Commission is the result of many years of work, including that of fellow Members who have preceded Mr Barnier.
On one hand, it can get us out of a difficult crisis situation and, on the other, it can make us even stronger and more influential regarding policies which are being implemented in the rest of the world.
The free movement of goods, services, labour and capital drives innovation and increases the prosperity of the 500 million people who live in Europe.
I believe it is time to refocus our attention on the Single Market.
I would like to make it clear that we must no longer put greater emphasis on economic freedoms and free competition than on fundamental social rights.
Your message, Commissioner, is to tell the European citizens that Europe is back again and that its role is to protect them.
Europe must embody a constant striving for simplification.
Europe must continue to harmonise.
That will assuage their fears and provide them with new reasons to live together.
I am thinking, in particular, of e-commerce, which is still insufficiently used due to a lack of confidence.
I am also thinking about the lack of passenger protection and the non-compliance, by Member States, with regulations in this area.
I am also thinking of the total lack of transparency in the financial services sector, but I am aware, Commissioner, that you are working tirelessly on these issues.
In order to restore the confidence of our citizens and finally to ensure that this Single Market operates effectively, we must take ambitious and targeted measures.
I am particularly pleased with the inclusion of the horizontal social clause and the services of general economic interest clause which allow us to take a first step towards a more social Europe.
It is our duty, the duty of all of us here, of the institutions -and I have confidence in you, Commissioner - to swiftly put into effect our proposals for a Single Market operating on behalf of its citizens. (CS) Mr President, if we want to revitalise the European economy and boost competitiveness in the global environment, our core objective must be, finally, after 20 years, to remove all barriers preventing small and medium-sized enterprises in particular from developing their business activities.
I very much appreciate the fact that Commissioner Barnier has made it his top priority to complete the Single Market, and he has our full support.
The Single Market Act which we are debating, today, and the results of the social consultations show unequivocally that harmonisation of the EU market involves not just economic processes in the broad sense of the word, but also legislative solutions which are intended to help ordinary citizens in making full use of the opportunity presented by the EU's internal market.
Therefore, I am going to expect fulfilment of the principles enshrined in the Single Market Act with great hope and enthusiasm. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Győri, Mr Barnier, the internal market lies right at the heart of the European Union and, following several years of chaos, we must establish a new regulatory framework for citizens, workers, consumers and businesses.
Mr Barnier, we have seen that you are very hard-working and that you are prepared to present a wide range of proposals.
As the Commissioner pointed out, opening up markets to our businesses by removing obstacles and difficulties will provide very special relief and an unparalleled opportunity for them to pursue their mission as the driving force of our economy.
The European Union must send a clear and unequivocal message about public services.
In order to do so, we must set up a proper legal framework, whether that consists of a regulation or a directive.
Parliament, I am sure, is ready to follow you in this matter. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, I first want to congratulate the rapporteurs on a job very well done.
The European Commission has put forward many ambitious and new ideas for deepening this market.
Commissioner, in my opinion, many of the initiatives of the Single Market Act will not bring the expected benefits if we do not improve the Single Market for services.
It is an instrument which is supported by the overwhelming majority in this Parliament, and this is why we ask you and President Barroso to include it in all legislative acts governing the internal market.
Only in this way, through the enhancement of the role and contribution of individual workers, will the market achieve its potential. (RO) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs for the quality of their work, particularly Mr Campos, and for drafting the ambitious proposals for responding to the challenge of reconciling two seemingly contradictory objectives: relaunching the Single Market and restoring European citizens' confidence in the proper functioning of the market.
In this respect, I welcome the proposal for a citizens' charter at EU level, which will provide multilingual information about the right to live and work in any Member State.
The three reports took account of these shortcomings and also defined them excellently.
More intensive economic growth in the EU can only be achieved by removing the obstacles of the internal market.
I congratulate the rapporteurs, I thank Commissioner Barnier for his work, and I congratulate the Hungarian Presidency.
However, I consider it necessary to include a social element in the laws applying to the Single Market in order to direct policy genuinely towards citizens, and in order to ensure cohesion through compliance with social rights and workers' rights.
People are not the product of distinctive cultures; distinctive cultures are the product of distinctive peoples. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the guidelines laid down by this important communication prepared by the European Commission in response to Professor Monti's report of last May.
Finally, on public procurement, I welcome the Commission's proposals.
However, how do we ensure that innovative public procurement is at the heart of our agenda? (SK) Mr President, the idea that Europeans must create more employment, or more jobs, is fundamental for us.
There are huge examples, including in my own country, Portugal, with the spread of liberalisations in transport, the post office and communications, where services are now worse, fewer people are employed and jobs are more precarious.
That is why we say it is important to defend the social clause in all these processes.
Most people identified proposal number 48 as the main priority, under which the Commission makes a commitment to strengthen consultation and dialogue with civil society.
The best way to pursue social Europe is to create jobs and that is what the Single Market Act is about.
Last but not least, I hope that retail, which is a pillar of the European economy, would also be high on the political agenda. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, do you realise that you hold the future of Europe in your hands?
I think that today's debate is hugely important to the future of the European Union, to the future of European citizens, and to the future of the euro.
It is extremely hard for European citizens in the 27 Member States to withstand and understand the austerity measures imposed on them if they do not understand the value and importance of the internal market.
I listened with great attention to everything you had to say, the expression of your vigilance, and also, in general - and I am very conscious of this as it is something we need - the expression of your encouragement and your support for our approach.
I believe, ladies and gentlemen that at present - and I am repeating myself here - when you listen closely to the public and hear their anger, their concern, when you see how many of them are suffering, when you see the lack of jobs and of growth, it is time for renewed determination, particularly in the areas of the economy and growth.
Moreover, Mrs Thun referred to this European determination just now.
In any case, this supportive work you have carried out jointly makes me feel secure in my own determination, and I have felt reassured by the success of the public debate which we held for four months on the Single Market Act, since we received, as I recall, 850 contributions, and also by the fact that the European Council itself has signalled its support for our approach.
That is how the Commission will identify the proposals for which it is committed to provide the texts over the next 12 months, and I hope that we, the Council, Parliament and the Commission, are able to implement these texts in 2011 and 2012.
Those that I am currently drafting on the lessons to be learnt from the financial crisis are reactive or preventive regulations.
Citizens are workers, and we are going to work on the recognition of professional qualifications and the respect of social rights for those who work in another country.
That is what Mrs Jaakonsaari and Mrs Gebhardt have recommended.
I would like to thank Mrs Vergnaud for the support she has shown for our project on concessions.
We must improve the governance of the internal market.
I am currently carrying out an assessment, as you already know, country by country and service by service, on the Services Directive that Mrs Handzlik and Mrs Roithová mentioned just now, and I can see clear evidence of compartmentalisation.
We, Europeans, must be the driving force behind our own future.
We are respected there because we represent a market of 500 million consumers and citizens.
Let us continue to strive to pool our resources and let us strengthen our core - the Single Market.
The growth that will emerge from this crisis, and here Mrs Turunen is correct, must be different from previous growth, must pay more respect to natural resources, natural spaces, which are neither free nor inexhaustible, and we shall incorporate these objectives in particular into the new code or new regulations for public procurement, as well as for taxation, which must play a role in achieving a more ecological growth.
You should read next week - it may not be perfect and can doubtless be improved - the draft Single Market Act proposed by the European Commission in the light of your debates, and also in the light of this dual ambition: that of placing the market back at the service of the economy and of placing the economy back at the service of growth and human progress.
A third point I would like to raise is that the completion of the internal market is, in my view, inconceivable without building and completing the energy and transport infrastructure.
I believe that there has been a very lively debate about this in the Commission as well as in this House, and I am certain that this will be the case in the Council, too.
Finally, mobility has also been mentioned frequently.
In this, we are counting on the Members and President of the Commission as well as the Members and President of the European Parliament.
Mr President, in concluding this most fruitful discussion, I should like to underline that this discussion has shown that we, the Members of the European Parliament, recognise our responsibility towards the people of Europe for reviving the economy and creating new jobs.
Consolidation of the Single Market is just as significant for reviving the economy as the other two initiatives: the reinforcement of economic management and the 2020 strategy.
Both politicians and society as a whole must understand its significance, so communication is a very important element in the revival of the Single Market: communication with business, communications with Europeans and also communication between the three institutions.
rapporteur. - (PT) Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking everyone for this debate, which has been very worthwhile.
There is no better way for me to thank him than by recalling the first sentence in his speech.
I strongly believe that the three reports will be a useful complement to the broad public consultation organised by the Commission, which generated almost 750 responses.
I am pleased to see that the Commission is really active and that some of the initiatives are already under way.
Mr President, earlier in this debate, my colleague, Mr de Jong, said I was out of order in the comments I made in my question to a colleague.
I do not think it is out of order to request a question on the balance of influence of a Member of this House on that institution.
Vote: 6 April 2011.
In general, measures are needed to address the fall in demand resulting from cross-border purchasing, and it is important to ensure that this legislation is beneficial for regions such as the Azores.
In situations where there is harmonised legislation in areas such as that of precontractual information, which this new proposal enshrines, one way of further raising levels of confidence in products from outermost regions - and thereby increasing their availability and consumption in the internal market - will be to enhance their image through quality certification, by introducing specific measures to that effect.
This also applies to the Single Market.
For the revival of the Single Market, our European policies must operate in a business friendly environment which aims at encouraging innovation and growth and a strategic repositioning of the European economy.
The expression 'Single Market Act' has been on everyone's lips since Professor Mario Monti wrote his report.
As an example, I will refer to a principle which guided the European Community from its inception - defence of what is known as parallel trade, or trade in legal products outside official channels of distribution, for example, the sale in Germany of Grundig televisions which have been purchased legally in France.
Today, parallel trade very often takes place on the Internet on a variety of sites.
We have much to do in this area, both in terms of making it easier for enterprises to operate in the virtual world and also in terms of increasing consumer confidence in Internet transactions.
The realisation of the strategy must be without prejudice to social rights and must not erode welfare achievements.
The implementation of the Free Movement Directive is also incomplete, despite the fact that the employment of as many people as possible and the best possible management of the European workforce are particularly important from the perspective of recovering from the crisis.
We must take steps to ensure the recognition of professional qualifications within the EU, the transferability of pension rights, and access to basic banking services.
Finally, another reason for us to be satisfied is the fact that Parliament calls for guaranteed access, quality and affordability of services of general economic interest (SGEIs) and social services of general interest (SSGIs), and invites the Commission to take sectoral legislative initiatives in this area.
I would first like to thank the rapporteurs for the amount of work they have put in to preparing the reports on the Single Market, and also to congratulate them on the end result.
I am pleased that on the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the Single Market, we have before us a resolution which will help Europeans make full use of the Single Market's potential.
I consider the TEN-T networks to be an important factor in achieving an efficiently functioning Single Market.
In the context of decisions awaiting us on the future form of the TEN-T networks, I would like to draw attention to the need for better connection of the 'old 15' with the new Member States, and to the fact that greater internal transportation cohesion of the enlarged European Union is an important factor for the EU's competitiveness.
The EU must take important measures to ensure the improvement of SMEs' access to information in order for them to be aware of the opportunities offered by the Single Market and the financial measures provided by the EU.
I, too, believe that the incorporation of the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy and elements of the Small Business Act into all EU policies concerning the Single Market is important.
I am pleased that the report by former Commissioner Monti, which has been generally praised, in which he argues for further development and completion of the internal market as 'a prerequisite for a highly competitive social market economy' has met with a ready response from the European Parliament.
With these three reports, the European Parliament is sending out a clear signal that we are serious about reforming the internal market.
Also, the role of undertakings in creating a functioning Single Market should be acknowledged.
