Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (DE) Mr President, I am very pleased that small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) were mentioned in the report on delivering a single market to consumers and citizens.
Paragraph 46 rightly states that access to finance is their greatest problem.
That is correct, because it is still easier to secure financing of millions of euro for a hedge fund than to obtain a loan of EUR 100 000 for a small business.
The uncertain employment situation faced by young people often discourages them from starting a family or makes them want to postpone it excessively, and this ultimately has a negative impact in the economic and social sphere regarding the demographic transformation of Europe.
Other topics should include making use of education as a means of combating poverty, inequality and social exclusion, with special attention being devoted to people with disabilities.
For the reasons mentioned, I support the proposed report. (GA) Mr President, I voted in favour of this report and it was the right thing to do.
As regards nuclear energy in general, however, I would like to say that many citizens are confused by it, and in my own country, almost everyone is against nuclear energy due to the terrible disasters which occurred in Sellafield and in Chernobyl.
Finally, I would like to congratulate you, Mr President, on the excellent job that you have done on your first day in the chair. (SK) The European Community provides financial assistance to Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria to support their efforts towards fulfilling obligations connected with the withdrawal from operation of first-generation nuclear reactors.
The financial assistance for operational withdrawals which was provided to Bulgaria up to 2009 was intended mainly for preparatory work.
The rapporteur proposed dropping all the wordings about sound public finances, the breaches of the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP) which need to be brought to an end and the importance of the strict enforcement of the SGP and 250 members actually supported him in this.
I find it is a really intolerable and humiliating situation that the EU representatives have to ask for access to these entities which had been agreed.
Written explanations of vote The internal market and the euro represent two real shields for the European Union in the financial, budgetary, economic and social storm which the 27 are currently weathering.
I voted in favour of this report, because it reaffirms the key role played by the internal market and gives a very good overview of the current stakes (budgetary coordination, development of education and research, aid for SMEs, strengthening and accessibility of SOLVIT and the Enterprise Europe Network).
in writing. - I voted for this report which addresses the current shortcomings of the internal market.
The economic and financial crisis has substantially damaged the single market integration process.
It should not be forgotten that SMEs form an essential part of the backbone of the European economy and are the main drivers of economic growth and social cohesion.
I voted against the report, because it promotes elements which are extremely onerous to real viable growth and to the interests of the workers and consumers in the EU in general.
The rapporteur also fully adopts the philosophy of competitiveness and the Europe 2020 strategy, which is not only baseless, but will have even more negative consequences for the people of Europe.
We all know that the Europe 2020 strategy was launched with the aim of helping the European Union emerge from the current economic crisis and prepare its economy for the new decade.
Another objective is to create jobs in the agricultural and environmental sector as the single European market must be the cornerstone of the EU 2020 strategy, tackling the challenges of economic growth and consumer protection.
I voted for this report because it argues that the single market is not solely tied to the economic aspect.
The internal market, as well as the policies related to it, has allowed the European public better access to goods and services, and more variety at a lower cost.
The principles of the internal market have meant that European consumers have had access to more information and better protection of their rights, but they are also becoming more aware of their obligations.
I agree with the rapporteur and would stress the importance of the European Union's internal market for European integration itself, for greater social cohesion, for sustainable development, for competitiveness, and for economic growth that will enable us to face up to future developments and compete in a globalised market.
The construction of an integrated, fully functioning single market is a process that is essential to deepened European integration, social cohesion, economic growth and the sustainable development of the EU.
However, the economic crisis has undoubtedly affected public and consumer confidence in the single market.
It is important that the European public sees the importance of the single market, the way it works and, most importantly, the benefits that it can bring to the public, consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises.
This new programme for consolidating the single market must be carefully monitored so that it values social justice, guarantees the integrity of the market, stimulates innovation and aids the transition to a new digital era.
As for the euro, I think we should ask all those countries suffering from speculation what they think of its capacity to protect them.
The common European market is an important achievement of European Union integration.
It gives many possibilities to our citizens as well as to small and medium-sized enterprises.
In a report on the strategy and future of the EU market which was published and presented last week, Professor Mario Monti points clearly to the fact that citizens and consumers should be among the main beneficiaries of the common market.
As Professor Monti has rightly observed, a certain fatigue with questions of the EU market can be felt in Member States, but it is precisely now that we need a strong common market more than ever before, as the crisis of recent months has shown us.
in writing. - This report could not have come at a more critical moment.
I believe there is a connection between the economic problems and the lack of motivation in completing the internal market.
In Mr Monti's report, 'A new strategy for the internal market', he warns that the internal market is more unpopular than ever but also more needed than ever.
The construction of a single market has always been and continues to be one of the EU's main objectives.
For these reasons, I have voted against this report.
I voted in favour of the Grech report on delivering a single market to consumers and citizens.
This report consists of the best content-free rhetoric I have seen this year and, for this reason, I cannot support it.
I voted in favour of the report on university-business dialogue because, in my opinion, it is essential that the link between training and the labour market should be improved.
Links between universities and businesses need to be strengthened in order to make it easier for students to access work and for businesses to accept untypical careers more easily.
I support this report on a more active partnership between universities and businesses.
To achieve efficient results, the education sector needs to be restructured and modernised and curricula need to be reformed and brought up to date in order to satisfy the needs of the labour market.
More needs to be done concerning the knowledge triangle, adopting a framework of reforms needed to make knowledge a social value, and strengthening the ties between businesses and universities, as in the case of the Knowledge and Information Communities of the European Institute of Technology (EIT).
It is crucial that universities integrate the economic and social environment into their main sphere of action within their research and innovation programmes.
It is essential to develop an investment strategy for new sources of growth, stimulating research, development, innovation and education with a view to strengthening our industrial base, an excellent service sector and a modern rural economy.
I voted for the report on university-business dialogue: a new partnership for the modernisation of Europe's universities, because it presents measures that contribute to enhancing European learners' employability.
Cooperation between the education sector and business is essential for bridging the gap between the supply logic of the education sector and the demand logic of the world of employment.
This qualification will be reflected in terms of innovation, research and development, which are crucial for sustained economic and social growth.
Partnerships must be established between universities and businesses in order to facilitate the entry of these workers into the labour market, helping reduce the high levels of unemployment that are being recorded today in particular.
The Member States are responsible for education and training policies, while the role of the EU is to support the improvement of national systems through new instruments at EU level, mutual learning and the exchange of information and best practice.
The knowledge-based economy and rapid technological development present challenges to higher education and research in Europe, but they also open up new opportunities which must be effectively harnessed.
I believe that cooperation between the education sector and business at local, regional, national and transnational level is crucial for bridging the gap between the supply logic of the education sector and the demand logic of the world of employment.
We believe that the errors resulting from the Bologna Process must be acknowledged urgently and, contrary to what the rapporteur says about the Bologna Process, the issue of mobility as a means of bringing the Member States closer together and making them more equal must be demystified.
This university-business concept is moving away from the real meaning and value of education as a universal right and approaches education in terms of commercialising it, stripping it of content and quality.
I endorsed the Schmitt report on university-business dialogue: a new partnership for the modernisation of Europe's universities.
Cooperation between the education sector and business at all levels is crucial for bridging the gap between the supply logic of the education sector and the demand logic of the world of employment.
Partnerships between education and training institutions and companies are essential in order to enhance learners' employability, improve entrepreneurial potential, and facilitate familiarity with the world of work.
The need for increased dialogue in the context of the Bologna Process is not worded clearly enough and, for this reason, I have abstained.
I voted in favour of European Parliament resolution No on university-business dialogue: a new partnership for the modernisation of Europe's universities (2009/2099 (INI)), because the dynamics of today's labour market, economic development and change to development priorities require cooperation at many levels.
For just this reason, the changes we should introduce must concern the whole field of education and the way young people perform in the labour market.
This objective could be achieved by introducing a system of knowledge vouchers, similar to that used in several Member States at the moment, which will enable SMEs in particular to improve their research capacity without compromising the universities' independence, autonomy and public nature.
I voted for the report on the university-business dialogue: a new partnership for the modernisation of European universities.
The EU needs to establish closer links and partnerships between universities and the business sector in order to develop a society based on knowledge and applied research and improve graduates' integration into the labour market.
Finally, I wish to stress the importance of lifelong learning, particularly through distance learning courses specially adapted to the new technologies and beneficial in particular to the over-45s, who are more vulnerable and exposed to social exclusion.
The proposal for a regulation presented by the Commission is intended to provide financial assistance for the decommissioning of Units 1 to 4 of the Kozloduy Nuclear Plant in Bulgaria and to ensure that the resultant radioactive materials are dealt with.
Alongside the safety conditions for decommissioning operations, it is crucial that the European Community assume an active role in helping Bulgaria to overcome the negative effects that the decommissioning will have on economic competitiveness, energy sustainability and the state of the labour market.
in writing. - The Parliament today approved EUR 300 million to further assist the decommissioning of the Kozloduy 1-4 nuclear reactors.
The accession of Central and Eastern European countries to the EU and their use of nuclear energy have led to the need to provide financial assistance to these countries so that they can effectively deal with radioactive waste and can improve protection of human health and the environment.
In its accession agreement, Bulgaria, like Slovakia and Lithuania, agreed to decommission part of its nuclear energy production.
Financial assistance was provided until 2009 for the permanent decommissioning of the nuclear energy plant at Kozloduy, but a request was made, as was done with the other Member States, for this to be extended until 2013.
To this end, it will receive approximately EUR 860 million in assistance.
The closure of four reactors means a loss of 1 700 MW of energy for Bulgaria.
Of course, it is in the security and environmental interests of the whole of Europe to find a final disposal solution.
This report highlights some of the problems involved with nuclear power and the decommissioning of nuclear reactors, which is why I have voted in favour of it.
In keeping with the commitments assumed through the EU accession treaty, Bulgaria must close Units 1-4 of the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant, which the EU granted financial assistance for up until 2009.
Furthermore, I support the Commission's request to monitor and audit the implementation of all the projects which will be run using this grant: research/innovation aimed at introducing technologies based on renewable energy sources in order to meet the requirement to realise a further reduction of 18 000 kt CO2-eq produced from decommissioning.
All these processes must be carried out in a manner which is completely transparent to citizens, in compliance with the provisions of all the multilateral environmental agreements which Bulgaria is party to (Aarhus, Espoo, etc.).
in writing. - As expected, we the Greens lost our last chance to amend the Harms report during the plenary vote on Community financial assistance with respect to the decommissioning of four units of the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant in Bulgaria.
Today, the EP agreed to give EUR 300 million (until 2013) to Bulgaria for their current programme to decommission 4 nuclear units in Kozloduy.
This positive signal towards Bulgaria was the reason why the rapporteur and the Greens/EFA abstained on the legislative proposal.
Ladies and gentlemen, as with Bulgaria's Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant, the decommissioning of Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant in Lithuania was one of the conditions for accession to the European Union.
The decommissioning of Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant in 2009 has had a severe impact on Lithuania.
Like the decommissioning of Kozloduy, the disappearance of Ignalina will result in the loss of business and jobs for the local economy.
Full financial support from the EU for Kozloduy and Ignalina is important in order to correct some of the economic and social consequences experienced with the decommissioning of the nuclear power plants.
However, it would be foolish on our part to give up nuclear power plants entirely.
The van Nistelrooij report contains useful recommendations on improving the use of all of these loans.
Finally, these funds should all be involved in the implementation of the EU 2020 strategy.
Innovation can be most effectively addressed at regional level by the proximity of entities such as universities, public research organisations or industry, promoting partnerships in the field of knowledge transfer, and the exchange of best practice between regions.
The cohesion policy is a fundamental pillar of the European integration process and one of the EU's most successful policies, encouraging convergence between increasingly diverse regions, and stimulating economic growth and the creation of jobs.
I believe it is appropriate to analyse the way in which the indicative framework of the Community Strategic Guidelines 2007-2013 and, in particular, Guideline 1.2 on Improving Knowledge and Innovation for Growth, was followed by the Member States and Regions in their National Strategic Reference Frameworks (NSRFs) and Operational Programmes.
Research and innovation are priority areas and are absolutely crucial for competitiveness and the success of the European economy in the current global climate of crisis, intense competition and increased efforts to address new challenges such as climate change and territorial cohesion.
This crisis exacerbates the risk of regional imbalances and the worsening of economic and social conditions in the most disadvantaged regions.
This is a strategy that is extremely pertinent and important for the territorial cohesion of the EU, as it simultaneously ensures that this crisis becomes an opportunity to capitalise on strengths and improve efficiency in the profitability of resources.
I voted for this report as research, development and innovation are key elements which can help the European Union to emerge more quickly and stronger from the current economic crisis, while also achieving the proposed economic development objectives.
Cohesion policy is an essential pillar in the process of European integration and one of the most successful EU policies, facilitating convergence between regions, as well as stimulating growth and employment using financing from the structural funds.
In the current period of 2007-2013, all Member States have devoted a significant amount of their total financial allocations to innovation and development activities.
Better use of funds will mean better research, knowledge and innovation capacity in the various regions, with the strengthening of the territorial aspect of partnerships for the design and delivery of public policies.
The long-term sustainability of our public finances is fundamental today to the credibility of European economic and fiscal policy.
We must assume today that the public finances of numerous Member States are not sustainable and have the courage to remedy that.
During the vote on Thursday 20 May on the report by the socialist MEP, Liem Hoang Ngoc, on the long-term sustainability of public finances, the UMP and Modem groups in the European Parliament voted enthusiastically for a text which the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe had amended line by line in order to turn it into a neoliberal manifesto.
I voted against this text, which is an insult to the citizens of Europe.
Last year, the budget deficit and public debt in the euro area amounted to 6.3% and 78.7% respectively of GDP, which was a much higher level than that set in the Growth and Stability Pact.
The Growth and Stability Pact's limitations have been highlighted in the current crisis, as it has not been an adequate instrument for harmonising national economies.
I decided to vote against the final report on the long-term sustainability of public finances as these aspects which I consider as being fundamental to ensuring the single European market's stability and to maintaining a modern welfare state in Europe have been removed from the report.
In the times that we are currently experiencing, in which many countries are facing serious difficulties with their public finances, it is essential to adopt political measures that lead to economic and social stability, but especially those that stimulate growth.
Finally, I would stress the need for a competitive tax policy, not just for the EU, but also with regard to third-country investments.
As the current crisis has shown, with its profound impact on economic development, the quality of life of citizens and social stability, the sustainability of public finances is a prerequisite for economic recovery and the reliability of development.
This is a situation which undermines productivity and economic competitiveness.
I was forced to vote against the report by my colleague, Liem Hoang Ngoc, which the European right and liberals completed in a way which deprived it of its substance, simply defending dogmatic adherence to the Stability Pact and hence to austerity policies.
It rejects the 'indiscriminate cuts' that have been made in public investments in the name of the crisis.
First of all, paragraph 59 states that we can help end the crisis by raising employment levels and proposes the adoption of policies in favour of immigration from outside the EU, even leading to the award of citizenship.
On the one hand, the text unduly confuses the economic issue with that of migration policy, while disregarding, in particular, the already high unemployment rate.
in writing. - I deeply regret that the right wing has finally 'kidnapped' this report on public finances and has completely changed the main aim of it, making it a very neoliberal report.
The main purpose of this report was to analyse the long-term sustainability of the European Union's public finances with a view to its economic recovery.
However, they make a period of sacrifice foreseeable, which will affect all Europeans.
This is a time for brave decisions at national level, with a long-term view and without cutting any corners.
Following several amendments, the final content of this motion for a resolution focuses on some of these challenges; that is why I voted for it.
The long-term sustainability of public finances is essential to achieve stability and growth.
Therefore, I agree with the measures debated this week, for example, proposals on the European Systemic Risk Board and the European System of Financial Supervisors.
We also have to continue to seriously implement our international commitments.
The report on the contribution of the cohesion policy to the achievement of the Lisbon and Europe 2020 objectives is fundamental, in that it illustrates the extent to which this policy may be instrumental to the future of the Union.
I sincerely believe that the cohesion policy will be a vital instrument in achieving the Europe 2020 objectives, which is why I voted for this report.
The difficulties that have always been highlighted by the political, social and economic diversity of Europe's heritage - as part of a large, but still disparate territory - have resulted, since the eighties, in the development of the cohesion policy.
I am in favour of Mr Cortés Lastra's own-initiative report: the EU 2020 strategy must be included among the objectives of the cohesion policy for the period 2007-2013, supported by the objective of territorial cohesion and by the pragmatic approach of sharing the objectives at local level.
Only in this way will we avoid the risk that the EU 2020 strategy will be reduced to one where the eurocracy blows its own trumpets, as was the case with the Lisbon Strategy.
The Structural Funds play a vital role in delivering the EU 2020 strategy, insofar as they constitute a powerful instrument for the economic development of all of Europe's regions.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur's recommendations on the improvements that need to be made to the governance system in the EU 2020 strategy compared to the Lisbon Strategy.
It is vital to establish closer links between local and regional authorities and civil society stakeholders within the framework of multi-level governance.
I am completely in favour of the proposals put forward in this report, seeking inclusion in the cohesion policy in order to pursue the objectives set out for the 2020 strategy.
The new Treaty of Lisbon strengthens the principle of economic, social and territorial cohesion, and without this solidarity clause, the EU itself does not make sense!
The ultimate objective of the cohesion policy is reducing disparities between the levels of economic development of the various regions and tackling the structural backwardness of the most disadvantaged and outermost regions.
The 2020 strategy presents significant and ambitious challenges for Europe in five areas that are seen as strategic: (i) employment; (ii) innovation and research; (iii) climate change and energy; (iv) education, and (v) combating poverty.
I agree with the rapporteur that it must be conceived so that it is in harmony with future cohesion policy, and that the 2020 strategy must also be implemented at regional and local level, something that failed to happen with the Lisbon Strategy.
This is crucial for economic development and growth in the different regions.
As I come from a region of Portugal whose interests and wishes are often passed over in the interests of centralised power, as I have already publicly stated, I believe that implementing the 2020 strategy objectives at regional level may be of greater benefit to more balanced regional development.
I have no doubt that small and medium-sized enterprises have a crucial role in the success of building Europe.
Therefore, I support the recommendations made in this report, such as the need to simplify the rules for accessing and managing the allocation of the available funds in order to encourage their use and effective implementation, covering the entire EU territory.
The regions implement more than a third of public investments in the EU, and the spending of the structural funds is increasingly concentrated on objectives related to growth and employment.
I would also like to reiterate that 'education and training are the fundamental preconditions for the development of the EU and can make it more competitive in the face of global challenges'.
The rapporteur finds it regrettable that the 2020 strategy has not duly incorporated an assessment of the Lisbon Strategy, and we share that opinion.
The stated objectives of the Lisbon Strategy - economic growth, employment and social cohesion - have not been met; on the contrary, the situation in these areas has become worse.
These options, instruments and objectives have now been taken up again by the 2020 strategy.
We do not, therefore, accept the alignment of the cohesion policy with the 2020 strategy, for the sake of its real objective: reducing disparities in the development levels of the various regions, and instituting true economic, social and territorial cohesion.
The main objective of cohesion policy is to strive for a uniform degree of development across the regions of the EU.
Thanks to the multiannual programmes and strategies which have been put in place as part of that policy, individual regions and, in particular, the poorest ones, have the opportunity for sustained economic growth, increased competitiveness and the creation of jobs.
Over half of all investments in the public sector are being made at regional level, so local authorities are becoming the main participants in the realisation of the current Lisbon Strategy, and in the future of the EU 2020 strategy.
The cohesion policy has been important in creating a better balance between European regions, and is now seen as crucial for overcoming the current financial crisis that the EU is experiencing by strengthening competitiveness and local potential.
At a time when the EU budget is not expected to increase and when there is pressure on the cohesion policy budget (approximately 45% of the EU budget), we believe that a good link between the objectives of the cohesion policy and those of the EU 2020 strategy are essential for strengthening cohesion and simultaneously contributing to a positive response from all regions and members of the public to the challenges facing the EU.
in writing. - It is a pity our alternative resolution on cohesion policy and EU2020 was rejected.
The rapporteur, Mr Cortés Lastra, originally produced a very balanced report on the relationship between cohesion policy and the Europe 2020 strategy.
The rapporteur had achieved a balance between these two aspects.
However, our aim was to use this alternative resolution to make it clear that there was a minority view in Parliament which wanted to give the regions more rights to independent development than the earmarking model of the current structural fund period made possible.
The cohesion policy is essential to realising the 2020 strategy's objectives: the promotion of education, training and research, the creation of jobs, and economic growth.
The regional dimension of Europe must be strengthened with a strategy that takes into account the specificities of the various regions or groups thereof, such as the outermost regions.
For the above reasons, I consider the cohesion policy an essential instrument for realising the objectives of the 2020 strategy, so I voted for the report.
The Union for the Mediterranean (UfM) is a formidable project which requires strong political involvement on the part of the European Parliament.
I voted in favour of this report, because it contains the following three ideas which are very important: 1) the new institutional structure needs to be effective quickly, in order to make the UfM operational; 2) adequate funding is vital if the UfM is to achieve its objectives and thus clarify the six major strategic projects (de-pollution of the Mediterranean, transport, renewable energies, education, SMEs, civil protection); 3) the success of the UfM depends on resolving regional conflicts in the Mediterranean basin.
Therefore, if the Union is built on solid political bases and has specific objectives, it will enable us to help, in their own countries, those people who today would wish to arrive en masse on southern European shores.
It would also allow North African al-Qaeda operatives in these countries to more easily enter Europe and carry out terrorist attacks.
In order to be an effective lever in building peace and prosperity and in promoting human rights, cooperation between European countries and other Mediterranean countries needs to be based on the principles of equality and mutually beneficial cooperation for the people in the area.
In order for there to be real cooperation, the procedures for dialogue and understanding need to be strengthened and account needs to taken of the asymmetries in the area in all trade agreements, so as to safeguard equality between all the states.
Regional cooperation with the EU in the Union for the Mediterranean must not, as some powers would like to see, become a substitute for integration into the EU and membership of the European Union.
Following the Paris Declaration on 13 July 2008, which created a new Union for the Mediterranean (UfM), the previous Barcelona Process should have acknowledged a new impetus, as expressed in the Declaration: 'a renewal of efforts to transform the Mediterranean region into a space of peace, democracy, cooperation and prosperity'.
I also look forward to the results of the second summit of Heads of State or Government, scheduled for 7 June in Barcelona this year.
The strengthening of the Union's Mediterranean relations is essential, and I believe that only political dialogue and increased cooperation between the Union and the other Mediterranean countries will stimulate the creation of a space of freedom, justice, peace and sustainable and lasting prosperity.
in writing. - I supported this report on the Union for the Mediterranean (UfM).
Such challenges are all the more acute in a context of crisis, and it is in the EU's interest to address the growing disparities between both regions, thereby contributing to a viable and secure future for the people of the Mediterranean.
I voted for the report on the Union for the Mediterranean (UfM) because it advocates greater involvement of the European Parliament in this regional initiative.
If the summit that is to take place in June in Barcelona is to be a success after two difficult years trying to get it off the ground, it is essential that the European Parliament be able to contribute because the result is of enormous importance to the success of the UfM.
I hope that the European Union, alongside its partners, will take real steps towards promoting and structuring a Euro-Mediterranean partnership capable of conquering fear, differences and mistrust, and surviving into the future without collapsing.
The strengthening of Euro-Mediterranean relations is becoming more pressing due to the impact that it will certainly have on consolidating a space of peace and cultural, economic, political and social development.
On the other hand, the enormous potential of renewable energy resources in the Mediterranean region is an example of the gains that the European Union could enjoy and make use of in order to achieve efficient energy policies, besides broadening the EU's trade area to 800 million people.
For example, in Portugal, more than 100 000 jobs are being lost in the textile sector because thousands of companies are going bust, which is, in turn, because of increased external competition.
I supported the report drafted by my French socialist colleague, Vincent Peillon, because the Union for the Mediterranean (UfM) aims to promote the process of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation through specific strategic measures both for Europe as a whole and also for the Mediterranean zone.
I hope that the next summit in Barcelona is a success, that the Member States really do re-launch the UfM and that, once the secretariat has been set up in Barcelona, a whole series of projects can take shape, in everyone's interests.
I believe that the interests of European and Mediterranean citizens should always take precedence over those of the financiers.
The structures of the Union for the Mediterranean provide the ideal means of supporting the work done by Frontex and, in particular, of involving the African states in projects so that economic migrants can be encouraged to remain in Africa.
The various projects that are planned, such as an increase in the exchange of students and the numerous economic programmes, which are intended to promote trade between the EU and the African states, are also very positive.
However, these countries must not be pressurised into agreeing to a free trade zone, because this involves a serious risk of causing major damage to local and regional markets.
With a view to the constructive development of relations between the European Union and third countries, I endorsed the report on the Union for the Mediterranean.
However, the Union for the Mediterranean Summit of states planned for 7 June 2010 in Barcelona is the perfect opportunity to put current declarations into effect, for the European Union cannot allow itself to lose significance in the region, with which it has traditional ties.
The Heads of State or Government on both sides of the Mediterranean will meet in Barcelona on 7 June 2010.
It is vital that this meeting leads to real progress - I am referring in particular to the establishment of institutions of the Union for the Mediterranean, but also to progress in the areas of economy and commerce, employment, the reduction of poverty, agricultural issues, food security, water and rural development.
These measures are clearly mentioned in the resolution that has been submitted to Parliament, and I therefore support it.
in writing. - There have not been any big surprises in the amendments tabled by GUE/NGL (all were rejected) except for the first part of Amendment 6 (Western Sahara).
I wish to make it clear that I voted in favour of Amendment 6, which stresses Morocco's responsibility in the situation of Human Rights violations in Western Sahara.
The second part of Amendment 1 (which underlined the need to increase finances for the UfM) tabled by Brok, was also rejected.
I voted for the Resolution on the 'Need for an EU strategy for the South Caucasus'.
The South Caucasus is strategically important to the European Union.
In my capacity as well, as my political group's virtual rapporteur for this resolution, I urge free trade agreements to be signed with Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
I completely agree with this report, as I believe that following the Joint Declaration of the Prague Eastern Partnership Summit, the EU should strengthen its partnerships in the East, particularly with the three southern Caucasus countries, through a clear and well defined strategy.
The geostrategic importance of the region, particularly with regard to the supply and transport of raw materials between the East and West, must be an important factor in establishing future agreements between the EU and these countries.
The recent conflict between Russia and Georgia - a country which has been proclaiming that it wants to join the European Union and that it shares the EU's ideals - makes it clear that a strategy needs to be defined for the South Caucasus region.
I hope that the European Union will expand on what it already knows about this region, and contribute to peace and progress between the peoples of the South Caucasus.
The policy of enlargement and strengthening EU trade, political and cultural relations with third countries underscores the strategic importance of the Southern Caucasus countries: Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia.
Considering the geostrategic location of these countries, bordered by the powerful Russia, Turkey, and Iran, the European Union can and should adopt an influential approach and a collaborative role which can further peace and security in this region.
This will be crucial for ensuring the best economic development conditions, both cultural and social, along with the democratisation of this region, which will also encompass the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea.
The process of deepening relations aimed at integrating these countries into the European Union will certainly help to improve levels of justice, freedom and human progress.
I also endorse the importance of an energy market development strategy for the EU, as advocated in this report.
This viewpoint is very focused on the 2008 conflict between Russia and Georgia, and on issues of territory and Russia's sovereignty over South Ossetia and Abkhazia.
It is in the light of these interests that the implicit support for the re-launched arms race and military build-up in the region should be understood; the EU is taking part in this process by getting involved in the sabre rattling between the USA, NATO and Russia.
The majority in Parliament is involved in this hypocrisy: Parliament has set itself up as the knight in shining armour that defends states' territorial integrity now that it is about Georgia, but promoted, aided and continues to aid the process of Kosovo's secession from Serbia.
It is excellent that the authors of a report on the need to develop a new EU strategy for the South Caucasus have taken notice of an organisation such as the OSCE.
It is a pity that they apparently failed to spot the relationships between the states in the area and Iran, and also the specific intentions of Turkey in the region.
Despite this, I believe it will be possible in the near future for the Members concerned to improve their knowledge of this part of Europe and for the next session to be more balanced.
For the aforementioned reasons, the GUE/NGL Group will abstain from the final vote on the resolution.
Unfortunately, this report on the EU strategy is not balanced and I have already mentioned this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
With regard to the relationship with Armenia and, in particular, the situation in Nagorno-Karabakh, the EU has changed its position.
For these reasons, I have voted against the Kirilov report.
I voted against Amendment 7 because it removed an essential part of the report's text where Parliament calls on Russia to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Georgia and the inviolability of its borders which have been recognised internationally.
