Measures to be taken to free Nobel Peace Prize laureate Liu Xiaobo (debate) The next item is the statements on measures to be taken to free Nobel Peace Prize laureate Liu Xiaobo.
Madam President, honourable Members - if I have understood correctly this time - it is on behalf of Lady Ashton, our High Representative, that I have the honour of taking the floor before you.
The European Union continues to monitor on a daily basis, through its delegation in Beijing and its bilateral embassies, the situation with respect to Mr Liu Xiaobo, Nobel Peace Prize winner, his wife Liu Xia, as well as their friends and lawyers.
The house arrest that Mrs Liu Xia and many human rights activists in China have been under since 8 October worries us as much as it disappoints us, and we condemn it.
In this particular case, the European Union has always considered that Charter 08 was a peaceful manifesto, calling for more respect for human rights in China.
Our position could not be any different when the Nobel Committee announced on 8 October, entirely independently need I point out, its decision.
We have congratulated Liu Xiaobo via the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs, Lady Ashton, and via the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso, and we have stressed how important his release is to us.
Madam President, the European Union will continue with consistency and determination the efforts that it has undertaken for nearly two years now to see Liu Xiaobo freed so that he can exercise his rights in full and take part, as he would like to, in the public debate that he initiated in China with Charter 08.
We carry on hoping that he will be able to collect the Nobel Peace Prize in person on 10 December.
We call on China to remove the restrictions on freedom of movement and of expression to which his wife Liu Xia and many of his friends are subjected.
The European Union has repeatedly maintained that it considers Charter 08 to be a legitimate exercise of freedom of expression and, as the Presidency has just noted, the European Union has reiterated several times the serious concerns it has about Liu Xiaobo's arrest, trial and imprisonment.
Both President Barroso and the Vice-President of the Commission and EU High Representative, Cathy Ashton, have welcomed the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to Liu Xiaobo on 8 October.
However, the Commission regrets the fact that the Chinese authorities have reacted by putting his wife, Mrs Liu Xia, under house arrest, and by restricting freedom of movement for many of his friends.
The Commission, as mentioned by the Vice-President of the Commission and EU High Representative, Cathy Ashton, in her statement, hopes that Liu Xiaobo will be able to collect the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize in person, in Oslo.
Madam President, ten months ago in this House, I was saying that the 11-year prison sentence given to Liu Xiaobo by the Chinese Government simply for expressing his views was symptomatic of the Chinese authorities stepping up their campaign against human rights activists.
However, the Chinese authorities' attitude seems, for the time being, to be much more hard line than that of the Soviets because not even a member of Liu Xiaobo's family or his lawyer is able to get to Oslo.
This is why I welcome the initiative proposed by Lech Wałęsa to represent the Chinese dissident symbolically in Oslo.
However, I hope that the Chinese authorities will decide at the last moment to release Liu Xiaobo.
The sense of unity being displayed by Council and Commission, and by the diplomatic representatives in Oslo, concerning the ceremony which may take place on 10 December, is encouraging.
There are between seven and eight million people imprisoned across China, there are at least 5 000 executions a year.
Madam President, Liu Xiaobo has been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize and we are very pleased about this because it is a demonstration of the universality of human rights, which lies at the heart of our political self-understanding.
The Chinese Government has responded harshly to the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize.
The name Charter 08 is, after all, a conscious reference to Charter 77.
Madam President, following the release of Aung San Suu Kyi, Liu Xiaobo is now the only Nobel laureate who is incarcerated, in prison.
From the speeches that we have already heard from the Council and here in Parliament, all of us here hope that he will be able to receive this Nobel Prize in freedom, or that he will be freed as soon as possible.
Moreover, as we have already seen, David Cameron recently travelled to China, very interested in doing business with the country, but forgetting to make a single forceful reference to human rights.
We must not forget that apart from such leading figures as himself, there are many others who are not being spoken about, for example, the human rights activist, Mao Hengfeng, who is currently in a re-education/labour camp precisely for protesting against the imprisonment of Liu Xiaobo.
This should be a priority for meetings such as the European Union-China summit which was held on 6 October.
Liu Xiaobo is not a criminal: he is a brave and committed citizen who brings prestige across the world to China and the Chinese people, and of whom the Chinese people should only be proud.
I remain painfully aware of the situation of Dhondup Wangchen, the Tibetan film maker, who suffers from hepatitis B and is in need of urgent medical attention in prison.
The decision to award the Nobel Peace Prize to Liu Xiaobo must be considered as strong support for the struggle for freedom of expression in China.
It also serves, however, as a reminder to the international community of the need for reform in China.
Liu Xiaobo, the Chinese dissident who won the Nobel Peace Prize, has been a great defender of the application of these values during his lifetime.
Firstly, the European Union will, of course, be present as a whole, as it has been every year, with at least the same presence as last year - like all the Union's diplomatic delegations - at the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to Mr Liu Xiaobo in Oslo on 10 December.
Secondly, the European Union has been holding a regular dialogue on the issue of human rights with China for 15 years, and although there is always more one could do in this respect, we attach great importance to this task, which seems to us more pertinent than ever at a time when people are speaking out in China and are calling for the scope of human rights to be broadened.
