As a representative of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I would like to pose a question to the President of the Commission, who has been busy dealing with the pictures that we have been seeing in recent weeks from the Mediterranean, where many people fleeing from the situation in Africa have made it to Europe, while some have also failed to make it.
As you know, the European Union as such does not have all those resources, so we need the cooperation of the Member States in making them available.
In fact, it is one of the topics for the European Council this month, on 23 and 24 June.
I think there is a political will to do this but it needs to be done in a coordinated manner and this is where an effort has been initiated by the Commission: Commissioner Malmström is working on the matter with the Member States, and I hope the European Council later this month will confirm our thinking.
In fact, they are cooperating and we are now trying to reach some form of pragmatic logistical agreements between the Tunisian authorities and our own agencies.
My question to you, Mr Barroso, is can you confirm that this is also the position of the Commission?
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - I do not think that the crisis concerning Greece and the euro is over.
President of the Commission. - Mr Zahradil, first of all, unfortunately, the economic problems that we have in Europe are not only in the euro area.
This principle was included by us, the Commission, in the directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, which came into force on 11 March 2011 and which, unfortunately, will only be applied on 1 January 2013.
There was a conference beforehand specifically called e-G8, attended by some of the big players in the Internet business and the authorities.
The independence of the ECB is respected by all the Member States of the euro area.
Unfortunately, your criticism of the euro area is always ideological.
But, in fact, we have different problems because this is the first time we have had this type of monetary union without some more integrated institutional setting.
That is precisely why we are now trying to have a comprehensive response, and the ECB is part of the effort we are making to give financial stability to the euro area.
President of the Commission. - First of all, I do not lie and the Commission has always been very consistent in the information it has given about all the situations.
One other question I have is about Cathy Ashton.
They are nominated by countries but they are there to represent the European Union.
Mr President, my apologies for the delay in my arrival.
There is a risk that, following the banking crisis, the economic crisis and the crisis in the national budgets, 2011 and 2012 will be the years of social crisis in Europe.
Mr Schulz, only today, the Commission adopted country-specific recommendations for each of the 27 countries, and there is also an introductory note in which we express in very clear terms this concern that you have just mentioned, which is very important for us.
It looks at all the issues affecting the labour market: how do we attract more people into the labour market, how do we incorporate this social dimension into all our policies?
However, I think we are agreed on the goals. (IT) Mr President, to be honest, I did not want to participate in the discussion on the G8, but I did want to put a question to President Barroso regarding culture.
That was the angle taken on the issue at the last G8 meeting. (NL) Mr Barroso, you were just talking about the European Central Bank (ECB), which you described as independent.
So we do not have a previously prepared envelope - this is for country A or for country B - the country has to show that it deserves to be supported.
Therefore, anything we are able to do to mobilise not only EU institutions but also our societies to help our neighbours' transition to democracy is very important, and I can only welcome the interest shown by the European Parliament. (EL) Mr President, on the subject of the G8 summit, according to some financial information I was reading, global GDP was USD 58 trillion and the money supply was USD 615 trillion in 2009.
President of the Commission. - Regarding the Middle East peace process, I do not remember a single international meeting in the last 30 years where this issue was not mentioned.
I can tell you that we are also discussing this with the Member States and that I hope that we in Europe will have a common position on the matter. (FR) Mr President, Mr Barroso, the G8 countries decided to grant the sum of USD 40 billion to Tunisia and Egypt, as has already been said.
President of the Commission. - First of all, I would like to express my solidarity with the Greek people.
President of the Commission. - I have great respect for all our democratic states, so it is not up to me to tell them what they should do in this matter.
