Agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security (short presentation) The next item is the report by Mrs Sârbu, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security.
Against a background where food production needs to increase by a minimum of 70% by 2050 in order to meet the world population's food demands, food security must be the topic at the heart of the debates conducted at both global and European level.
First of all, we need a strong common agricultural policy aimed at guaranteeing food security for as many EU citizens as possible and also at helping ensure global food security in the context of limited resources and the impact from climate change.
This report is extremely welcome in our overall debate on this issue and in the context of our debate on reform of the common agricultural policy.
The ambitious objectives of common agricultural policy reform can only be achieved if the reforms extend beyond the narrow boundaries of agriculture and if the objectives are also taken into account in the action required in other policy areas and in other global bodies.
This report makes this patently clear and I take my hat off to it for doing so. (PL) Mr President, I, too, would like to congratulate Mrs Sârbu for an excellent report, which I consider to be one of the most important in this parliamentary term.
We must respect agriculture - it is the guarantee of our food security. (DE) Mr President, it is the case in politics as it is in daily life: we do not fully appreciate what we have.
That means that, in the European Union, we, too, must endeavour to ensure that we maintain this self-sufficiency rate in terms of agricultural products and foodstuffs.
For this, we also need strategic coordination on a global scale. (HU) Mr President, security of food supply in the EU will be one of the most serious challenges facing security policy in the coming decades.
It is very important that this common agricultural policy has adequate resources in the future, and to guarantee that it does, the finance ministers and decision makers must be convinced that the agricultural economy in the European Union produces not only food but also public goods, including public environmental goods, which we would not be able to guarantee or produce without agriculture. (HU) Mr President, speaking of the food security issue, I am bothered by the fact that the report is treating EU countries as a single integrated unit.
I must add that instead of supporting multinational corporations, we must support smallholders so that they can be Europe's lifesavers in a developing food crisis. (PT) Mr President, the recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security that this report speaks of is inseparable from the recognition and promotion of the concept of food sovereignty.
The Commission fully agrees that there is a need to tackle excessive price volatility.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 18 January 2011.
So that European agricultural policy may carry out its most important task, namely, to provide Europe's population with healthy and good quality food at reasonable prices, while ensuring an adequate income for farmers, it must be competitive in the global market and there must be a guarantee of fair competition in Europe's internal market.
We must acknowledge the strategic importance of agriculture in the European Union and do all we can to ensure that in the future, the people of Europe will not have to experience food shortages as a result of the failure of EU politicians and governments to have spotted the risks in time and to avert them.
The own-initiative report recognises the fact that agriculture is of strategic importance in the context of global food security.
It is important that these market intervention mechanisms play a central role in the future common agricultural policy.
Agricultural policy must respond to European and global challenges, particularly when we take into account the fact that, according to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation, food production has to increase by at least 70% to meet the needs of a world population which, by 2050, is set to exceed 9 billion.
It can be seen, then, that the common agricultural policy needs to increase food security by increasing efficiency, while at the same time promoting an environmentally sustainable food policy.
The link between the European common agricultural policy (CAP) and global food security is an important theme that must be taken into account during the process of drafting the CAP post-2013.
In the European Union, around 80 million people still live below the poverty line today, and many of them are helped through food aid programmes.
I welcome the report on recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security.
According to the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), demand for food and animal fodder could rise by 70% by 2050.
