Financing instrument for development cooperation - Financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide (amendment of Regulation (EC) No 1889/2006) - A financing instrument for development cooperation (amendment of Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006) - Establishment of a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries (amendment of Regulation (EC) No 1934/2006) (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the recommendation for second reading by Mr Goerens, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on a financing instrument for development cooperation [16447/1/2010 - C7-0424/2010 - the recommendation for second reading by Mrs Lochbihler and Mrs Gál, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the Council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1889/2006 on establishing a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide [16446/1/2010 - C7-0427/2010 - the recommendation for second reading by Mr Mitchell, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on a financing instrument for development cooperation (amending Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006) [16442/1/2010 - C7-0426/2010 - the recommendation for second reading by Mr Scholz, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on establishing a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories (amending Regulation (EC) No 1934/2006).
However, bananas from ACP countries will continue to enjoy duty-free access within the European Union.
In addition, Parliament and the Council have reached an agreement on the financing of the accompanying measures for 2010 and 2011.
Our interpretation of Article 290 of the Treaty of Lisbon backs up our demand.
Parliament and the Committee on Development prove this every day in their work.
Finally, regarding the delegated acts - a matter on which we have yet to reach agreement for any of the financing instruments.
Now, at second reading, the other side of the coin must be addressed, namely agreement on the inter-institutional debate on Parliament's right to democratic scrutiny.
This specific package, the case of delegated acts, is what could be the first significant example that the role of the European Parliament has indeed grown since 1 December 2009.
Thus at second reading, and in all probability during the subsequent agreement process, we, too, are fighting for the recognition of the European Parliament's right to democratic scrutiny, and I believe, together with my colleague, that this is relevant precisely in the case of the financing instrument for democracy and human rights.
rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories (ICI) is being fundamentally amended in this parliamentary term.
It clearly states who can obtain financial assistance, for what purposes and on what terms.
All the matters of substance have been approved by a majority in plenary.
The rapporteurs for the various foreign policy financing instruments, the chairs of the committees and the leaders of the groups are all agreed that we must fight for this democratic right.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am here to replace Andris Piebalgs, who is abroad due to a long foreseen engagement, on the second debate on these external relations financial instruments.
We have cooperated very well on these files and, apart from delegated acts, there is a lot of convergence in substance among the three institutions concerned.
Parliament expects Article 290 of the Treaty, outlining the procedure known as delegated acts, to be applied to the adoption of strategy papers and multiannual action programmes.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament will today give its verdict for a second time on the amendment to the financing instrument for development cooperation providing for the establishment of Banana Accompanying Measures for the main ACP banana-producing countries.
The European Union made a commitment at that time to provide EUR 190 million in support to the ACP countries to help them cope with this new competition.
The Council disagreed with us on the form, which is why the regulation has been submitted for a second reading today.
The European Parliament is behind them and is doing everything in its power to ensure that the EUR 190 million are released as quickly as possible.
The European Parliament is defending its prerogatives as laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon.
So I think we can agree that we need more flexibility in the foreign policy instruments, but we must underline that this can only go with enhanced democratic scrutiny at the same time.
We are currently fighting on this issue, and we also need to signal that, while for the future of the financial instruments there needs to be more flexibility, we cannot go ahead with that without the enhanced democratic scrutiny that we ask for.
Consequently, whether or not this is a delegated act in legal terms, we must have the possibility of revoking decisions if, in the legislator's opinion, they are not being executed in accordance with the spirit intended by the legislator.
The democracy and human rights instrument is a tool of the European Union that can and must be used, without the consent of governments, in support of the defenders of human rights and those who promote gender equality, the rule of law, free elections and democracy.
Hence the insistence of this Parliament on the delegated acts procedure. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, both Mrs Gomes and Mrs Lochbihler are right when they say that the events in Egypt and Tunisia should be receiving our support and should be attracting our attention, and indeed the instruments which we are debating, today, do create this possibility, particularly the financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide.
Our assistance is needed by Belarus and Ukraine, it is also needed by other countries of the Eastern Partnership, and I think these instruments should be used, too, for these very countries. (PT) Madam President, we are discussing here a series of packages concerning financial instruments, such as the Goerens report on a financial instrument for development cooperation, the report by my colleague, Mr Scholz, and others.
It is here that the process of codecision becomes a process of co-indecision by virtue of a tacit veto by the Council, which nothing in the reading of the Treaty justifies, and which is founded solely on capricious displeasure and an esoteric reading of Article 290 of the Treaty of Lisbon, which describes delegated acts.
It is time for this to stop and for delegated acts to develop normally in the codecision process. (BG) Madam President, I will, of course, support the proposal being made because Parliament must defend its rights when it concerns powers granted by the Treaties.
I wish to say that we need to extend our control, and not only to preliminary control of the delegated acts which we are discussing at the moment.
The Treaty of Lisbon has been a major step forward in developing the European Parliament's influence.
Nowadays, developing countries are strategic partners for the European Union.
However, at the same time, the EU must become more flexible and speed up the mechanisms for developing trade relations with partner countries.
I think that it is particularly important to implement financing instruments in countries like Turkmenistan and Iraq, which can provide energy resources through projects such as Nabucco.
The Commission hopes that we will find a solution for these important financing instruments.
In the current instruments, which are in force until 2013, which means another two years, multiannual strategy papers are considered to be implementing measures necessary for the implementation of the budget.
The Commission already involves Parliament in the process of democratic scrutiny of strategy papers.
It is too soon to say what the new instruments will look like because they are subject to extensive consultation with stakeholders and to Commission proposals.
Provided that the criteria established in Article 290 of the Lisbon Treaty are fully respected, the option is open to consider recourse to delegated acts in the new instruments, but the Commission does not yet have a set view on this question.
Madam President, I too would like to thank all the speakers who talked about financing instruments in general and about those relating to the report that I have submitted to you this morning in particular.
We are demanding nothing more and nothing less than that.
I would also like to say a word about those who were more critical in their remarks, specifically those who spoke rather sceptically about development cooperation policy, and those who always refer to the taxpayer in order to reject any support for development cooperation policy.
Those who would like the rest of the world to believe that any money of ours that is spent on external solidarity is money wasted in the four corners of the world would therefore be well advised to reread the statistics in the United Nations Human Development Report.
We do not want micro-management, but we do need to be able to use this instrument in a responsible and well-informed way, so that we can, if necessary, correct what has gone wrong.
This instrument makes a very good complement to our policy for requiring other states to support human rights.
Our aim is not to mix these but, as it has been stated here by both the rapporteurs and my fellow Members, Parliament must have the opportunity to have a say in planning and in strategy to make execution really function effectively and to direct the funds to where they are most needed.
For this reason we would really like the Council and the Commission to show openness so that a good compromise may finally be reached, since we all have an interest in making these instruments work really efficiently, and for this all three institutions are needed.
We and others have brought it down to 22 000 because of democracy and human rights and the sort of financial instruments which the Union has approved.
The amendments proposed by Parliament do not concern the substance of the DCI or the other instruments, but the role of Parliament in the practical implementation of the law.
In technical terms, the amendments ensure that certain draft decisions taken by the Commission are recognised as delegated acts as defined in Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
All proposed amendments were already included in Parliament's first reading position, which was adopted by plenary with a large majority on 21 October 2010.
However, the Council has flatly rejected all amendments on democratic scrutiny and delegated acts, without proposing any alternative solution which would satisfy Parliament's demands.
Legally, our arguments are sound.
The strategy papers are multiannual programmes, decided under the DCI for example, which fulfil the criteria for the application of the delegated act procedure.
The criteria mentioned in Article 290 are compulsory if they are fulfilled.
We will not be divided or have our role as a legislature ignored.
In the end, there was an interinstitutional agreement between Parliament, the Commission and the Council which said that we, through our Committee on Development for example, would have scrutiny rights over the DCI, and we set up groups to carry out that agreement.
rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, Mr De Gucht, you are absolutely right that the outside world does not understand why we cannot come to an agreement with the Council.
I believe, and Mr Brok has discussed this in detail, that this is only about giving us the opportunity to intervene.
To give another example, this time in more blunt terms: For us, the countries of south-east Asia are not just junior partners, as the Commission has stated.
The recommendation for a second reading on the establishment of a financing instrument for development cooperation, mentions the high level of agreement over the measures, and in principle adopts all of the amendments from the first reading.
I personally consider it a priority to resolve the systemic issues relating to the multiannual funding of development assistance, and I agree with the rapporteur that we must sort out the funding method for 2012 and 2013.
The recommendation states that the regulation radically reduces spare capacity within the framework of the ceiling for Heading 4 of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2007-2013, and does not leave sufficient room for manoeuvre in respect of addressing and responding to any future crises.
The recommendation also addresses legislative issues in the procedural approach of the Council, which Parliament criticises, since Parliament should have the same monitoring powers as the Council when it comes to adopting strategic decisions over the issue of where and how development aid will be spent.
in writing. - (CS) One of the main aims of EU development policy is the reduction and definitive eradication of poverty, to which the proposed EUR 190 million Banana Accompanying Measures (BAM) for 2010-2013, approved by the Commission on 17 March 2010, should make a clear contribution.
However, at the same time, I firmly believe that if this Parliament has to give the Commission a freer hand in financing such projects, it must retain its monitoring role.
In the debate on the persecution of Christians worldwide, the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs assured us that every bilateral agreement on cooperation now includes a clause on democracy and human rights.
