Innovative financing at a global and European level (debate) The next item on the agenda is the report by Mrs Podimata, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the report on innovative financing at global and European level.
The European Parliament own-initiative report on innovative financing could not have come at a better time, because the crisis which, as we all know, is putting everyone to the test, especially the euro area at the moment, has resulted in a severe reduction in public sector resources, extensive austerity programmes and budgetary consolidation in the majority of Member States.
At the same time, it has put massive pressure on the EU budget, as we saw very recently in the debate on the new financial framework.
The second basic and commonly accepted conclusion to come out of this situation is that Europe and the Member States urgently need new resources which will help to bring about the speedy recovery of and growth in the European economy, this time in a balanced manner that limits inequalities and divergences.
Innovative financing can play a key role in meeting these challenges because it can help enormously in generating resources for national budgets and for the EU budget.
The report comprises four basic chapters: taxation of the financial sector, Eurobonds and European project bonds, carbon tax and financing for development.
These two assumptions are broadly accepted by Parliament and by the European Commission in its recent communication on taxation of the financial sector.
Even if it will not be easy to go right ahead and adopt a financial transaction tax at European level, because it will be hard to obtain a unanimous decision by the Council, as the only European institution elected directly by European citizens, the European Parliament has a duty to send out a clear political message along these lines.
It is our duty, not the European Commission's duty, to send out a strong political message. (Applause) Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Development and, in particular, Anni Podimata, for her report on innovative financing at global and European levels.
As you know, the Commission is preparing an in-depth impact assessment on instruments for the taxation of the financial sector, to be delivered by summer 2011.
I would encourage you to wait for the results of the impact assessment before taking any firm position on the introduction of a financial transaction tax at EU level.
However, this instrument merits further analysis and discussion at technical and political level; moral hazard implications for Member States need to be further examined, in particular.
The Commission must consider in this regard the feasibility of introducing a carbon tax, similar to VAT, to be applied to any product on the internal market.
The Commission should carry out, as soon as possible, an impact study on the taxation of financial transactions at EU and global level in order to examine the effect and economic benefits they produce by reducing the volume of speculative financial transactions that are currently causing serious market disturbances.
However, I have learned that the socialist group has submitted an alternative resolution, which means that a document on which there has been no consultation shall be put to the vote first.
Anyone who wants to give this House a voice, who wants to win back trust, who wants to ensure that the citizens of Europe can once again look to our institutions with hope and a belief that we are doing something to deal with the crises must, in this instance, vote in favour of the alternative motion tabled by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament and must vote in favour of Amendment 2, which has been endorsed by more than 120 Members of this House from all the major groups.
Mr President, I wish to thank Mrs Podimata for her constructive cooperation.
It is important to discuss the possibility of financing infrastructure projects with the help of European project bonds, for example, as well as a possible solution for European carbon taxation so that we can switch to sustainable production in Europe.
It is also important to point out that the Member States - those States in which you live, ladies and gentlemen - must meet the aid targets in order to be able to finance essential projects.
I also believe that the financial sector should be involved and should pay the costs incurred by States and taxpayers in rescuing banks in crisis.
In the opinion of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, a financial transaction tax must be global in nature in order for it to be able to have a positive effect.
The ALDE Group rejects Amendments 1 and 2, but is favour of Mr Gauzès's Amendment 3.
I think that it is right and proper to say here that we are actually talking about the introduction of new European taxes, and we already know in advance who will have to pay them.
It is banks and financial institutions which will pay these new European taxes.
The amount given in the documentation that the European Union or European institutions will gain, for example, from the introduction of a financial transaction tax, is very contentious.
However, if the banks and financial institutions do stay here and continue to offer financial services, then they will, of course, evidently pass these costs on to their customers and consumers.
It is good to see that there is some very complex financial consolidation going on in the Member States and I think that the European institutions should also get involved.
The European Conservatives will vote against this proposal, because we are against the introduction of new taxes and the raising of taxes.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the call for a financial transaction tax is nothing new; opponents of globalisation have been calling for such a tax for some years.
However, cuts in public spending primarily impact workers, pensioners and the poor; in other words, those reliant on the welfare state.
The complaints by some countries in surplus that Eurobonds would increase their interest burden are unacceptable since, at the same time, these countries in surplus are earning more from their exports to deficit countries.
I am sorry, but we are living in a global economy.
If we become uncompetitive through tax or regulation, people simply move - and they can do so in the space of 24 hours.
The biggest foreign exchange market in the world - the biggest financial sector in the world - is in London.
In 2010, as a result of the AIFM Directive, one in four hedge funds left the City of London.
The European Parliament can prove itself here, too.
If we all vote in favour tomorrow, then this could represent a decisive new step towards a financial transaction tax.
I will certainly be voting in favour of Amendment 2 tomorrow. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is actually about innovative financing, but we have already heard something about that.
I would like to concentrate very briefly on what this debate is really about.
It is not about the introduction of Eurobonds - and the CDU/CSU parties will certainly speak out against that - but rather it is about learning the lessons of the crisis in the financial markets, and that means quite simply that speculation must be taxed too.
There is no alternative; that is why I am not simply looking for applause now, Mr Bullmann, but for a clear, strong vote by the European Parliament tomorrow.
It is our duty as Europeans. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Podimata's report contains many important aspects that are not limited to the issue of the financial transaction tax.
I believe that Europe has a responsibility to show the world the way ahead; I believe that this House has a responsibility to send out a signal and a political message.
Clearly, we must consider the risk of relocation - we are not irresponsible - but, on the other hand, this Parliament should not make its decisions under threat. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I, too, would like to express my thanks to Mrs Podimata.
The financial transaction tax is the result of a citizens' initiative that is driving this proposal, which is essentially based on the Tobin tax, and Parliament's position on the matter will therefore be decisive.
We should categorically reject such hidden tactics here and now, because we have successful transaction taxes even at a national level and these transaction taxes work in sub-markets.
In other words, even if Mr Šemeta is currently working on the impact assessment, there is no point in investigating whether or not a transaction tax can work; we should investigate only in which sub-markets it can be introduced nationally, in which sub-markets it can be introduced across Europe and those sub-markets where it can only be introduced globally.
It also means that as the amendment is worded, anyone who claims to want transactions to be taxed has no reason to vote tomorrow against the wording proposed jointly by 120 Members.
Ladies and gentlemen, let us send out a clear signal tomorrow in favour of a European financial transaction tax.
There is no technical reason not to do so. (PT) Mr President, there has long been a need to create a financial transaction tax (FTT) at global level and, therefore, also at European Union level, just as there has been a need to put an end to tax havens and speculative financial products.
There has long been a need to control and effectively regulate the capital market, preventing speculation on a very wide range of products, including commodities, property transactions, pensions, and insurance, as well as a whole panoply of derivatives, including those based on sovereign debt itself.
Unfortunately, the European Commission has made no progress with these proposals, but it is well known that tax evasion and tax fraud are estimated to cost some EUR 250 billion per year in Europe, which would be enough to cut the public deficits without the need to raise taxes.
According to current projections, even at a low rate, an FTT would generate almost EUR 200 billion per year at European Union level and USD 650 billion at global level.
It is estimated that this would generate EUR 200 billion per annum.
While there is a feeling that the financial services and banking sector should meet the bill for the crisis, we should not cheat our citizens by imposing on them an additional fiscal burden. (DE) Mr President, taxing speculation - which, in many cases, brings no benefit for the real economy - by means of a financial transaction tax is undoubtedly the right approach.
That is something that I reject. (PT) Mr President, the issue of innovative financing at global and European level is not only important but also extremely current.
To be completely honest, I do not know of any.
I therefore believe that these aspects of the Podimata report deserve our support, and I would at this point like to call on Parliament to be true to itself, reminding the House that introduction of the levy was approved by this Chamber in March 2010 in a report on the impact of the crisis on developing countries. (SV) Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, who has succeeded in producing a report that is also stimulating debate.
I think it is important to remind ourselves of the fact that the European Commission has actually promised to put forward a number of ambitious proposals by the summer regarding what we usually term 'own resources'.
I personally think it is important for us to introduce a financial sector tax and for us to do so at a global level.
It is important, though, to introduce taxation which is relevant to the current circumstances since, in the UK for example, Barclays Bank only paid GBP 113 million in corporation tax in 2009, at well below the UK rate of 28%, while the Royal Bank of Scotland allocated EUR 25 billion to tax avoidance schemes that year and cost the British and US exchequer EUR 500 million in lost revenue.
The four measures are all innovative and I should say that we should not confine the debate only to the financial transaction tax.
That might be good because, of course, we need taxes.
The difference is between those who want to know what the consequences would be and those who do not want to know the consequences - those who want an impact assessment and those who do not want one.
We should remind ourselves that citizens have already provided a massive taxpayer bail-out of EUR 4.5 trillion of State aid to the banking sector - EUR 9 500 per man, woman and child in the EU - and, of course, the public are continuing to pay with the loss of their jobs during this extreme financial crisis.
While Ireland borrows EUR 85 billion to solve its economic crisis, its total support to banks is estimated at EUR 725 billion.
This report does not say how we should introduce an FTT or how much it should be.
It is now clear that we are at the beginning of examining evidence in this area, and one study shows that even a minuscule tax just on foreign exchange trade could raise USD 26 billion worldwide.
Of course, we also support you, Mr Šemeta, in making sure that we do not have the failed Swedish model, which is not a good example of an FTT.
I am disappointed that you have already taken that decision.
It is a vote that backs our citizens and the view that they should not be left paying continually for the mistakes of the financial services and the banking sector. (FI) Mr President, I thank the rapporteur for her excellent work.
I would have liked to see greater weight placed in this report on the matter of the financing of international climate actions, although I also strongly support the financial transaction tax.
A carbon tax for shipping arriving in, and departing from, the EU would be a globally significant measure, as this would affect a third of all international shipping and would provide developing countries with a stable source of cash for their climate actions. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think today's topic is a fundamental issue because it concerns not only financial taxation, but also an important market topic.
Unemployment is today's real social problem; this is our task today.
It tells us that implementing a tax at European level alone would be disastrous for our financial sector.
That is why I cannot support a text which chooses to overlook a tax on financial transactions. (EL) Mr President, Mrs Podimata's report contains interesting ideas - both ancient and modern - which are especially topical at this moment in time, given the challenges we face in the euro area, and in the European Union as a whole, in terms of stability and growth.
I wanted to comment, in particular, on the question of a financial transaction tax which, as stated in the amendment which I endorsed, I view as a positive step, even at - albeit - European level, despite its difficulty and complexity, as highlighted in all the relevant studies, in terms of collecting it and how effective it will be if it is only applied at European and not at international level.
However, apart from these technical specifics, we are particularly concerned about its possible impact on the competitiveness of the European economy: a prerequisite to our growth which would also appear to be obvious from the attempt to apply the competitiveness pact within the framework of economic governance on harsh and binding terms.
I would be very receptive and my proposal to negotiate would still apply to a tax which goes to the EU budget or to the support mechanism. (PT) Mr President, there is no point in repeating that the current situation is the most serious test of the survival of the euro and, therefore, of Europe.
The Podimata report opens the way for constructive solutions, so I would congratulate our fellow Member on the ideas she puts forward.
Commissioner, I do not think that the Commission should currently be rejecting or avoiding the clear political message that Parliament is giving it.
The public consultation cannot exclude analysis of the FTT: on the contrary, its analysis must be given the highest priority. (RO) Mr President, at nearly 10 percentage points, the European Union already has a higher tax burden than the United States, Japan and other global economic powers, and that means that European companies are at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis US companies and other companies acting globally.
Surely, there is great enthusiasm to introduce a new tax on financial transactions.
I therefore think that we can only talk about a tax on financial transactions in the European Union if we have a global agreement in this matter.
Secondly, I wish to express my full support for the introduction of Eurobonds to finance European infrastructure projects as a means to attract resources and also attract private sector resources to fund these projects. (RO) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Podimata.
The economic and financial crisis has revealed a number of disproportionate incentives existing in the financial sector, as well as deficiencies in the regulatory and supervisory framework of the financial system.
I call upon the Commission and the Member States to execute at least 50% of public procurement by electronic public procurement systems by 2015, thus respecting the commitments made by the Member States in Manchester in 2005.
I would also like to draw attention to the unexploited potential of innovative revolving financial instruments aimed at increasing energy efficiency in buildings.
For my part, I will not support a measure of which the only consequence would be to penalise the European financial sector over our competitors. (MT) Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteur for reminding us that the internal market needs to be more efficient and effective if it is to improve.
We need to reflect on how the labour market will be affected, on how we are going to create more jobs, on how competitive we can remain as a European market competing with international ones.
However, at this point in time, we stand by our belief that new taxes are unacceptable. (FR) Mr President, my first words will be to commend the work of our rapporteur, Mrs Podimata, as well as the tremendous amount of work carried out by Mrs Hübner on behalf of our political group.
The first item of data is that transactions and speculation add up to between 80 and 100 times the value of the real economy.
The second category could finance the crisis management mechanism, which has become permanent.
Here, I would raise the issue of the political, and therefore parliamentary, control of these Eurobonds.
Therefore, we need these Eurobonds, these project bonds. (PL) Mr President, I would not like to repeat the arguments of my predecessors, my colleagues from my political group.
I forgot to thank Mrs Podimata as well as Mrs Hübner, without whose work the report from the Commission would have been considerably worse.
Not only globally but also in Europe, there are countries, including my own, whose banking system has proved its worth during the financial crisis.
Our financial system was already being monitored by our financial supervising authority, and regulations were in place which are only now being introduced at European level.
Eurobonds would blur the responsibility that Member States have for their own economies and saddle the Member States that have successfully attended to their own affairs with these increased interest payments.
The world's poorest of the poor have to suffer because several countries in an economic recession are cutting their development aid, and even their humanitarian emergency aid.
The report also quite rightly reminds us of the importance, not just of development cooperation, but also measures put in place by the developing countries themselves.
Yesterday, in Dublin, agreement was reached on the formation of a new government - a government which is committed to bringing Ireland out of one of the darkest hours in our history.
Lastly, the carbon tax: I have some concerns about this, but at least we are debating these very important issues in this House and tomorrow we will take a vote on them. (PL) Mr President, the ambitious strategic targets which the European Union has set itself demand considerable input of investment and resources.
It should be treated as support for the ambitious targets of the European Union, but not as a temptation to reduce contributions from the Member States.
It is necessary for the Union to send out a strong signal in finding a solution to the financial crisis, primarily by implementing these taxes. (RO) Mr President, a tax on financial transactions would affect competitiveness, but a tax applied globally in the right way could represent a method for collecting additional funds for global policies.
The study should cover the possible risk of relocating foreign investments in less transparent areas.
The financial transaction tax is a good idea as a basis, but I believe that going ahead with it without global application would, in the words of Nigel Farage, be kamikaze economics.
Once that feasibility study is available, we can then make a decision. (PL) Mr President, the tax on financial transactions is extremely important for the future of the European Union.
This tax will contribute to improved control of the financial sector.
Today, the costs of the crisis have been transferred to the citizens of the European Union.
More money in the European Union budget will mean more possibilities, more funding for science, education, investment in new technology, cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. (SK) Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur that the turbulence in the financial sector has resulted in serious problems not only for our citizens, but also for most of our businesses.
If we therefore vote in favour of a financial transaction tax at a rate of 0.05%, then we could have at our disposal potential revenue of nearly EUR 200 billion across the EU or even EUR 650 billion worldwide.
In other words, it is a step in the right direction. (DE) Mr President, if we want to stabilise the financial markets, then a financial transaction tax is unavoidable.
However, the tax rates also need to be set intelligently.
The tax rate on lower risk securities must be lower than that on higher risk securities.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like, first of all, to thank you for this very interesting debate.
Opinions are divided on the question as to whether the EU should envisage introducing a financial transaction tax at EU level as a first step.
As I said in my introductory speech, I would encourage you to wait for the results of the impact assessment in order to define a well-founded position in this area.
I can assure you that this impact assessment will be conducted very thoroughly.
We also have to analyse tax incidence.
Some of you raised the question of who will pay the tax.
So I would like to ask you to wait until the Commission has finalised this impact assessment.
Otherwise, I welcome the report which globally supports the actions of the Commission in innovative financing, in particular, in the area of carbon tax, euro project bonds and development financing.
Mr President, just a couple of words to summarise today's very interesting debate, for which I thank all the speakers.
All of you who have read the report on innovative financing know that the impact study relates to a great many points in the report and we certainly need an impact study; no one disputes that.
However, let us not hide behind impact studies and let us not betray our role and our remit, especially not at a time when we are fighting to defend the Community method, by which I mean the European Parliament's role in decision making.
The political decision as to whether or not we want a European tax lies with us and the Council, as German chancellor Angela Merkel reminded us last week.
The vote will take place at midday on Tuesday, 8 March 2011.
Written statements (Rule 149) Today, the European Parliament is sending out a strong signal to the G20 but, in particular, to the European Heads of State or Government.
in writing. - I support this report, which calls for the EU to promote the introduction of a financial transaction tax (FTT) at global level, and failing that, as a first step, the EU should implement an FTT at European level.
The spectacular rise in the volume of financial transactions in the global economy within the last decade, which, in 2007, reached a level 73.5 times higher than nominal world GDP, illustrates the growing disconnection between financial transactions and the needs of the real economy.
It is estimated that a low rate FTT could yield nearly EUR 200 billion per year at EU level and USD 650 billion at global level, constituting a substantial contribution by the financial sector to the cost of the crisis and to public finance sustainability.
In times of tight financial circumstances, we would be hard pressed to find any more obvious resources to fulfil joint European objectives than taxes imposed on financial transactions on an international or European level, the Eurobond, the EU project bond, and other innovative financial instruments.
On an annual level, the 0.05% transaction tax would contribute EUR 200 billion to the budget.
After having experienced the financial crisis, which demonstrated the volatility of the financial institutions' stocks, we considered it necessary to introduce a tax on financial transactions at European level, an issue which was also discussed extensively by the European Council.
We are not here to defend speculators or those who played the financial markets as though they were at a casino, but, on the other hand, we cannot take face-saving measures partly influenced by demagoguery, which then, in practice, go on to do more harm than we are setting out to prevent.
We need to find a solution that takes into account the need to stop a certain type of speculation, and prevent the EU from back-pedalling on the global market, which would create more problems at a time when we need to invest and try to overcome the crisis.
