Uganda: murder of David Kato The next item is the debate on six motions for a resolution on Uganda - murder of David Kato.
author. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all would wish that David Kato, who was murdered a few weeks ago, was still alive and that he could be here with us - as he was just last November - to speak about the rights of lesbian and gay people and the lack of rights for lesbian and gay people in Uganda, and to plan together with us what can be done to change that.
David Kato worked in his home country of Uganda to defend the human rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people.
The murder of David Kato is a crime that needs to be fully and impartially investigated.
author. - Mr President, the murder of David Kato is the direct result of the hatred and hostility towards Uganda's LGBT community, whipped up by certain hard-line parliamentarians in that country.
Mr President, we are now on to the third European Parliament resolution of this parliamentary term on discrimination against the LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) population in Uganda.
The case of David Kato is an example of that.
The best thing that can come from this is that the colonialism that we imposed through our laws, and sometimes through our religion, can actually end in the repeal of the law in the 38 countries that criminalise homosexuality and bring to an end the death penalty in Somalia, Mauritania, Sudan and Northern Nigeria.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we will pass our third resolution against the criminalisation of homosexuality in Uganda.
Persecution on the grounds of sexual orientation also needs to be considered as an essential element of the basis for applying for refugee status, and for the right to protection from the European Union and from the Member States that, unfortunately, do not currently grant that right.
We should also defend the right to unhindered political activity and we should also stress, in this context, the rights of human rights defenders. (PL) Mr President, the brutal murder of David Kato, one of Uganda's best-known human rights defenders, is the result of hatred towards homosexual people.
The recent news of the killing of David Kato in Uganda is yet another sad example of the discrimination and brutality that sexual minorities are facing.
There are Internet sites such as Redwatch, and on these sites the names and sometimes even the addresses are given of people who have a different sexual orientation, a different religion or a different world-view.
On 2 October 2010, David Kato's name and picture, along with the names and pictures of other alleged LGBT persons, were published by a Ugandan tabloid, the Rolling Stone, under the headline 'Hang them', shamelessly putting their lives at risk.
On 26 January, David Kato was killed.
David Kato will be a great loss to the global community of human rights defenders and to Uganda.
Right after his death, on 28 January, another paper, Red Pepper, published an outrageous article with very insulting statements about homosexuals.
On 9 February, the Human Rights Working Group, which brings together several partners in Uganda, invited human rights defenders to give an update on actions undertaken by the LGBT - and broader human rights defenders' - community, following David's murder.
On 3 February, the EU Delegation, together with ten EU Member States represented in Uganda and Norway, launched the Local Implementation Strategy on the EU Guidelines on Human Rights Defenders.
The EU intends to keep raising its concerns in relation to the draft anti-homosexuality bill and other cases of the persecution of LGBT people in Uganda on every suitable occasion, in dialogue with the government.
Written Statements (Rule 149) It was with great concern that I learnt about the death of human and LGBT rights activist David Kato Kisule in Uganda.
The murder of David Kato Kisule proves that there is both a major and real danger that hate and discrimination will cost human lives.
I welcome the statements made by President Barack Obama and Secretary of State Hilary Clinton who condemned David Kato Kisule's death and highlighted his efforts to establish a life of dignity in Uganda, regardless of sexual orientation and gender identity.
in writing. - Mr President, Vice-President of the Commission, the murder of David Kato Kisule was a tremendous tragedy for his family and friends as well as a great loss for the LGBT and human rights movement in sub-Saharan Africa.
