European Heritage Label (debate) The first item is the report by Mrs Paliadeli, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Union action for the European Heritage Label - C7-0071/2010 -.
Knowledge of our history, familiarity with our multicultural cultural heritage and information for the young generation about the ideas and people who were at the forefront in building the European Union may help to bridge the gap between the European Union and its citizens.
The European Commission has undertaken, on the instructions of the Council of the European Union, to draft a proposal to transform the intergovernmental European Heritage label into a Community institution.
We countered the Commission's proposal that the label should be awarded to a maximum of 27 sites with a proposal that the procedure should be repeated every two years, in order to maintain the value of the institution and allow time for sites to be selected and then monitored, once the label has been awarded.
That is why, in the aim of safeguarding the old institution and promoting the validity of the new institution, we felt that the transitional provisions in Article 18 in the Commission's proposal were not needed.
Mr President, I should like to start by thanking the European Parliament, especially, the rapporteur, Mrs Paliadeli, and the shadow rapporteurs, for their solid support for the Commission's proposal on the European Heritage Label.
The European Heritage Label will also help to increase cultural tourism and will bring physical and financial benefits.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, I completely agree with all the other speakers that this is an excellent initiative and I am very pleased that the Committee on Culture and Education and Mrs Paliadeli are putting this forward.
I would like particularly to thank our rapporteur who has done excellent work on this.
This particular opportunity to establish an identity that is also encompassed by the principle of subsidiarity, can only exist through culture, which is why we need to do even more in this area.
This label can represent all of this and highlight all the myriad forms of European identity that the Member States have contributed over time.
I believe that what we are going to do with this European Heritage Label will also help the younger generations to understand the ideas that were behind the founding fathers of the European Union, so that they can see that this European Union, this European integration process that we are going through, is a process, and that like all processes, its conclusion depends on those that are working within it.
Mr Takkula, you may put a question to Mrs Badia. (FI) Mr President, my chief purpose was to ask to speak, because I am coordinator of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and because I would like, on its behalf, to thank Mrs Paliadeli for this magnificent report and to say a few words about the history of our people and about the European Heritage Label.
I will not mention the fact that the initiative will cost European taxpayers EUR 1 350 000.
We should also consider the effects of policies such as the common agricultural policy or the common fisheries policy, amongst others, on the destruction of important cultural labels and the live elements of the cultural and historical heritage of the European peoples.
Mr President, I should like to close by saying that, in general, with a few exceptions, the amendments tabled by the rapporteur have improved the Commission's draft, but in this case, the report's specific objectives are far less important than the misconceptions underlying it. (RO) Mr President, today, 16 December, we celebrate the 240th anniversary of Ludwig van Beethoven's birth, the composer of the united Europe's anthem.
It will be 40 metres high, making it taller than similar statues in Brazil, Portugal and Poland.
This being the case, there would be no need to fear the bureaucracy that could conceivably arise. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, during a stage in its life in which Europe is undergoing a crisis of identity and prospects, I think that the establishment of a European Heritage Label that identifies those sites - both material and immaterial - of high symbolic and educational value for the history, culture and creation of the European Union, is particularly significant.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank you for the opportunity to speak for a moment on behalf of my group, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, about this important report on the European Heritage Label.
I believe that this is an excellent initiative, and I would say that we need to know more about Europe.
Mr President, again I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Paliadeli, for her report.
Furthermore, it is well worth moving ahead with the European Heritage Label project on the basis of the report. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, creating a European identity and increasing citizens' interest in the European Union and its origins are two challenges that the European institutions must face up to in order to achieve broad cohesion and solidarity.
Indeed, Article 3 of the Treaty establishes the EU's obligation to safeguard European cultural development.
This is the meaning and importance of a European Heritage Label: to bring Europe together in its diversity, promoting a shared culture and favouring integration between the places involved within its territory.
I should therefore like to pay tribute to the excellent work done by Mrs Paliadeli and the rest of the Committee on Culture and Education, in particular, with regard to the procedure for selecting the sites and strengthening the role of the European Parliament during the selection process.
I am sure that the Member States' decision to insert the label within the framework of the European Union will contribute to increasing its visibility and prestige, so as to realise the objectives of cohesion and solidarity among European citizens. (RO) Mr President, I, too, would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the excellent report she managed to produce and for the negotiations she conducted with the Commission and Council.
The European Union, or rather European Heritage Label, acquires its significance therefore when we go outside the European Union's borders.
I congratulate you once again on this report and I firmly believe that it will be a successful project. (HU) Mr President, I welcome the fact that in the course of this session, this is the second proposal we are voting on that intends to bridge the gap between the European Union and its citizens.
It can raise our awareness of our common cultural heritage.
I therefore welcome and support the report very much, and in this context, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Paliadeli. (PL) Mr President, in the period before the Treaty of Lisbon was enacted, we were faced with a situation in which the citizens of the EU were becoming markedly less interested in its affairs and activities.
It has a lot of potential. (LT) Mr President, there are often discussions among citizens on the future of the European Union.
What is most important is that this label be promoted successfully by the Commissioner and the Member States. (EL) Mr President, I should like to take my turn in congratulating our rapporteur, Mrs Paliadeli, on her excellent report and on all her efforts to date.
This new European Heritage Label highlights our culture, highlights the European spirit and satisfies all of us who frequently visit sites in Europe and think it is a shame that we do not highlight the added value of Europe, all these historical monuments that we badly need to advertise.
Of course, this needs to be done with the active participation of the European Parliament and I trust that negotiations with the Council on Article 18 will turn out well. (RO) Mr President, I welcome the intergovernmental European Heritage Label project being turned into a formal European Union initiative at a time when the initial project has not enjoyed the high profile and prestige which it deserves.
This project allows us to open a door as well to countries which enrich our continent's culture without being part of the European Union.
The European Heritage Label will raise the general public's awareness of the diversity of our common cultural heritage and cultural tourism. (RO) Mr President, creating a European identity and increasing the level of interest in the EU are major challenges.
Let me remind you that this heritage is not only about sites, but also about intangible cultural heritage.
Values such as democracy and freedom, which are rooted in Europe's cultural past, are as important as transparency and solidarity nowadays, especially if we want to bridge the gap between the European institutions and the citizens of the Member States of the Union and the gap between the citizens of the Member States.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Paliadeli on her work on this report.
Our younger generation must be properly aware of our common European heritage because it is very important for there to be no variations in the different versions or attempts at populist interpretation, as this is our common European history and it reflects our entire cultural and linguistic diversity.
As a Member of the European Parliament, the only democratically elected body which represents its citizens, I believe that it needs to play a greater role in this initiative.
