Single Market Act (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the Single Market Act.
For example, Mario Monti states that the single market is increasingly necessary and yet becoming ever less popular.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are politicians, each with our own mandate, and when we hear conclusions of this ilk, we need to strive to ensure that what is necessary becomes popular and, in any case, that it gains support and is better understood.
It contains an action plan rather than a legislative proposal, an action plan that currently contains 50 proposals that we are putting forward for discussion, all of which are designed to improve the way the single market works in order to benefit small and medium-sized enterprises, growth and citizens.
This issue is one of our top priorities, and we are debating these 50 proposals.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this week, in the so-called Single Market Forum, we discussed the European Commission's proposal that is intended to lead to a highly competitive social market economy in Europe.
We want to revise the programme of 50 proposals, we want to set priorities, we want to help to ensure that all European Parliament committees are involved and that we achieve the institutional consensus that such legislation requires.
Ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, we must succeed in ensuring that everyone has his or her place in this single market and that we will all be able to benefit jointly from cooperation within this single market.
We want to demonstrate this by 2012 - for the 20th anniversary of the single market - and we will work hard to achieve it.
It is also very important that you make it absolutely clear that you are attempting to make the social rights of citizens, which should, of course, be at the heart of the European Union's legislation, a reality.
Madam President, Commissioner Barnier, ladies and gentlemen, the largest single market in the world in terms of economic power has developed in the globalised era into a crucial location advantage for the European Union.
I include here the revision of the EU rules for public procurement, measures for services of general interest and also - Mrs Gebhardt - the deliberations on a European approach to collective redress.
I believe the aim of a CCCTB should be to put an end to unhealthy competition in Europe.
Madam President, we believe that the new European Commission document on the single market is in keeping with the philosophy of the Lisbon strategy which, everyone admits, is a failure.
Universal access to quality public services must be the basic political criterion.
I do not know if they will be able to be sufficiently involved from now until February in what is, in any case, an ambitious plan that I hope we, as the European Freedom and Democracy Group and Lega Nord, will be able to help improve, as well as help with. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the single market represents a fundamental strategic objective for Europe, to be pursued with renewed political determination.
The tabled document represents a good start, but it must now be promoted and publicised as much as possible.
We trust that Commissioner Barnier will acknowledge our concerns during the coming months of serious discussions.
We must not lose this political momentum and this unique opportunity to revitalise the single market.
Globalisation represents an opportunity for Europe.
The Commission must become bolder, but so too must we in the European Parliament.
I would dearly like, Commissioner, to see the track-changes text in relation to proposals 29 and 30; it would be intriguing, I think, to see who is responsible for the changes and the very special language used there.
We need to reenergise the process and, in that way, remind our constituents that the EU does not just bring regulation and red tape at a huge cost, but should, and can actually bring tangible benefits for businesses and trade as well as consumers and individuals.
I am sure that Parliament, in its report on the Single Market Act, will seek the right balance between its social dimension and promotion of business and growth.
I thank Commissioner Barnier for this very timely initiative and for his vision.
He has all our support. (PL) The Single Market Act is good news for the internal market, and so also for businesses, consumers and citizens.
Therefore, I appeal to the European Commission, the Member States and fellow Members of the European Parliament to speed up the process and implement legislation which is essential for citizens, consumers and businesses. (PT) I would like to begin by congratulating Commissioner Barnier on the presentation of this important document.
In the current situation, the European Union should pay particular attention to its 20 million small and medium-sized enterprises.
Regarding the content, Mr Barnier, I would like to focus on the point about services of general interest.
The document is very important and very specific.
For that reason, Mr Barnier, I am waiting to see the final texts before making my mind up and possibly supporting you in this major challenge for the future of Europe and of all its citizens. (ES) Commissioner, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the communication that you have presented to us.
We could say that we are reliant on political will to resolve those barriers.
Honourable Members, it is, in fact, ambition that underpins this Single Market Act, a highly competitive social market economy, and to achieve that, our conviction, and my conviction in particular, is that - I repeat - achieving competitiveness and growth requires the help of every citizen, every business and every community.
In my opinion, such a debate within the College is normal, absolutely normal.
We are working to find the centre of gravity of the European general interest for proposals that will subsequently be debated by you here in Parliament and in the Council of Ministers, so that they can be supplemented or improved.
The Commission will implement to the letter the horizontal social clause laid down in Article 9 of the treaty by carrying out a prior in-depth analysis of the social impact of all these legislative proposals on the single market.
This will also be the case, Mrs Vergnaud and Mrs Auconie, for the quality framework which President Barroso has committed himself to regarding services of general interest.
Mrs Gebhardt and Mr Tarabella, you touched on collective redress.
There has been an impressive effort at bringing together 1 500 pieces of scattered legislation. 2.
The communication gives an overview of the 50 instruments to build the single market, which have, up to now, been used in an unfocused and fragmented way.
This is the first time that we are aware of all the means at our disposal. 3.
The European Commission communication 'Towards a Single Market Act', drafted on the basis of Professor Monti's report, is an extremely important document which sets out the measures to be taken by the EU in the field of the internal market for the next dozen or so years.
I hope that the European Commission will turn its attention to this subject in the near future.
According to Commissioner Barnier, we need to take advantage of single market opportunities that have not been exploited so far.
The Single Market Act is an initiative which I strongly welcome and support.
However, I would like to mention a problem that I sense here, and not a marginal one.
In point 48 of the report, the Commission states that it has enhanced consultation and dialogue with civil society, while particular attention will be given to ensuring that the views of consumers are taken into account.
