Procedural rights in criminal proceedings (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Council on procedural rights in criminal proceedings, by Sarah Ludford, Elena Oana Antonescu, Carmen Romero López, Heidi Hautala and Rui Tavares, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs - B7-0343/2009), the oral question to the Commission on procedural rights in criminal proceedings, by Sarah Ludford, Elena Oana Antonescu, Carmen Romero López, Heidi Hautala and Rui Tavares, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs - B7-0344/2009).
When it was agreed upon in 2002, it was with the understanding from all sides that this measure, which would have the effect of EU citizens standing trial and being held in prison in another Member State, would be swiftly followed by measures guaranteeing their fair trial rights and guaranteeing there would be no miscarriages of justice.
That promise was betrayed by Member States in failing to accept the Commission's 2004 proposal for a reasonably wide framework decision on procedural rights, and now a piecemeal approach is the best we can get.
The Member State initiative on interpretation and translation, proposing the text which the Council agreed on last October, is less ambitious than the Commission text and needs improving.
In October, the Council agreed on general guidelines for the text on the right to interpreting and translation in criminal proceedings and one month later, in November, the Council adopted a plan to make progress on further measures regarding procedural guarantees, in response to Baroness Ludford's call for action.
You know how much I value these procedural guarantees.
Moreover, it is true that, thanks to the Swedish Presidency, the roadmap was adopted by the Council on 30 November 2009.
The step-by-step approach means not only that a more thorough analysis can be made of each right in the context of the legislative proposal, but also that, in negotiations, each right can be examined individually.
This initiative, I must say, is based on the Commission's proposal of July 2009 and on the negotiations held within the Council during the second half of 2009.
This is why the initiative launched by the Swedish Presidency in July 2009 to present a roadmap for consolidating the procedural rights of suspected or accused persons has marked a very important step forward.
As far as the right to translation and interpretation is concerned, the Treaty of Lisbon's entry into force on 1 December has established a new institutional framework.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, this House proposed the creation of the European Arrest Warrant on 6 September 2001.
The Commission made its proposals in 2002 and undertook to see speedy action.
The European Arrest Warrant has replaced extradition.
In Finland at present, there is a Chechen couple, Hadižat and Malik Gataev, who have been detained.
The man is now serving his life sentence in a prison in Poland, although Polish law does not provide for a life sentence for rape, only for murder - rape carries a maximum sentence of 12 years.
Mr President, the European Union need two legs to walk: one is the Member States, and the other is their citizens, who are represented by their elected representatives in this house.
However, other rights, like the right to translation and interpretation (on which we have the pleasure and honour to work with our fellow Member, Mrs Ludford), are essential if European citizens are to have confidence in their dealings with the judicial systems of other Member States.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - I speak tonight because, as has been mentioned, two constituents - Michael Turner and Jason McGoldrick - are imprisoned in Unit 2 of the Central Budapest jail in Hungary.
They have been imprisoned since 3 November and they are yet to be tried.
They are confined to their cells 23 hours a day.
To restate Zola, 'J'accuse' - I accuse - the parties of the British political establishment: their support for the European Arrest Warrant has put everyone in Britain at risk of random arrest. (HU) As a Hungarian and a criminal lawyer, I should be ashamed because today, here in the EU Parliament, on the subject of the lack of procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings, two of my fellow Members, who otherwise represent two different political views, have mentioned Hungary as a flagrant example.
The Commission must take the initiative in all other areas that have to do with procedural rights, not only those that relate to language and translation. (SK) The issue of fundamental procedural rights in criminal proceedings is one of the key topics that should resonate in the field of justice and internal relations.
If you want higher standards in European criminal proceedings, then adopt habeas corpus, trial by jury and the main provisions of the Magna Carta and the Bill of Rights 1689 as the common European standards. (EL) Mr President, it is crucial that we progress as far as possible with the creation of a common European reference framework for procedural rights during the dispensation of justice.
I wish to end, Mr President, by stating that the Council and the Spanish Presidency will work to ensure that all these procedural guarantees are put into practice, through the directives that the European Commission will table in due course and also the directive that is already in progress, based on an initiative by 13 Member States, as far as I remember.
I would like to thank the European Parliament and the Spanish Presidency, convinced as I am that a Europe of justice will make significant progress in 2010.
I am sure there are many outside this Chamber who would like to endorse the remarks of Carlos Coelho in thanking you for your dedication and application as a Commissioner over this period.
