We have completed the hearings, and I have received 26 letters of recommendation.
There are also many solutions in our new Framework Agreement which we did not have before.
In their work, the European Commission and the European Parliament must also take account of the opinions of national parliaments, which represent the principle of subsidiarity in the European Union.
I am sure this is not only the beginning of a new decade, but of a new way of working in the European Union.
I read it out because it shows the importance of the Commission when it comes to carrying out the European project, a Commission which, pursuant to the same article, is accountable as a College to your Parliament.
Thus, today, we are seeing European democracy in action.
Supplementing as it does the vote on the President of the Commission, held on 16 September 2009, this vote is an essential part of the democratic legitimacy of the Commission, and hence of the European project as a whole.
No, I refuse to believe - and our fellow citizens would not understand it - that, after these years of institutional debates, we will basically carry on as we were before.
The challenges that the economic and financial crisis, climate change, and energy security - to name but a few - are presenting us with are quite simply too great for us not to change our approach.
This is a time to show our citizens that we care, and that the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty will make a real difference in our ability to serve their interests.
I believe that our economic and social situation demands a radical shift from the status quo, and the new treaty allows this.
We need to set our work in an overall, longer-term vision of where we want the European Union to be.
Thanks to your strong support for these guidelines, I regard them as a useful point of departure for us.
I can promise you that, if this College is granted your support, we will set to work straightaway, turning the political guidelines into an ambitious work programme - a work programme which I want to discuss with you.
Our Europe 2020 vision is both a structural and comprehensive reform strategy and an exit and recovery strategy.
In this area, we show to our citizens our commitment to both freedom and security.
That makes us the two Community institutions par excellence, with a particular responsibility for ensuring that the European Union is more than the sum of its parts.
It must help us to fashion a new culture of partnership and purpose, to use our common leverage to offer a real advance for the European project.
I am convinced they will strengthen our institutions and help us achieve our goals, in full respect of our values.
We welcome all who are with us today and are listening to our conversation.
Mr President, Mr López Garrido, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to give our verdict on the appointment of the new European Commission, an essential act which confirms the prerogatives of this Parliament and which will determine the way in which the Union functions for several years.
They must ensure that Europe's stature in the world is equal to its message, its wealth and its successes.
The fact is, the European machine is obviously still in need of some adjustments.
Thus, we are now endowed with a High Representative, who is also Vice-President of the European Commission and, as such, accountable to this House.
This key figure must be the voice of Europe in the world.
From the Council of Ministers, I expect nothing less than close cooperation, on equal terms - and I mean on equal terms - with this House.
Moreover, the Framework Agreement on which we will vote this lunchtime reflects this common will of our two institutions.
Nonetheless, we still have a great deal to do before we are equal to our task, which is to be able to judge politicians from a political perspective.
This is the spirit in which we are approaching this debate, which must result in the appointment of the new Commission: a Commission which, under the leadership of Mr Barroso and with experienced commissioners, is well-equipped to tackle Europeans' problems; a Commission with which we share both the main political objectives and the prognoses concerning the problems to be addressed or the solutions to be applied to those problems; a Commission that reflects the results of the 2009 European elections, and within which my political family, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), is the most influential force; a Commission, lastly, whose main priority is to meet the expectations of Europeans hit by the crisis, Europeans who also often suffer from pessimism and who are concerned about the ability of their leaders to defend and promote the European model in the world.
The question that you raised at the beginning of your speech - does the European Union count in the world? - is indeed on the agenda.
Mr Barroso, in the debate on the interinstitutional agreement, you made two concessions, which, in my view, are crucial.
The Commission needs to realise, and that means all of the individual Members of this Commission, that what made large parts of the European population turn away from the European idea had something to do with the fact that the people of Europe had the feeling that this Commission was only interested in the market and not, for example, in social protection for its citizens.
That is also an enormous step forward in the cooperation between our two institutions.
There are also 27 Heads of Government in Europe who believe that the Commission is the extended arm of their government offices.
If we address this together, then, following your response to this, Mr Barroso, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament will discuss in the break what we will ultimately decide to do.
After the discussion in our group, and following your response, I will then present this decision in the second round. (Applause) Mr President, on behalf of my group, I am delighted to be here today and to finally have the Barroso II Commission before us.
The absence, for six months, of a Commission equipped with real powers is something that should not be repeated in the future, especially in this period of economic and financial crisis, in which there are major issues such as climate change, Copenhagen, and so on.
Therefore, we really do expect this kind of Commission because, for the first time - and you have acknowledged this, Mr Barroso - it is a Commission composed of the three main political families present in this House.
I am delighted that there are eight liberal commissioners in charge of some very important portfolios.
This Commission must now operate internally as a coalition between these three movements and these three political parties and must try to reach compromises supported by the entire Commission and by the entire College.
Lastly, the third priority of this Commission, in our opinion, is obviously to combat the economic crisis, and I believe that the most urgent task is to present as quickly as possible to Parliament and the Council a credible strategy for Europe 2020.
It is not enough to have a monetary pillar such as the euro area; an economic and social pillar is also needed in the euro area and in the European Union.
For my part - and Mr Schulz should have his speaking time cut by 30 seconds - I would like to say some very simple things, between ourselves.
as you know, Mr Verhofstadt, ours is the only group to have been critical, even when there was a Green in the Commission.
The majority of the Commissioners-designate - I do not say all - had no determination, vision or ambition.
In Spain, where is it?
Baroness Ashton, I know that you are not a fire-fighter, a midwife or any other such person.
We have a fundamental problem here, and that is that we, as a Parliament, finally have to demonstrate our rapport with the Commission.
Mr Verheugen is leaving the Commission.
He was the number two in the Commission, and he is telling Germany and anyone else who will listen that Europe was not a global player, that Europe did not play its role.
I remember when, in 2005, you came along with an interesting idea about simplifying European legislation and cutting through the now impenetrable undergrowth of community law.
If you take this route, you can rely on us.
Mr President, Mr Barroso, in September 2009, I had to tell you that your political guidelines were continuing a failed Commission policy.
Now you are presenting to us the College of Commissioners that best suits your programme.
Transparency and fairness are vital in the agreements between the institutions - only when we have these can we begin to talk about policy.
Therefore, Mr Barroso, my group will not support your guidelines or your staffing proposal.
Prepare yourself for our harsh, but fair, exchange of views with you and your College.
Perhaps it is worth reminding ourselves that this treaty that gives this Commission these powers does not have democratic legitimacy in the European Union at all.
Baroness Ashton ran CND and still refuses to tell us whether she took money from the Communist Party of Great Britain.
But we have at least 10 communists in this Commission and it must feel like a return to the good old days.
Whilst, 60 years ago, an Iron Curtain fell across Europe, today we have the iron fist of the European Commission.
In 1968, we had the Brezhnev doctrine of limited sovereignty.
We have an 'ever-closer European Union' and 'pooled sovereignty' and that is what you have used, but of course it will not just be Greece, because the same is going to happen to Spain, to Portugal and to Ireland.
We must put the future of Europe to people in every Member State in free and fair referendums. (HU) The European Commission is the European Union's defining decision-making body.
Even so, it nonetheless became clear that they are not breaking with the former Commission, but want a centralised Europe; they have not drawn the lessons of the financial crisis, but continue to follow liberal economic policy.
We are simply doing what our voters - many million European citizens - expect of us. (HU) Mr President, Mr Barroso, in a significant number of European languages, the notion that something operates - it is able to operate - and that something is working, is expressed in very similar terms.
The proceedings of the past few weeks and months have not always been honourable.
Mr Commission President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like on behalf of my party as well to wish you much success, for when we wish you much success, we do so not to several individuals but to the citizens of Europe.
Now we even have new software in this computer, known as the Treaty of Lisbon.
Ladies and gentlemen, let us press that restart button. (DE) Mr President, Mr Barroso, your Commission certainly has both strong and weak points.
The single telephone number that Henry Kissinger allegedly demanded is brought up again and again.
I therefore call on the Commission and the Council to take this seriously.
We now have a Member of the Commission who was responsible for the Council.
Let us not pretend that the parliamentary right of initiative has always been as significant in the national parliaments.
Let us seize this opportunity with the new Commission, a new treaty and a new Framework Agreement.
We look forward to seeing not only yourself, Mr Barroso, but all of your fellow commissioners here for a question hour before this Chamber.
Today, in Wales, the national Assembly is starting the process for a referendum on more law-making powers.
I would ask President Barroso, once again, to address those questions. (PL) Mr Barroso, five months ago, I voted in favour of entrusting you with the mission of creating the European Commission, because I thought you were the best of the candidates under consideration.
In your speech, you asked if the European Union counts in the world.
We defended our independence and our right of selfdetermination.
It is for this reason that I want every nation to be able to decide its own affairs freely.
I am in favour of cooperation between independent states.
I am Finnish, I am a European, and I love our continent, but that does not mean that I am a supporter of the European Union.
Each of us got votes; I got 130 000 votes in Finland.
Here they might get 300 votes, but that is about it.
The Commissioners-designate came to tell us that they were deeply attached to the European Union, that they would do their best to learn about issues with which they were unfamiliar, and that they would work hand in hand with Parliament.
None of that is very important or very interesting.
In reality, Mr Barroso, I pity you somewhat because you are now part of this system of the Treaty of Lisbon - Lisbon being the capital city of your country, a wonderful city and one that deserves better than to lend its name to such a document.
This will be a difficult policy.
There was laughter just now when someone recalled the Marxist past of some of you.
This Commission is not just any Commission and this Parliament is not just any Parliament, not only because of the Treaty of Lisbon, but also because we are experiencing a crisis that is unprecedented in the European Union: an economic and social crisis.
The economic and social crisis is undoubtedly going to cause increased social unrest.
At a time when we want this trade policy to be able to integrate industrial policy and the effects that it may have on employment policies, we realise that the Commission has given no guarantees on these points in the comments made this morning by the President of the Commission.
Nothing has been said about the horizontal social clause, about the protection of public services, about the way to see Europe change policy again or have a totally different policy.
To conclude my remarks on these issues, Mr Barroso, I believe that trust is built within a two-way relationship.
Please note that, since you have not provided these guarantees, I cannot guarantee that we will put our trust in you. (DE) Mr President, I finally have the feeling that things are starting to happen.
It took more than eight and, indeed, almost nine years for us to get the new treaty and the same number of months for us to get the new Commission.
We want you to be courageous and we also want Europe to be more involved in areas which perhaps differ from those that the Member States or people answering polls want - in the economy and financial affairs, in justice and home affairs, but also in foreign and security policy.
It is clear that some Member States are taking advantage of the fact that we only have a single vote on the whole Commission in order to ease in candidates who might not succeed on their own merits.
There is no point in telling me that Joaquín Almunia did not say what he did.
This is the political question that has arisen and it is for this reason that we expect serious replies given what has happened with the statements by your candidate for commissioner. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a brief comment with regard to the interinstitutional agreement and the resolution that we have before us.
First of all, I welcome the fact that the Commission now seems to be prepared, in a more realistic way, to accept the indirect right of initiative of the European Parliament.
That has been an absolutely crucial issue, and I am pleased that we have also been able to achieve what we wanted to in this regard. (DE) Mr President, Mr Barroso, we were very happy to have got the Treaty of Lisbon in place on 1 December and, along with that, a stronger social policy and a strengthening of the position of consumers in the area of internal policy within the European Union.
I have serious difficulties with this, Mr Barroso.
If you now introduce the presidential system, Mr President, then I would recommend that you take the lead, but return to the college system.
That is better for Europe and better for cooperation with Parliament.
Firstly, you need to stabilise the euro, extend the euro area and make the national governments honour their obligations.
Secondly, you need to create modern, technology-based jobs to a global standard, because the Lisbon Strategy from 2000 has failed, although the goals were the right ones.
In this, the Commission must be the engine, not the master of Europe.
Two groups have decided to totally oppose you - the Greens and the Communists.
In principle, they are supposed to work for equal development throughout Europe.
Mrs Ashton did touch on some details, but her answers were disappointing.
The votes of so many of us are, in fact, tied to the answer to a more profound question: what role is the Barroso Commission called on to play at this historical juncture?
It is being called upon, Mr President, to restore hope to millions of people and businesses who find themselves in difficulties, and to break their powerlessness in the face of vested interests and governments through dogged determination and with the power of ideas.
It is being called upon, Mr President, to give a European face to immigration and energy policy, and to issue Eurobonds in order to ensure the recovery.
That is exactly the opposite of what the authors of the Treaty of Lisbon - many of whom are present in this Chamber - wanted.
In a world turned upside down by the crisis, on a continent which has lost all its bearings, which has more than 20 million unemployed, which is at risk of a long-term decline in the face of the emerging powers, Europe needs a pilot, a direction, an ambition, a major unifying project that can mobilise our 27 nations and half a billion free citizens.
Solidarity among the Member States has never been so necessary.
The disparity between our competences and our financial resources has never been so great.
The citizens' expectations have never been so high.
That is a good thing.
Finally, Mr Barroso, with regard to the question of legislative initiative, I firmly believe that, with what we were able to achieve in the negotiations with you regarding our cooperation and what we have today shaped into a resolution, we have come as close to the right of initiative for the European Parliament as we possibly can.
This House will be looking very closely at the practice of this half-way solution, taking into account our request to the Commission to take legislative action.
However, more than personalities and competences, it is important to know the nature of the political conditions in which they will have to develop their mission.
In order for my political group and me to be able, in all good conscience, to vote in favour of the investiture of the Commission, are you, Mr Barroso, in a position to guarantee me that you will give all your support to these two commissioners to ensure that the profound reforms which they will initiate in these most common of policies, agriculture and fisheries, will preserve their Community character and reject any kind of renationalisation? (PT) Mr President, I should like to use this opportunity, principally, to highlight to the Commission and to the President of the Commission the way in which they have worked with this Parliament throughout these months of investiture.
There is no other body in the world with executive and legislative initiative powers that is subject to such requirements: its President has to present a programme to Parliament; it has to attend hearings with all parliamentary groups; it is subject to an absolute majority vote; and it must bring all the commissioners here to be heard one by one on their own programmes, followed by three or four hours of direct questions - questions that must be answered.
Let us therefore open up a new chapter together, let us not merely carry on as before, as you, President of the Commission, have said.
The treaty, the crisis and globalisation make it necessary for all of us to change the way we operate.
Finally, Mr President, I urge you to draw up an opening balance sheet and submit proposals for coordinating economic, social, fiscal, research, innovation and education policy, because we need more Europe.
Against this background, Mr Barroso, you have an historic opportunity for statesmanship, real reforms and long-term vision.
The only solution for the founding fathers of Europe was not political bickering, but rising above national interests to establish supranational European policies based on an open and generous attitude, as you yourself mentioned.
The European Commission has been the European Parliament's main ally and collaborator.
In the next few years, among the many other important matters it will deal with, the Commission must put forward two vitally important policies for review: the common agricultural policy and the cohesion policy.
This is the reason that the new Commission's framework programme must make this an absolute priority.
I hope that the review of these two European policies will help, in the medium and long term, to balance the economic, financial and social situation in all Member States in order to prevent imbalances of the type which are being seen at the moment and are jeopardising the sustainable development of the European Union as a whole. (HU) The new Member States are rightly worried that national egoism and renationalisation is gaining strength within the European Union.
The Council should work out concrete measures in order that the world crisis may not become an employment and social crisis.
I hope it will be sustainable. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the new College, ladies and gentlemen here in plenary and in the gallery, in these times of economic, financial and climate crisis, the citizens of Europe expect leadership from you.
Baroness Ashton, you are the one who should and must be the united voice of Europe.
It is not only a matter of good coordination or consulting the Member States.
Present these proposals to the Council.
If we get this leadership from you, then you will also receive the support of the European Parliament.
The three million people will be watching how they vote, as I will. (DE) Mr President, the Treaty of Lisbon is intended to strengthen the European Union and with that, naturally, primarily the European Commission and also our Parliament.
As a result, the question arises as to whether a strengthened European Parliament in cooperation with a weak Commission can actually do any positive work in terms of integration and satisfying the interests of the European peoples. (DE) Mr President, my request to the new Commission is that it do more for small and medium-sized enterprises.
We must, above all, see to it that the creditworthiness of the small and medium-sized enterprises is increased, because, particularly in times of crisis, venture capital is of particular interest in order to be able to continue to pay good wages.
I wish the new European Commission every success and good luck for the future. (SL) I am with those who believe that today is a great day for European democracy, not only because we will be bringing to completion new European institutions and structures, but also because we will be adopting this interinstitutional agreement which, together with the Treaty of Lisbon, actually increases the influence that European citizens can bring to bear on European politics.
We are therefore convinced that as inaction is not an option, the only option is for Barroso II to surprise the critics of Barroso I with action, with firm action. (RO) I, too, would like to say that today is an important day as we will be voting for a Commission not only for 27 Member States, but also for a single Europe.
It is an urgent matter overshadowed by a major difficulty because the current crisis is far from conducive to the implementation of this treaty, which must produce a single Europe for 27 countries and a Europe which, at the same time, every European finds credible.
I would like to stress that, in my view, the biggest challenge facing the European Union is actually the sense of solidarity between Europeans from the old countries and new countries, in other words, the solidarity between Europeans from East and West.
This is the only way we can make Europe credible for those aspiring, sooner or later, to join our Union, regardless of whether it is the Western Balkans, Moldova, Turkey or Iceland. (FI) Mr President, it has definitely taken too long to form the Commission.
I believe that this process has, on the whole, empowered and strengthened the Commission and Parliament.
That is why I am surprised at the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, who have unanimously decided to vote against the new Commission, especially as they themselves have frequently stated that they gained a lot from the process and that their objectives were accepted.
It is very important that an assessment of the social impact is a step in the direction of a social Europe. (DE) Mr Barroso, Mr President, I am disappointed not only about the people in the Commission, but also about your allocation of portfolios.
The Commission should be prepared for this. (PL) Mr President, the European Union is in a completely new situation.
We should make an appropriate division of competences between institutions or newly created important high positions, and establish political principles and rules for cooperation.
We also need to maintain the principle of real equality between Member States, but also between Member States and the Union.
It is important not to reduce the significance of the Presidency held by individual Member States.
These problems, therefore, should be given profound thought, and measures should be taken which will enable us to achieve the expected effects and a new quality of operation of the European Union. (HU) The question, once asked by Kissinger, is often repeated - who will pick up the phone?
We need a Council, a Parliament, a Union in which anyone can pick up the phone at the Council, because he or she is able to give a competent answer and a competent solution.
Therefore, it is vital that all these groups can benefit from structural funds in the future.
I also think it is vital that funding does not suddenly stop in 2013 for all the groups I mentioned.
The European Central Bank and the European Commission have given a lot of support to the financial institutions.
Since its creation with 11 participants, the euro area has grown to comprise 16 Member States.
I do not need to remind you that, just a few days ago, I received the Prime Minister of Iceland, a country very close to us - and a non-euro area member - which was indeed facing this crisis.
Looking ahead at how to reinforce the euro area is very important, but of course, it does not prevent us from looking at the present.
Other countries outside the euro area are also facing very difficult times.
However, I must say that the situation in the financial markets is sometimes reported in a way that amplifies the problems, and does not always give an objective assessment of the situation.
But the euro area has the capacity to deal with the difficulties currently affecting it.
On 3 February, the Commission adopted a package on Greece which will go to the Council early next week.
Member States, particularly those in the euro area, should always have in mind that the economic policies of each of them have an impact on the economies of others.
What happens in the Commission is more or less the same as what is happening in national governance and in global governance.
The previous one was the first Commission of this enlarged Europe - the first time we had a Commission with 27 members from 27 different countries.
The cohesion policy has been enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon.
We need to see how we can continue the process of reform so that we can continue to improve the policy's value for money and ensure that cohesion policy and regional policy are translated into a real increase in the competitiveness of all the regions of Europe.
Let me assure you of my full commitment - and, I think I can say, the full commitment of the new Commission - to the principles of social, economic and territorial cohesion that are also enshrined in the Lisbon Treaty.
We are always ready to improve that work and we believe the social dimension should be properly addressed in our work.
I believe that promoting energy security and energy efficiency should be an important part of our agenda for competitiveness and for greener, sustainable and resource-efficient growth in Europe.
We believe the internal market is, above all, the basis for the European project.
Without an internal market, we will not have a strong European Union.
Mr Daul, Mr Schulz, Mr Lamassoure - who gave a speech in which he stressed the importance of boldness - Mr López Aguilar, Mr Mayor Oneja and many others have raised the issue of ambition.
This is, in my view, an extremely important point, and we must have an honest debate on it.
Some of you, and particularly Mr Schulz, have questioned me once again on the issue of the market and of social policy.
Moreover, this should not be seen in terms of competition between the national level and the European level.
However, if, in addition to our work on the internal market, on competition, on State aid policy and on other policies, such as external trade policy, there is no social dimension in Europe, we will have difficulty in ensuring the legitimacy of the European project.
Work with us to strengthen Europe's social dimension - the social market economy - which is, moreover, enshrined as an objective in the Treaty of Lisbon.
I am in favour of enhanced governance of Europe, and Europe needs this enhanced governance.
As I said, both within and outside Europe, we need more determination with regard to European matters.
The international financial crisis has shown just how interdependent our economies are.
The problems being experienced by the euro area right now also show how interdependent our economies are.
We must therefore step up our efforts in terms of European coordination and governance.
We therefore need this dimension, not to strengthen Brussels, but to strengthen Europe and, above all, to focus on the real interests of each of our fellow citizens.
It is here that we must work together, and here too, I say to you: support us.
Europe counts in the world where it has, in fact, a coordinated position.
The problem in Copenhagen was not a lack of ambition from Europe, as some are saying.
Some people have not yet realised that the European Parliament has powers today that it did not have prior to the Treaty of Lisbon.
For me, 'dimension' means depth, it means scope.
Not against another institution, because I believe - and I must say it here - that we need a very strong Council and European Council.
Instead of having two centres for external relations, one on the Council side, and one on the Commission side, we now have one key figure - in this case, Baroness Ashton - who is going to defend the European interest with intergovernmental legitimacy, which remains very important in external matters, but also with European legitimacy.
However, at Heads of State or Government level, apart from the relationships with our Member States, we have, in the Treaty of Lisbon, the President of the Council, who represents Europe in external policy and common security matters, and the Commission which, pursuant to Article 17, represents Europe in every other aspect of external relations.
That is our system.
Some people would like a completely unified system.
As some have said, the United States, at times, does not have a completely unified system either.
It is also important to understand here that we consist of 27 Member States.
I hope that these powers will be used not only for feel-good policies, but also as part of the responsibility of governing Europe with the other institutions.
This is a big test of the responsibility of all the institutions - of the European Parliament, of the Commission and of the European Council.
Others - and we are in this camp - want to improve our results so that they match our ambitions.
I ask you to give your support to the new Commission so that, with our ambition, we can turn the European dream into a reality. (Applause) Thank you, Mr Barroso, for giving detailed answers to the questions and remarks which were put to you from the Chamber, and also for your very comprehensive treatment of our mutual relations - the European Commission and the European Parliament.
Our joint responsibility, of two Community institutions - the European Parliament and the European Commission - is particularly significant.
I have received five motions for resolutionstabled in accordance with Rule 106(4) of the Rules of Procedure.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 9 February 2010.
A new era in which the Commission will work in complete harmony with Parliament in the search for solutions to the problems which affect European citizens, as envisaged in the interinstitutional agreement.
A new era in the integration of a fairer Europe which shows greater solidarity.
However, in the debate which preceded the vote, many reservations were expressed, concerning both the Commission's composition and the unclear division of competences in the framework of the new College.
Romania and Bulgaria, which joined the European Union on 1 January 2007, only now have the opportunity to propose a commissioner for an entire five-year term.
I also believe that his professionalism bodes well if we think about the major challenges which await us in the area which he is going to manage.
It is a fact that particular provisions of the preliminary Framework Agreement on cooperation between the two institutions significantly strengthen Parliament's role in the decision-making process, making this process more democratic.
