Free trade agreement between the EU and the Republic of Korea (debate) The next item is the recommendation by Robert Sturdy, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the conclusion of the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Korea [08505/2010 - C7-0320/2010 - 2010/0075(NLE)].
rapporteur. - Mr President, this FTA is the first of a new generation of trade agreements launched in 2007 as part of the global Europe initiative.
On this note I would like to thank Pablo Zalba Bidegain for the work that he did on this specific part of the agreement.
There will be benefits for EU exporters of industrial and agricultural products, immediate savings on chemicals - approximately EUR 175 million -pharmaceuticals, auto parts, industrial machinery, and the list goes on.
The Commission and the European Car Association have worked closely together to get this agreement.
That is why I took the initiative of bringing together in Davos the trade ministers of the world's seven most important trading countries to discuss, in concrete terms, how we can now proceed and enter the end-game, following the impetus given by the G20 in Seoul.
This has been, and is, our fundamental motivation for pursuing the FTA with Korea.
As provided for in the Safeguard Regulation, 'the Commission will present a yearly report to the European Parliament and Council on the implementation of the EU-Korea FTA and will be ready to discuss with the INTA Committee any issues arising from the implementation of the Agreement. 'The Commission will closely monitor the implementation by Korea of its commitments on regulatory issues, including in particular the commitments relating to technical regulations in the car sector.
The implementation of Chapter 13 of the FTA shall be duly documented and reported to the European Parliament and the Council. 'The Commission also agrees on the importance of providing effective protection in the case of sudden surges of imports in sensitive sectors, including small cars.
On 24 January 2011, Korea confirmed that certain changes will be introduced to its previous draft CO2 legislation, which satisfactorily address a number of concerns expressed by European car makers, while retaining Korea's ambitious emission reduction objectives.
The Commission will be closely monitoring the implementation of this provision.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, international trade and exports are an important source of growth and employment in Europe.
In the area of agriculture, the agreement will facilitate access to South Korea for European agricultural products from 1 July 2011.
For pork, annual duties amounting to EUR 240 million are paid, and for milk and milk products the figure is around EUR 100 million.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner De Gucht, early in this parliamentary term, which is my first, one of the matters I first heard discussed was precisely the Free Trade Agreement with Korea.
Tomorrow we will vote in favour of a clause which will be more effective, easier to apply and will genuinely protect European industry.
The European Parliament should be proud of a job well done.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty of Lisbon has in fact put trade policy on a new footing.
In this regard, I would also like to thank the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs.
Trade policy is not an end in itself.
Its purpose is, firstly, to strengthen jobs and industrial development in the European Union and, secondly, to improve conditions for people in other countries of the world.
The aim of trade policy must be to achieve both of these goals.
Two absolutely crucial core labour standards - No 87 and No 98, relating to collective bargaining - have not be implemented or ratified.
Section 314 of the penal code relates to the obstruction of business.
This makes an important area of policy - trade policy - more democratic.
The debate here in Parliament has also shown that, as regards safeguard clauses, we were able to include important concerns expressed to us by workers, companies and associations in an improved safeguard clause that is intended to protect the interests of industry and, above all, jobs in the future by creating a level playing field and fair conditions for competition and avoiding asymmetries.
There is not a single country or area that escapes the European Commission's ambitions where free trade agreements are concerned.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, with the EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement signed in October 2010, which has been assigned the attribute by the Commission and the Council of being the most ambitious agreement of its kind ever to be negotiated between the EU and a highly industrialised state, the bilateral protection duties are to fall by around 98% in the next five years.
Finally, I would like to thank all of the rapporteurs involved for their untiring and highly competent work. . - (NL) Mr President, tomorrow we will be voting on the free-trade agreement with South Korea.
Unfortunately, the European Union could not resist adding a safeguard clause to the trade agreement.
Therefore, trying to overcome this by including a safeguard clause and offering compensation to disadvantaged industries is a totally misguided solution.
In the interests of European consumers and our farmers, when trade flows are liberalised it absolutely must be ensured that agricultural products that are imported into the European Union meet our high standards in respect of environmental, animal and consumer protection, including at their point of origin and throughout the production chain.
I will support the position of the Committee on International Trade tomorrow, but where further liberalisation efforts are concerned I would call strongly for the food sector and farmers also to be taken into account. (PT) Mr President, in my capacity as Chair of the Committee on International Trade, I should like, first and foremost, to express my satisfaction that we are about to successfully conclude our first major test in exercising the codecision powers that the Treaty of Lisbon has granted us in the area of trade agreements.
Once the agreement has been ratified, which will be tomorrow, I hope, we must move resolutely to the next stage, which is its implementation. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, this agreement contains a clause that does not convince us and has never convinced us.
It is unbelievable how much has been achieved in Korea in respect of democracy, self-determination and freedom, but also with regard to the economy and now increasingly also the environment.
There is meant to be patent protection in South Korea, but will a Korean court really find in favour of a British company against a Korean business?
For free trade to work, there has to be a level playing field and, yes, a safeguard clause such as Pablo Zalba Bidegain's is useful, but the other signatory must also ensure that the agreement is indeed a two-way street, otherwise the Free Trade Agreement which should benefit both parties simply becomes completely one-sided. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is wrong to have turned the debate on the Free Trade Agreement with Korea into a stand-off between supposed neo-protectionists and die-hard free-traders.
I also think it is wrong for the Commission to have acted more like a service economy development agency than the political government of 500 million Europeans, which should strike a balance between considerations relating to growth on the one hand, and to employment and distribution of wealth on the other.
All this, Mr Sturdy, Commissioner, has nothing whatsoever to do with neo-protectionism.
We will not vote for this agreement. - (SK) Mr President, since the start of negotiations in May 2007, the Free Trade Agreement with South Korea has had a long and difficult journey.
The solution was the bilateral safeguard clause.
I would like to thank Robert Sturdy and Pablo Zalba Bidegain for their leadership as rapporteurs, as well as everyone else involved.
The elimination of duties on Korean products in return for a rise in environmental and social standards in Korea cannot be considered fair.
Consequently, despite being responsible for only a small share of car sales in Korea - 3% in 2009 - and therefore of total CO2 car emissions in Korea, EU car makers would have been asked to contribute disproportionately.
Their average emissions reduction between 2009 and 2015 would have been 23%, compared with just 10% for their Korean counterparts, which account for 95% of total car sales in Korea.
Finally, I would like to thank everybody involved in this legislative process - the Committee on International Trade (INTA), the Commission rapporteurs, the Chair of the INTA Committee, the Council and my own staff at the Commission - for what, I would say, is a very good example of what the ratification procedure should be under the Treaty of Lisbon.
The debate among my shadow rapporteurs has been phenomenal.
The vote will take place at midday tomorrow (Thursday, 17 February 2011).
We would also see an increase in trade, especially in the services sector where the future growth in trade is estimated at 70%, and in the agricultural sector where, just at the moment, European Union exports to Korea have an annual value of EUR 1 billion.
It is the first in a new generation of free trade agreements which contain both a chapter on sustainable development and compliance with labour standards and a monitoring mechanism in which civil society will be involved.
