I believe we must all show our sympathy and offer our condolences and our solidarity both to the families and to the areas that were hit.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, today I have the honour of presenting the Commission work programme for 2011.
The 40 strategic initiatives which the Commission commits to present in 2011 reflect the main political priorities that we have identified together.
For the sake of transparency, the programme moreover includes 150 other proposals which the Commission is working on.
Our efforts will continue along three main tracks: strengthening governance, completing financial sector reform and accelerating our implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
Through initiating the so-called 'European semester', and the follow-up to our proposals of 29 September, we will reinforce the European fiscal framework and broaden macro-economic surveillance to prevent imbalances.
Strengthening security should always be a means of helping citizens to benefit from the opportunities of the European Union, never an end in itself.
The specific financial instruments and programmes will be presented in the second half of 2011 in conjunction with the overall framework.
In my introduction, I noted that the work programme was not only the conclusion of our fruitful dialogue, but also the beginning of a next step in our concrete efforts to steer the European Union out of the crisis and beyond.
I therefore take this opportunity to encourage Parliament and the Council to engage in trilateral discussions on how to implement the treaty provisions on Union programming.
Such a concerted effort would demonstrate our determination to deliver concrete, timely responses in the face of the crisis which has shaken us all.
Thank you for your attention.
Mr President, Mr Barroso, Mr Šefčovič, I believe that we can support much of the content of this programme, Mr Barroso.
I am wondering where in the energy sector or the transport sector, for example, investments of this kind can be made in order to bring about green growth or create green jobs.
As we have just seen in the debate on Ireland, certain countries must not be allowed to set lower tax rates in order to attract businesses and then, when they get into financial difficulties, to call on other countries to finance their budget deficits, if I can put this in such a simplistic way.
I believe that we need to make progress in this area.
Finally, you have spoken about citizens' concerns, Mr Barroso.
The Commission is best placed to identify our strengths and weaknesses when planning work.
It is a difficult job, and you will commit to this through policy coordination in 2011.
I believe that it is genuinely important to be honest when we adopt a work programme of this kind and not to behave as if we could achieve and implement all these wonderful objectives without a reliable budget that does not need to be constantly renegotiated.
However, I would like to say at this point that less legislation can sometimes mean more.
I am therefore concerned, for example, about the planned regulatory activities of the Commission in the area of concessions on services.
Instead, it should be structured around the increase of remuneration from work, improved social protection and solidarity-based pay-as-you-go pension schemes, as well as a contribution of capital income to public finances, thereby establishing a new fiscal justice.
This is missing in the programme and I strongly propose it. (DE) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Commission on its ambitious work programme, but we must attempt to align it more closely with Europe's strategic objectives and with the long-term strategy.
Competitiveness is one of the central issues that we need to deal with, to ensure that Europe remains competitive and that we can achieve our objectives, such as sustainable growth and social growth.
It is also important that we convey this message correctly.
The field of research and development faces particular challenges in this respect.
The key word of the programme is economic recovery after the crisis, and intelligent, sustainable and inclusive recovery.
Such measures are counterproductive in a crisis.
The European Free Alliance Group here, which includes the SNP as well as other pro-European nationalists from Wales, Catalonia and Flanders, are contributing to good government in our own countries, but our ambition is to play a full part in EU decision making too, taking our place as normal independent Member States so that we can exercise the full range of governmental powers at home and work constructively here with colleagues towards a better Europe as well. (ES) Mr President, in this time of crisis, in which we find ourselves, there are two main types of policies and actions: preventive policies and actions and stimulative policies and actions.
It is a way of attracting the attention of European citizens and of signposting to the European Commission areas in which it can be supported by the members of this House.
As far as the progress of Chapter 23 is of particular importance to us, we expect the Commission to report to Parliament on how the talks have progressed in the first quarter of 2011.
With regard to the internal market, an area which I am responsible for, I would like to say in particular that we want to ensure, on the basis of the paper produced by Professor Monti, that all the citizens of Europe can gain more benefits from the internal market.
Finally, I believe that we should call on the European Commission to carry out an impact assessment of all its legislative proposals, so that we can understand why they are needed. (DE) Mr President, Mr Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have made major progress on behalf of the citizens of Europe with the Treaty of Lisbon, because we have included the social market economy among the principles of European policy.
It is very important to me that the European Commission finally addresses this question and looks more closely at issues concerning workers than was necessary, for example, in the context of the Posting of Workers Directive, where we are still waiting to find out what will happen next.
I am working on a report on that at the moment and I will come back to this early next year.
We would have been pleased to see proposals of a more concrete nature in the Commission's work programme as regards energy efficiency and energy projects.
The gap between the eastern and western halves of the European Union, which is visible, for instance, in wages and in other respects, is unacceptable.
This is true even if there are people even in Parliament who try to hinder it, for example, in connection with Euronest. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, this work programme presents the recovery of growth and jobs, as well as economic regulation, as key to restoring confidence.
We need to look at employment and social standards as indicators of economic power and, from that point of view, emphasise the need to put more thought into the European tax on financial transactions and into a greater coordination between the European Union and the European ministers for employment, as well as into the Union's economic proposals.
I think that the European Union's digital strategy is a crucial factor for this new economy.
Finally, I would end, Mr President, by saying that, in essence, this work programme for 2011 should be the very example of a policy that addresses in a positive way this temptation for nations to withdraw, which all our Member States are experiencing.
I know that this also has to do with Parliament and the Financial Regulation of the European Union and that it causes so many problems as a result of the procedures which we had under the Santer Commission 10 years ago.
My third point, Mr Barroso, is that the question of the Transatlantic Economic Council and the economic relationship with the USA, and not only its economic significance but also its strategic importance, seem to me not to be covered in sufficient detail in the Commission's paper. (RO) Mr President, Europe's citizens expect that in 2011, European institutions will focus on creating new jobs and on social Europe.
I would be very happy if the Commission were to pay special attention to this area and, most importantly, to allow plenty of time for the dialogue and for transparent, joint activities. (GA) Mr President, firstly, I welcome the work done by the Commission to advance this agenda.
The European Union is making every effort to end this economic crisis.
We must also strengthen our fight against organised crime, especially in the area of corruption.
Thank you very much. (LT) Mr President, the work programme for 2011 presented by the European Commission really does seem rather ambitious.
Nevertheless, in the past, there were many ambitious documents and plans, not all of which were implemented.
Yes, this may be rather unimpressive, it may not look very good on paper, but I think it is crucial for the work of the Commission. (LT) Mr President, although the Commission planned to revive job creation as soon as possible, in the area of employment and social affairs, the Commission work programme for 2011 sadly does not contain specific proposals on the creation of new and good quality jobs.
Finally, a further important task is work on the objectives and the multiannual financial frameworks for 2014-2020.
It is not only important for our economic goals, but it is also important for the greening of our economies and for resource-efficient economies to be developed.
You will also find this in our programme.
Mario Monti presented an excellent report and Michel Barnier used this report as a basis for our range of proposals.
So let us participate and look at which of the proposals Michel Barnier put on the table could be the most important ones and which proposals should have higher priority.
Regarding the administrative burden, as you know, Günter Verheugen included in the programme a reduction in the administrative burden by 25% before 2012.
Now, we are aiming to reach the level of 30%, but we also need to be very clear that it is not only the Commission that can deliver results.
Sometimes it is because of remaining barriers on the labour market in Europe, sometimes it is because of a lack of information, but often it is also because our education does not match the needs of European businesses.
We would like to do it in a new form of Union programming, where we will decide on the priorities, the timing and the deadlines, so we can deliver the results faster and can accelerate the legislative process even at a faster pace than today.
We need your help in explaining at all levels - to the media, to national audiences - the proportions of this debate, how much we in Europe can achieve with just 1% of GDP, the structure of the European budget with almost 95% of this budget going back to national economies with high value-added from the European Union.
The communication from the Commission outlining its work programme for 2011 emphasises coming out of the crisis and stimulating economic growth.
The development of Internet commerce, measures in the field of intellectual property rights and making the cultural heritage of Europe available online, should be seen as a test of the European Union's effectiveness.
I am pleased that the document names job creation as one of the top priorities for 2011, but at the same time, I regret the lack of legislative initiatives for employment and social purposes.
The Commission work programme for 2011 must contain a proposal for a directive to combat violence against women and an EU programme for financing sport.
In Europe, as many as 45% of women - that is 100 million - have been the victims of violence.
It is also very important to use the potential of older people in the labour market.
I hope the Commission will take account of this matter, which has been raised many times, in its future proposals concerning employment and the creation of new jobs.
