The Commission, in its revision of the Working Time Directive, should take account of the view of the hundreds of organisations from across Europe federated in the newly established alliance, because such a large association cannot be ignored when creating laws. (HU) Madam President, in the last few weeks the founders of Szeklerland's Representative Office in Brussels, and the Hungarian community in Romania in general, have had to endure a long chain of attacks and a hostile hysteria campaign from the Romanian political elite.
We also want Europe to continue to ensure the safety of deliveries and prices, and worthily defend its position in the world. (PL) Madam President, a Treaty of Good Neighbourship and Friendly Cooperation was signed between Poland and Germany as long ago as 11 June 1991, forming a basis for current relations between the two countries.
We call again for Catalan to be recognised as an official language in the European Parliament, just as many other Catalan MEPs have been doing over the last 25 years.
Piracy is rooted in absolute poverty and lack of governance, two permanent features of Somalia over the last 20 years.
Both the European Union and the United Nations have acquired experience in programmes which have produced real results in Somalia and that work must be continued and increased. (PL) Madam President, last night Anatoly Bitkov died in Magadan, the principal town of the Kolyma region in Russia.
Catherine Ashton has said that the flotilla is not the right response to the situation in Gaza, but the EU's response is to continue to fund, through research grants, the Israeli armaments companies that make the weapons that kill Palestinian civilians.
The Venice Commission has cast doubt on the principle of democracy by accepting a constitutional law for cultural, religious, ethical, social, economic and financial policy.
On another matter, Welsh cattle under 24 months of age cannot be labelled as Welsh under PGI legislation.
The EU has to ensure that Member States not only expect the EU itself to observe the principle of subsidiarity, but that they, too, ensure that decision making takes place as close to the citizens as possible. (RO) Madam President, as you are probably aware, the second round of voting took place this weekend in the local elections in Chişinău, in the Republic of Moldova.
Such practices should be opposed, particularly here in the European Parliament. (PL) Madam President, in 10 days' time Poland will take over the presidency of the European Union, and therefore we should keep a close check on what is happening in Poland.
