2010 progress report on Croatia (debate) - The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the 2010 progress report on Croatia.
I am also pleased that Commissioner Füle, who is responsible for our neighbourhood policy, is present in the Chamber.
First and foremost, I would like to welcome Parliament's active engagement with the enlargement process, and its constructive contribution to the general debate on enlargement and on Croatia's accession process in particular.
Enlargement is one of the main priorities of our Presidency, and our work during this semester will be to advance the policy in line with the renewed consensus on enlargement adopted by the European Council in December 2006, as well as with the Council conclusions of 14 December 2010, which have been endorsed by the European Council.
Therefore, as highlighted in your resolution, this semester will be crucial for Croatia's negotiating process.
So far, since the start of negotiations, 34 of the 35 chapters have been opened for negotiation, of which 28 have been provisionally closed.
We are therefore very close to the conclusion of the negotiations.
In addition, the Council welcomed Croatia's active role in regional cooperation as well as the improvement in its relations with neighbouring countries and its efforts aimed at reconciliation in the region.
The entry into force of the arbitration agreement on the border issue with Slovenia at the end of November was a very welcome development in this regard.
In conclusion, let me reiterate that there is still a lot to be done during our Presidency.
The neighbourhood policy is very important for the European Union, the Mediterranean region, the Eastern Partnership and, first and foremost, the Western Balkans.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on Croatia, Mr Hannes Swoboda, and express my appreciation for his fair and balanced report.
The European Union and Croatia have provisionally closed 28 of the 35 negotiating chapters.
The ministerial accession conference of 19 April should be able to provisionally close additional chapters where Croatia has either fulfilled, or is very close to fulfilling, the closing benchmarks.
Along with your rapporteur, Mr Swoboda, I firmly believe that the citizens of Croatia, after being called upon to endorse their country's accession to the European Union, will be able to vote for their representatives in the next elections to the European Parliament.
As Mr Martonyi and the Commissioner have said, there is still work to be done.
That, too, is an important signal to the region as a whole - I am thinking of Serbia and Kosovo here - that such disputes can be settled, not by fighting, but simply by negotiations and dialogue.
We should therefore send a dual message to Zagreb and Croatia as a whole to the effect that we - the Council, Commission and European Parliament - are working together to be able to conclude the negotiations in June so that the treaty can be concluded and we can then give our consent in the autumn, so allowing the ratification process to actually be carried out, but please - and this is addressed to Croatia - deal with the issues that are still outstanding.
With regard to combating corruption, courageous steps have already been taken, but there are a few final steps that are still needed.
With this in mind, ladies and gentlemen, we should send a joint message today from all of us here to Croatia, and indeed to the whole region, to the effect that if a country carries out the tasks it has been asked to do, the European Union will also keep its promise of allowing it to become a member of this Union.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that I feel very moved today, because this year marks 20 years since the movement for democracy in Slovenia and Croatia was consolidated.
It should have been accepted into the European Union along with these Central European countries - Croatia is also very much a Central European country.
In retrospect and given the circumstances in which Croatia became an independent country twenty years ago, we could perhaps say that it has been waiting long enough, if not too long, for membership.
Minister Martonyi, you have given us very specific information about your plans concerning Croatia's accession negotiations.
Chapter 23 has throughout been the subject of the special attention of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE).
When we give Croatia the green light for the last round of negotiations and for its last push on the way to full membership, we should point out that this report is addressed to all the countries of south-eastern Europe which have the same expectations.
Some of you have mentioned Chapter 23 on corruption.
Mr President, we in the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left are in favour of the accession of Croatia to the European Union and trust that it will soon become a full member, provided that this is the will of the Croatian people and provided that the country satisfies all the accession criteria.
However, we insist on further reforms, especially in the judiciary and in stamping out corruption.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - (SK) Mr President, since October 2005, when the decision was taken to commence talks over Croatia's accession to the EU, the Croatian Government has made extensive changes to the running of the country, with the aim of best preparing Croatia for EU accession.
The greatest progress in the accession process was made in 2010, when our Croatian friends concluded negotiations on a number of complex chapters and made fundamental changes to the constitution, as well as making progress over a civilised solution to border disputes with neighbouring countries.
However, it is silent about how this pressure will allow the referendum to be conducted freely and fairly. (DE) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are in fact now in the last round before accession, insofar as we are to discuss this matter here in the Community institutions, because then there still remains the ratification process in the national parliaments, which will certainly not be easy, either.
It is also a signal to other countries that may perhaps have to wait a long time until the door to Europe is open rather than, by and large, being closed.
The general political message is important.
Croatia's membership of the EU is getting close now, but a few challenges still remain, for example the fight against corruption.
A robust and independent judicial syste m is absolutely essential in order to fight corruption and to ensure the rule of law in the long term.
The European project is about reconciliation, and this applies not only between countries - and I applaud the improved relations with Croatia's neighbours - but within them as well.
I fully understand how difficult this is, but I am of the firm belief that this would not only boost the accession talks, but also that the effort itself would be of direct benefit to Croatian society. (PL) Mr President, we should without a doubt support the Hungarian Presidency in its ambitious plans to conclude negotiations with Croatia during the first half of this year.
I believe that it would be wise for us to take steps which help to reverse this trend without delay, in cooperation with the Croatian Government. (NL) Mr President, Croatia has made good progress on its way to achieving EU membership.
Corruption in this Balkan country is still widespread, see for example recitals 7 and 8 of the resolution we are debating.
That will help us to secure people's support, and the support of my Dutch citizens. (DE) Mr President, overall, developments in Croatia are going in the right direction.
However, there are three areas where significant work still remains to be done.
I believe that Croatia's entry into the EU will give an impetus to reforms in the region and will be a success for the whole of Europe.
Accepting Croatia into the EU will give a clear signal that the EU honours its undertakings towards the Western Balkans and that expansion is an open-ended process.
I wish Croatia all the best and look forward to greeting it here as the 28th Member State of the European Union. (HU) Madam President, we must note with strong criticism towards the EU that even though Croatia was, in several respects, already prepared for accession at the time of the last enlargement wave six years ago, it is still being prevented from joining.
Particular emphasis should be given to the determination shown by Croatia itself, for example by the Prime Minister, Mrs Kosor, not only with regard to concluding the negotiations themselves, but also with regard to cooperation with the country's neighbours and the International Criminal Tribunal.
The prospect of concluding negotiations in the near future and the mood prevailing in the Chamber will also help Croatia.
The success of Croatia could serve as an incentive for Serbia and the other countries of the Western Balkans.
It is important for our friends in the Western Balkans and our Croatian colleagues to understand that their internal reforms must be implemented not for the sake of the EU, but for the sake of their own people.
I therefore call on you to keep up the pace and to make every effort. (NL) Madam President, I am happy that Croatia is coming ever closer to accession.
Croatia should be congratulated for its efforts to stamp out corruption, as evidenced by the arrest of former Prime Minister Sanader.
This was always a bilateral issue but should in no way preclude Croatia from joining our Union.
Further efforts are, of course, needed in connection with corruption, but clearly there is no lack of will here, as can be seen by the arrest of the former prime minister, Ivo Sanader.
That is why, Commissioner, I think that a major communication campaign is needed in all EU Member States, and perhaps even in Croatia itself, to explain all the work that has been achieved, that all the chapters are well respected and that serious preparations have been made for this accession.
I firmly believe that all these efforts have been very well demonstrated by this morning's very constructive and very useful debate.
The vote will take place at 12:00 today, Tuesday, 16 February.
In particular, it should strengthen public administration and the judiciary, fight corruption and ensure full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
I hope that the Croatian Government is able conclude the restructuring process as soon as possible so that it can also close the chapter on competition.
The report is generally favourable for Croatia.
Croatia has also still not submitted the documents known as the artillery diaries to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague (ICTY).
Even the 2010 return of Serbian refugees was very limited.
The report does not say how many of the 130,000 Serbs who returned to Croatia after the war were from Serbia and how many were from the Republika Srpska in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The number of Serbian refugees in the Republika Srpska (Bosnia and Herzegovina) has remained relatively stable for several years (between 25,000 and 35,000 persons).
As a representative for Slovakia, which completed this demanding process only seven years ago, I admire Croatia, and believe that Croatia will complete the remaining 10 chapters as soon as possible.
The position of Croatia in the Western Balkans is of strategic importance.
in writing. - (HU) The acceleration of the Croatian accession negotiations brings the possibility of EU integration in the South-East European region within reach.
I consistently support the EU accession of Croatia taking place as soon as possible, because, as a Romanian Member of Hungarian nationality, I have been closely monitoring the fate of the Hungarian community in Croatia.
The Hungarian Presidency's intention to conclude the negotiations in the first half of 2011 makes us very optimistic about the future of the Balkan region and about the accession of those countries to the European Union.
in writing. - (PL) Croatia's accession to the European Union is the subject of lively public debate.
