SWIFT (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on SWIFT.
Mr President, Mrs Malmström, ladies and gentlemen, last month, on 24 March, the Commission adopted a recommendation to the Council to authorise the opening of negotiations between the European Union and the United States for an agreement whereby finance messaging data are made available to the US Treasury Department in order to fight and prevent terrorism and its financing.
In addition, there are fundamental principles that must be respected when personal data are transferred, such as the right of the person whose data are being processed to be informed, or the right to amend or delete such data if they are incorrect.
As for exchanging data with third countries, our understanding is that, when the US authorities have grounds to think that there are data that may help authorities in other countries to prosecute terrorist crimes, such data should be used.
According to European legislation, under similar circumstances where a Member State has obtained information from other Member States, that information may be transferred to third states for the purpose of fighting terrorism.
Parliament rightly considers that it, too, must be involved in this agreement, and we therefore agree that it should be provided with adequate information and that the Commission, as the negotiator of this agreement, should pass on that information at each stage in the negotiations.
On behalf of the Council, I am pleased to confirm that promise today.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the collection of TFTP data is important in the fight against terrorism.
The TFTP is therefore important, not only for the US, but also for Europe.
So we need to address the security gap but also to do this in a way that ensures full respect of fundamental rights and a sufficient level of data protection.
On the question of 'bulk' data transfer, I know this is of great concern to the European Parliament but I also know that you do understand that, without bulk transfers, there will be no TFTP.
The envisaged agreement would place a legal obligation on the US Treasury to share leads with their EU counterparts and allow EU authorities to have TFTP searches undertaken against known terrorist suspects in the EU.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, the first thing that should be said is that this Parliament wants an agreement.
I very much welcome the Commission's readiness to come out with a mandate, as it did as soon as possible after the vote in February, and I am also very keen to have this mandate approved as soon as possible by the Council of Ministers.
Next week, we shall be facing these details when we discuss them with our counterparts in Congress in the US, when a mission from this Parliament goes to the US.
Next week, a mission from the European Parliament will go to the US and we shall discuss this with our counterparts in Congress, but also with the US authorities.
In view of current events this week, we have decided not to adopt any decisions here in Parliament.
I still maintain that the Council should also withhold its decision until after 6 May when we have decided.
Nevertheless, I would like to say clearly that there still need to be substantial amendments to this negotiating mandate.
The problem of bulk data transfer remains unresolved.
If the US authorities tell us that every month we are talking about the specific details of five to ten people, then the transfer of millions of pieces of data relating to European citizens is surely disproportionate to this purpose.
We need a judicial authority on European soil that not only checks the legality of US applications, but also the extraction of data, wherever this takes place.
Furthermore, I would like to underline, like my colleagues did, that the principles of proportionalities and necessity are key to the envisaged agreement.
The fact, and I repeat it once more, the fact that financial measuring data profiles are unable, for whatever reason, to search the content of the messages leading to the transfer of data in bulk cannot be subsequently rectified by mechanisms of oversight and control, as basic principles of data protection law have already been comprised.
Let me stress once more that the transfer and storage of data in bulk to a foreign power, even if it concerns our best friends, is and remains by definition, disproportionate.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Presidency and you, Commissioner Malmström, for what you have said.
The Presidency has rightly said that the TFTP agreement on the exchange of SWIFT bank data is about principles.
It is about fundamental constitutional principles, it is about the protection of privacy - Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
However, it is also about effective legal protection and fair procedures - Articles 6 and 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Without a prior decision in an individual case on the basis of existing suspicions, any access to the bank data of European citizens is disproportionate.
I am, however, heartened that the new American Ambassador to the EU, William Kennard, seems to appreciate MEPs' importance, and this is now being conveyed back to Washington.
The draft mandate being submitted to us today certainly takes up some of the demands made by the European Parliament in its resolution of September 2009, but many points remain incomplete.
We are still awaiting guarantees in this area to safeguard the rights of our fellow citizens and of all those resident in Europe.
Yes, our fellow citizens have a right to security, but they have a right to it in all areas.
Furthermore, we must remember that the agreement provides for reciprocity from the United States should the European Union succeed in launching a European terrorist finance tracking programme.
We should emphasise that this is a time that reflects the spirit of Lisbon as seldom before.
After Parliament's resolution in mid September, after the Council's decisions at the end of November, after the discussions in January/February and after Parliament's clear position in February, we now have a situation that is a good example of cooperation between the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
At this point I would particularly like to welcome our friends from the Rhine and Hunsrück and our friends from Austria who are here today.
Help us negotiate and together, we will bring about a good result.
I, too, would like to say what several people have emphasised, namely that Parliament is committed, and the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats is also very seriously committed to securing an agreement as soon as possible, and to making sure that this is a good agreement, in other words, one that takes into account the interests of European citizens, including their data protection interests.
The draft mandate is indeed a clear improvement on previous agreements, though my colleagues have highlighted aspects where our concerns remain.
As well as the Commission, I actually believe that the US authorities have made that effort of engagement and understanding.
I am heartened that - as I understand it - Commissioner Malmström plans to do that so we can get a clear view of gaps, duplication and over-intrusive measures and arrive at a rational and effective security framework that does not junk our civil liberties. (NL) Mr President, resolution or no resolution, I believe that the Council heard us loud and clear last time and knows full well what it has to do.
Therefore, we should appreciate this and support the United States in the noble cause of the fight against terrorism, because Western Europe in particular was protected by the US from communism for many decades.
It was only thanks to the US that free Europe was free for 40 years.
To me the answer is obvious: our legislation must be based on our rights. (SK) In February, we refused to ratify an agreement on processing and transmitting data contained in financial reports for the purposes of a US Treasury programme to monitor terrorism.
Many of these shortcomings can be eliminated in the new agreement, but the actual principle of a comprehensive transfer of all data from the EU to the US, where the US processes, evaluates and stores all records on EU financial operations without any restriction, under the pretext of looking for links to terrorism, is not tenable.
We will hand over to our friends from the United States only those items that really relate to terrorism. (PT) Mr President, Mr López Garrido, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this House, I supported the agreement concluded between the European Union and the United States on mutual judicial assistance.
In the plenary session on 11 February, I voted against the provisional agreement on the transfer of financial data concluded between the European Union and the United States.
I believe that together, we shall succeed in establishing the basic principles that should guide and facilitate future cooperation between the European Union and the United States in the fight against terrorism.
I reiterate the demand that legal appeals must be possible and that suitable guarantees must be established regarding any transfer of personal details to third countries.
The European Parliament will be consistent with the positions it has always held. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr López Garrido, the draft mandate proposed by the European Commission is a step in the right direction.
The fight against terrorism is our priority.
It is therefore important to put a new agreement in place as soon as possible on the exchange of financial data with the United States, but not at all costs.
In February, a large majority of us said 'no' to a bad interim agreement with the United States; 'no' to the exclusion of the European Parliament, the body representing 500 million citizens.
We want an agreement with sound guarantees to protect the rights of our European citizens.
What I would welcome is a complete, detailed statement of the rights our citizens would enjoy under the prospective agreement.
I should like to hear your responses. (DE) Mr President, thank you, Commissioner Malmström.
The negotiating mandate before us shows, above all, that the Commission and Parliament are again taking the same line and that cooperation has at least got off to a good start.
The negotiations on the new agreement on the transfer of bank data now under way will, above all, answer the crucial question as to where Parliament and the European Union stand on respect.
The resolution that we will adopt in May very much reflects those things that specifically concern the protection of our citizens, both their data and their judicial remedies, including extraterritorial protection, particularly when their rights could be violated extraterritorially.
The European Parliament's resolution highlights this in two paragraphs, the negotiating mandate in one.
I am confident that the Commission will resolve this in a sensible manner. (PL) Our debate is taking place literally two days before a meeting of ministers of the 27 Member States of the European Union on the same subject.
Under current rules, the US can retain data for 90 years, which is longer than an average lifetime, and, although the US authorities say untouched data is deleted after five years, the US Government has already been accused of giving data to big American companies, not to tackle terrorism, but rather to further economic interests.
Your dogged pursuit of this disgusting agreement just goes to show your contempt for democracy and liberties of the people, including those from my country, Wales, and the rest of the United Kingdom. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unlike the previous speaker, I would expressly like to thank both Commissioner Malmström and Commissioner Reding for their intensive efforts to take up the issues that have been raised by Parliament, as well as the problems that we see and have seen in the area of data security and confidentiality, in order to negotiate with the United States.
In this context, I would again like to ask the Commission to indicate how the topic of our own TFTP is viewed within the Commission and in the joint discussion with the Council. (SL) Terrorism remains one of the main threats to security in the European Union and we need to start negotiations with the US on the transfer of banking data as soon as possible, but not at any cost.
A new agreement must provide greater protection of the personal data of European citizens.
We need a better agreement, one which takes into account human rights and which addresses the issue of transferring batches of data on millions of European citizens.
The future agreement must also be a reciprocal one, which means that US authorities should provide similar data on financial transactions if the European Union establishes its financial transactions tracking programme in the future.
I therefore wonder if we could put in place some instruments that would also allow us to refuse the transfer of information to third countries where they fail to provide sufficiently specific reasons for obtaining such data.
As the European Union does not have its own financial transactions tracking system, our security depends on the US.
We need to persuade our citizens that transferring banking data is a sensible thing to do, since we are more and more concerned about the extent to which we permit intrusion into our privacy in the fight against terrorism. (SV) Mr President, ever since the end of the Second World War, it has been important to us Liberals to emphasise the transatlantic links between the US and Europe and to highlight our cooperation in various areas.
The EU must be characterised by democracy and transparency; we, the elected representatives in this House, are an important part of this.
Yet it is just as crucial for us MEPs to ensure that the rights of European citizens and, in particular, the right to protection of personal data, are respected.
I feel it is necessary to stress this point, and this message is addressed not only to the representatives of the Council and the Commission present in this House, but also to the US authorities, with which a new agreement must be negotiated.
Without going back over this matter, since I am the 27th speaker this afternoon, I should just like to stress that some people very poetically described this phase of European democracy as the first day in the life of the European Parliament under the Treaty of Lisbon.
Indeed, not only was it an historic victory in terms of respect for the privacy and the freedoms of the citizens of Europe and beyond, but it was also a turning point for the powers of the European Parliament and, at the same time, a great moment of courage and daring on the part of our rapporteur, Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert, to whom I should like to pay tribute in particular for her determination only a few weeks away from an important date for her.
Thus, as part of this new negotiating mandate, we are going to have to reach a fair and balanced agreement that respects rights and that is surrounded by guarantees illustrating what ultimately represents, in my eyes and in the eyes of many of our fellow citizens, the substance and strength of the European Union, namely the protection of European citizens.
MEPs have been elected democratically to represent the interests of European citizens and cannot compromise in any way on the fact that they need to protect their rights enshrined in treaties and conventions.
There are some subjects which we cannot ignore, such as personal data protection, legal protection, data transfer volume, proportionality, reciprocity or the European Parliament's permanent involvement in the monitoring process.
We will vote on 6 May, and I strongly urge the Council not to sign off on an agreement before that date.
I do want closer cooperation between the European Union and the United States of America, but that cooperation must be based on mutual respect for citizens' rights. (RO) As you are well aware and has also been stated today, the fight against terrorism is a common cause in Europe.
In fact, I would like to talk about trust in the relationship with the United States.
However, the fact also remains that with the Treaty of Lisbon, we have acquired new foundations and, as the European Parliament, we have new rights and these rights must, above all, be exercised to protect our citizens.
One right is the protection of the fundamental rights of our citizens, as well as the protection of life and the protection of privacy.
However, the transfer of aggregate data is certainly going overboard.
The new agreement should give assurances of a balance between these fundamental rights, but also of reciprocity, proportionality and a minimum level of data security.
I applaud the fact that the Council and Commission are today communicating openly, and I would therefore like to ask the Commissioner whether it is necessary to transmit 90 million items of data every month, because I have my doubts about that, and I would also like to ask how our citizens will appeal to the American authorities over suspected abuses of data and who will monitor the data transmitted to the American Government.
Open access to judicial review in contentious cases would, in my view, be a sure guarantee. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate shows that civil rights and the fight against terrorism are not always easy to reconcile.
The SWIFT agreement that is being discussed again today underlines the problem of protecting our civil rights while, at the same time, investing in the security of our world community.
The Commission's draft mandate continues to provide for the transfer of large data units between the USA and the EU.
Well, I wanted to say that the debate we have had was, in my view, highly constructive.
I believe it shows that there is a real spirit of cooperation on both sides, among all the parties involved: Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
Indeed, there is no doubt whatever that both the mandate that the Commission has put forward through Mrs Malmström and the mandate that the Council will approve will very much take account of and find inspiration in the concerns and positions expressed in your speeches and in the motion or draft motion for a resolution proposed by the rapporteur.
I have noticed that there is a series of problems that concern you in particular, and I want to assure you that those problems and concerns that you have mentioned will form part of the negotiating directives that the Council is going to approve.
It is about data that is requested solely for preventing, investigating and prosecuting terrorist crimes and terrorist financing and, moreover, with individualised objectives regarding a particular person where there are grounds for thinking that that person has a nexus or relations with terrorism or its financing.
I can tell you that the negotiating directives agree with the draft mandate drawn up by Mrs Malmström in that those rights will be assured.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I think this has indeed been a very constructive debate.
We also must remember that each and every search of TFTP data is verified by a SWIFT scrutineer and by an independent judicial authority before it is given out.
The agreement will also ensure that EU nationals, via their data protection authorities, have the right to know that the rights of the data subject have been duly respected.
So I think that we can act swiftly and that we can have a good agreement.
I know that the European Parliament is very active, and I am looking forward to having these discussions with you.
I do want to reassure you that both the Presidency and the Commission have listened extremely carefully to your views and, as the Presidency said, we will take account of the debate here and communicate it to the Ministers on Friday.
