The Haitian public health system is now seriously overstretched, despite substantial support from the international community.
The epidemic is spreading at an alarming rate in the capital, Port-au-Prince.
The Commission has reinforced its humanitarian presence with relevant medical expertise and mobilised funds - EUR 12 million - to support partners in Haiti.
After the recent incidents related to civil unrest in Cap Haitien and Port-au-Prince, we are following closely the security situation with our partners and the relevant UN agencies, particularly ahead of the presidential elections of 28 November.
The Commission was in touch with the UN Under-Secretary General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordination, Baroness Amos.
The Commission is therefore in contact with the Belgian Presidency and the Member States to encourage further EU support to help Haiti at this very critical and difficult time.
Thus, in spite of the strong presence of international organisations in Haiti, the situation is deteriorating daily, and the epidemic could infect some 400 000 people in the next few months.
I am, of course, delighted at the EUR 12 million released by the European Commission, and I support Mrs Georgieva's appeal to the Member States to provide aid in kind so that water can be purified, and to supply equipment.
The European Commission must act as a driver in the reconstruction process so that Haiti finally emerges from this chaos.
This vulnerability has facilitated the rapid spread of disease and the death of more than 1 200 people.
Three out of four Haitians are surviving on less than USD 2 a day.
This is why the elections on 28 November are vital and must not be postponed, despite calls from some quarters.
Therefore, I very much welcome the Commission's announcement that it will put an additional EUR 12 million into the fight against cholera.
The figures have already been given, but I want to repeat them: to date, there have been 1 130 victims, and the number of hospital admissions has risen to more than 18 000 in one month.
Finally, I should like to thank the Commissioner and congratulate her on the commitment of the extra EUR 12 million.
We need the international community back there at the level at which it was working, and should let ordinary Haitians be depoliticised from this nonsense going on in the capital. (SK) Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank you for the report you have presented to us on the current situation in Haiti.
The situation must be resolved in the areas of security, finance and especially health. (EL) Commissioner, I, too, should like to start by congratulating you on your outstanding work in the case of Haiti and for everything you have done in Pakistan.
We are talking about over 1 000 dead and 15 000 sick and the numbers keep rising.
The needs are immense and we can see that the money at your disposal is not enough.
Experts, the digging of water wells, clean drinking water and also medical care are particularly important.
All these tasks are urgent and we need a great effort on the part of the Commission and all the Member States. (FI) Mr President, I wish to thank Commissioner Georgieva for the work that the Commission has done.
It is very important that the European Union has a very strong and visible role to play in Haiti.
The estimates are that somewhere between half a million and 720 000 people will be infected before this wave of epidemics is over.
As a result, people die unnecessarily because they are scared to go to treatment centres: they are afraid of catching the disease there rather than being treated for it.
The Commission committed EUR 460 million and is delivering according to the timetable which it announced, and the High Representative and Vice-President, Cathy Ashton, and Commissioner Piebalgs are about to take stock with Member States on where we stand with the money we have promised to provide.
I saw people in camps queuing in front of a doctor, not because they were sick, but because they had never seen a doctor in their lives and were taking advantage of a health service being offered in the camps.
