European Investment Bank (EIB) - Annual Report 2008 (debate) The first item is the report by Mr Deutsch, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the European Investment Bank's annual report for 2008 (2009/2166 (INI)).
This report, however, is about much more than the analysis of the European Investment Bank's activities of two years ago.
This report was created in this new era, and I believe we in the European Parliament and the European Investment Bank will have to respond to the most important questions and challenges of this new era.
Two years ago, the European Investment Bank responded rapidly and efficiently to the unfolding global financial and economic crisis by strengthening its lending activities, primarily by increasing loans provided to small and medium-sized enterprises, and on the other hand by participating with all the capacity available to it in the implementation of the European Union's Economic Recovery Plan.
Another aspect we feel is important, and is therefore featured in the report, is that the European Investment Bank should participate in the financing of the EU 2020 Strategy pending ratification, which focuses on job creation.
In fact, it was the consideration of supporting job creation that led the European Investment Bank in the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Last but not least, in the past years the European Investment Bank has always received the support required for its activity from the European Parliament.
As of September 2008, after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the Ecofin Council asked us to increase the volume of our loans for the real economy.
We set to work, acting on this order from the Council, and I think I can say that we have in fact fulfilled our commitments, since in 2009 the volume of our loans went from 58 billion to 79 billion, that is, an increase of 37% of the volume of our loans in the European Union.
This increase largely concerns what we call the convergence regions and especially certain countries that experienced particular difficulties in 2009.
The second area that was prioritised is support for small and medium-sized enterprises: we increased our loans to the banks so that they continue to lend to small and medium-sized enterprises, with a new product that will allow us to have better control over the actual use of the funds that we lend.
Last year we lent more than EUR 12 billion to the banks for small and medium-sized enterprises.
The third area that we were asked to prioritise is the fight against climate change.
Last year, we provided close to EUR 17 billion in funding for projects that contribute directly to reducing the volume of greenhouse gas emissions.
Of course, we need to continue along these lines, and I would like very briefly to mention the three great challenges that we face in the coming months and years.
That means, therefore, that we, as the EIB, must make our contribution to the implementation of the Europe 2020 Strategy.
The second major challenge that we face is the renewal of the EIB's external mandates.
As you know, we benefit from a European Union guarantee for operations that are included in its external mandates.
As you know, the European Union made some major commitments to support what we call fast track financing.
The French Development Agency and the German KfW have already shown interest in this initiative, and I hope that, together with the Commission, we will be able to help finalise this instrument in the coming weeks.
The increased volumes targeted especially those areas which we feel - and I trust Parliament shares this view - are a priority, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, energy and climate change, as well as investments in the convergence regions of the Union which have been particularly hard hit by the economic slowdown.
Furthermore, the EIB, in a joint initiative with the EBRD and the World Bank, was able to increase its support to the financial sector in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which are also experiencing an especially difficult situation.
The EIB will have a very important role to play in the implementation of the Europe 2020 Strategy in supporting investments in infrastructure, green technologies, innovation and SMEs.
We are also laying the groundwork to enhance the combined use of EU grants with the EIB financial instruments both inside and outside the Union, including in the convergence regions, where the EIB can play an important role in improving the absorption of structural funds.
The Camdessus report also contained a number of good suggestions on increased alignment of EIB external activity with EU policies, and on how to enhance the cooperation of the EIB and the EBRD, building on Parliament's resolution on the EIB and EBRD Annual Reports for 2007.
This will form the basis for a more global tripartite agreement with the Commission replacing the existing regionally based agreements.
It aims at reinforcing the focus of the external mandate on the key policy areas where the EIB has a well-proven track record, especially climate change, social and economic infrastructure and local private sector development, but also at placing more emphasis on development aspects of EIB financing.
The bank turned towards small and medium-sized enterprises to a significant extent, and helped them find their footing as soon as possible.
The second is that the Bank should not only enter into partnership agreements with large commercial banks for the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, but should also include regional banks and savings banks into the partnerships, as these financial institutions know the markets best.
Mr President, Mr Rehn, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, I would first of all like to express my gratitude for the report and I would also like to thank the rapporteur.
We also appreciate very much the contribution which the EIB made to achieving the convergence objectives by lending EUR 21 billion, 41% of total EIB lending in the EU, for convergence projects.
The Member States will be unable to entrust tasks to the EIB on a long-term basis or to ensure that it has prudential supervision.
However, the European Investment Bank is right: it is a bank and it must protect its triple A rating.
That is why I propose that, in the 2020 Strategy, we at least have an objective of EUR 1 trillion in investments.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (RO) I believe we all agree that the European Investment Bank features among the European projects which we can describe as successful European projects.
The European Investment Bank (EIB) was rapid and resolute in taking action when the financial crisis hit with full force.
The bank demonstrated its ability to handle the huge challenges that it faced when the global economic crisis reached the economies in the European Union.
The important role of the EIB in supporting the small and medium-sized enterprises, which has been mentioned here, ought to be highlighted and cannot be emphasised enough.
The fact that the EIB has a strategy for ensuring sustainable long-term growth in the European Union is, of course, extremely important, and this has been said many times; with green development, including investment in the Trans-European Network projects.
Here the EIB can function as a beacon for openness for other EU institutions.
So, finally I come to a blot on the EIB's Protocol.
Yes, we need it at a time when private banks, like industry, have shown that they are working against the general interest, that they are no longer doing their job of providing society with credit.
Therefore, the challenge that we are setting you, Mr Maystadt, and the EIB, is to reverse these proportions, it is to ensure that, in 2010 and beyond, three quarters of your investments - and all of them in the long term - go towards this transformation.
The increased financial commitment should be appreciated, here, as it is fairly significant in this area.
No, they have exported jobs, sometimes to cheaper European countries and sometimes outside the EU altogether.
Lending to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in particular must remain one of its central priorities and, where possible, must be extended.
As far as the objectives of the European Investment Bank are concerned, I would like to see a greater focus on its activities within Europe.
He did mention, and rightly so, that they earmarked SMEs for particular attention and support and I know that in my own country EUR 300 million was allocated for SMEs through the EIB.
Certainly in Ireland every day there is evidence of companies going bust and even in the Irish Times on Tuesday the heading was 'State cuts fund to help enterprises by EUR 22 million'.
Can it be established, and, particularly, can we in Parliament do anything to help establish those facts? (DE) Mr President, Mr Maystadt, Mr Rehn, I would first like to thank Mr Deutsch for his work.
From this point of view, we do not have the right to make it take unnecessary risks, particularly in its interventions in developing countries.
This precaution would protect us from the setbacks experienced by the World Bank, which a few years ago had to cancel 50 billion worth of debt that would not have been repaid in any case.
I believe we can avoid such an experience with the prudence shown in the European Investment Bank's operations, and I would like to encourage it to further develop its interventions in developing countries, because there is certainly still some margin for manoeuvre there. (FR) Mr President, President of the European Investment Bank, in the EIB's 2008 report, Parliament insisted that the bank's external activities comply with the general objectives of the European Union.
In February 2009, the Jordanian authorities contacted the EIB seeking support for their nuclear energy development project, which involves, in particular, the construction of a nuclear power station by 2016.
What I do know is that, if he were alive today, Galileo would not say that the world is turning, he would say that 'the world is running', because events are running away with us and, as the European Union, we must follow them and find the necessary solutions.
I would like to ask you to take the necessary measures and I would also like to ask the staff of the EIB to continue with their work, in particular in the area of transparency.
They should make what they do even more transparent, because this approach will help to combat the new rise of fascism. (FR) Mr President, with the European Investment Bank's 2008 report we are celebrating an anniversary: the EIB has now been actively contributing to the economic development of our continent for more than 50 years.
As a European Union bank providing long-term loans, it plays a decisive role in combating the crisis we are experiencing today.
It is worth EUR 25 million, EUR 18 million of which comes from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), and it will help small enterprises, support innovation and contribute to overcoming the crisis.
The EIB even decreased its investment significantly in ACP countries, in Asia and in Latin America.
The main task of the EIB as a public institution in developing countries should not only be to invest in heavy infrastructure; another and equally important task is providing capital in times of scarcity, supporting markets where private banks are reluctant.
That leads to sustainable growth here and in developing countries. (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I welcome President Maystadt to the European Parliament and before I congratulate him both on the successes of the European Investment Bank and on its ambitious business plan, I should like to express my horror about the murderous arson attack on three of my fellow citizens in Athens yesterday, at their place of work, and to express my deepest condolences to their families.
The EIB has also played an important pivotal role in the core programme on competitiveness in Europe under which, via the JASPERS and JEREMIE initiatives, the EIB has promoted instruments to give even more essential support to innovation.
The smart financial mechanism instruments which it is constantly developing and the more recent European Local Energy Assistance or ELENA initiative are expected to make a decisive contribution towards employment through important investments in sectors such as sustainability and security of energy supply, which have a direct impact on local economic development and on improving the quality of life of our citizens. (LT) President Adamkus, after Europe was struck by the financial and economic crisis, the support provided by the European Investment Bank to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) became especially necessary.
This would demonstrate clearly to the market - particularly the unscrupulous speculators - that we are not prepared to allow any Member State to be brought down and destroyed, as is happening at this point in time with Greece and is likely to happen to other Member States, not least my own, in Ireland. (RO) Against the backdrop of the crisis, the European Investment Bank has managed to change its priorities quickly in terms of granting loans, in order to provide support to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are exposed the most to the risks triggered by the crisis and the increased costs associated with lending.
It is important for us to see to what extent the Bank can provide cofinancing for projects financed from Structural Funds in Member States in the East because, as you are aware, a number of SMEs and local authorities are experiencing major difficulties in accessing European funds for which no cofinancing is available on the financial and banking market.
Mr Mölzer, your words have therefore been recorded in the verbatim record of today's sitting. (RO) I must begin by congratulating the European Investment Bank for the efforts it has made aimed at achieving the Community objectives.
This institution has played and continues to play a crucial role during the current financial and economic crisis.
This is why I am actually encouraging the European Investment Bank to continue the measures aimed at promoting economic and social cohesion in the European Union and the measures to combat the financial crisis by increasing... (The President cut off the speaker) (RO) The European Investment Bank plays a major role in increasing the level of convergence across the European Union, a vital contribution during the economic recession which has hit investments hard, especially in public infrastructure.
The EIB plays a role in the national stimulus package, especially when it comes to enhancing financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also financing renewable-energy and transport projects.
Two objectives, in fact, have been discernible during the debate: firstly, development, and secondly, stabilisation, or the other way round - the order is not important.
The support of the EIF is of great importance in particular to small and medium-sized enterprises in difficult times.
As you doubtless know, in 2008, we launched a new product for loans to banks for small and medium-sized enterprises, which allows us to monitor the use of the funds that we lend more effectively.
Mrs Auconie gave a very specific example of this participation, and I am grateful for her words of support in this regard.
In this context, as Mrs Kadenbach and Mr Czarnecki, in particular, underlined, it is important to have good cooperation with the Commission regarding the use of the Structural Funds, and I can tell you that this is indeed the case.
The third operational priority is energy and the fight against climate change.
It is too early to give an opinion on the impact that that could have, since we are only at the stage of consultation on Basel III and the parameters have not yet been decided.
It is true that we have too few women in the EIB's managerial staff.
The EIB holds the keys to the development of infrastructure, innovations and small enterprises, and we are cooperating closely and seamlessly in this.
The Commission has been actively involved in the construction of a stabilisation programme for the Greek economy and the adoption of a huge financial rescue package to support financial stability throughout the euro area and to ensure the stability of the Greek economy.
At the end of last week we proposed to the Eurogroup a huge financial rescue package and a stabilisation programme worth EUR 110 billion in all.
This is not just about Greece, but the stability of the entire eurozone economy.
The euro is not just a technical arrangement: it is perhaps the European Union's most important joint political project.
rapporteur. - (HU) Mr President, President Maystadt, Commissioner Rehn, please allow me to express my thanks to my fellow Members, the President and the Commissioner for this valuable debate.
It is important that the European Investment Bank has always considered this to be a vital objective, and today's debate also reassures us all that it will continue to work in partnership with the European Parliament, Commission and Council in striving towards these goals.
Last but not least, as regards the European Investment Bank's external mandate, I feel that the remarks made here, in the plenary debate, emphasising the importance of providing support and credit to European countries bordering the European Union, are also important.
Written statements (Rule 149) (GA) The European Investment Bank has a vitally important role in relation to the small and medium-sized enterprises which are trying to survive the current economic crisis.
EUR 30 billion has been earmarked for small and medium-sized enterprises for the period 2008-2011 and more than 50 000 businesses in the EU benefited from EIB funding in 2009.
The financial intermediaries must pass these loans on to the small businesses.
It is crucial that the EIB applies bolder risk-taking in its lending policy towards SMEs in order to allow SMEs to access capital for risk-taking projects.
Throughout this period, it has contributed considerably to the development of integration, balanced and lasting development and economic and social cohesion by supporting investment projects in Europe and lending to the public and private sectors using the financial markets as well as its own funds.
In reacting to the crisis, the EIB significantly increased its lending volume to businesses in 2008.
