European Protection Order (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Jiménez-Becerril Barrio and Mrs Romero López, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Protection Order (00002/2010 - C7-0006/2010 -.
Today, Parliament will honour all victims, reminding those who believe that the borders will shield them while they persecute their victims, that this European Protection Order will protect all victims equally in the European Union from this day onwards.
We will therefore vote with our eyes fixed on the victims, on those who suffer, on those who need us to protect them, on those who are afraid and need to live in freedom and hope.
We are not going to give up on such a fair and necessary aim that is supported by the majority of Europeans just because there are some who are afraid and never dare to take that one step further.
Are 2 500 women every year not a security problem for Europe?
We therefore regret the Commission's position throughout the procedure, because we cannot talk about legal basis when we are talking about political will.
Mr President, roughly 8 000 Romanian women in Spain have benefited this year, as victims, from protection orders which are valid in Spain.
According to unofficial estimates, there are roughly 100 000 women in Europe benefiting from protection orders which are valid in the state that issued them.
The draft directive changes the limited, territorial aspect of these protection measures.
We are therefore awaiting the package with eagerness and interest in spring 2011.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, through this proposal for a directive - for which I should like to express my great thanks to the rapporteurs, with whom I worked as a shadow - Parliament is supporting and expanding the Council's proposal, which was designed to protect people across all 27 Member States who suffer forms of persecution or serious and repeated threats from known and previously identified persons - often ex-boyfriends, husbands or partners - who threaten their physical and sexual integrity, dignity and personal freedom.
Indeed, we believe that this initiative is important because it will allow all citizens of the European Union - men and women - and all European residents to travel freely across borders, taking their human rights and their rights to protection and security with them, as stated in Article 3 of the Treaty of Lisbon, which we in the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament intended as the legal basis, in order to give a more coherent direction to the structure of the proposal.
Through the establishment of the European Protection Order, the protected person is guaranteed to be looked after even in other Member States, through a fast and free-of-charge procedure.
I would like to thank the rapporteurs for all their work, and I hope that Commissioner Reding will be sensitive with this initiative.
Mr President, I think that we in Parliament need to be very responsible and act within the mandate that we have been given, which tells us that, at European level too, we must protect women who are victims of violence and put a stop to murderers.
We are talking about justice, basic rights, life and death, defending those that must be defended against their attackers, and, most importantly, not having to regret the fact that 2 500 women every year are victims of the legal lethargy in which we are all immersed.
It goes without saying that it is important to do things well but, above all, it is essential that we do them and, in my view, that is the fundamental vision that we can send to both the Council and the Commission through this text that I hope we are going to adopt.
It seems clear to me that this proposal has a criminal base only, through the use of Article 82 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, I support the protection of victims.
I suggest that we shy away from the European Protection Order. (PL) Mr President, taking the proposed amendments into account, there is no mistaking the fact that the directive in question is one of the first initiatives aimed at achieving these important goals.
This initiative should therefore be supported, and I lend my full support to the rapporteur. (NL) Mr President, one hundred thousand people are currently benefiting from the European Protection Order.
The European Protection Order makes that possible; it is a splendid initiative and one that has been supported by the Dutch Government.
Protection orders issued in one European country against an offender will thus be enforced in all the other 26 EU Member States.
I hope the Commission fully endorses the report of the two co-rapporteurs in its ambitious package on victims' rights. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this directive on the European Protection Order to safeguard victims is another sign of a momentous shift in real guarantees, above all for women, but not exclusively so, as has already been said.
In particular, I should like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, Mrs Jiménez-Becerril Barrio and Mrs Romero López, on their diligent work and on tackling the many problems encountered in the Council to smooth the way for this particularly important proposal, for an area of freedom, justice and security that will really serve citizens.
It is important that Parliament focuses attention not only on the victims of genderbased violence, but on other victims of violence.
It seems to me that only a protection mechanism which follows the victim can be fully effective and prevent a repeat of the same offence, as well as offering real protection to the victim.
I am delighted that Poland was one of the countries that put forward this initiative. (SK) Madam President, if the European Union is to become a genuine area of freedom, security and justice, we must eliminate the differences still persisting in this area between Member States.
Obviously, this is a matter of fundamental importance for hundreds of thousands of women in the European Union and therefore I fully support its content.
Therefore, I think that the European Parliament should regard this directive as a first step in implementing the Stockholm Programme, which talks expressly about measures to protect the victims of criminal activity, and it seems to me that Mrs Jiménez and Commissioner Reding are of the same mind.
I appeal to the European Commission to ensure that the package of measures to protect victims, which is planned for 2011, also protects victims of organised crime and victims injured in the course of duty on a European level. (DE) Madam President, the European Protection Order is a step in the right direction.
The principle must be that recognised victims of violence are afforded the same level of protection in all Member States.
The best solution would be harmonisation of the laws of the Member States on this matter, but it was not possible to achieve this.
However, there is one fly in the ointment: the grounds for non-recognition in Article 9 are very extensive and may also, to some extent, represent a means for Member States to avoid compliance with the directive.
Therefore, in a year's time, we need to assess very carefully how we can take this debate further, because all victims in all countries need the same protection. (SK) Madam President, I would like to support the idea contained in the draft European Protection Order.
I have two questions for Mrs Reding and the rapporteurs.
Secondly, I would like to know how familiar Mrs Reding and the rapporteurs are with the convention on violence against women that is currently under preparation by the European Union's twin, the Council of Europe, and to what extent we are participating in the preparation of this work. (DE) Madam President, the safety of the women affected really ought to be a matter of concern to all of us.
The right to protection from violence is a basic human right regardless of ethnicity, legal status or immigration status, and it is therefore a moral duty for all of us to uphold this right within and beyond national borders.
Let us therefore be brave and responsible, and let us help all those who have the right to live in a safer Europe.
Let us help those who are looking to us today to give them a better life, a life that will restore to them their freedom, their security and, above all, their dignity.
I would like to say to the Council and the Member States that violence that comes from other cultures also requires a legal instrument.
The problem is that it has to be applied; the problem is that we need to take measures, and sometimes when measures need to be taken, they are legal measures, and sometimes there are obstacles in their path.
That is why we wanted Parliament to vote in favour by a huge majority, so that the countries that have not yet decided or have decided that they are against this initiative will see it as the only procedure that can be used now and in the future.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, I did not intend to speak again, but what has been said needs to be corrected.
The measures which will be part of the victims package include an overarching communication, the Lisbonisation of the 2001 framework decision on the standing of victims in criminal proceedings, a proposal on civil protection measures and, if necessary, a proposal on criminal protection measures.
