Credit rating agencies (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Gauzès, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009 on credit rating agencies - C7-0143/2010 -.
I say 'once again' because Europe has not been slow in bringing in a regulation in this area which was conceived in 2009 and which is now taking effect.
The agreement reached between the Council and the European Parliament on the architecture of European supervision, which will enter into force on 1 January 2011, now makes the effective implementation of rating agency supervision possible.
It is stressed in the Regulation establishing the European Securities and Markets Authority that this authority will exercise its own supervisory powers in relation, in particular, to credit rating agencies.
What I wanted - and my colleagues supported this request - was for the other issues relating to credit rating agencies, allocation of sovereign debt, remuneration schemes and competition, to be postponed and dealt with in a study taking the form of an own-initiative report, which will precede the legislative proposal that you are due to make in the first half of 2011 and for which you have launched a consultation.
This is an important step which we also think will contribute to improving the stability of the financial markets, and which will support the development of a much more effective supervisory framework.
However, we are prepared to have a more in-depth debate on the issue of regulating the credit rating agency sector itself once the Commission has provided us with its proposal on the comprehensive review of this sector, which is set for next year.
Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement on the supervision of credit rating agencies is an important step, and I, too, would like to thank you, Mr Gauzès, and, of course, those working alongside you, the Committee Chair, Mrs Bowles, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, Mr Klinz, Mr Giegold, Mr Pittella and Mr Fox.
As Mr Chastel said just now, from July 2011, this amendment to the 2009 regulation will give ESMA, the new Securities and Markets Authority, the direct power to supervise credit rating agencies at European level.
Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of this decision that you are taking today really must be understood.
I therefore think that this represents a considerable gain in efficiency, transparency and security within the general architecture that we are constructing week by week in order to achieve intelligent supervision and effective regulation.
The Commission is already considering the next stage: a public consultation was launched on 5 November 2010 to broaden this debate and to collect the points of view of all the parties concerned, and, as you know, there is nothing artificial about the debates regarding all these regulations.
This consultation is open until next January and, on the basis of all the responses that we receive, and of Mr Klinz's own-initiative report, we will take a decision at some point in 2011, but not too late, regarding the measures that we want to implement in order to complete, through a third stage, these two regulations on rating agencies, which are now almost implemented.
ESMA should also have greater power of enforcement.
Finally, I want to underline the fact that the provisions of this directive, which represents a new regulatory frame, should only apply to the structured financial instruments, credit rating agencies themselves being an important part of structured finance.
The remainder of the financial instruments, 150 year-old common shares or plain bonds which do not pose a systemic risk should not be part of this directive if you want to be tight but not to over-regulate, if you want to be competitive but not expensive in administrative costs, and if you want to hold capital in Europe and not drive it away to the emerging markets abroad.
If it so wishes, ESMA can delegate this cross-border responsibility to national supervisory authorities if these supervisory authorities are small and only operate nationally.
This proposal is therefore nothing more than an adaptation of the regulation of April 2009 to the new circumstances, but it strengthens the role of ESMA.
When drawing up the regulation in April 2009, we took a political decision with regard to how we should deal with ratings from third countries in Europe.
The Commission has now changed this at level 2 and said that endorsement will no longer be possible.
I am taking this up in the own-initiative report, and I am pleased that the Commission is going to table a legislative proposal on this matter in the next year.
The third issue is that with concerted downgrades and negative rumours, any country can be made insolvent, and in this way, it can be forced to take out new loans and thus remain an increasingly vulnerable client in the debtors' market.
But, in relation to the credit rating agencies, one of those agencies was getting USD 800 million a year for rating structured finances.
Mr Pittella, thank you for your encouragement.
Mrs Regner also mentioned this point.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you in advance for your vote of support for this new stage, which will show - I repeat once more - that Europe is making concrete and objective progress, that it is learning the lessons of the crisis, thanks to the support and the impetus given by the Belgian Presidency, and thanks to the support of all the groups in the European Parliament.
Thus, we cannot avoid the fact that in 2009, when we brought about the first regulation, we were already asking ourselves these questions.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Wednesday, 15 December 2010).
On 1 January 2011, the regulation giving rise to the creation of the European Securities and Markets Authority will come into force.
I do not believe that these rules are strict enough, and I welcome the further measure that we are discussing within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
