We are not facing problems that are purely national, or a crisis that is only economic; we are facing a political crisis that requires a swift, full, Europeanist response.
Europe must not hide when it is needed most.
I wish the euro zone well and I regret that I am unable to support the proposals on economic governance we are debating tonight.
The proposals before us grant the Commission sweeping new powers.
I was not elected to grant the EU more powers over the way the United Kingdom governs its affairs and I shall therefore vote against these proposals. (DE) Mr President, the debate reflects the unresolved issues of economic policy in Europe.
The Commission has now proposed that the Stability and Growth Pact be tightened up.
There were socialist governments everywhere that these budgetary and financial problems have arisen.
In other words, your economic model does not work. (Heckling) Really, Mr Bütikofer, you should know better by now.
Now, however, it is for the Greeks to... (The President cut off the speaker.) (The speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under Rule 149(8) of the Rules of Procedure) (DE) Mr President, Mr Langen, I just want to make sure that you are familiar with our ideas.
The only problem with them was that they primarily want more money.
The problem cannot be solved by throwing more money at it.
If they can accept responsibility, then they will be able to benefit from our solidarity. (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by paying tribute to all those who have been working hard on this package of late, but I also support the previous speakers from my group.
It seems that some sort of design error has crept into our financial blueprint and we need to rectify that.
Yes, Mr Langen and ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed in favour of sound public finances, but what is key for us is how we can all move forward, how we can crawl out of this morass.
How we can prepare for the future and, therefore, how we can create growth and employment through a common economic policy.
In other words, by integrating an ambitious investment strategy into the system, by forging a link with the 2020 objectives, or to put it another way, by making joint arrangements, for example, to improve our education system, fight poverty and become more competitive and take on the competition from third countries through investment in research and development.
We therefore consider the 'six-pack' to be a missed opportunity to put genuine economic governance in place. (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a very deep crisis, and not only one from which we have to ensure that we extricate ourselves, but also one which we must prevent ourselves from ever landing in again.
It is for that very reason that we need a strong legislative framework and for that very reason that we, as a co-legislator, as Parliament, also have to shoulder our responsibilities.
After all, we are the generation that is currently deciding the future of our children.
I therefore hope that we here will be casting a vote in favour, that we will support this package, but also that we will give ourselves the opportunity to start a final round of negotiations with the Council in order to strengthen this point further. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are witnessing a paradox.
The package that should correct and prevent imbalances and asymmetries is based on an imbalance and a lack of symmetry.
The difference between those who believe that disorder and imbalances in public finances are at the root of the crisis and those who think that the underlying problem has to do instead with the lack of rules and transparency in the markets, economic and trade imbalances and social inequality.
We know that our actions can lead to widely differing results, even without our intending it, and can even have the opposite effect to the one we are seeking to achieve.
I fear that this problem lies at the heart of this package. (ES) Mr President, we are clearly in a serious situation that calls for all of us to be responsible.
What we are now doing is restoring budgetary discipline.
It leads to melancholy and also to speaking for longer than the time one is allocated, Mr García-Margallo y Marfil, through the President's indulgence. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this debate offers the opportunity to address the issue of a new agreement on governance in the European Union, to send a strong and unified message, to restore solidarity to the EU and to dispel speculation.
An equally incontrovertible fact is that this was a mistake and we are paying the consequences.
We must go back to rules of fiscal discipline, and this is the real issue, the real debate that we must have among ourselves.
Procedures should be automatic so that we do not have the same experiences that we had with the old Stability and Growth Pact.
Solidarity between EU Member States must be accompanied by a sense of responsibility and must respect rules that Member States cannot and must not knowingly violate.
I deplore the fact that we have been incapable of sending a strong, simple, practical message to the Greek people, to the Member State governments and to Europe's citizens.
However, I should also like to say this: we are also addressing the Greeks.
With our plans for economic governance, we are now calling for the Stability and Growth Pact to be strengthened, both in terms of preventive and corrective measures, for a majority in favour of the implementation of sanctions and for the Commission to have the right to intervene, when necessary, so that the citizens of Europe can rely on the rules being followed.
We have discovered that we have fundamental problems, such as the lack of a common fiscal and economic policy.
I would also like to thank in particular the rapporteurs, the Hungarian Presidency and the Commission for their really exceptional efforts, culminating in the clarification of this legislative package.
This European economic governance package must be viewed in connection with the other legislative package on the financial sector, including Europe's financial supervision structure, which has already been adopted.
I firmly believe that effective implementation of this legislation will ensure that no other Member State will ever again be exposed when faced with a future crisis.
By this I mean that a Member State that has a debt which it can no longer pay cannot receive assistance, thereby adding a new debt to the existing one, with higher costs as well.
I think that the Members concerned are forgetting that there are countries in the European Union - and not just one or two, and not only Greece - which have domestic debt of over 100%, the sole cause of which is stimulation of the economy.
Yet the proposed solutions state that each country is to reduce debt to 60% within 20 years.
If 20 years to halve debt is the long-term perspective, what is the short-term perspective?
I would urge you to adopt this package, for a lack of agreement between the Council, the Commission and Parliament on this issue will... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, compromise is wise.
If the pieces are not right and not in order, plans for the future and the EU2020 are only futile and nice words, on which basis we really cannot build the future. (DE) Mr President, the European economic governance package sends out a clear signal that we must avoid debt crises wherever possible in future.
I think they show that the European Union has the capacity, the will and the intelligence to take measures arising out of the lessons we have learned from the economic crisis.
We need to coordinate our policies; we need to be transparent in how we manage our national budgets and, above all, we need to bring down our deficits.
You are on the wrong track. (EL) Mr President, as a Greek, I wish to thank all my fellow members who spoke positively about Greece and to stress that I think that the survival of a State transcends party political divisions and positions.
We have still not understood and we are still trying to understand the Europe of the past, to understand how we got where we are today.
What we ..... (The President cut off the speaker) (HU) Mr President, I am grateful for the hard work of the rapporteurs, advisors, the Hungarian Presidency and everyone who made it possible for us to have the 'six-pack' of economic governance here in this form today.
Without adding the elements advocated by the progressive groups in this Parliament, I do not see how we can agree to vote in favour of these texts.
We would actually be creating a split personality for ourselves, considering that we have adopted resolutions on the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy and that we are drafting reports, as I am doing myself, on implementing the platform to combat poverty.
The economic governance that is being proposed... (The President cut off the speaker) (NL) Mr President, the tightening of the Stability and Growth Pact is urgently needed.
Ministers will never again be permitted to cover each other's backs when a Member State allows its public finances to derail.
Rapporteur Wortmann-Kool is therefore right to insist on the idea that ministers should be able to block decisions by qualified majority only.
Moreover, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance want to exempt public investment from the standard of a maximum ... (The President cut off the speaker) - (SK) Mr President, the package of measures on economic governance is a businesslike response to the obvious problems of an economic and financial nature that have long plagued the European Union.
Even though I do not think the European Commission should have more powers than it had previously, I agree that the European currency union must establish a more precise mutual control mechanism for budgetary policy.
This package of proposals will help encourage Member States to apply a prudent budgetary policy and, if appropriate, to adopt corrective measures in good time to restrict penalties from being imposed.
This highly risky strategy will come back to haunt Europe in the short or the long term.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I am not sure if I can respond to all of the Members.
I want to, first of all, thank you all for a very substantial and substantive debate which reflects an overall sense of responsibility for Europe's economic future, for growth and stability, and for our citizens' welfare.
Because we must be able to show our citizens, economic actors and the international partners that the European Union really can in future prevent a fiscal crisis such as the one we have recently experienced, in the case of Greece for instance.
That is the first building block of this legislative package.
That is why we need preventive budgetary surveillance and effective enforcement as proposed in the package and indeed by your rapporteurs and your committee.
That is also why we need a genuinely and effectively functioning mechanism to identify and correct macroeconomic imbalances, in order to prevent the kind of crises we have seen, for instance in Ireland or the credit boom we have seen in Spain.
That is why we need the second building block in this package: an effective mechanism to identify and address macroeconomic imbalances.
Some of you, like Udo Bullmann, Sven Giegold and Philippe Lamberts, have asked whether we consider that the issue of symmetry/asymmetry has been settled.
So, all in all, your vote tomorrow will be a very important one, a very crucial one for the European Union and its capacity to convince our general public, economic actors and international partners of our capacity to overcome the crisis and facilitate sustainable growth.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I am glad most of the contributions indicate that the job which was assigned to us - and by 'us' I mean Parliament and the Council - to agree on a very ambitious and new economic governance package, is 99% completed.
I am optimistic because, here in this House, I feel a commitment and a real sense of ownership towards the future of Europe.
In the last four weeks the Finance Ministers of the 27 Member States discussed the package three times, and each time they made major concessions to Parliament on various points of the text in order to pave the way for a timely agreement.
In some cases it was not legally feasible to do so, and we identified where that was the case very quickly.
Mr President, I am grateful for everyone's contributions to this debate, and particularly the summaries given by Commissioner Rehn and the President-in-Office of the Council, András Kármán.
That and reverse qualified majority voting are points on which adjustments are still being made, and there is no conclusion on them yet.
Having said that, I think the new factor of the analysis of macroeconomic imbalances can be useful.
The fact is that the European Union is imperfect and incomplete.
Mr President, I am grateful for all the contributions that have been made to this debate, and I would like to express my very special thanks - because I did not do so just now - for the crucial role played in all this by Mrs Bowles, the Chair of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
The package also forms part of the euro's defences.
Anyone who believes that the very best solutions for growth are not here must also admit that they do not know of any country that fails to grow if its public accounts are in order.
Countries that show budgetary discipline are countries with economies that grow, and we must not forget that.
To achieve all that, however, we must show a sense of responsibility at voting time tomorrow; we must necessarily vote responsibly and choose our partners very well.
For my part, my choice is very clear: I will be voting for a better Europe and a better European economy.
First of all, I wanted to say to the Minister that I think we have already proved that the Community method works well.
As Diogo Feio just said, I think the text has actually been improved, and I think that when there is public debate we are doing our job and citizens can be informed about what is going on in Brussels, as they say.
As the Commissioner said, I think there are no differences between us so great that we cannot overcome them.
rapporteur. - (NL) Madam President, I, too, would also like to thank everybody who has participated in the debate and everybody who has supported us with such clear arguments.
I would also like to thank Sharon Bowles, Chair of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, because the situation was very complicated and it will certainly be thanks to her if we get a positive outcome to the vote tomorrow.
Commissioner Rehn has 15 points on his list and it could be that there are some Members who have problems with the detail in this package, but if you look at the alternative offered by the Left, it leaves us even worse off.
I therefore hope that, tomorrow, Members will be prepared to rise to the challenge of this very important legislative package for this Parliament, which for the first time in its history is exercising co-legislative powers, just as the Council does.
On behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I would also like to emphasise what Mrs Goulard said about symmetry and asymmetry.
There is indeed a give and take in this House and everyone has their priorities.
However, that principle of give and take should also be applied, in terms of symmetry, to this Parliament eventually adopting a position on this package. - The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday 23 June 2011.
I think that the proposals in this package are not ambitious enough, as they are only geared towards austerity and curtailing citizens' social rights.
Following the New Deal policy model from the United States, the solution to the current economic and financial crisis will involve restoring economic growth based on investments and creating new jobs.
It is important that the EU does not just respond to the crisis by eliminating the most acute problems, but that it also prepares more fundamental reform of economic governance.
They seem to be based on the idea that these states can deal with the difficult situation themselves, and that they are capable of improving their situation by themselves through a 'disciplined' approach.
The situation regarding macroeconomic imbalances, particularly in countries with the single currency, can be resolved only through a consensual reassessment of the current model of economic development.
The economist Joseph Schumpeter talked about 'creative destruction'.
For this reason, the submitted legislative package containing six proposals for establishing an improved framework for economic management is a step in the right direction.
Overall, I believe that the legislative package which has been presented is an appropriate response to the global crisis and the EU's current economic situation, building on the relevant legislation and complying with the Europe 2020 strategy and other strategic EU documents, and therefore I recommend adopting it in the amended version.
in writing. - (BG) The lack of suitable instruments for diagnosing public finance problems early, along with the poorly operating mechanisms of the Stability and Growth Pact, are among the basic causes of the long-running crisis which the euro area and EU are going through.
Ultimately, automatic mechanisms ought to be established and executed when certain Member States consistently breach the Stability and Growth Pact.
The economic crisis has exposed the irresponsible financial and economic decisions of several governments, but it is the conscientious Member States that are paying the price.
Adoption of the economic governance package proves yet again that the European project is still alive and that it is on the basis of conciliation among the 27 that the Member States will overcome their difficulties and, at the same time, confront the challenges of the future.
The sovereign public debt crisis shows that the current supervisory and remedial mechanisms are inadequate.
The measures put to the vote today seek to strengthen the instruments that are not working, and therefore it is essential that they are put into practice.
However, I must stress that the success of Europe's economic policy must also depend on other, complementary measures to support investment and growth in the Member States.
Europe must focus on a common strategy, but it must not forget the specific features of each country.
In March and June 2010, the European Council adopted the Europe 2020 strategy, the main priority of which is enhanced coordination of economic policy strategies in the Member States and, as a long-term goal, sustainable and inclusive growth and sustainable employment.
Since economic governance regards public debt as equivalent to a deficit, we should make every effort to ensure that the medium-term budgetary framework which is put in place helps to reduce the burden on future generations.
The economic crisis and its repercussions have shown us that the EU's future needs to be built on European rather than domestic solutions.
Coming up with a viable solution to the sovereign debt crisis and the need to strengthen the euro, return to a path of sustainable growth and create new jobs depend on efficient coordination between Member States and strengthening the Stability and Growth Pact.
The European economic governance package on the European Parliament's agenda can create the mechanisms the EU needs for its future, in the way that its architects imagined it.
At the same time, I understand that we must seek the causes of the financial problems of Greece and other EU states, and find a way to avert these in the future.
In a case such as that, however, we are also talking about a unified system of health insurance contributions, social insurance and pensions throughout the EU.
