Development of the European Citizens' Initiative based on Article 11(4) of the Treaty on European Union (debate) The following point is the Statement of the Council and of the Committee on Development of the European Citizens' Initiative based on Article 11(4) of the Treaty on European Union.
Mr President, I am grateful to Parliament for having had the initiative to hold this debate on, it seems to me, one of the most important, most relevant aspects from the democratic point of view, on the development of the European Union and of Europeanism amongst the European public.
When a country chairs the Council of the European Union, we believe that it should not implement its own priorities, its own goals simply as a country during that Presidency, but must go further and must be capable of representing Europe's goals.
Here in Brussels, or in Parliament, a European debate is taking place, but in each of the Union's countries, it is the national debate that predominates, not the European debate.
As soon as the Commission submits its draft regulation - we would like to thank the Commission, and I must say especially President Barroso and Vice-President Šefčovič, for the concern with which they have prioritised this issue in the Commission's work schedule; we are also grateful that it will take place imminently and very speedily, as Mr Šefčovič will be telling us shortly - we shall have a text that enables us, together with the Council and Parliament, to set in motion what European citizens are undoubtedly hoping for, before this six months are up.
That is why, from the time of the informal meeting of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs at La Granja de San Ildefonso, as Mr Šefčovič and Mrs Malmström - still in office because the new Commission had not yet taken over - will remember, to the first meeting we held with the Commission in Madrid when the new College of Commissioners took over, and now this afternoon in Parliament, we are anxious to push this initiative.
I think this was very well reflected also in the Lisbon Treaty, where it is very clear that Parliament's powers are very much strengthened and when we are going to include the national parliaments more in the European legislative process.
As Diego has already said, I am also convinced that this would lead to stronger, better cross-border Europe-wide debates in Europe, more on European topics, and not only on national topics that we see so often in the capitals of our Member States.
The Commission was and is very grateful for the work the European Parliament has already done on the European Citizens' Initiative.
For us, the resolution you adopted on 7 May last year was very important political guidance and a very important pointer as to how we should prepare this initiative.
We got more than 300 responses coming from a range of contributors: individual citizens, organisations, public authorities and even some national parliaments.
We evaluated the responses we got and completed the consultation process with a public debate in Brussels, where more than 150 stakeholders were in attendance, including honourable representatives of Parliament.
I hope that the College will adopt the proposals we are working on on 31 March.
A popular initiative that is an example of participatory democracy - Mr Šefčovič has explained this very well - and of European democracy, because the issues that need to be covered by this initiative must be European issues, not local issues.
Mr Šefčovič, who is preparing this proposal, has not told us what it involves.
On behalf of my group, Mr Šefčovič, I would ask that it contain at least three ideas.
Mr President, Mr Šefčovič, I was very pleased to learn that the Commission plans to approve this draft regulation next week, on 31 March no less.
I believe this is great news, I think it is appropriate and right to congratulate the Commission, Mr Šefčovič and the Spanish Presidency for the boost they have given to this initiative and for agreeing to submit a very important proposal to this House.
It is the opportunity for people to actually get close to Parliament and learn how it can be useful.
We need to ensure that the Regulation does not create needless barriers to the implementation of the citizens' initiative, but that it makes it clear and simple.
Mr President, Mr López Garrido, Commissioner Šefčovič, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have, at this point, a major opportunity for Europe, this shared Europe of ours, that began with treaties between States - the classical instrument of foreign policy, in which the citizens were more or less spectators - to now increasingly become a Europe of the citizens.
What we are doing here is creating a first instrument that will allow the citizens to make their voices heard in Brussels.
For me, the success of this will rise and fall by the fact that the Commission proposal or at least, ultimately, what is decided as a legislative proposal here, not only contains hurdles and stipulations that citizens must observe, but also stipulates that the Commission must seriously work on a citizens' initiative that has reached it, as, in my view, it would be extraordinarily frustrating if a million citizens had signed such an initiative and, in the end, the whole thing just disappeared, silently and unceremoniously, into a wastepaper basket.
The new Treaty of Lisbon urges us to swiftly adopt a systematic course of action to promote the citizens' initiative, which is testament to the existence of a European people.
However, the most important aspect of the initiative laid down in Article 11 of the Treaty of Lisbon is its symbolic significance: the democratic deficit is being tackled not only by the decision-making power of the people's representatives, but even more so by the very existence of a European people which is not just the mathematical sum of the citizens of the individual nations.
I welcome and am grateful for the progressive work of Vice-President Šefčovič and the Spanish Presidency.
I strongly believe that the Spanish Presidency is doing an excellent job as a member of the trio together with Belgium and Hungary, my good comrades.
I see the European Citizens' Initiative as a good opportunity to increase support for Europe among citizens.
I call on Parliament and the Commission to take these signals very seriously, as Europe is there for citizens, not the other way round. (PL) Mr President, the increased role which the Treaty of Lisbon gives to the European Parliament, as well as the European Citizens' Initiative, are a very important step towards the strengthening of European democracy.
I think the European Parliament's role should be much greater, here.
I think, too, that the procedures concerning initiatives should be harmonised in the Member States, because too much variety will make it difficult for us to gain broad support for these initiatives. (SK) The citizens' initiative, as one of the powers of EU citizens, represents significant progress for democracy and for the direct participation of the broader public in political life.
I would now like to refer to the questions put by my colleague, Zita Gurmai, because I, too, consider it important to find an answer to some of these questions.
It is these kinds of obstacles that we must avoid in the case of the citizens' initiative.
Lastly, we must not lose sight of the enhanced role of our Parliament.
The minimum number of states that is necessary, I believe, should be seven, not nine, as proposed or indeed as suggested by the Commission, and I must argue and insist that the one million threshold set by the treaty should not be breached.
And, finally, could I say that I believe it should be possible to enable citizens to register on the Internet. (ES) Mr President, I want to begin in Spanish by thanking the Spanish Presidency for having taken the decision to present the initiative earlier than was originally expected.
I think it is important that the legal, formal and content-based examination of this matter takes place right from the outset and not once people have already begun to collect signatures.
If that happens, we will be able to once again enthuse the citizens about our shared Europe - and more strongly, too. (SK) Commissioner, thank you for providing an outline of the next steps.
Member State citizens will have the opportunity to lobby European institutions.
We must not let this opportunity slip through our fingers.
The Commission must make this right of initiative straightforward, understandable and accessible, and assist and support citizens from the initial stage of the process through to the signature collection stage, for example, by determining the admissibility of their proposals.
This is a practical contribution to European democracy. (EL) Mr President, we often refer to the need to increase the participation of European citizens, to the need for us to get closer to the Union's institutions, to the citizens of all the Member States.
Above all, our message must be clear and must be contained in a simple, understandable, comprehensible procedure which, if nothing else, functions for everyone, functions for the citizens, functions for Parliament, for the Union's institutions, for the Member States and for all stakeholders in the procedure. (PT) Only a few months ago, some were saying that the Treaty of Lisbon would never come into force.
The Treaty of Lisbon has an important contribution to make in fighting the democratic deficit.
If we come up with solutions that discourage public participation, we are betraying the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon and denying the European public because, ladies and gentlemen, we need more Europe and a Europe that is aimed more at the public.
We need the European public to have greater involvement and to actively exercise their citizenship. (SL) I would like to express my satisfaction and pleasure that we are today discussing this initiative which will, I am sure, reduce what we call the democratic deficit or partially eliminate it.
For this reason, it is very important that we have adopted the Treaty of Lisbon because it expands the role of parliament, both the role of national parliaments and that of the European Parliament.
As a result, we are now witnessing something that we could describe as a European democracy project taking shape on a European level and I think that we have already made a major leap forward in this respect.
We now have a right of initiative for the citizens.
It would be my wish that we should also have this in Europe. (PL) Mr President, public consultations on the European Citizens' Initiative have just ended, and it turns out that the consultations attracted only 323 respondents.
Another important matter is the introduction of a certain form of evaluating admissibility ex ante, with the assumption that initiatives and initiators are aware that formal recognition of admissibility is not equivalent to the Commission putting forward a legislative proposal on a particular matter.
Nevertheless, it is better than nothing, and we might, at least, demonstrate that this initiative was a hollow promise. (RO) I believe that the inclusion of the European Citizens' Initiative in the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon marks an important step in the consolidation of democracy in the European Union.
The proposal for one out of three states, in other words, nine at present, is, in my opinion, discouraging and unrealistic for prospective initiatives in practical terms.
A reduction in this number to 20% would, I believe, be a step in the right direction for the general public of the EU, who will, for example, also take note of the greater emphasis being placed on the role of the macro-regions in creating EU policy.
And why not? (HU) The possibility of a European Citizens' Initiative can promote the development of public debates on European questions, leading to a true European public sphere.
I consider it important that, parallel to the advance notice of proposals for a resolution and even before the gathering of signatures begins or perhaps after a certain number of signatures have been collected, the Commission should give an opinion, based on its own competence and on Community law, as to whether the proposal in question would be acceptable.
A rejection on formal grounds or due to a lack of legal basis after the million signatures have been collected can portray not only the Commission but the entire European Union in a very unfavourable light. (LT) The Treaty of Lisbon provides for the strengthening of the role of civil society in European institutions and the opportunity for European citizens to initiate legislative proposals.
We would like to create a system where the citizens would not have the feeling that they have to go through a very burdensome procedure to collect or to give their signatures.
At the same time, we got the clear message from the Member States that we should look for a system which would not be too burdensome or too complicated for the national authorities, because it would be the Member States who would have to verify that the signatures collected for the citizens' initiative are real and genuine.
I can assure you that there are no easy answers to these questions and to these slightly contradictory requests.
I think that strong and wide public consultations are taking place through the smart-legislating proposals.
I look forward to our mutual discussion on this issue and what I hope will be very dynamic and speedy procedures so that we can have this very important instrument approved as soon as possible.
The Treaty of Lisbon gives the citizens of the European Union the right to propose a legislative initiative.
This is one of the most important steps in the building of civil democracy and direct inclusion of the citizens in the EU decision-making process.
The European Citizens' Initiative can contribute to a reduction in the gap between the institutions and the citizens, and can support the development of European civil society.
The idea to create a tool enabling the citizens to participate more fully in the democratic life of the Union was mooted as far back as 2005 after the unsuccessful constitutional referendums in France and the Netherlands.
Those votes reflected a noticeable lack of communication between the European Union and its citizens.
The citizens' initiative makes it possible for us to change this situation and give a stronger voice to our citizens by giving them the right to call directly on the Commission to bring forward new policy initiatives.
However, we must make sure that guarantees against abuses are met.
It is important that the European Citizens' Initiative be a truly supranational instrument which will be citizen-friendly and easy to use.
