Prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances - Implementation of excessive deficit procedure - Requirements for budgetary frameworks of Member States - Budgetary surveillance in euro area - Surveillance of budgetary positions and surveillance and coordination of economic policies - Enforcement measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in euro area (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: by Mrs Ferreira, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances_-_C7-0301/2010 - by Mr Feio, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1467/97 on speeding up and clarifying the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure - by Mrs Ford, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a Council directive on requirements for budgetary frameworks of the Member States - 2010/0277(NLE)] by Mrs Goulard, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the effective enforcement of budgetary surveillance in the euro area - C7-0298/2010 - by Mrs Wortmann-Kool, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1466/97 on the strengthening of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies - C7-0300/2010 -, and by Mr Haglund, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on enforcement measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area - C7-0299/2010 -.
Mr President, in the view of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, the component of the economic governance package that deals with the Stability and Growth Pact is not the response that Europe requires at this time of structural crisis.
The text on which we are going to vote reflects a broad consensus, which was only possible thanks to everyone's huge capacity for work and spirit of compromise.
As rapporteur, I wish to thank all my fellow Members from all political groups, particularly my shadow rapporteurs, and I pick out Mr Haglund especially, for whom I acted as shadow rapporteur as well.
Because we worked in conjunction all the time, I must mention the important introduction of a European semester regime in the preventive part, and point out that the preventive part is essential and that penalties should only be applied as the final step in this whole procedure.
All these steps have been taken as essential parts of Parliament's role.
Let me say that many of the Member States already comply with large parts of this directive, but implementing this minimum series of requirements will introduce discipline and restore confidence, and is a first small step back on the path to stability in public finances.
In addition, Member States themselves have agreed that they will each introduce their own legislation on fiscal rules - not necessarily German constitution debt breaks - but rules tailor-made in each country to keep them in line with their obligations under the Treaty.
Whilst this is not, in my opinion, a deeply significant issue in my own Member State - as we do not intend to join the euro and resulting fines do not apply to us - it is an extremely difficult and contentious issue in many countries, including those who intend to join.
If we want stricter rules, they need to be more intelligent, but above all we need more democratic debate and more cross-border discussions.
This is why we have proposed - and I would like to thank all the Members who have supported me on this point - creating what we have termed an economic dialogue, which must be proportionate.
Consequently, I hope that tomorrow's vote will be favourable and that all those who claim to be in favour of Eurosecurities will discuss the issue in a spirit of open-mindedness rather than based on ideological prejudices.
rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, if one thing is clear, it is that Europe needs a solid foundation in order to prevent a new euro crisis in the future and to ensure sustainable economic growth.
I would like to extend my warm thanks to all the Members, rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs, employees, staff and everyone for the many hours we have spent together in order to achieve this because, in exercising its powers, the European Parliament has taken a firm and ambitious position.
I would like to thank the Hungarian Presidency, and in particular András Kámán, for the efforts put in to bridging the differences between the Council and Parliament.
This is very important, because my group is striving for a final vote in the plenary in July.
The turmoil in the financial markets continues and we urgently need to find a solution to the debt crisis in several countries.
Reaching a decision before the summer is crucial to restoring confidence in the euro, given that the Stability and Growth Pact was being broken as early as 2003.
That is why this House has proposed the reverse voting procedure.
That is why the PPE Group is calling for sustainable public finances and for 5 or 6% budget deficits not to be permitted.
A debt burden - the painful evidence of which we are witnessing - stands in the way of economic growth, not only in our European countries, but also in the United States.
We need a solid foundation, and that is why I am pleased that the Council will exercise the preventive arm of the proposals, namely to ensure that Member States strengthen their own national responsibilities and involve their national parliaments in the process, clear deadlines, procedures and inspection visits, more public reports, peer pressure and public debates in this House rather than in the confines of the Council.
Mr President, I believe that the events that we have been able to follow this week, both in the Council and in those countries that are wrestling with very serious economic problems, once again show us why the package we are now debating is so important.
As has been said many times, we are very close to achieving the goal, but at the same time it is important that we are successful in the voting today and in July.
As I said, I would also like to thank my fellow Members, and Mrs Ferreira in particular.
We have done an excellent job in creating a macroeconomic surveillance procedure, which is something new and which complements the work that is done to keep the common currency afloat.
The European Council is meeting on Thursday and Friday.
The Council now has the opportunity to take wise decisions, and I am sure that the European Parliament can help it to take the right ones.
With regard to the macroeconomic element, I would firstly like to emphasise that, thanks to the work that we have done in Parliament, we have a proposal that we have agreed on with the Council and one that is sufficiently transparent and also contains a solution that is sufficiently automatic.
I believe that this solution means that we will also be able to feel secure in future with regard to the euro area and to the possibility of remedying the sorts of economic problems in an individual country that could otherwise result in the whole of the euro area being put at risk.
I think that the European Parliament has done a good job in this regard.
As several speakers have said, tomorrow's vote is a very important one, and I believe that it will go well.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, before I go into the substance, I would like to express my sincere appreciation to the Chair of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs and all representatives of the political groups who actively participated in the process for all their valuable contributions.
The Commission's initiative has also been supported by the Heads of State and Government of the 27 Member States.
That is why we are also addressing these questions here, in order to strengthen the credibility of the Pact.
We have also realised that coordination of fiscal policies through the SGP might not be sufficient in a Union sharing a single currency so we have agreed to introduce a new mechanism to tackle macroeconomic imbalances, which will be treated on the same footing as fiscal imbalances.
In order to better and more deeply reflect the requirements of the Treaty in national procedures of Member States, we are about to adopt rules improving the quality of national budgetary frameworks.
The result of this process was communicated to the European Parliament by a letter sent the next day, 21 June.
Vice-President of the Commission. - President, honourable Members, let me first thank the Chair of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs Sharon Bowles, rapporteurs Corien Wortmann-Kool, Elisa Ferreira, Vicky Ford, Sylvie Goulard, Diogo Feio and Carl Haglund, as well as the shadow rapporteurs who all played a major part in the negotiations.
The Chair, the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs have all represented this House with great distinction.
I warmly welcome the texts that you have finalised.
And you have gained a good many important improvements from the Council.
The Commission supports the texts which you are about to vote on, and we can welcome and agree on all of your amendments.
There is no time to set out all the gains made by Parliament in these negotiations: my staff have made me a summary list of no less than 50 major improvements won by you.
For instance, you have codified the European Semester, you have set up a structured economic dialogue, providing for a prominent role for Parliament throughout the European Semester.
You have also won an equal role for Parliament in determining the scoreboard for detecting possible macroeconomic imbalances, and you have inserted firm guarantees on social dialogue, respect for national traditions on collective agreements, wage formation, and the role of social partners, which we fully share.
On euro securities, in the context of this package I will only confirm what I said at the trilogue on 15 June.
I believe you are all aware of the efforts we have made.
So does the ECB and a number of Member States, but not all of them and not in all places.
The Council has already agreed to reverse qualified majority voting in five out of six decisions where it is legally possible.
I believe a solution can and must be found.
Therefore I appeal to you to seek a constructive solution on the remaining point in the next few days and I appeal to the Council too, to respond with a constructive approach on their part.
Reinforced economic governance in Europe is simply too important to fail on this final remaining issue.
You have agreed on 99.9% of the substance.
The first is that as we adopt this economic governance package, we must ensure that the whole of the Treaty of Lisbon is taken into account.
History calls us today to take a much more overall view and to look closely at the purposes for which this economic governance is being put in place.
Of course we need to reduce debt, but we also need to ensure that this economic governance helps to guarantee the success of the Europe 2020 strategy.
Secondly, when we did realise it, the Council in particular refused for a long time to initiate the necessary measures - which are actually provided for in the Stability and Growth Pact - or to impose the necessary sanctions.
The new regulation on macroeconomic surveillance should deal with these two problems.
That is why the use of reversed qualified majority voting is so important and so fundamental for Parliament.
Only when the citizens of Europe see that we are now acting effectively, that we have learnt from the mistakes we have made, will we be able to regain the trust that has currently been lost.
I can assure you that my group will be supporting the Ferreira report tomorrow.
The division between you and us and between progressives and conservatives here in the House is about how we return to sound public finances, at what economic and social cost, at what cost for the future ability of Europe to compete in a global market.
And please, Commissioner Rehn, do not tell me that these policies I am denouncing are being pursued by socialist governments.
You know, at a time when even the strongest economies in Europe need to bow to the demands of an irresponsible and increasingly dangerous financial sector, that no Member State can change this agenda alone.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, so far we have found agreement on almost all of the package and have demonstrated that codecision is working, with thanks to the hard work of the Hungarian Presidency and of course to András Kármán in particular, and to the Parliament negotiating team and the Commission.
The first is reverse qualified majority voting, which has already been referred to many times in this Chamber.
The current situation in Greece is a good example of the fact that solutions to a situation dictated from outside provoke opposition from the country's inhabitants, and are one of the causes of escalating social tension.
We are satisfied with all the indicators that have been selected, even though we would have liked one of them to have been income inequalities, as they are a very clear sign of both a poorly functioning economy and a poorly functioning society and should therefore act as a warning sign.
As regards the Stability and Growth Pact, we cannot accept an instrument whose only outcome is and will remain austerity, austerity and more austerity, in other words which will result in making only the most vulnerable in our societies pay for the economic crisis.
Our proposal was to make the goals that Europe set itself with the EU 2020 strategy not only binding, but as binding as each other and as binding as the rules on the budget or on deficits.
We will see what happens, therefore, either in this Parliament when your pact with the eurosceptics has fallen through, or at the polls in France in 2010 and in Germany in 2013, where I think the voters will agree with us.
As can already be seen from the examples of Greece, Portugal and Spain, it establishes a radical austerity policy which has consequences that are hard to predict for the future of the European project as a whole.
This radical austerity policy is currently driving citizens of Greece, of Portugal and of Spain, but also those of northern European countries, back into an ill-judged nationalism that we thought had long since been vanquished in Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner Rehn, ladies and gentlemen, when the euro was introduced it may not have been clear what the loss of monetary policy might involve for a Member State.
As someone directly elected by 500 000 voters in Austria, how can I endorse this package?
Both have spoken of an outstanding matter in the argument between the parliamentary majority and the Council.
If so, I should like to know that too, because then I would think that you consider it unimportant.
I should like the two of you to explain this to me at the end of this debate.
The world would subsequently be worse, not better - because they have turned an opportunity to create a more common economic policy in Europe into an austerity package.
You have derailed it, and that is a pity.
It has to be the right Europe, however - not the wrong package. (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, Europe is in a difficult situation, but it is precisely in times of crisis that the EU is usually able to take bold decisions.
The fact that tomorrow we will be able to take a decision on stricter and clearer rules for economic governance is extremely important, not just for the countries within the euro area.
The decision tomorrow will be able to demonstrate that Parliament is able to take difficult decisions in difficult times.
The Stability and Growth Pact must be reformed and the rules tightened up.
Pacta sunt servanda - agreements must be kept - not a new Greece!
This, I believe, was the fundamental reason why my country did not join the euro.
For my political group here in Parliament, national sovereignty over decisions on economic policy is a fundamental principle.
If all six of these reports and their rules only apply to the euro zone, we would be able to more actively support the Euro Group in their decision to strengthen the principles that underpin their monetary union.
If all the Member States who use the euro want to strengthen and deepen the coordination of their economic policies, then that should be their decision.
I do not wish to see the euro zone in prolonged difficulty, but the ECR cannot support EU legislation that transfers any further powers away from national governments who are currently outside of that euro zone.
New rules need to ensure it is made stronger and more sustainable. (DE) Mr President, we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance want to see strong European economic governance.
This means that on the one hand we need strong rules for dealing with imbalances - as set out in Mrs Ferreira's report - and naturally we also need sanctions for these.
That is why we will be voting in favour of these two reports, just as we will for the report by Mrs Ford, which provides the statistical basis for our economic cooperation.
Likewise, as regards the three reports on the Stability and Growth Pact: a common euro, and in addition we need limits in Europe on deficits and debt.
However, it is important to consider how the deficits and debt are reduced.
At present we are seeing time and again in Greece, Portugal and Ireland that, under pressure from the European Commission, in negotiations with the national governments results and packages have been put together in which it is the weakest that suffer, and in which the wealthy - who did very well out of the previous 20 years - are left alone.
This has shaken people's faith in the process.
That is why we in the Group of the Greens want the EU2020 objectives to be fully binding in the Stability and Growth Pact and in the reports, and also the deficit and debt objectives.
In not accepting this, ladies and gentlemen of the liberal and conservative groups, you have opted out of one of the principles of social cohesion in Europe.
If these reports do not get a majority tomorrow then we are always prepared to work together constructively to achieve a common solution for economic governance that takes social and economic responsibilities equally seriously. (EL) Mr President, for us in the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, this economic governance package is not only the wrong response to the crisis; it also marks the end of Europe as we know it.
Its objective is not economic coordination and fiscal discipline, as it maintains; it is to impose a permanent austerity memorandum throughout Europe, on all the workers.
I would mention, by way of example, the German company Hochtief, which manages Athens Airport; it has not paid a euro since 2001 and owes EUR 500 million in VAT.
It is understandable that people are perplexed, both by the crisis that is unravelling before them, and by our unclear and timid reaction to it.
Anyone hoping to find a solution to the current crisis within this package will be doing so in vain.
One report that made an effort to build a consensus on securities for the euro was side-lined at the last minute by the Council and has now simply been shelved by the Commission, accompanied by a promise to carry out further studies on the subject.
It is greatly disappointing that after all these months, not one of the intelligent proposals that were on the cards ended up in this package. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time we believed that the internal market and the introduction of a common currency would automatically result in economic convergence and convergence of the Member States, and that the Maastricht criteria were sufficient to ensure discipline.
A single currency and a single monetary policy are not feasible in the long term unless the rules have teeth in the area of fiscal, budgetary, economic and social policy.
I am in favour of this package, even though I consider it rather half-hearted in view of the problems that I have just outlined.
The pact for the euro may possibly be toothless.
What we need are binding recommendations from the Commission.
What we need are automatic initiatives and sanctions which the Council can only stop by means of reversed qualified majority voting.
Yesterday, Gideon Rachman wrote in the Financial Times that you cannot cure alcohol poisoning with a bottle of vodka.
I have had theological debates on this issue with Mrs Goulard.
I will vote in favour of it and I think that, at this moment and in this period of crisis in the euro area, we and this Parliament are being called upon to deliver and that is what I would like to do. (EL) Mr President, the package of economic governance measures creates an strong tool for imposing capitalist restructurings in a uniform manner and a uniform strategy in all the Member States, in order to strengthen the competitiveness, profitability and power of capital.
The working class owes nothing to those who have robbed them of what they earned by the sweat of their brow.
Centralisation and a single currency, which could never be a hard currency in the long term, have contributed to the current problems, yet a continuation along this wrong path is precisely what is now being proposed to us as a solution to rescue us.
It also remains unclear how the interplay between the European Semester and the new economic governance infrastructure will function, and I also have concerns about the permanent European Stability Mechanism emerging as an intergovernmental tool.
Wherever these policies are rife, they are not succeeding in reducing public debt and bringing down unemployment.
The contents of this 'governance' package - and I call them 'contents' deliberately - that we are discussing today are so ridiculous that even the economists are stunned, because they will prevent budgetary policy from adjusting to economic cycles.
In the light of this, it is difficult to understand why the conservative, liberal and eurosceptic Members of this House have blindly attempted to toughen up the text proposed by the Commission.
My fellow conservative and liberal Members, some of you want to punish automatically States that are heretics to your dogma to the tune of billions of euros.
They also want to punish countries that will not lower wages in order to regain their external balance.
They believe that the deficits are primarily the product of bad intentions on the part of those States, as though the neoliberal model that you never question had not just been through its worst crisis since 1929, and as if it were not already leading to pressure on the buying power of ordinary people and causing a massive contraction in tax income: two problems that were at the root of the rise in private and public indebtedness in the first place.
I would like to publicly support this as a proposal that takes into account the feature of fiscal discipline. (NL) Mr President, the Greek crisis is one of the factors forming the basis of this debate.
Secondly, part of the Greek debt must be written off and, in order to ensure that the residual debt is indeed repaid, a multi-year recovery plan for the Greek economy should be drawn up.
On this point, I think that the Wortmann-Kool report could have been more stringent.
Mr President, I support the 'six-pack', but because of this point I will abstain from voting on the Wortmann-Kool report. (PT) Mr President, this legislative package is not an answer to the severe economic and social problems being experienced in many countries, which are affecting workers and people in general.
Since the workers' struggles in Greece, Ireland and Portugal have been in vain, as we know, it is time to do a U-turn and to stop insisting on benefiting only economic and financial business groups, above all in the major European powers.
The fact that we have this package today, which is the result of negotiations between the Council and Parliament, already constitutes considerable progress.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow Parliament will have to make its decision, and I hope it will send out a signal loud and clear, both to our citizens, to restore their confidence in Europe, and to the markets, to stabilise our currency.
