Strengthening the OSCE: a role for the EU (debate) The next item is the Council statement on strengthening the OSCE and on the role of the European Union.
As you know, in three weeks' time, the Heads of State or Government of the 56 participating States of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) will convene at a summit in Astana.
The appeal launched in June 2008 by President Medvedev, calling for the European security architecture to be reviewed and based on a treaty, not only received a positive response, but also revitalised the dialogue within the OSCE and initiated the Corfu Process.
The final document must be clear enough to be understood by all our fellow citizens.
The summit due to take place in Astana in December should adopt an action plan which will lead to the finalising of a charter for a security community in the OSCE area.
Such a plan is also in the interests of the Member States of the European Union.
An appropriate framework for discussing these reforms is provided by the Corfu Process and its culmination in the forthcoming December summit in Astana.
The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, as has already been said, is a unique and integral part of the Euro-Atlantic and Euro-Asian security structure with a broad membership base uniting countries from Vancouver to Vladivostok.
The OSCE has also been able to establish a recognised link between the environment and security in development policy.
The OSCE's field missions in countries like Georgia and Moldova are contributing significantly to stabilising societies traumatised by recent disputes and frozen conflicts.
Just as the EU and OSCE need each other in this area, the issues of climate protection and energy supply also require enhanced structured cooperation. (FR) Mr President, Mr Chastel, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, I would like to emphasise the key role played by the election observation missions in strengthening our relations with the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and also, more generally, in strengthening our external action.
Mr President, I very much support what Mr Bütikofer said about the need to ensure balance between the three dimensions, or baskets, of the OSCE.
I am also very pleased to see that the report includes the notion that the European Parliament must become more active in the human dimension.
The cooperation should be close, but we should, nevertheless, maintain the separate nature of these two entities. (HU) Since its foundation, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe has considered warning and prevention of potential conflicts as its primary task.
The OSCE summit in Kazakhstan should be cancelled forthwith if you are serious about standing up with the brave fighters for human, democratic, political, workers' and social rights in Kazakhstan.
One point in particular was mentioned: the human rights situation in Kazakhstan.
This is the only way in which the OSCE will be in a position to work effectively towards security in Europe and Eurasia.
In the interest of security in Europe, we should continue the process we began in 2008 in Corfu.
The EU must adopt a clear position with regard to an organisation which can play an important role in regional security and in promoting democratic values and human rights.
I wish to highlight paragraph 8 of the Rouček report, which enjoyed broad consensus within the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
