Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B7-0210/2011).
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, on 25 February 2011, the Commission adopted an EUR 3 million emergency decision on humanitarian aid operations in connection with the Libyan crisis.
The Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy jointly adopted, on 8 March 2011, a communication on the partnership for democracy and shared prosperity with the southern Mediterranean.
The Commission is ready to mobilise additional financial assistance from funds such as the External Borders Fund and the European Refugee Fund, which amount to EUR 25 million in total.
Ongoing negotiations between the authorities in Tripoli and the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA) have not yet resulted in an agreement on humanitarian access to western Libya. (EL) Madam President, I thank the Commissioner for her detailed reply.
Member of the Commission. - Firstly, on the effectiveness of humanitarian assistance from the beginning, from the outset of the crisis, the most dramatic humanitarian impact so far can be split into three parts.
Third, we know that in Gaddafi-controlled areas there are humanitarian needs but we are restricted in getting there.
We have set aside EUR 9 million even when conditions allow for us to be mobilised.
There we are putting a very strong emphasis indeed on trade, trade with Europe, but also trade among the countries of the Mediterranean. (LT) Madam President, Commissioner, the situation that has come about in North Africa has really forced the European Union to face major challenges.
The Commissioner was quoted in the Financial Times as saying that the European Union had successfully evacuated its citizens from Libya.
By the time this massive evacuation was completed, there were only around 200 people left who wanted to be evacuated.
Last December, the Commission services further launched a joint action with 14 Member States on reducing health inequalities in the framework of the health programme.
In relation to national health services and the fact that, unfortunately, many Member States have reduced their health budgets as a result of the economic and financial crisis, what measures is the Commission intending to take so that Member States do not need to reduce their health budgets?
Member of the Commission. - What I can say in general is that we have to address all these problems bearing in mind that what we have here is a competence of the Member States.
On the question raised by Mr Chountis, what I can say is that when the directive is in place we will provide a clear legal framework regarding rights to reimbursement for cross-border health care.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Madam President, honourable Members, as regards enabling technologies, on 30 September 2009, the Commission adopted a Communication that laid out a common strategy for this area.
I believe therefore that it is important that we define a strategy that aims to further the deployment of key enabling technologies in European industry.
The group was given a one-year mandate to formulate recommendations on policy measures to adopt in order to promote the industrial deployment of key enabling technologies in Europe.
The group consists of 27 representatives from the administrations of Member States, from the research community, from the European enabling technology sector, from the European Investment Bank and from associations of small and medium-sized enterprises.
According to our estimates, their volume on the global market is between EUR 950 billion and EUR 1 100 billion per year, with an expected annual growth rate of between 5% and 46%.
We need the support of the European Parliament, particularly after the Treaty of Lisbon and the increase in competencies awarded to the European Parliament, and I believe - and I say this as a former Member of the European Parliament - that this collaboration between the European Parliament and the Commission will lead us to achieve good results also in this sector, which is so crucial for growth and competitiveness in our European economy.
The first pillar concerns technological research.
Europe must develop more competitive technologies up to patented prototype stage.
Thus we need to attract investment, but at the same time improve all EU programmes which could support this highly important sector, and try to overcome the gap between research and application which is characteristic of many productive sectors in the European Union.
This status quo has been used as a benchmark for comparing the impact of other possible options.
This status quo scenario takes into account new long-term management plans, the Control Regulation and the Regulation on illegal, unreported fisheries.
This should be compared with our obligation to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2015.
So if we continue under the status quo situation there is no way we will fulfil our obligation to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2015 With reference to the economic performance of our fishing fleets, under the status quo scenario only some fleets will be economically viable.
The reality is that the situation is very fragile.
I can only agree that our situation is very fragile.
That is why we need the reform and that is why we are going to examine the best way forward in order to achieve a balance between the sustainability of stocks and the socio-economic impact that the reform will have.
In order to be sure that our fisheries industry has a future, we need the reform.
I would also like to say that, within the framework of our new funding system, we intend to allocate money in a generous way, despite the crisis, in order to be sure that improvements in selectivity are implemented.
Finning has been banned since 2003, via a Council regulation, on EU vessels fishing anywhere in the world and on all vessels fishing in EU waters.
We presented a plan of action in February 2009 and have since taken a number of measures.
I would also like to say that the Commission has taken a lot of measures to ensure the sustainable management and protection of sharks in general, beyond shark finning.
We have banned gill nets below 200 metres to protect deepwater sharks.
For example, it is currently estimated that, in 2009, the fins of 26 million to 73 million sharks entered the global trade.
Yet we see that both Iceland and the Faroe Islands have caught 150 000 tonnes each and this is impacting directly on the sustainability of European fishing fleets.
Member of the Commission. - I agree with the Members of Parliament that although there is a ban, we cannot be happy with this situation.
The problem exists because the industry can now land the fins and the sharks at different ports.
I would like to say that the Member States around this area were very cooperative and our fishermen and our industry had to suffer a lot of sacrifices in order to secure the sustainability of the stocks.
We will also step up our efforts in the area of fisheries control through training, workshops and joint control in cooperation with Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO).
As regards the surveillance of external borders, the Commission is in constant contact with Frontex, which has launched the Hermes 2011 joint operation to control the EU external border in the region.
Frontex, together with Europol, has also started preparing a targeted risk assessment of potential exploitation of the volatile political situation by criminal and terrorist networks, and monitoring irregular migration flows. (EL) Thank you, Commissioner, for referring to the European Commission's plans and new guidelines and for the personal undertaking which you expressed in terms of preparing for the new situation in the Mediterranean.
We have these systems and we are going to encourage our Member States around the Mediterranean to participate in these systems, to detect possible pollution from ships.
I would like to say that we are going to incentivise not only our Member States, but also our neighbours through discussions and cooperation in order to fulfil this aim.
We are now working with the governments of the Member States around the Adriatic and Ionian seas: Italy, Slovenia and Greece but also other neighbours around there, Croatia, Montenegro and Albania.
I would like to underline that this will really be an opportunity for cohesion funds, as the honourable Member has already said.
That is why we have asked the Moroccan Government to give us data with regard to not only the implementation of the agreement in general, but also to the regional approach of this agreement and to the distribution they have in different regions in Morocco.
This is the way we are moving, very cautiously, towards this direction.
The 3% R&amp;D intensity target has a crucial contribution to make in meeting this challenge.
The European Council invited Member States to set ambitious and realistic national targets, taking into account the initial level of R&amp;D investment and the key structural characteristics of their economies.
Nearly all of the Member States have now set national R&amp;D intensity targets, to be finalised in their national reform programmes by the end of April 2011.
On 12 January this year, the Commission adopted the communication on the annual growth survey.
Stakeholders are actively involved in all stages of this feasibility project. (EL) Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your reply.
However, I would remind you that, when we were planning the Lisbon Strategy about eight years ago, in 2003, we said more or less the same: that we should rely on innovation and research in order to achieve a more competitive economy.
We also have the annual growth survey and will now have the national reform programmes, where Member States will set down very clearly what their targets are going to be and how they hope they hope to attain those targets.
As of 31 December last year the Commission has closed 345 FP 7 audits, covering 432 participations in FP 7 projects.
The main risk is that beneficiaries include ineligible costs in their costs statements.
Subject: Involvement of SMEs in European research and innovation On 9 February 2011 the Commission launched the Green Paper From Challenges to Opportunities: Towards a Common Strategic Framework for EU Research and Innovation Funding.
This is a priority for the Commission, as stated in the Communication on Innovation Union adopted on 6 October last, in the Small Business Act for Europe adopted in June 2008 and in the review of the Small Business Act adopted on 23 February this year.
In addition, the Green Paper 'From Challenges to Opportunities: towards a common strategic framework for EU Research and Innovation funding', identified the key questions for future EU research and innovation support, including a number of specific questions on how to better meet the needs of SMEs.
An overall aim of the common strategic framework is to make participation in EU programmes more simple and attractive, in particular for SMEs.
The budgetary share of SMEs is forecast to grow from the current 14.3 % to over the 15 % target foreseen in the legislation.
Easier access to FP7 is provided by the Enterprise Europe network, a partnership between the Commission and nearly 600 business organisations such as chambers of commerce of industry, chambers of crafts, innovation agencies and regional development agencies.
Member of the Commission. - Three concrete measures were adopted on 24 January this year, with immediate effect, on the management of EU research grants in the Seventh Framework Programme (FP7), and each of these responds directly to concerns that have been expressed repeatedly by participants - and would-be participants - in FP7.
This is in line with the subsidiarity principle and acknowledges the fact that national and/or local authorities are best placed to identify the most efficient and tailor-made measures to address high concentration levels in their air quality zones.
The latest data submitted by Germany for the year 2009 confirm that 70 out of about 80 air quality zones continue to show an excess for PM limit values.
Most zones were granted an extension of the compliance date until 11 June this year because they had prepared an air quality plan with a clear timetable and measures showing how compliance will be met by the exceedance deadline.
Munich is one of these zones.
Member States have until the end of September 2011 to submit the data for the year 2010. (DE) Thank you, Mr Potočnik, for your very good and precise answer.
Member of the Commission. - The criteria are the same for all countries.
However, it is of the utmost importance that all citizens in the European Union be guaranteed the same level of health and protection.
Subject: EU Biodiversity Strategy In 2010, the International Year of Biodiversity, the European Council adopted an ambitious 2050 vision and 2020 target for biodiversity conservation in the EU.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission is putting the finishing touches on the new EU Biodiversity Strategy, which will provide a framework for action to tackle biodiversity loss over the next decade.
I can however reassure you that it responds to both the EU's ambitious mandate set by the Council last year and to the global commitments the EU signed up to in Nagoya last October in the framework of the Convention of Biological Diversity.
The 2020 EU headline target requires the halting of biodiversity laws and the degradation of ecosystems and the services they provide.
As regards the implementation and enforcement of the EU's environmental legislation more generally, the Commission intends to come out with a new communication on this issue later this year.
One issue that is urgent at the moment is that some Member States - among them mine - are trying to get lower targets from the European Union on nature legislation.
Member of the Commission. - Concerning Nagoya and how we are getting on, things are developing pretty well with regard to the ABS, so there is no problem.
We are trying to push things ahead, and owing to the commitments we made in Nagoya we will have to do more in Europe than at present - also owing to Natura 2000 itself and the commitments which we have made.
Commissioner Cioloş, Commissioner Hedegaard and myself prepared a joint letter which we sent to the last Environmental Council of Ministers.
In Greece there are plans to construct 61 landfill sites with cofinancing arrangements.
Therefore, waste disposal in landfills that lie at the bottom of the waste hierarchy must be considered by the Member States as the least favourable waste management option.
That is why separate collection of recyclable waste streams at source is usually the most favourable method of waste collection.
Greece faces serious problems with illegal landfill disposal and was condemned, as you know, by the Court in 2005 due to the huge number of illegal landfills that had been operating in its territory.
Nevertheless, in December 2010, the Greek authorities provided an action plan according to which all the legal landfills will be closed by the end of June this year.
Additionally, the performance of the recycling sector in Greece is very low and only 17% of municipal waste is recycled.
We will monitor the national waste policies through the assessment of the Member States' waste management plans.
In addition, we are carefully monitoring the implementation of the Greek action plan and the process of closing all the illegal landfills, including the plan for the EU-funded projects.
We will also monitor the use of EU funding to ensure that the projects to be financed are consistent with the objectives and requirements defined in our waste legislation.
Maybe I could tell you why we are actually in favour and we are even co-financing some of the landfill, even if we do believe that this is on the lowest level of the preferred options in the waste hierarchy.
