Essentially, I think that by adopting this measure, Europe has demonstrated that it is further ahead than many Member States, which will clearly have to remedy this situation in short order.
I come from a country whose government was rather tardy in expressing its interest in this directive.
I therefore hope that Parliament's decision will be productive and function as a stimulus so that the attitudes and the level of attention for this issue will be substantially improved in the not too distant future. (IT) Mr President, the 'polluter pays' principle is, without doubt, essential for resolving environmental problems aggravated by European industrial development.
Europe still has too few programmes to restructure the transport sector for more ecological solutions with a low environmental impact, and there is also a dearth of resources to improve its efficiency and environmental performance.
That may be possible in some cases, but I hope that when these decisions are being implemented nationally, it will be realised that it is heavy goods traffic that is paying for it.
I understand from the exporters' association in Ireland that this would add EUR 150 per trip, or EUR 300 per round trip, for haulage from Ireland, which depends heavily on this type of haulage and also very heavily on exports.
I believe that the Commission and the Council must look at this and must take into consideration the peripheral regions.
It is not a major issue for the mainland European Member States but is certainly a major issue for Ireland and for other peripheral countries. (PL) Mr President, I wish to make it quite clear that the recommendations Parliament has adopted today will not be so straightforward under the conditions existing in Poland.
These recommendations result in an increase in transport costs, and hauliers with older vehicles will obviously be in a worse situation.
It is, however, to be welcomed that additional funding will be available to invest in sustainable transport and, above all, that there will be an opportunity to construct high-speed rail links and water transport links.
To reduce carbon emissions from vehicles is very commendable; to reduce heavy goods vehicle congestion is very commendable; and the spending of 15% of the tolls on infrastructure is very commendable.
I would have liked to support this particular measure but I had to vote against because, as has been said already by my colleague, Pat the Cope Gallagher, Ireland's economy is heavily dependent on exports.
Any additional charges on Irish hauliers would have a major negative impact on our exports.
Regrettably, I had to vote against the measure. (IT) Mr President, today's vote represents a marked step forward in bringing in the 'polluter pays' principle, including in the road haulage sector, which makes a significant contribution to atmospheric and noise pollution.
The key sectors include climate change, sustainable transport, nature and biodiversity, health and the environment, the use of natural resources and waste management, as well as the international dimension of sustainable development.
The Council, in its conclusions of June 2006, called on the Union and its Member States to extend national accounts to the fundamental aspects of sustainable development.
National accounts must therefore include an integrated economic and environmental accounts statement with fully coherent data.
I voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because it creates new uses for national accounts data, environmental statistics and other statistical domains. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the Leinen report because I am convinced that by recording this data in the various countries, we will learn far more about the situation in these countries.
If we want to stop measuring this or only want to use social and environmental criteria in our measurements, then we are heading for a disaster.
Thank you. (DA) Mr President, we have today voted on and adopted in Parliament a decision recognising that Romania and Bulgaria are ready for admission into the Schengen cooperation.
However, I think that there are a number of reasons why we should take seriously the concern felt by European citizens on account of the rising level of corruption in many Member States and the increasing level of cross-border crime.
We ought therefore to have utilised this situation to strengthen our police cooperation and our fight against corruption before we set about extending the Schengen area.
As careful assessments and visits carried out by groups of experts have shown, even though the two countries have shown substantial commitment and made obvious progress in implementing the acquis, some shortcomings still remain, for example, in the fields of equipment, performance of border checks and training.
We are of a mind to confirm our support for their full adhesion to the agreement, although we think it is essential for the two countries in question to inform us in writing, within six months, that additional measures to close these gaps have been implemented.
Both totalitarian systems kept their citizens under submission and were more likely not to allow them to leave their country than the opposite, but these obstacles do not exist now.
Now we must hope that, when Romania and Bulgaria join the Schengen area, the problems that have occurred on their borders are actually addressed, and that adequate resources are channelled there to ensure that this sort of illegal migration and the other occurrences can be prevented.
In this way, we can also ensure that the same opportunities are pursued in these countries as elsewhere.
However, in this case, I believe it is our business; we know that Bulgaria and Romania have serious problems with crime and corruption and I do not believe that their border controls are as good as those which would obtain in other Schengen countries.
For that reason, I voted against the report. (IT) Mr President, the report on the mid-term review of the Seventh Framework Programme is especially significant.
There are four reasons - which I consider to be paramount - why I voted in favour of the report: 1) the simplification and streamlining of procedures in order to make it easier to access funding; 2) the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are essential for growth and employment; 3) innovation for a competitive manufacturing sector capable of meeting the challenges of the market; and 4) the risk finance facility, which so far has produced very good results.
Lastly, I should like to point out that the triangle of knowledge, education and research - on which the future of the cohesion policy rests - can only be consolidated in Europe through a steadfast commitment to research. (DA) Mr President, there is broad consensus in Parliament on the need to reform our research programme.
Nevertheless, I have to express my regret that the Commission has been so vague and unambitious in its mid-term review.
The Commission could reduce the application deadlines, secure funds for demonstration facilities and use international accounting standards instead of inventing its own.
The Seventh Framework Programme is the main instrument for funding research in Europe, as shown by the report voted on today.
However, there are still many problems being caused by excessive amounts of red tape for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
In its resolution of 11 November 2010, Parliament asked the Commission to introduce procedural, administrative and financial simplification measures into the current management of the Seventh Framework Programme, yet these measures have still not been addressed.
I have two matters to raise.
Funding is extremely important, and it could be a little more ambitious, since it is being stated here that this level is credible and necessary.
We have to increase funding to achieve vital growth in Europe.
Some time ago, I myself was listening to a Finnish research group which was receiving funding through this programme.
Many of the points mentioned in the document are very true, particularly as regards young researchers and more active participation by industry in projects under the Framework Programme.
The document expresses concern over the rather low participation rate among certain Member States.
The financing schemes in force today are, in a sense, more favourable towards the old European Union Member States.
This is also reflected in the figures.
The amount of financing that a project participant from one of the new Member States receives is half what it would be for a participant from the old Member States.
I therefore feel that it is necessary to review the financing schemes and to strive to ensure during FP8 that there are no more disparities or discrimination, so that we can successfully address the challenges mentioned in the Europe 2020 strategy. (HU) Mr President, the current Seventh Framework Programme ensures that the European Union can raise its research policy to an adequate level.
With its budget in excess of EUR 54 billion for the period 2007-2013, we can consider it as one of the most significant programmes supporting research in the world.
The other important thing is the facilitation of the participation of SMEs in the programme.
Unfortunately, in this respect, we need to make further efforts, although some improvement has been achieved in programmes concerning cooperation.
For these reasons, I voted in favour of the report. (PL) Mr President, I voted against the Audy report.
Its research goal is, after all, to accomplish the goals set out in resolutions on the fight against paedophilia, sales of weapons via the Internet and the fight against drug trafficking and human trafficking, which are issues we have raised many times in this Chamber.
I do not therefore understand why funding for the entire project is being withheld, all the more so since this is the only project which the Audy report singles out in this way. (SK) Mr President, I voted for the report, but concern remains over the public funding of embryonic cell research.
On the basis of this statement, the European Commission should immediately take into account the decisions and conclusions of the European Court of Justice and adapt its policies on the funding of science and research to them. (DA) Mr President, today, we voted through the last in a long line of free trade agreement texts.
For me, bilateral agreements are always the second best option.
The best option really would be to continue with trade talks in the context of WTO negotiations and to conclude the agreements that world trade is waiting for and that the global economy desperately needs. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an incontrovertible fact that the rating agencies have now amassed huge and unchecked power.
In my view, it is unacceptable that businesses and even Member States are subject to the judgments of three large American companies, whose ratings have not always been correct and indeed have, at times, led to astonishing blunders, as in the Lehman Brothers affair.
Greater controls are therefore to be welcomed and I hope that the new European authority will manage to operate at optimum capacity, with real powers to intervene and even to issue penalties where necessary.
I also believe that it is a fine idea to introduce the principle of civil liability in situations of obvious negligence.
Greater competition is required in the sector and we must break up this historic oligopoly and try to bring in new, independent and possibly European organisations, which would therefore have a proper awareness of the economic context and reality of our continent, which is entirely different from the way of thinking in the United States.
For all these reasons, I voted in favour of the report in question. (LT) Mr President, I am delighted with the document adopted today on guaranteeing independent impact assessments (IAs).
IAs are the basis of the legislative process.
I feel that the effective independence of IAs must become a general principle, applied to all types of IAs, particularly environmental impact assessments.
A guarantee of the implementation of this principle should also be contained in the Environmental Impact Assessment Directive, which is likely to be reviewed in the near future.
The European Commission must also play a more active role in defending the interests of the European Union and its Member States in cases where projects being undertaken by third countries may have an impact on the European Union or on one or several of its Member States.
I believe that this document is a step towards ensuring security for us all. (DA) Mr President, I would very much like to speak on this subject, as I think it is somewhat absurd that we are laying down provisions on CSR here.
It is all well and good that we can presumably all agree only to enter into free trade agreements and partnerships with countries that respect human rights.
If we come along and steal this away and turn it into political legislation, we completely remove this competitive parameter, and that - if I may say so - is sheer political stupidity. (IT) Mr President, the external dimension of social policy includes all the European Union's actions and initiatives to promote labour and social standards in non-member countries.
Even though both the Treaty of Lisbon and the Europe 2020 strategy attributed an unprecedented level of importance to social policy, the issues of competitiveness and economic factors continue to take priority over social issues.
The European Union must make it a long-term goal to be able to ensure that men and women have the chance to gain dignified and productive employment, in conditions of freedom, equality, safety and dignity.
In future, it will therefore be necessary for Parliament and international and European trade unions to work together and add their positive and urgent recommendations to the initiative voted on here today. (FI) Mr President, I supported the report because European business enterprises are of especially great importance in international trade.
We always have to act in accordance with European values and international social and labour standards, even in third countries.
Corporate social responsibility is only useful as a voluntary exercise if consumers are given reliable and accurate information on the activities of companies, the origin of products and the conditions under which goods are produced and sold.
In this way, the Union can bring real added value to the policy. (IT) Mr President, 2011 offers a strategic opportunity to draw the lessons from the four years that the regulation establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation has been in force.
Since its entry into force, the main problem which has emerged seems to be the difficulty in understanding or accepting the specific role of development cooperation in the context of the European Union's external action.
We therefore need to clarify the fact that development cooperation is the one policy area of external action, besides humanitarian aid, which has not been designed to serve EU interests, but to defend the interests of the most marginalised and vulnerable populations on this planet.
Through today's vote, we will underline the need for a separate development cooperation instrument that specifically and exclusively targets developing countries and expressly pursues the objectives laid down in Article 208 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
To conclude, Mr President, we are asking, in particular, for the delegated acts procedure to be used when taking decisions on general objectives, priority areas and expected results, as well as the allocation of funds which fulfil the criteria of Article 290 of the TFEU. (PL) Mr President, despite the fact that the European Parliament has repeatedly acknowledged the advantages that would be conferred upon the Internal Market by improvements to the framework of contract law, the introduction of a new system of contract law using an optional instrument has encountered a series of major problems, in terms of both substance and procedure.
We do not know the positions held by the individual Member States, or those held by consumer and business representatives.
On the basis of the above, I voted in favour of rejecting the report. (IT) Mr President, the possibility and ability to learn and work in an international context is a prerequisite for a successful working life in today's strongly globalised economy.
As far as education and vocational training are concerned, the key factors listed in the European strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth need to be translated into practical steps at European Union level and in the Member States.
The EU 2020 strategy will deliver neither jobs nor a better standard of living.
We should also remember the role of further training because it is that which promotes lifelong learning and prepares people for changes in the labour market. (IT) Mr President, it is highly significant that Parliament is using this resolution to send a strong message to both the Member States and the younger generations to ask for greater commitment to European cooperation on learning, vocational training and higher education in order to bolster the Europe 2020 strategy.
Strong backing should be given to a combination of education policies and a new incentive-based welfare system for enterprises that provide full-time employment for young people and women.
Ensuring that the skills being learned are in line with the competences - including for citizenship - required for the new goals of sustainable and intelligent growth is essential, as are policies for the transition from education to the workplace and speeding up the recognition of professional qualifications, titles and academic credits.
There are Member States in which the figure is even higher, such as my home country, where it is actually three times higher.
I support the initiatives in the report as practical steps to turn this situation around towards improvement.
We do not see the sense in training a large number of people who have been in higher education but who then do not find any use for it in the labour market.
Their actions are also incompatible with the fulfilment of the Europe 2020 strategy, which has already been adopted.
I voted for the adoption of the report.
Thank you. (GA) Mr President, I also voted in favour of this report, especially since it is estimated that there will be 15 million jobs available to people who have tertiary qualifications between now and 2020.
Therefore, something must be done about this and there is evidently a great need for education and training.
We need a budget that is designed for the challenges of the present day and that can provide a strong and innovative response to current needs.
Its top priority must be research and innovation for small and medium-sized enterprises, to stimulate growth and employment, while the second objective is to reform the common agricultural policy in order to promote and support the competitiveness of agriculture in Europe.
I believe, of course, that this new category cannot be created by siphoning off resources from existing ones, which are essential for supporting the balanced, harmonious and sustainable growth of our communities. (FI) Mr President, this extremely important report was adopted, and I would like to mention just a few details.
The first is Amendment 18, tabled by the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, which states that some fairly precise cuts can be made under the common agricultural policy, according to the kinds of current reforms that exist.
In other words, we get a clear picture of the ALDE Group's view of agricultural policy, although it has been worded very cleverly.
The request for a 5% increase in the next budget is therefore just and necessary.
A European budget providing opportunities for long-term planning should therefore be a tool which promotes the growth of the individual countries' economies.
The Europe 2020 strategy, which stimulates job creation and promotes social integration, is, to my mind, a key component in helping countries exit the crisis.
In this context, it is particularly important for its scope to cover small and medium-sized enterprises as well.
I therefore agree with the proposal to ensure greater support for all programmes and instruments supporting these businesses, including programmes aimed at competitiveness, innovation and use of the Structural Funds.
I do have one doubt, which we have expressed by voting to adopt the amendment removing the wording on the creation of an intermediate category for cohesion policies in those parts of Europe where gross domestic product (GDP) falls to between 75% and 90% of EU GDP.
To sum up, I am pleased with the report and I am pleased with the work that has been done, but I have some concerns about the attention that we seem to have paid to a policy that could have confirmed the so-called 'facing-out', as we are used to seeing. (SK) Mr President, the contents of the new Multiannual Financial Framework must present a clear vision of the future of the Union and its citizens.
The current economic and social challenges that we face need to be reflected not only in impressive speeches but, first and foremost, in concrete budget chapters.
Whether we look at the current difficulties and ambitions of the EU and its regions from a regional or a global perspective, the most pressing issues remain the energy shortage, the slowdown in economic growth and unemployment.
We must therefore still regard the development and innovation of European energy infrastructure as priority areas that need considerably more funding.
In my opinion, a return to coal-burning is not, in the current environmental context, a solution for the future or for the creation of a fully-fledged trans-European transport network.
However, we do think that there is a need for a fundamental appraisal of cohesion policy going forward because, as more and more regions go above the 75% threshold, the policy is either going to become redundant or be reformed, and that is what we expect to happen.
Written explanations of vote The German Free Democratic Party delegation in the European Parliament assumes that the inclusion of Romania and Bulgaria in the Schengen area will further improve freedom of movement within the EU.
Now that both Member States have achieved positive evaluation results in all areas of the Schengen review, there should be no more obstacles to delay inclusion further.
There is no denying that technically securing borders will not automatically make them secure as long as problems persist in combating corruption in the justice and policing system.
I am voting for this report, given the positive results of the evaluations carried out on both countries to establish whether they meet the requirements of the Schengen acquis.
I voted in favour of this important resolution on the application of the Schengen acquis in Bulgaria and Romania.
I agree with the rapporteur's position that, although there are some outstanding issues that will require regular reporting and a follow-up at some point in the future, they do not constitute an obstacle to full Schengen membership for these two Member States.
The inclusion of Bulgaria and Romania in the Schengen area is very important both for these countries, their economic growth and investment development, and for the whole of the European Union, for increasing integrity and solidarity among Member States.
Bulgaria, Romania and Cyprus only partially apply the Schengen acquis at the moment and checks are therefore still carried out at the borders with these three Member States.
Taking into account the results of the evaluations and the necessary revisits carried out by teams of experts, the European Parliament and the Council have concluded that, although there are some outstanding issues that will require regular reporting and a follow-up, they do not constitute an obstacle to full Schengen membership for these two Member States.
Since the Schengen Agreement was concluded in 1985, its five founding states have expanded to 25, 22 of which are European Union Member States.
Schengen enabled the abolition of internal border checks between signatory states and the creation of a single external border where border checks on entry to the Schengen area are carried out.
Bulgaria and Romania adopted the Schengen acquis when they joined the European Union in 2007.
I am therefore voting for this report, and would congratulate the rapporteur.
Following the relevant expert evaluations, and in spite of the fact that there are still some problems to be resolved, both countries have shown they are prepared to implement the provisions of the Schengen acquis and can therefore fully accede to it.
This is a very important report concerning not only my country, Bulgaria, but also the European Union as a whole.
I voted against the full application of the Schengen measures in Romania and Bulgaria.
Notwithstanding the generally positive judgment on the progress made by these two Member States in terms of security, the report itself admits that numerous technical and administrative shortcomings were detected in the bodies tasked with ensuring the border security of both States and, in particular, in the bodies tasked with checking and monitoring sea and land borders.
Secondly, the report acknowledges that if the two countries were included in the Schengen area, their geographical position next to the Turkish border would create two new routes for illegal migrants who currently only head for Greece, which, at this precise moment, is the only Schengen State in the Balkan peninsula.
The report supporting Romania's inclusion in this area, adopted by the European Parliament, only serves to confirm that the opinions of the Union's experts are correct - Romania has done a good job, made its borders secure and fulfilled all the required conditions.
Hiding behind words without resolving the matter directly can no longer be an option when admission to the Schengen area has never been a political problem, but a technical one.
The assessments of the independent experts and those of Parliament, which voted overwhelmingly in favour of Romania's integration into Schengen, should count as a crucial factor in the European Council and, consequently, the procedure should be unblocked.
I am delighted that Parliament has approved Bulgaria and Romania joining the Schengen area.
Yet there are still barriers to the free movement of workers: firstly, legal and administrative obstacles that affect all aspects of citizens' lives; secondly, social dumping: although Article 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union guarantees equal treatment for workers, the work of the Committee on Petitions proves that the reality is quite different; thirdly, social protection, which varies from one country to the next and so does not encourage mobility.
in writing. - I voted against the Schengen acquis being extended to encompass Bulgaria and Romania simply because I do not think provisions have been made to make sure they adjoin the passport-free area safely and effectively.
Corruption and organised crime are still rife in these countries which are also portals for illegal immigration.
I voted in favour of Mr Coelho's report on the full application of the provisions of the Schengen acquis in Bulgaria and Romania.
We should congratulate the two Member States on the work that they have done.
Nevertheless, this report emphasises that the region includes one of the Union's most vulnerable external borders in terms of illegal immigration.
As Bulgaria and Romania meet the requirements for accession to the Schengen area, I welcome its expansion to include them.
However, I think these additional measures and the solutions given to the shortcomings mentioned are important, not least as regards the illegal immigration phenomena recorded in Bulgaria because of its peripheral geographical location.
The proper functioning of the free circulation of people, products, services and labour will depend on the robustness and harmonisation of policies on external borders, as that is the only way to preserve social peace and economic stability within the Union.
Some Member States, including France, Germany and the Netherlands, want to change the rules of the game.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report on the grounds that such moves are important to reaffirm European solidarity at a time when it is being severely put to the test.
The German Free Democratic Party delegation in the European Parliament assumes that the inclusion of Romania and Bulgaria in the Schengen area will further improve freedom of movement within the EU.
Now that both Member States have achieved positive evaluation results in all areas of the Schengen review, there should be no more obstacles to delay inclusion further.
There is no denying that the technical securing of borders will not automatically make them impermeable as long as problems persist in combating corruption in the justice and policing system.
According to the rapporteur Mr Coelho, all the shortcomings which were identified in the past have been successfully rectified by the Romanian authorities.
This is why I find it regrettable that there are still doubts about our readiness to apply the acquis and that some Member States continue to protect their so-called 'national security' by putting unjustified obstacles in the way of a Member State which has earned its right to be treated in a fair and non-discriminatory manner.
I have therefore voted in favour of the report by my colleague, Mr Coelho.
The rapporteur, who has been monitoring this area over several sessions of Parliament, believes that although there remain unresolved issues that justify regular monitoring, these do not constitute an obstacle to the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the Schengen area.
Given his experience in this area, I believe I can safely endorse his evaluation, and his demands for external border security.
The decision to open borders to these Member States will provide improved freedom of movement and, on a more practical level, will enable Bulgarians and Romanians to feel more integrated with a Union of which they are fully-fledged members.
I hope that the symbolism of the moment will also translate into greater fluidity of trade between countries, and into the handling of immigration and security issues in a more integrated way.
I agree with him when he points to the need for Bulgaria to adopt additional measures, including a special plan that includes measures to be applied at the moment of entry to the Schengen area, and an approach to combating a potential sharp increase in migration pressure common to Greece, Turkey and Bulgaria.
The Schengen Agreement was concluded on 14 June 1985.
By abolishing checks at the internal borders of signatory countries and creating a common area, it made the free movement of people and goods throughout the European Union possible.
Given that Romania and Bulgaria adopted the Schengen acquis in 2007; that the documents show both Bulgaria and Romania are ready for EU accession from a technical point of view; that all the accession headings were met in March 2011; and that the delay in the adoption of the new Schengen evaluation system to minimise existing problems - I fear that insecurity will increase - cannot prevent the entry of these countries into the EU, I am voting in favour.
Finally, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done in drawing up this report, despite the obstacles the Council placed in the way of accessing certain documentation considered essential to achieving this.
Verification that new Member States meet the conditions necessary for the full application of the Schengen acquis is a precondition for the adoption of the Council decision to abolish border checks at internal borders, after it has consulted the European Parliament.
The decision to include these countries, which joined the EU in 2007, in the Schengen area will have to be taken unanimously in the Council by the governments of all the countries already belonging to Schengen.
The rapporteur mentions the need for additional measures to be taken on the Bulgaria-Greece-Turkey border, which is one of the most sensitive in terms of illegal immigration.
The evaluation committee also invited Bulgaria to adopt additional measures, fearing migration flows from Turkey.
This entire context of pressure exerted on these countries, as well as the objectives of this pressure, are the reason for our abstention.
Moreover, we believe the considerations defining our position as regards expansion and the accession of new countries to the EU to be equally valid as regards the full application of the provisions of Schengen in these or other countries.
The rapporteur considers all the conditions for abolishing border checks with Bulgaria and Romania to have been met, but wants the European Parliament to be kept informed about additional measures to be taken on the Bulgaria-Greece-Turkey border, which is one of the most sensitive in terms of illegal immigration.
Verification that new Member States meet the conditions necessary for the application of every part of the Schengen acquis is a precondition for the EU Council of Ministers adopting a decision to abolish border checks at internal borders with these countries, after it has consulted the European Parliament.
Given our position on the accession of these countries, we have maintained our position of abstention, reinforced by the pressure that continues to be exerted on these countries.
The basic condition for the Council to decide in favour of abolishing checks on internal borders with these Member States is to confirm, within the framework of the assessment procedures, whether the new Member States have fulfilled the necessary condition of applying all parts of the Schengen acquis: data protection, the Schengen Information System (SIS), air borders, land borders, sea borders, police cooperation and visas.
Member States should retain full control of their borders and, where applicable, work together to strengthen the 'external' borders.
Both countries have met all the technical criteria laid down by the European Union.
Member States cannot add new conditions (such as an assessment of policies on combating corruption and crime) or change the rules at half-time.
The German Free Democratic Party delegation in the European Parliament assumes that the inclusion of Romania and Bulgaria in the Schengen area will further improve freedom of movement within the EU.
Now that both Member States have achieved positive evaluation results in all areas of the Schengen review, there should be no more obstacles to delay inclusion further.
There is no denying that the technical securing of borders will not automatically make them impermeable as long as problems persist in combating corruption in the justice and policing system.
According to the Act of Accession, verification, by means of evaluation procedures, that the necessary conditions for the application of all parts of the Schengen acquis (data protection, the SIS, air borders, land borders, sea borders, police cooperation and visas) have been met by the new Member States is a precondition for the Council to decide on the abolition of checks at internal borders with those Member States.
I did not endorse this document because taking into account the results of the evaluations and the necessary revisits carried out by teams of experts, the committee responsible has concluded that there are some outstanding issues that will require regular reporting and a follow-up at some point in the future.
It is therefore essential for Bulgaria to adopt some additional measures, namely, to prepare a special plan containing actions to be implemented at the moment of entering Schengen and also a joint approach (between Greece, Turkey and Bulgaria) in order to be able to respond to the possible increase in migration flows.
I voted in favour of Mr Coelho's report on the application of the provisions of the Schengen acquis in Bulgaria and Romania.
Indeed, Romania and Bulgaria adopted the Schengen acquis when joining the European Union in 2007.
According to Article 4(2) of the Act of Accession, verifying that the necessary conditions for the application of the Schengen acquis have been met by new Member States is a precondition for the Council to decide on the abolition of checks at internal borders with those Member States.
The assessments carried out show that both Romania and Bulgaria have proved that they are sufficiently prepared to apply all the provisions of the Schengen acquis in a satisfactory manner.
However, we cannot forget that the area in question is one of the most sensitive parts of the EU's external borders in terms of illegal migration.
This means that additional measures need to be adopted because, as we know, the abolition of internal border controls requires a high level of mutual trust between Member States and also the existence of effective controls on external borders, since the security of the Schengen area depends on the rigour and efficiency with which each Member State carries out its external border checks.
Today in the European Parliament, we voted on the Coelho report on the application of the provisions of the Schengen acquis in Bulgaria and Romania.
It is worth noting that the end of preparations for these countries to join the Schengen area coincides with the debate on the EU migration policy and the growing opposition of some of the countries in the Schengen area to plans for its expansion.
I naturally voted for the accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the Schengen area.
I thank the Union and Member States which are helping us carry out permanent reforms to the justice system and implement anti-corruption measures because this is also what Romanian citizens want.
in writing. - I voted for this report on the basis of expert reports which say that at this moment, both Romania and Bulgaria have proved that they are sufficiently prepared to apply all the provisions of the Schengen acquis in a satisfactory manner.
However, the European Parliament should be informed about the additional measures to be taken in the area between Bulgaria, Turkey and Greece in order to address a possible increase in immigration flows.
Bulgaria and Romania have completed all the work demanded by Fortress Europe in order for their citizens to be able to move freely within the Schengen area.
It calls for a joint approach in conjunction with Greece to tackle migration from Arab countries.
Bulgaria and Romania have been subjected to the evaluation of the proper application of all parts of the Schengen acquis: control of the land, sea and air borders, police cooperation, visas, connection to the Schengen Information System (SIS), and data protection.
We cannot, however, neglect the Bulgaria-Turkey-Greece region, which is one of the EU's most sensitive external borders in terms of illegal immigration.
There is a need to strengthen the measures already taken and to be prepared to combat a possible sharp increase in migration pressure.
Bulgaria should adopt additional measures, including a special plan that includes measures to be applied at the moment of entry to the Schengen area.
The right to freedom of movement is one of the most fundamental and most visible rights conferred on citizens of the Union.
These two countries have adopted the Schengen acquis since their accession to the European Union in 2007.
Taking into account the results of the evaluations and the visits carried out by teams of experts, I am completely in favour of full accession to the Schengen area for these two Member States, even though certain problems are still to be resolved and will require follow-up.
in writing. - It seems that Romania and Bulgaria have proved that they are, to a sufficient extent, ready to fulfil the Schengen acquis.
There are many unresolved issues in the report on the expansion of the Schengen area prepared by Carlos Coelho.
Therefore, it is clear that the triangle Bulgaria-Romania-Greece is one of the most sensitive regions from the point of view of illegal migration and that requires Bulgaria to prepare additional measures to resist migration pressure.
I voted in favour.
I voted for the Coelho report on applying the Schengen acquis in Romania and Bulgaria and I welcome the realistic attitude and good faith shown by all my fellow Members who also voted for this report.
Romania and Bulgaria have fulfilled the technical conditions for joining the Schengen area and this must be the only factor to be considered in adopting this decision.
Furthermore, great strides have been made in the fight against corruption, a topic which often has been associated wrongfully and, to an exaggerated extent, with accession to the Schengen area.
These countries, which joined the European Union in 2007, adopted only some of the provisions concerning the Schengen area, and have applied them within this limited scope ever since.
The upshot of this situation is that border checks are still carried out along the borders of these countries.
When they joined the EU, these countries were not ready to adopt the Schengen package in its entirety, and have therefore had to reform and extend their policies on border checks.
In addition, the section of the border between Bulgaria, Turkey and Greece, which is one of the EU's most vulnerable external borders in terms of illegal emigration, poses an extremely significant problem.
Since joining the EU, Bulgaria and Romania have taken numerous measures aimed at properly preparing and protecting their borders.
During this entire period, the Schengen Evaluation Working Party has carried out systematic inspections and checks, which have now shown that both countries are sufficiently well prepared to apply the provisions of the Schengen acquis satisfactorily.
The abolition of internal border control is particularly important for the entire European Union and each Member State individually.
Every country aiming to join the Schengen area must meet, without exception, all of the conditions of the Schengen acquis concerning data protection, the Schengen Information System, borders in the air, on land and at sea, police cooperation and visas.
I believe that Romania and Bulgaria will soon be able to become real members, capable of applying all of the provisions of the Schengen acquis.
When they become full members of the Schengen area, it is therefore crucial for Bulgaria and Romania to be properly prepared to manage increased migration flows, to be able to implement measures to combat illegal migration appropriately and effectively, and to guarantee well-functioning external border control mechanisms.
I voted in favour of admitting Romania and Bulgaria to the Schengen area.
Following careful examination, the EU committee responsible recognised that these countries have fulfilled all the criteria for membership of the Schengen area: they offer sufficient assurances as regards the protection of national borders on land, at sea and in the air and they have mastered the Schengen Information System for data exchange and reliably ensure data protection.
My group considers the introduction of new criteria for membership at this point to be wrong because this would mean applying double standards for these countries.
The difficulties that Romania and Bulgaria still face - organised crime and corruption - are, undoubtedly, serious accusations against the governments of these countries, which should combat these phenomena more effectively.
However, in my opinion, closing Schengen's gates to Romania and Bulgaria should not penalise honest citizens, who would suffer the most if they now lost the opportunity to travel freely throughout Europe.
In the context of the free movement of European citizens within the European Union, I think Bulgaria and Romania joining the Schengen acquis is an excellent step forward and I therefore voted in favour of the relevant provisions being implemented.
I also believe that even though both countries have worked hard for the free movement of their citizens within Europe, they should, in any case, continue to bring their controls and rules into line with European standards, given the sensitive nature of the eastern European borders in the Balkans.
I voted today in favour of the opinion of the European Parliament on the full application of the provisions of the Schengen acquis in the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania.
This is a balanced approach, as the opinion recognises the progress made by these two countries in terms of the criteria which must be satisfied for integration into the Schengen area (control of land, sea and air borders, visas, police cooperation, readiness in terms of connecting to and using the Schengen Information System and data protection), but also requires regular progress reports on certain issues which are considered to be outstanding.
Thus, Parliament has given the go-ahead for the integration of these two countries into the Schengen area and equal rights for their citizens, who have not enjoyed the right to move freely in the past.
Romania and Bulgaria adopted the Schengen acquis when they joined the European Union in 2007.
The report says that compliance with the necessary conditions for application of the acquis in question - data protection, the Schengen Information System (SIS), air borders, land borders, sea borders, political cooperation and visas - was evaluated on the ground, and progress in the implementation of measures aiming for the abolition of checks at the internal borders with these Member States was confirmed in situ.
According to the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs who have been monitoring this process, the outstanding issues, which will require regular reports and monitoring in the future, do not constitute an obstacle to these two Member States' full accession to the Schengen area.
For these reasons, I support the decision to open the borders to these Member States.
In the case of Bulgaria and Romania, the European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties - like the European Commission - has concluded after evaluation that these two States meet the conditions laid down in full.
Therefore, I solemnly call upon the Council to acknowledge the improvements made by Bulgaria and Romania and admit them into the Schengen area.
Taking into account the results of the evaluations and the necessary revisits carried out by the expert teams, it is evident that Romania is now in a position to implement the Schengen acquis fully, all the points meriting attention or reviewing have been remedied (improvement of risk assessment, upgrade of the security features of the buildings, improvement of the process for submitting and processing visa applications and so on) and, in some aspects, it could be considered as a model of best practice.
According to the evaluation reports, Romania has shown that it is sufficiently prepared to apply both the non-SIS related provisions of the Schengen acquis, as well as its SIS-related provisions, in a satisfactory manner.
This means that the removal of internal border controls requires a high level of mutual trust between Members States regarding the existence of effective external border controls because the security of the Schengen area depends on how rigorously and effectively each Member State controls its external borders.
Full application in these Member States is also a question of equality and non-discrimination within Europe because excluding those two countries would send an extremely negative signal to their populations, which are very keen to join the area of freedom of movement.
The Balkan region is one of the most sensitive areas of the EU's external borders in terms of illegal migration.
This phenomenon is of great significance and has repercussions on the daily lives of many of our citizens, exacerbating the insecurity they face.
I voted against this measure for the reasons stated and to better protect our citizens against illegal immigration.
Accession to the Schengen acquis involves the need to comply with various evaluation procedures: candidate countries have to comply with a range of conditions in order to be admitted to the area of freedom of movement, which currently covers 25 countries and 400 million Europeans.
This report evaluates the positions of Bulgaria and Romania, stressing, on the one hand, that Bulgaria follows best practices in various activities and, on the other, the efforts made by Romania as regards the shortcomings that were being detected.
In conclusion, while I would stress the need to resolve a number of issues, the evaluation of these two Member States' behaviour is positive overall.
The German Free Democratic Party delegation in the European Parliament assumes that the inclusion of Romania and Bulgaria in the Schengen area will further improve freedom of movement within the EU.
Now that both Member States have achieved positive evaluation results in all areas of the Schengen review, there should be no more obstacles to delay inclusion further.
There is no denying that the technical securing of borders will not automatically make them impermeable as long as problems persist in combating corruption in the justice and policing system.
in writing. - We support the accession of Bulgaria and Romania provided that all preconditions are met (as is the case, according to the experts' opinion).
Since both Romania and Bulgaria have proved that they are sufficiently prepared to apply all the provisions of the Schengen acquis in a satisfactory manner, both Member States should become fully-fledged members of the area.
The integration of Romania and Bulgaria to the Schengen area is acceptable, provided that they satisfy certain technical requirements noted in the relevant procedure.
As the rapporteur quite rightly points out, the accession of Bulgaria to the Schengen Agreement should be followed by a special plan to combat illegal immigration.
This number accounts for 90% of the total in Europe for that year.
Within this framework, I welcome the rapporteur's proposal for a special plan to be prepared as soon as Bulgaria joins the Schengen area, containing actions in this direction and a joint approach between Greece, Turkey and Bulgaria, so that it is in a position to cope with what may be a large increase in immigration flows.
I voted against Bulgaria and Romania becoming full members of the Schengen cooperation at this point in time.
The issue concerning Bulgaria giving its military police access to information from Schengen records demonstrates that there are problems with those parts of Schengen that these countries are already included in.
Europol points out that the full admission of Bulgaria and Romania into the Schengen cooperation will give criminal groups from the Balkans and the former Soviet Union easier access to the EU.
Experts have confirmed that the appropriate technical standards have been put in place.
The countries have met the requirements imposed on them to an extent which makes it possible to abolish border checks with the remaining EU Member States.
It should be emphasised that, as was the case for my country, joining the Schengen area does not mean that Romania and Bulgaria no longer have any work left to do as regards full implementation of the cooperation instrument.
Both countries will have much work ahead of them in order to establish good working practices.
The example of Poland shows clearly that the new Member States are able to meet the Schengen requirements effectively.
The European Parliament should play a key role in this process, and it must be kept up-to-date with the situation in Bulgaria and Romania.
in writing. - I welcome this report which proposes to apply the provisions of the Schengen acquis relating to the Schengen Information System to Bulgaria and Romania.
Today, Parliament has adopted the report produced by Mr Coelho on the full application of the provisions of the Schengen acquis in Bulgaria and Romania.
Opening the borders has been one of the European Union's greatest achievements.
The creation of the Schengen area dates from 1985 and currently includes a territory of 42 673 km of external sea borders and 7 721 km of land borders, taking in 400 million Europeans.
The Schengen Agreement currently covers 25 Member States with a common area for the free movement of people, by removing systematic checks at internal borders and creating a single common border.
This report concerns the entry of Bulgaria and Romania to the Schengen acquis and, following the evaluation visits and a final report, it concludes that both countries are ready for full accession.
However, some issues remain outstanding, in particular, the need to establish a plan to combat possible pressure from illegal migration.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for the Member States in question to inform Parliament and the Council within a six-month period, beginning on the date of entry into force of this decision, on the implementation of these additional measures and progress with the shortcomings identified.
The German Free Democratic Party delegation in the European Parliament assumes that the inclusion of Romania and Bulgaria in the Schengen area will further improve freedom of movement within the EU.
Now that both Member States have achieved positive evaluation results in all areas of the Schengen review, there should be no more obstacles to delay inclusion further.
There is no denying that technically securing borders will not automatically make them secure as long as problems persist in combating corruption in the justice and policing system.
For this reason, the German Free Democratic Party delegation believes that criteria such as the fight against corruption must receive greater attention when evaluating the Schengen mechanism, and any misdemeanours must be punished appropriately.
The Union must apply the same criteria to all Member States, including when it comes to joining the Schengen area.
The Cooperation and Verification Mechanism for the justice system does not feature among the criteria for joining the Schengen area and cannot be referred to in connection with Romania and Bulgaria joining the area.
Since Romania and Bulgaria fulfil the technical conditions for joining the Schengen area, on behalf of the citizens of Romania, Bulgaria and Europe, we call on the Council to approve the accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the area.
Bulgaria and Romania should join the Schengen area, since both countries are ready to do so and the objections of certain Member States are unfounded.
I voted in favour of the report on the integration of Romania and Bulgaria into the Schengen area because both countries have met the technical criteria in question.
in writing. - As a friend, albeit critical friend, of Bulgaria, I wish to do all I can to assist progress in that country, but not at the expense of my own country's well-being.
I therefore abstained in the vote.
On the accession of Bulgaria to the EU on 1 January 2007, weaknesses remained in the areas of judicial reform and the fight against corruption and organised crime.
The EU established a 'Cooperation and Verification Mechanism' to assist Bulgaria and to verify progress against six benchmarks.
Improvement has been disappointingly slow.
In its most recent report on these matters (February 2011), the Commission stated that Bulgaria needed to improve further the way the judiciary, police and other investigative bodies are structured, managed and cooperate.
Nevertheless, the 27 governments in Council concluded, perhaps surprisingly, that Bulgaria fulfilled the conditions for Schengen, a system which is itself under question at the moment.
I welcome the majority of over 80% received in the European Parliament during the vote in favour of adopting the report on the fulfilment of the Schengen acquis by Romania and Bulgaria.
In the European Parliament's view, Romania and Bulgaria are ready to join the Schengen area.
The situation which has been created over the accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the Schengen area highlights how weak the sense of solidarity is within the EU.
This report will be adopted despite the controversy in the working party of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament on the amendment raising the nuclear issue, and the amendment of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) removing the issue of additional permanent members of the United Nations (UN) Security Council.
I would also draw attention to the fact that, according to Article 21 of the Treaty, the EU is formally committed to effective multilateralism and to the role of the UN in particular.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution, not only because of the importance of the upcoming 66th session of the UN General Assembly, but also because it is vitally important that the EU finally steps up cooperation and coordination in this and all other UN bodies.
Article 34 of the Treaty on European Union clearly stipulates that Member States shall coordinate their action in international organisations and that Member States, which are also members of the UN Security Council, will concert and, in the execution of their functions, defend the positions and the interests of the Union.
We all know well that Member States that belong to the UN Security Council (France, the United Kingdom and Germany) failed to act in concert and come up with a single position vis--vis military intervention in Libya, in particular, with regard to the vote on the UN Security Council Resolution 1973.
I would therefore urge EU Member States to strive for a common position on issues vital to international peace and security, especially in areas where there is already a broad international consensus.
All these major transformations are making the European Union commit itself actively, alongside the other partners, to promoting effective solutions to the problems affecting both European citizens and the whole of humanity.
The European Union must play a proactive role in creating a United Nations Organisation which makes an effective contribution to global solutions, peace and security, as well as democracy and international order, based on the rule of law.
According to Article 21 of the Treaty on European Union, the EU is formally committed to effective multilateralism, which has a powerful UN organisation as its focal point, making a vital contribution to tackling the global challenges.
I think the European Union should see this as a starting point and take a truly active role in dealing with both current and emerging world powers, shaking off once and for all its reputation as a political dwarf in terms of international policy.
By strengthening the role of the European Union at the United Nations, we will succeed in ensuring that the EU takes a leading role in regional and global affairs.
It calls for an enhanced role for the EU in the UN system, taking into account the institutional changes brought by the Lisbon Treaty.
Today's vote comes after a relevant success for the EU in the UN: the adoption of a set of modalities granting the EU delegation in the UN General Assembly the right to make interventions, as well as the right of reply and the ability to present oral proposals and amendments.
Moreover, the EU, in spite of all its limitations, is a major global actor whose weight must be properly recognised at every level.
I supported the report by Alexander Graf Lambsdorff because I think that we need to foster greater cohesion between the Member States' positions and enhance our ability to negotiate with other regional groups.
A major transformation of the world order is taking place, challenging the European Union to engage more actively with current and emerging world powers and with other bilateral and multilateral partners, in order to promote effective solutions to problems which affect both EU citizens and the world at large.
In accordance with Article 21 of the Treaty on European Union, the EU is formally committed to effective multilateralism with a strong UN at its core, which is essential in order to address global challenges, such as climate change and environmental degradation, the universality and indivisibility of human rights, poverty reduction and development for all, the consequences of demographic change and migration, and international organised crime.
I agree that the EU should play a proactive part in building a United Nations that can effectively contribute to global solutions, peace and security, democracy and a world order based on the principles of the rule of law.
The eradication of poverty globally now features among the Union's foreign policy priorities.
I welcome the initiative for strengthening cooperation on bringing stability to crisis zones and on drawing up new safety standards for nuclear power plants.
I am in favour of this proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the next session of the United Nations General Assembly.
The proposal underlines that the European Union and the United Nations share the common commitment to promoting democracy, respect for human rights and peace among the international community.
The proposal rejects Germany's request to occupy the potential new EU seat at the United Nations on a permanent basis and instead incorporates the Italian proposal to allow all Member States to occupy the seat in rotation in order to respect the principle of the equal dignity of all Member States.
The German request had been seen as an attempt to impose the political authority of Germany and the Anglo-French-German bloc within and outwith the EU.
However, the adoption of the Italian position through this proposal confirms that the possible enlargement of the Security Council would also assure Italy the chance of having its voice heard on crucial international issues outside the EU.
in writing. - It is important that Europe reaffirms its commitment to, and cooperation with, international movements like the UN at this time.
This coordination is also very important in the United Nations (UN).
At the same time, the Union should contribute to making the UN more efficient and transparent, and improve the management of its financial resources.
The creation of a United Nations parliamentary assembly within the framework of the United Nations system is an interesting proposal that is worth studying and debating.
Pursuant to Articles 21 and 41 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Parliament could not fail to take advantage of this session to push its positions on a number of subjects: not least, the role of the EU in the UN system; the EU and global governance; peace, security and justice; development; human rights; and climate change.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur's proposals mentioned above, as well as with the need to foster a debate on the role of parliaments and national assemblies in the UN system, and on creating a UN parliamentary assembly.
The report advocates giving the European Union a seat on the United Nations (UN) General Assembly and a permanent seat on the Security Council.
A number of voices have been heard advocating this idea in recent times, supported by the amendments introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon, specifically, the attribution of 'legal personality' to the EU.
The EU's alliance with the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and the United States to undertake wars and carry out acts of aggression in countries like Libya is proof of this.
It is fundamental principles of the UN Charter, such as non-intervention in states' internal affairs, respect for their sovereignty and independence, and recognition of their right to development, that the EU has been placing at risk.
This report again makes the unacceptable demand that the European Union have a seat at the United Nations (UN) General Assembly and a permanent seat on the Security Council, as a result of the anti-democratic Treaty of Lisbon and the 'legal personality' acquired from it.
The European Union should play an active role in developing the UN so that it can contribute effectively to global solutions, peace, security, democracy and international order based on the rule of law.
There is a need to support multilateralism as a primary strategic interest of the EU, and to strengthen cohesion and the visibility of the EU as a global player within the UN.
The ongoing transformation of the international order presents the EU with a challenge to focus more actively on current and emergent global powers and other bilateral and multilateral partnerships, in order to support effective solutions to the problems affecting EU citizens and the whole world in general.
The document under discussion sets out the European Union's priorities to take to the United Nations General Assembly.
I therefore support the report.
I endorsed the document because it advocates advancing effective multilateralism as the overriding strategic concern of the Union and strengthening the coherence and visibility of the EU as a global actor at the UN, inter alia, by better coordinating internal EU consultations on UN issues and by promoting greater outreach on a wide range of issues.
Furthermore, it touches on important issues, such as strengthening the role of the International Criminal Court and the international criminal justice system, promoting accountability, putting an end to impunity, and strengthening the crisis-prevention structures and their effectiveness within the United Nations Development Programme, with a view to transforming this organisation into a global leader in crisis prevention and recovery.
It also stresses the need for close cooperation between the EU and the UN in the area of civilian and military crisis management, particularly in humanitarian relief operations, and the need to thoroughly reform the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), by bringing to an end its dual function of both monitoring and promoting nuclear energy use, and to limit the IAEA's responsibilities to overseeing the nuclear energy industry and verifying compliance with the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, as well as other important issues, which I basically agree with and support.
In the run-up to the 66th ordinary session of the UN General Assembly, the European Parliament, as usual, addressed its recommendations to the Council, representing the Member States, who are the only fully fledged members of the organisation.
I voted in favour of this resolution because it is commensurate with the Union's new ambitions at international level.
The Treaty of Lisbon grants the EU new prerogatives, confirms the development of its international capacity and puts new tools in place.
It also calls for a strengthening of global governance at a time when global challenges require global solutions.
Finally, it focuses on core themes that the Union must play a role in advancing, as is its custom: development, human rights and climate change.
The current change in the international order is pushing the European Union to make a more active effort in its dealings with world and emerging powers so that it can take a proactive role in building a United Nations that can make an effective contribution to global solutions: peace, security, democracy and an international order based on the rule of law.
This represents an essential starting point for dealing with climate change and environmental degradation, the universality and indivisibility of human rights, poverty reduction and development for all, the consequences of demographic change, migration and international organised crime.
This allows us to take an international role in line with our pre-eminent economic status and to act as a global player capable of sharing the responsibility for security around the world.
It is down to us to clearly identify our interests and strategic objectives in order to be able to act effectively.
The European Union is the world's largest provider of development aid and a major partner of the UN in crisis and post-crisis situations.
We therefore feel duty bound to promote effective multilateralism as the overriding strategic concern of the Union and to strengthen the consistency and visibility of the EU as a global player.
The EU cannot forget its role in every respect as a leading actor on the world stage.
in writing. - In keeping with past practice, the Committee on Foreign Affairs draws up Parliament recommendations to the Council for the session of the United Nations General Assembly.
As I understand it, EP priorities are: an enhanced role for the EU in the UN system, taking into account the institutional changes brought by the Lisbon Treaty; a need for guidelines ensuring proper consultations between the ambassadors of the Member States in order to avoid discordance of EU voices as in the case of Libya; an adequate budget for UN Women; further strengthening of the role of the ICC; support for the UN Mediation Unit and a key role for the EEAS in this context; improvement of the relationship between the UN Peacebuilding Commission and the EU Peace-building Partnership; and finally, stronger EU leadership in the area of global climate governance.
All the abovementioned issues are timely and I voted in favour.
in writing. - I voted for this proposal because it gives an extensive review of the current global issues in the EU and UN, pointing out the challenges and the opportunities that the EU is facing.
It has also addressed solid and far-reaching suggestions for the EU in various areas on the international level, such as engaging with the EU's strategic partners within the UN system, ensuring the important role of the EEAS, enhancing peace, security and justice, and combating climate change.
I believe that these are the issues that are critical on the global stage right now, and the EU has to involve itself and play a vital role in all these aspects.
Therefore, I support this proposal and recommend to the Council that it should give careful consideration to this report.
I voted for this report because I agree with the recommendations being made to the Council in view of the 66th Session of the United Nations (UN) General Assembly.
In fact, and as the rapporteur mentions, the European Union carries insufficient weight in UN bodies, taking into account the major contributions made by the EU and its Member States.
The Council needs to make its positions heard more vigorously in the UN, whilst ensuring greater coordination in achieving the Union's goals there and fostering greater cohesion between the Member States' positions.
I agree with the rapporteur's call for the Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and the President of the European Council to make achieving enhanced observer rights for the EU a strategic priority, and to show greater visibility at the UN by way of intensifying consultations with the governments of third-country UN Member States.
We recommend that the Council advances effective multilateralism as the overriding strategic concern of the Union and strengthens the coherence and visibility of the EU as a global actor at the UN, inter alia, by better coordinating internal EU consultation on UN issues and by promoting greater outreach on a wide range of issues.
The Vice-President/High Representative (VP/HR) should be authorised to draft guidelines for regular consultations between the ambassadors of the Member States and the EU ambassadors, especially between those working at a multilateral level in places like Geneva and New York, so that the EU can successfully pursue its UN agenda and meet the expectations of UN members regarding its ability to act.
Greater cohesion should be fostered both within the UN system and between the positions of EU Member States and candidate and potential candidate countries, so as to maximise the potential offered by the Lisbon Treaty to strengthen the EU's impact through the coordinated and strategic use of its various and distinct (EU and Member State) entry points.
Its ability to negotiate with other regional groups should be enhanced in a timely manner and the EU representatives provided with a proper mandate to negotiate effectively on behalf of the Member States.
With regard to the 66th United Nations General Assembly, I support the view that Parliament ought to urge the Council to take a leading role in promoting the Millennium Development Goals.
In fact, we must start a debate on how to sustain the international community's commitment to sustainable development and the elimination of poverty - which must also continue beyond 2015.
The EU has more and enhanced opportunities for external representation under the Treaty of Lisbon and cooperation with the UN and other international organisations is both desirable and necessary for the purpose of crisis management, to maintain and build peace and to respond to international challenges, such as recent developments in Japan.
It is essential to reaffirm the need to harmonise the efforts of different United Nations bodies in order to better promote the efficiency and effectiveness of action on development.
I am voting for this report, firstly because it criticises the Commission for delaying publication until 9 February 2011, even though it was obliged to table it in 2010, and because, like the rapporteur, I regret the weakness of the Commission communication as regards new developments.
By adopting this resolution, the European Parliament is sending a clear signal to the European Commission on the future implementation of the Framework Programme for research.
It is also very important for research and development policies to be territorialised so that research is distributed harmoniously in relation to all universities.
The excellence often found in urban areas could be ensured by intensifying virtual links, for example, through permanent videoconferencing and a smart connection between territorialised research centres and centres of excellence.
The Seventh Framework Programme of the European Union for research, technological development and demonstration activities is the largest research support instrument in the world and the primary tool of European Union research policy.
Research is the process of converting economic power into knowledge, while innovation is the reverse process of transforming knowledge into economic power.
The European Union and its Member States must create for themselves the means to respond jointly to the major social, economic, environmental, demographic and ethical challenges facing Europe's states, such as an ageing population, citizens' health, food supply, sustainable development and the major environmental issues.
A better relationship is essential between the academic, research and industrial worlds to enable research results to be converted more effectively into products and services, generating economic growth and benefits for society as a whole.
Member States should also step up their communication efforts regarding the use of new technologies, such as smart research information services, by announcing forthcoming research challenges and distributing research findings.
This is why I voted in favour of this report.
Despite a series of hindrances - such as the economic crisis, the persistent inability to close the gap with the United States and increasing competition from emerging countries - the Seventh Framework Programme (FP7) has proved that it can offer added value to European research and development.
FP7 is a chance for the European Union to make its research policy match its economic and social ambitions, particularly by consolidating the European Research Area (ERA).
The report by my colleague, Mr Audy, on the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Union for research, technological development and demonstration activities (FP7) reveals a low level of participation by SMEs and industry in general, a low number of female researchers and under-representation of certain Member States.
I think it is necessary to develop effective coordination of research between the EU and national and regional authorities.
That is why I voted in favour of this excellent report.
Currently, Irish bodies receive about 1 million a week from EU research funds, and other opportunities remain for Irish small and medium enterprises (SMEs).
Therefore, transparency must be increased and the administrative burden reduced so that more SMEs would be interested in becoming involved in programmes in the future, to ensure the Union's effectiveness in relation to research, development and innovation.
On 23 and 24 March 2000, the European Council, meeting in Lisbon, set the European Union (EU) an ambitious strategic objective: to become, by 2010, the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world.
The central role played by research in this strategy has been acknowledged.
Allocated a budget of around EUR 54 billion for the period 2007-2013, the Seventh Framework Programme (FP7) has become one of the largest research support programmes in the world and represents the primary tool of EU research policy.
Its aim is to enable the EU to respond to the great societal challenges that concern all Member States and to which they cannot respond alone (ageing population and health, energy and water supplies or food supplies, sustainable development, climate change, and so on), as well as to develop the knowledge to enable our businesses to innovate more and enhance their competitiveness.
In this report, the European Parliament is carrying out a mid-term review in order to ensure that FP7 meets the needs of European policies.
I agree that in order to ensure that this programme is as effective as possible, it is necessary to simplify complicated and burdensome administrative procedures so as to successfully create a European Research Area.
The EU's Seventh Framework Programme is a crucial programme for improving the European added value in terms of research, development and innovation, at a time when Europe is lagging behind the United States in these areas, and is losing the headway it had over the emerging economies.
Therefore, this report serves to highlight the relevance of an unknown programme while calling for changes: to alter the overly burdensome administrative and financial regulations and the low rate of success that make this programme still too prohibitive for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), at a time when they play an important role in turning research outcomes into products and services; to ensure better cooperation and coordination between the various stakeholders at a time when the funding of research still remains split between national and European sources.
In March 2000, the Council set the European Union the ambitious objective of becoming 'the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world' by 2010.
The central role played by research in this strategy has been acknowledged.
I think that examining the review of the Seventh Framework Programme (FP7) for research and technological development offers an opportunity to cement the precious link between knowledge, education and research.
Over the years, FP7 has become one of the largest research support programmes in the world and represents the primary tool of EU research policy.
I voted for the resolution because the Europe 2020 programme considers research and innovation to be central for emerging from the crisis by means of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
For that to happen, the Seventh Framework Programme must increase its funding from 2013 onwards.
The report by Mr Audy on the mid-term review of the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Union for research, technological development and demonstration activities certainly contains a number of pleasing aspects.
However, I abstained in the vote because this own-initiative report contained a point which I thought was particularly weak, which made it impossible for me to vote in favour.
I voted in favour of this report because I believe that an appropriate mid-term review of the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Union for research, technological development and demonstration activities is particularly important for establishing whether the programme's implementation accords with the objectives set.
This programme is one of the most important research support programmes in the world and represents the primary tool of EU research policy.
Furthermore, in many of the documents it has adopted recently, setting out its development goals and guidelines for the next decade, the European Union stresses the importance of research and innovation for strengthening the EU economy and helping it remain one of the most competitive in the world.
For example, the report proposes increasing the programme's financing but, at the same time, it proposes identifying common research areas among those which appear most promising in terms of concrete applications, enabling the highest extent of sharing in an ethical context, so that tangible results are achieved when implementing this programme.
Despite the fact that Europe is still behind the US and is losing the lead it had over the developing economies, the results of the Seventh Framework Programme demonstrate the added value of this European programme for research and development in Europe.
The situation could be improved by simplifying the administrative and financial rules.
It is necessary to emphasise the importance of the Joint Technological Initiatives (JTI) for the competitiveness of European industry.
Given the still fragile economic situation resulting from the financial crisis that has rocked Europe, in his mid-term review, the rapporteur mentions important aspects that should be improved so as to use the available public funding as efficiently as possible.
I agree with the emphasis given by the rapporteur to two issues that are very important for future European research: increased simplification of payments between the European Commission and other entities, and increased participation by small and medium-sized enterprises, and industry in general, in responding to the great social challenges.
The unanimity of the committee vote on this important report and the vote taken today show, once again, that Parliament knows how to take a clear and decisive stance on crucial issues for citizens and enterprises.
I think the report really highlights the critical aspects of the Seventh Framework Programme.
We must use these funds to improve our ability to work in an integrated way by improving public/private partnerships, incentivising inter-regional clusters and ensuring good coordination between cohesion funds and funds for research and innovation.
This report helps to draw attention to the factors which are crucial in meeting the requirements of the future of research in Europe, in particular, in the context of the objectives assigned by the Europe 2020 strategy.
Furthermore, it is imperative that EU programmes consolidate at all times the advantages of research and innovation, for the benefit of education and job creation.
The Seventh Framework Programme for research and development for the period 2007-2013 has been subject to a mid-term review by the European Parliament.
This is an opportunity to remind the European Commission of the importance of making the right choices when investing in research and innovation for the future of Europe.
EUR 28.5 billion remains to be programmed for the years 2011, 2012 and 2013.
This sum must be allocated as a matter of priority to projects put forward by SMEs and industry in general, particularly in the areas of energy provision, sustainable development and the fight against climate change.
We must ensure a better distribution of research infrastructure throughout the European Union, while respecting the principle of excellence which allows Europe to attract the best researchers in the world.
This goal was revived in the Europe 2020 strategy, but the EU must now find the means to meet that target in order to remain an internationally competitive economy.
I welcome the adoption of the Audy report on the mid-term review of the Seventh Framework Programme, taking into account the impact of the recent economic crisis, which has particularly affected the capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises to invest in research and development.
With the publication of the Europe 2020 strategy, it became clear that commitment to research and development is crucial in order for Europe to return to economic growth and win the competitiveness game.
That is why any evaluation of the Seventh Framework Programme (FP7) of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities should be linked to the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy and its implementation.
I am convinced that, through research and development, Europe can manage to find efficient and effective responses to the energy problem, to the challenges of climate change, and to improving European competitiveness and productivity, leading us to a new growth cycle that is more sustainable this time.
On 23 and 24 March 2000, the European Council, meeting in Lisbon, set the European Union an objective: to become, by 2010, the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world.
I hope that the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy will be met, in particular, the EU's commitment to invest 3% of gross domestic product (GDP) in research and development by 2020.
Europe 2020 cannot wait for the next Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF): it must start now.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur, specifically as regards the recommendations regarding the need to simplify mechanisms for accessing funds, making procedures simpler and more transparent, and facilitating the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises.
It should also invest in flagship areas like health, energy and nuclear safety, responding to the new challenges of innovation and research.
We believe that there is a need to support public research and make its results available in a simple way, without bureaucracy, by promoting: productive and business activity, and small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular; the creation of skilled jobs, with rights; social progress and sustainable development.
There is a need for a commitment to areas as diverse as, inter alia, energy efficiency, new energy sources, efficient resource use, recycling and new productive processes.
We cannot fail to express our concern about some of the principles guiding the European Research Area.
We believe it should be founded on cooperation and mutual benefit, mitigating the currently existing inequalities in national research systems, and reversing any trends towards concentration of scientific and human resources in the more developed countries, which is the same as in so-called 'centres of excellence'.
Particularly important is its concern to ensure that 40% of those taking part in research are women, as this figure is currently no higher than 25.5%, and to recognise that 'Europe continues to lag behind the US and is losing the lead it had over the emerging economies'.
However, we are concerned about some aspects, not least the principles guiding the European Research Area, since it should be focused on cooperation between genuine research and collaboration networks, reversing any trends towards concentration of scientific and human resources in the more developed countries and mitigating the currently existing inequalities in national research systems.
The report assesses whether the EU's Seventh Framework Programme for research and technological development will offer the possibility of consolidating the golden triangle of knowledge, education and research, which is of key importance for Europe.
Among other things, the programme welcomes the level of participation and excellent results in the selection of projects, but it is a pity that the success rate in the programme generally remains relatively low.
The correct management of public funds within the framework of this programme is essential, and I firmly believe that every change or reorientation must take place in a way that respects stability, overall cohesion and legal certainty, which underpin the mutual trust of the participants.
Good research resources are needed to create and foster employment in the EU and to boost the EU's competitiveness, particularly as the industrially developing countries grow in strength.
Collaboration between the private and public sectors must be developed and SMEs encouraged to participate more fully in the programme.
At a meeting on 4 February, the leaders of the EU and of Member States stated their commitment to the Innovation Union flagship initiative.
Research and innovation are what will help us escape from the economic deadlock which we are in at present.
Research and development play a large part in modernising our economies and strengthening our competitiveness.
With a budget of EUR 54 billion for the period 2007-2013, the Seventh Framework Programme for research and development is the world's largest programme of support for research.
The adoption of this report by a strong majority is testament to Parliament's keen interest for the success of this programme and subsequent ones.
Efforts still need to be made to ensure sound management of public money and prevent funds from being spread too thinly in projects that are not very efficient or that do not meet our needs.
The future of European research will involve simplifying how programmes are implemented, facilitating access to funding, the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) but, above all, adapting our priorities to society's great challenges (ageing population, climate change, and so on).
I am convinced that the European Union has a leading role to play in the development of large research programmes and that it can bring real added value by consolidating the European Research Area (ERA).
The remaining sums should not be diverted from research and used for other programmes or instruments that do not come within the research and innovation sector or the objectives and scope of FP7.
I believe that we need to support further cooperation between different EU research, technological development and innovation programmes, and feel that the continuity of the future programme, once established, is important for all actors involved.
The way to find solutions to such unusual situations is investment in science and technological development.
Although we have held many debates on this issue, the measures taken in Europe have, unfortunately, been ineffectual, despite the threat posed to our continent and our economy.
Financial support and the simplification of legislative procedures for scientific development should be a priority for the EU.
I support the report on the mid-term review of the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Union for research, technological development and demonstration activities because I believe that it truly reflects what has been achieved, as well as existing problems.
This would give a new impetus to our economic growth and an improvement in the standard of living of our citizens.
In order to become the citadel of innovation, we must sacrifice the bureaucracy that does not allow for funds to flow to researchers and entrepreneurs.
Saddled with the old and rigid system of bureaucracy hindering the development of new and dynamic businesses, the European Union will not reach its target - to invest 3% of GDP in research and innovation by 2020.
Paragraph 27 of this report contains information which contradicts the truth.
The assertion that web sites and individual computer systems are constantly monitored by INDECT is false, as confirmed by the ethical review carried out on the INDECT project in Brussels on 15 March 2011, with the participation of specialists from Austria, France, Holland, Germany and the United Kingdom.
The ethical review of the INDECT project had a positive outcome, and no infringements relating to the project's ethical aspects were identified.
The Seventh Framework Programme of the European Union for research, technological development and demonstration activities (FP7) is the largest research support instrument in the world and represents the primary tool of European Union research policy.
The actions taken so far to develop knowledge in the most varied of fields demonstrate the ever more acute need to move towards spreading innovations and implementing them in our daily lives.
The Seventh Framework Programme - which is mainly oriented towards research and technological development - is currently the only instrument for achieving the objectives laid down in the Innovation Union initiative and for expediting the transformation of Europe into a knowledge-based society.
Every year since 2007, the EU has spent over EUR 6 billion funding research and development on the continent.
Indeed, Europe lags behind the United States and is being caught up very quickly by the emerging countries; it must therefore quickly re-establish innovation at the forefront of its social model.
In order to achieve the Europe 2020 goals, it proposes that the rest of the programme should focus on the Union's most pressing challenges within the sectors identified in the 'Cooperation' chapter of the Seventh Framework Programme: health, food and biotechnology, information and communication technology, nanoscience and nanotechnologies, energy, the SET Plan and the use of biogas, environment, sustainable transport, social sciences, economics and humanities, and space and security.
in writing. - FP7 is a chance for the EU to make its research policy match its economic and social ambitions, in particular, by consolidating the European Research Area (ERA).
Allocated a budget of around EUR 54 billion for the period 2007-2013, FP7 has, over the years, become one of the largest research support programmes in the world and represents the primary tool of EU research policy.
The aim is to enable the EU to respond to the great societal challenges that concern all Member States and to which they cannot respond alone (ageing population and health, energy, water and food supplies, sustainable development, climate change, and so on), as well as to develop the knowledge to enable our businesses to innovate more and enhance their competitiveness.
We believe that FP7 is a chance for the EU to make its research policy match its economic and social ambitions, in particular, by consolidating the European Research Area (ERA).
In addition, research and development policies need to be territorialised and the Union must adopt an ambitious European research plan for defence technology with a view to enhancing the sector's industrial and technological base, while also improving the efficiency of military public spending.
Lastly, we agree with the Committee on Budgets that the design and implementation of all framework programmes must be based on the principles of simplicity, stability, legal certainty, consistency, excellence and trust, while also strengthening links between European institutions for research and industry.
It has a budget allocation of EUR 50 billion for the period 2007-2013.
This report points to the paths to be followed as regards this Framework Programme for R&amp;TD: it should be linked to the Europe 2020 strategy, but also to the Innovation Union initiative, and its main objective should be the areas of climate change, energy policy, competitiveness and population ageing.
in writing. - The seventh EU programme aims to build a united European Knowledge Area based upon achievements of former programmes and to implement further research towards strengthening socio-economic factors in the development of Europe.
Scientific research is one of the bases of the European strategy for economic development, ensuring competency, development of the social area and environmental protection.
Therefore, I voted in favour.
The Seventh Framework Programme is not just about research in general; it is also about a specific field of research that ought to be of particular concern to all of us following the Fukushima disaster.
Now that the Euratom research programme is shortly to be extended for the period 2012-2013, Fukushima ought to be taken as an opportunity for a rethink.
We need to focus more on protection against radiation and final storage.
It states that the EU Commission should immediately publish all project documents and define a clear and strict mandate for the research goal, the application and end users of INDECT.
I therefore agree on rewording the main objectives and stress the need for a more efficient research policy that cuts out the burden of red tape and provides for greater participation from small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as innovation and funding integration.
This report on the mid-term review of the Seventh Framework Programme (FP7) of the European Union for research, technological development and demonstration activities is based on the premise of reconciling the public with science.
The Lisbon strategy set an ambitious goal for the European Union: to become, by 2010, the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world.
The central role played by research was acknowledged in this strategy.
The decade 2000-2010, which ended with an extremely serious economic crisis, will be evaluated in the future.
It is now important, and I share the rapporteur's ambition in this respect, to analyse the work done and reorganise future work.
FP7 is another opportunity for the EU to put its research policy on a par with its economic and social ambitions, not least by consolidating the European Research Area.
FP7 is one of the largest research support programmes in the world and represents the primary tool of EU research policy.
The specific existing programmes, like the Cooperation programme, the Ideas programme, the People programme and the Capacity programme, can and should enable the development of knowledge to enable our businesses to innovate more and enhance their competitiveness.
If European research policy is to be more competitive and in tune with the EU's economic and social ambitions, FP7 needs to be tailored to four major objectives: promoting the simplification of the framework programmes for research and cutting the burdens of administrative procedures; improving the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs); strengthening the innovation dimension and intensifying the Risk-Sharing Finance Facility.
We must place greater emphasis on proposals for collaborative research between the public and industrial sectors, ease cooperation between networks of SMEs, universities and public research institutes, and the main criteria for choosing FP7 projects must now include an assessment of the possible impact on the market, technology transfer and the commercial use of research outcomes.
I voted in favour of reviewing FP7 for these very reasons and also so that the EU can be more competitive in the field of research without having to wait for the Eighth Framework Programme.
With this text, the European Parliament confirms its support for this programme, which is of vital importance for developing European research and improving the competitiveness of our businesses.
in writing. - This report considers whether the review of the Seventh Framework Programme for research and technological development (FP7) may offer an opportunity to consolidate the golden triangle of knowledge, education and research that is the key to Europeans' destiny.
I welcome the level of participation and excellence in project selection but regret, however, that the success rate under this programme generally remains quite low and is a disincentive, particularly for SMEs.
in writing. - Given the economic crises the EU is facing, it is essential we identify which areas of our activities lend themselves to helping us overcome our difficulties.
Research and innovation are central to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, so investment in R&amp;D is the best possible response.
Considering the numerous political and economic changes that have taken place since the Seventh Framework Programme was adopted, it is necessary to amend FP7 to reflect the situation of the new reality.
Given the importance of knowledge-based industries to Europe and our thriving R&amp;D sector, we cannot afford to wait until FP8 to take action.
The Seventh Framework Programme (FP7) of the European Union for research, technological development and demonstration activities should be evaluated with a view to the current state of the European Union, but with an eye on the future.
Therefore, the evaluation of the Framework Programme can play a significant role in this respect: in other words, by seeking to reduce the obstacles to the European economy's growth that have been emerging, specifically by cutting red tape in procedures for accessing research support programmes.
For instance: more open access and dissemination of research results, wider calls in the field of socio-economic sciences, more collaborative research, efforts to improve the mobility of researchers, more actions for innovative SMEs, better coordination with the Member States.
The report does not cover the issue of ITER or of Galileo investments.
On the negative side, the text is sometimes too much oriented towards the economic role and competitiveness of research and innovation rather than towards what research and innovation can bring to society as a whole.
Research is an essential component of the world of knowledge and, in a globalised economy, it is certain to bolster growth and employment levels in the European Union.
The Seventh Framework Programme (FP7) is a good opportunity for the European Union to develop its research policy, while also consolidating the European Research Area (ERA).
Through this programme, Europe aims to satisfy the requirements of industry - and more generally, of European policies - for research and knowledge.
By adopting today's report, Parliament shines a light on the results achieved by the research programme in these first four years.
Yet to achieve bigger and better results in the future, we need to simplify the administrative process, improve the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises, support innovation and adopt risk-sharing finance facilities.
The report also urges the EU and the Member States to adopt an ambitious research plan to consolidate the European defence industry.
I consider the mid-term review of the Seventh Framework Programme for research and development 2007-2013 to be particularly useful for the purpose of drawing useful conclusions based on an evaluation of the current situation.
I welcome the rapporteur's proposal to simplify financing procedures and to adopt a performance-driven approach and the criteria of 'excellence' and 'European added value' in EU spending.
The research sector is a sector which can bring maximum added value to the Union.
Public budgets have been cut and, as such, private funding should be mobilised in order to finance the forthcoming Eighth Framework Programme for research.
In the context of a changing global economic situation and at a time when Europe is slowly attempting to extricate itself from the economic crisis, it is becoming clear that the programme was put in place to solve legitimate and significant problems.
The global competition of major economic powers such as China, India and Brazil is forcing us to take special measures, aimed at gaining a technological advantage allowing us to implement the European Union's intended strategy effectively.
The right investments in research and scientific development will translate into the long-term construction of a knowledge-based society, which is one of the most important components of economic power.
The report touches upon the key issue of insufficient cooperation and exchange of information between Member States, which results in the duplication of individual projects.
A further alarming matter is the unequal participation of the Member States, which results in greater imbalances in an area as important as research and technological development.
The programme's implementation will last another two years, and the level of budgetary commitment has not exceeded 50% (of EUR 54 billion for the period 2007-2013), which should make it easier to involve the competent bodies and enable the funds available to be used as appropriately as possible.
in writing. - I support the work done by the rapporteur in this report.
The Seventh Framework Programme (FP7) for research and technological development (R&amp;TD) is the European Commission's largest financial instrument for supporting and promoting research activity, and it has a budget allocation of EUR 50 billion for the period 2007-2013.
This report stresses that the FP7 for R&amp;TD should be linked to the 'Europe 2020' strategy and to the 'Innovation Union' flagship initiative, and that it should focus, until its term expires, on the areas of climate change, energy policy, competitiveness and population ageing.
I also consider it important that the Seventh Framework Programme contributes to establishing the European Research Area, pursuant to Article 179(1) of Title XIX of the Treaty on European Union.
Research and innovations are important for ensuring sustainable and inclusive growth in Lithuania.
However, the study also states that in the research and development (R&amp;D) sector, my country faces managerial, structural and regulatory problems.
We must overcome these obstacles if we want to make real progress.
I agree with the rapporteur that we really need better coordination of research projects and cofinancing within the Union.
Furthermore, research facilities and infrastructure in Central and Eastern Europe must be modernised and expanded.
This will encourage European competitiveness and help to overcome infrastructural disparities between the old and new Member States.
I also believe that research and technological development must become more accessible to ordinary Europeans.
According to data from a European Commission survey, only 10% of Europeans feel they are well informed about science, while 65% feel that governments should make more efforts to interest young people in scientific matters.
I voted in favour of this resolution on EU-Canada trade relations.
However, the EU-Canada economic relationship has not yet reached its full potential and I feel that an EU-Canada free trade agreement can strongly contribute to developing and realising this by improving trade and investment flows while removing tariff peaks and unjustified non-tariff barriers and supporting closer cooperation, particularly in the fields of regulatory cooperation, labour mobility and recognition of qualifications.
I welcome an agreement with Canada going beyond the WTO commitments and being complementary to multilateral rules, provided that the negotiations produce a balanced, ambitious, high-quality agreement that goes well beyond tariff reductions, and other tools begin to be applied.
For instance, the reciprocity principle should be applied in the context of the legal remedies available in the event of commercial disputes, and there is a need to improve the protection of intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents and geographical indications.
By voting in favour of this resolution on the current trade negotiations between the EU and Canada, I wish to reiterate the importance of international trade (including with Canada) for developing our economies.
As stated in the resolution, even though Europe must continue giving priority to the international trading system, that is, the Doha Development Round negotiations, the current negotiations with Canada can usefully complement this international approach with a bilateral approach, which is equally necessary.
Thus, by discussing and negotiating, we are managing to find solutions on issues related to trade and respect for certain principles, such as those concerning the environment.
However, as Vice-Chair of the working group on public services, I am concerned about the approach chosen for this sector.
Indeed, by adopting a 'negative list approach' (a list that excludes certain public services from the liberalisation process) and not, on the contrary, 'a positive list approach' (exempting public services from liberalisation, except those featured in the list), we may well end up weakening public services.
A number of bilateral agreements designed to facilitate stronger trade relations have been signed over the years and currently, the EU is Canada's second most important trading partner and Canada's second largest source of foreign direct investment.
The free trade agreement planned could make a significant contribution towards advancing the EU-Canada economic partnership and would send a powerful pro-growth signal to investors and business within the EU and Canada.
Whereas a commercial agreement is currently under negotiation between the European Union and Canada, the European Parliament, through this resolution that we have just adopted, is expressing concern about the European Commission's approach in relation to public services.
Indeed, the European Commission, responsible for negotiating this agreement, seems to want all services to be included, in principle.
By negotiating a 'negative' list of services that would not be included in the free trade agreements, and if it were to go ahead, the Commission would be reversing the rationale that has prevailed hitherto.
Yet public services are not like other services: because they provide social and territorial cohesion as well as essential support to vulnerable populations, these services have features specific to the general interest they seek to attain.
Consequently, it is crucial to continue adopting an approach that protects these services, particularly by protecting them from international competition.
I am voting in favour of this resolution, which relates to a chapter of the European commercial policy that should be taken as a model for negotiations with other countries - including India, China and Pakistan - which certainly do not guarantee fair competition, let alone respect for social rights and environmental standards, as Canada does.
When we embark on negotiations with these countries, we should remember how strict and exacting we have been with extremely enlightened places like Canada and adopt the same direct and open attitude in defence of our interests.
in writing. - I voted against the trade relationship between the EU and Canada as I feel any BIT could undermine the Commonwealth negotiation between UK and Canada.
I voted in favour of the resolution on EU-Canada trade relations aimed at establishing a Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement.
Canada is a close trading partner of the European Union: over 10 years, Canadian investment in Europe almost doubled, reaching EUR 119.5 million in 2009.
It is therefore necessary to establish an advanced legal framework so as to ensure a positive impact on growth.
Rules of origin are different in Canada and the EU, and the Commission must make sure that the interests and priorities of European agriculture are properly taken into account.
The multilateral trade system, based on rules and established through the World Trade Organisation (WTO), remains the most suitable means of regulating and promoting open and fair trade.
However, given the historical and very successful economic relationship between the EU and Canada, I support an agreement that transcends the commitments made within the framework of the WTO and is in addition to the multilateral rules, so as to achieve the maximum potential of cooperation between these two powers.
I voted for the resolution on EU-Canada trade relations because it highlights the need to include social and environmental issues in the future Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada.
As part of the ongoing negotiations on the trade agreement between the EU and Canada, the Commission must undertake to comply with the European Parliament's demands.
In a free trade agreement, two things are vital: first, ensuring reciprocity in respect of social and environmental legislation; second, adopting a consistent and protective approach to services of general interest.
The European Commission must consider the consequences of its decision to include all services automatically and by default.
While this method allows certain public services to be excluded on a case-by-case basis and at the request of each Member State by establishing a 'negative' list, it nevertheless runs the risk of potential omissions.
Up to now, the Commission has negotiated free trade agreements by providing a 'positive' list, listing services covered by the agreement one by one.
This method, which is commonly used in international trade, provides a better safeguard for certain sensitive sectors for the EU and should therefore be the sole method used by the Commission.
Canada and the EU share a set of values, making us not just trade partners, but also natural allies in the global geostrategic situation.
Despite the obstacles to trade liberalisation that still remain and the Union's reservations regarding current practices in Canada, I hope that the necessary bases can be established for a mutually beneficial trade partnership sooner rather than later.
A comprehensive economic and commercial agreement between Canada and the European Union could end up being the most ambitious and wide-ranging that we have yet concluded.
This motion for a resolution is on EU-Canada trade relations, whose negotiations are expected to be concluded by the end of 2011.
Although some issues remain unresolved, such as the negative impact on biodiversity of tar sands extraction and of some seal-derived products, I voted in favour not only because the public procurement problem has practically been resolved, but also because of the benefits to the Member States, and to prevent the negotiations from suffering any delays.
The first item in the preamble illustrates the vision guiding this report: it states that the multilateral trade system established through the World Trade Organisation (WTO) continues to represent the most suitable framework for regulating and promoting open and fair trade.
We disagree, in fact, just like the millions of workers, farmers, small and medium-sized business owners, and many others across the world who have, for years, been pointing an accusing finger at the WTO, at its goals of deregulating trade and at the interests it serves: those of the multinationals; of large companies and financial institutions, which rake in millions at the expense of sacrificing millions of jobs and labour and social rights, destroying small and medium-sized producers and degrading the environment.
The EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement, like the others, also covers services and worthy, but inconsistent concerns are being expressed relating to 'negative lists' or others, which do not remove the threats also hanging over public services.
The European Union continues to build its trade policy with consequences that affect the various Member States profoundly but differently.
They are generally agreements that lack increasing democratic legitimacy as they are almost always negotiated in the greatest secrecy, behind the public's backs, in an attempt to cover up their economic, social and environmental impact, and avoid informed debate and clarification.
With negotiations at a stage said to be fairly advanced and their conclusion envisaged for 2011, its impact on sectors and countries has yet to be fully debated.
The EU commenced talks on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement with Canada in 2009.
The potential agreement covers a broad range of topics: trade in goods and services, intellectual property rights, public procurement, regulatory cooperation, investment, temporary migration, competition policy and employment and environmental standards.
In my opinion, it is right for both sides to prioritise efforts to reach agreement over several fundamental points, such as the issues of public procurement, investment and public services.
The ongoing negotiations on a Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) aim at a very advanced agreement, exceeding in its level of ambition any trade and economic agreement negotiated either by the EU or by Canada to date, that could reinforce the already strong bilateral trade and investment relationship even further.
I welcome an agreement with Canada going beyond the WTO commitments and being complementary to multilateral rules, provided that the negotiations produce a balanced, ambitious, high-quality agreement.
I feel that agriculture chapters will constitute an important issue for both parties in these negotiations.
The interests and the priorities in agriculture should therefore be fully taken into account and the agreement must be beneficial to EU and Canadian consumers and to the agricultural sectors on both sides as well, and ensure, within a balanced overall outcome, greater - but fair - competition among EU and Canadian suppliers providing agricultural goods.
The European Union and Canada have had good, solid trade relations for many years.
However, the potential for economic cooperation is far from exhausted and I welcome the negotiations in relation to the CETA.
I particularly support the reservations expressed by the European Parliament in relation to the possible negative impact on European agriculture.
At the same time, I would like to emphasise that Poland is Canada's largest trading partner among the Central and Eastern European countries and, for a dozen or so years, has maintained a bilateral trade surplus which has grown year on year.
Commercial relations between the European Union and Canada can go well beyond the commitments undertaken through the World Trade Organisation as long as they are based on a balanced agreement, a guarantee of proper reciprocal access to each other's markets and improved protection for trademarks, patents and geographical indications.
Lastly, we think that the Council should obtain Parliament's consent before signing any further international commercial agreements, and that Parliament should be kept informed throughout all phases of the procedure in order to guarantee greater democratic control.
This is the only way that we can achieve higher growth in trade and investments between the European Union and Canada.
I voted for the resolution but against Amendment 10 which supports the ban on importing seal products imposed by the EU.
Indeed, the conclusions of the scientific opinion given by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) at the end of 2007 are based on data concerning the slaughter of animals in abattoirs and which are not reliable with regard to seal hunting.
The legal base is also questionable, as the European Parliament's legal opinion, dated 1 April 2009, shows: 'It seems virtually impossible to justify the ban on the sole basis of animal well-being, since the Treaty contains no legal basis on animal well-being'.
The protection of the species, for its part, is not at stake, its population having even tripled in Greenland over 25 years.
Finally, an embargo on which the Commission gives assurances that there would be no impact on Inuit traditional hunting is unrealistic.
In this context, the request submitted by Canada to the World Trade Organisation (WTO) concerning the creation of a special dispute settlement body in relation to the European embargo is justified.
in writing. - Parliament has given a strong signal in its resolution on the EU-Canada trade negotiations that it will rigorously defend its legislation to ban seal products from the EU market.
The European Commission is about to conclude negotiations with Canada on a free trade agreement of unprecedented scope.
There has been significant progress with trade relations, although there is still no comprehensive agreement.
in writing. - The potential agreement covers a wide range of issues: trade in goods and services, intellectual property rights, public procurement, regulatory cooperation, investment, temporary migration (mode IV), competition policy and labour and environmental standards.
Both parties still need to find an agreement on several crucial chapters of the negotiations, among others, on access to government procurement, investment and public services.
There are two other issues that came up in the negotiations that are quite sensitive in the EP.
The first issue concerns the Canadian oil sands and the EU's Fuel Quality Directive.
This agreement could reinforce the already strong bilateral trade and investment relationship between the EU and Canada; however, it should be mutually beneficial and therefore, I have abstained from voting as yet.
Furthermore, in the event of commercial disputes, the reciprocity principle should be applied, the protection of intellectual property rights should be improved and there should be reciprocal access to the services and public procurement markets.
Particular attention should be paid to the agricultural sector and consumers.
We must ensure fair and greater competition among agricultural goods suppliers.
I feel that the Commission should begin negotiations with Canada on investment once Parliament has expressed its position on the future EU investment policy.
I welcome this European Parliament resolution on EU-Canada trade relations.
It is only natural, therefore, that the private sectors in both the EU and Canada have shown strong support for an ambitious and comprehensive economic agreement, and believe that advancing a closer EU-Canada economic partnership would send a powerful pro-growth signal to investors and business within the EU and Canada as well as internationally.
I therefore welcome an agreement with Canada that transcends the World Trade Organisation (WTO) commitments and is in addition to the multilateral rules, provided that the negotiations produce an ambitious, high-quality agreement, based on reciprocity and that goes beyond mere tariff reductions.
However, it does not prevent states or supranational organisations from increasing their economic relations beyond that common regulation.
Therefore, a particularly close economic relationship between the EU and Canada seems justified.
As stressed in the report, the EU is Canada's second most important trade partner.
For its part, in 1976, Canada became the first industrialised country with which the EU signed a framework agreement for commercial and economic cooperation, and it is the EU's fourth largest source of foreign direct investment.
An agreement could lead to relations between the two areas reaching even greater levels of economic cooperation, creating even stronger links between these two areas, which are already profoundly linked by a common cultural approach.
Economic relations between the EU and Canada are of key significance for the development of dialogue between the two parties.
Nevertheless, certain problems still remain regarding this agreement, which may have a negative impact on the EU's agricultural sector.
In my opinion, more work needs to be done in terms of the differences between the sanitary and phytosanitary standards in force in the EU and in Canada.
in writing. - I welcome today's resolution, which highlights progress in negotiations for an EU trade agreement with Canada.
Canada is an important potential trading partner for the EU, and both parties will profit from such an agreement.
However, there are some concerns which the Commission needs to take into account: the environmental impact of extracting oil from tar sands and the health of workers mining asbestos are just two issues which need to be looked at carefully.
The Commission also needs to take a strong position to protect the ban.
I voted in favour of this resolution on credit rating agencies: future perspectives.
The recent financial crisis has highlighted three problems in the industry: a lack of competition, over-reliance on external ratings in the regulatory framework and no liability for ratings on the part of CRAs.
Therefore, their exposure to civil liability should be enhanced in order to provide a credible threat.
I voted in favour of Mr Klinz's report on credit rating agencies.
Credit rating agencies are useful: they provide information about the quality of credit products, enabling debtors and investors to access global and domestic markets and ultimately help fix prices.
However, the crisis has demonstrated the dangers created by the current system: the lack of competition and a lack of accountability and transparency of agencies in particular.
This is an own-initiative report which calls on the European Commission to clearly identify the shortcomings of the current framework and to provide an impact study outlining the potential different alternatives for improving the system, including new legislation if necessary.
I urge the Commission to respond to our request as soon as possible.
I voted in favour of this important document.
Rating agencies assess not just private equity companies and their products, but also countries.
The Commission and the G20 countries are asked to establish a new global approach to assessment, which would reduce the likelihood of errors, would regulate the activities of companies involved in ratings and would reduce the risk associated with financial assessment.
I welcome the report's call to establish our own independent rating agency, which, according to the proposals, would initially be called the European Credit Rating Foundation.
The possibilities for all EU Member States to borrow in international markets under the right conditions, as well as the stability of the whole global financial system and the effectiveness of crisis prevention, will depend on how successfully we can reform financial assessment.
Credit rating agencies (CRAs) assess countries, institutions and companies, assigning risk ratings regarding their ability to pay their debts on the agreed date.
Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009 on CRAs was adopted as a first reaction to the financial crisis.
Indeed, the financial crisis has demonstrated that there are three key problems in how these agencies operate: lack of competition, over-reliance on external ratings and no accountability.
This report, which I voted for, calls on the European Commission to identify the failings and provide an impact assessment on the possible alternatives, including further legislative proposals.
It also calls on the European Commission to assess the costs and benefits of creating a fully independent European Credit Rating Foundation.
I supported the proposed report because I think that creating credit rating agencies will boost competition in this sector, which is a prerequisite for enhancing quality, reducing information costs and, last but not least, increasing the relevant agencies' accountability.
The recent financial crisis has drawn attention to three key problems in the area of rating agencies, which are the lack of economic competition, the excessive dependency of the regulatory framework on external rating assessments, and the fact that the rating agencies provide no guarantee for their ratings.
The rapporteur's proposal to establish a network of European rating agencies seems more sensible to me, since cooperation between rating agencies active at national level in making use of the available human and financial resources should encourage competition in this area by covering a broad range of activities and different markets, thereby making it possible to achieve the same level as the large rating agencies which have a global scale of operations.
in writing. - I voted against the potential adoption of EU harmonisation of credit rating agencies as the standards may vary, and necessarily so, between Member States.
Without one single common currency, and in view of the volatility of markets, particularly in the failing eurozone economies, the UK faces the possibility of being tangled in a mire of harmonised credit ratings which would have to encompass all economic circumstances across the Union and could expose UK business and industry to hazardous ventures supported by EU-wide credit ratings.
It is up to independent economies in independent Member States to determine their conditions and limitations concerning credit rating.
In order to preserve the truth and fairness of such ratings, there is a need to increase the transparency underlying these decisions, as well as the accountability of these agencies.
I therefore support and welcome the establishment of priorities for the regulation of credit rating agencies proposed today, which I consider essential in order to overcome the problems in this industry.
I voted against the report on credit rating agencies.
It is politically unacceptable and economically dangerous for these agencies, which have played such a negative role in the present crisis, to continue to have the right, granted by the EU itself, to rate not only companies, but also the economies of the Member States.
The European Parliament should be more decisive and radical in its decisions on action by credit rating agencies, especially after the damage they have caused to European economies and European citizens.
The report should promote a public, democratically-controlled agency which has nothing to do with private interests and which can play a particular role within the framework of solidarity between the States and their citizens.
I voted in favour of this report because it sets out the situation relating to credit rating agencies (CRAs) clearly and objectively.
I, too, believe that CRAs play a necessary and extremely useful role in distilling and simplifying the torrent of information about the financial markets, both in terms of the solvency and reliability of debt issuers as well as in terms of individual financial instruments.
However, I think that greater responsibility could translate into greater objectivity and more thorough work, which would protect not just the affairs of the few but help reduce information imbalances, which amounts to safeguarding the functioning of the markets and also the general interest.
I voted for the resolution on credit rating agencies because I believe that a new European rating agency is required, which will introduce an alternative method of operation and more competition in this sector.
The financial crisis has shown us that we cannot continue to accept the oligopolistic structure, nor the lack of transparency and accountability of current credit rating agencies.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of Mr Klinz's report.
It contains some interesting proposals for pursuing the necessary framework for credit rating agencies.
The current situation in the euro area reminds us on an almost daily basis of the impact of decisions taken by these agencies and the reliance of the global financial regulatory system on these agencies.
This is a concrete proposal which would enable us to address the over-reliance of the global financial regulatory system on some non-public credit ratings.
in writing. - I support this report on the future of credit rating agencies (CRAs).
The recent financial crisis has highlighted that there are major problems with this business, such as over-reliance on external ratings in the regulatory framework and no liability for ratings by CRAs.
Indeed, CRAs played a significant role in the build-up to the financial crisis through the assignment of faulty ratings to structured finance instruments.
This report, in advance of the legislative proposal the Commission is preparing for the autumn, addresses these issues, calling for: a review of whether and how Member States use ratings for regulatory purposes in order to reduce the general over-reliance on them of the financial regulatory system; a detailed impact assessment and viability study on the costs, benefits and potential governance structure of a fully independent European Credit Rating Foundation; the exploration of establishing a truly independent European Credit Rating Agency; the establishment of a European Rating Index which incorporates all ratings of registered CRAs that are available on the market.
This is a change that should go hand in hand with the Commission's assessment of the need for greater disclosure of information for all products in the field of financial instruments.
The financial crisis has highlighted that there are three key problems in the industry: lack of competition, over-reliance on external ratings in the regulatory framework and no liability for ratings by CRAs.
The role played by the credit rating agencies (CRAs) is undoubtedly important for the current market economy.
These agencies started out as information middlemen, facilitating access to the market for debt issuers and investors, enabling reduced information costs and, therefore, greater liquidity and transparency.
There is an urgent need to review the role of these agencies for regulating the global financial market and find effective solutions for their lack of competition.
Credit rating agencies (CRAs) provide ratings for three different sectors - the public sector, companies and structured finance instruments - and played a significant role in the path that led to the financial crisis, through the assignment of faulty ratings to structured finance instruments, which had to be downgraded on average three to four notches during the crisis.
The situation over the last few years has thoroughly demonstrated how little credibility credit rating agencies (CRAs) have.
These agencies are a clear expression of the financialisation of the economy - that do not translate or correspond to actual increases in productive activity - and they constitute a central part of neoliberalism's development strategy, which is always seeking levels of profit that real production cannot ensure, because of the well-known trend towards decreasing profits.
While this report does make some criticisms of how these agencies operate, the truth is that it never gets to the bottom of the issue, or proposes public control of the financial sector, so as not to threaten the interests of large companies and financial institutions.
We therefore call for effective regulation of the financial sector, and putting a stop to the liberalisation of capital movements, to tax havens, to derivatives, and to CRAs and their operations.
We know - as it has indeed been demonstrated over the last few years - that credit rating agencies (CRAs) are not credible, but their actions, nonetheless, remain very damaging, especially to countries with weaker economies, and they make a living, above all, from disproportionately stimulating credit and capitalist financial speculation.
They are, above all, the result of the financialisation of the economy - that do not translate or correspond to actual increases in productive activity - and they constitute a central part of neoliberalism's development strategy, which is always seeking levels of profit that real production cannot ensure.
While this report makes some criticisms of how these agencies operate, the truth is that it never gets to the bottom of the issue, or proposes public control of the financial sector, so as not to threaten the interests of large companies and financial institutions.
We therefore call for effective regulation of the financial sector, and putting a stop to the liberalisation of capital movements, to tax havens, to derivatives, and to CRAs and their operations.
In my opinion, it is therefore essential to take steps to create a European Credit Rating Agency, which could work towards a new model of credit rating and create the conditions for developing genuine competitiveness.
The report recommends that there should be more and better risk analysis by market players so that they do not have to rely too much on the credit rating agencies.
In this vein, Parliament's request for the Commission to consider creating an independent European agency that could also be responsible for sovereign debt ratings is significant.
Since the irresponsible behaviour of credit rating agencies (CRAs) has often been the initial cause of speculation that primarily harms European taxpayers, it is hugely important to review their role in sovereign debt ratings as part of the ongoing reform process, which will be completed in the autumn.
I welcomed this document because the credit rating industry has various problems, the most serious of which are oligopolistic structures and the lack of competition, accountability and transparency.
There is an inherent conflict of interest if market participants devise internal credit risk assessments for their own regulatory capital requirements.
As well as an increase in competition, these measures include greater and judicious use of internal credit ratings, particularly by large financial institutions that are capable of performing their own risk assessments.
We Swedish Social Democrats today supported the call for the Commission to carry out a more detailed investigation of the conditions for establishing a European Credit Rating Foundation or a public European credit rating agency.
At the same time, we can see the potential problems.
A better knowledge base is a prerequisite for further discussion of this matter.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
The recent financial crisis has highlighted that there are three key problems in the credit rating agencies industry: lack of competition, over-reliance on external ratings in the regulatory framework and no liability for ratings by CRAs.
The recent financial crisis has highlighted the three main problems involving credit rating agencies: lack of competition, due to the scarce importance of rating agencies in global capital markets, as well as the inability to compete, particularly in terms of regulatory standards; over-reliance on external ratings in the regulatory framework for formulating standards, laws and regulations (for example, their increasingly frequent use in determining capital requirements) as well as Central Bank reliance on external credit ratings; and, lastly, the absence of liability for credit rating agencies in relation to the ratings they provide, in which regard the report also proposes to foster the establishment of a European network of credit rating agencies.
The problem is not protecting the interests of banks but protecting the general interest.
Credit rating agencies (CRAs) fulfil several useful purposes: they aggregate information on the credit quality of issuers, enabling issuers to access global and domestic markets, reducing information costs and widening the potential pool of investors, thus providing markets with liquidity.
However, the recent financial crisis has highlighted that there are three key problems in the industry: lack of competition, over-reliance on external ratings in the regulatory framework and no liability for ratings by CRAs.
These should undergo the necessary impact assessments and scrutiny, and should not be a shot from the hip, which could be counterproductive, increasing the barriers to entry into the markets and the risk of more conservative ratings, with subsequent effects on the real economy and lending.
in writing. - This own-initiative report raises the main current issues concerning the credit rating industry, amongst which, the most important are the lack of competition, oligopolistic structures and the lack of accountability and transparency, notably regarding the rating of the sovereign debt.
I voted in favour.
Hitherto, however, these agencies have earned themselves a dishonourable reputation.
This proposal can only be the first step in the right direction, which is why I have voted in favour of it.
I believe that the activities of credit rating agencies are generally extremely dubious.
I welcome this resolution on the future perspectives of credit rating agencies.
Consequently, the Commission should consider the possibility of establishing a completely new, independent European Credit Rating Foundation (ECRF), which would have the right to participate in decisions on sovereign debt ratings and credit rating agencies.
The management, staff and governance structure of the new ECRF would be fully independent and autonomous.
I welcome the proposal that CRAs' exposure to civil liability in the event of gross negligence or misconduct be defined on a consistent basis across the EU.
Furthermore, there is a need to increase supervisors' responsibilities, capacity, powers and resources for monitoring, assessing and overseeing the adequacy of the internal models, for imposing prudential measures and conducting investigations and inspections.
The work done by credit rating agencies (CRAs) is important since it ensures reliability and stability.
Notwithstanding the legal vacuum in this area and the possibility for these agencies to affect Member States' economies - even to the extent of plunging them into crises - this report does appear to be the first step towards new rules for rating agencies given the Commission's recent adoption of the new regulation on CRAs.
I voted in favour of Parliament's resolution on credit rating agencies (CRAs) because I agree that it is essential to reduce the unfair competition caused by the CRAs' common practice of assessing market participants while simultaneously obtaining orders from them.
I also agree with the call for the Commission to carry out a detailed impact study on costs, benefits and the potential governance structure of a totally independent European Credit Rating Foundation, which would be competent in the three areas of ratings.
Through this measure, we are at last able to express our desire to improve the work of rating agencies by enhancing their transparency, integrity, responsibility, independence and reliability.
While recognising the role of agencies in supplying information and stimulating market liquidity, it is now quite clear that financial operators have placed too much faith in their judgments and that their actions contributed to causing the financial crisis.
I am therefore in favour of establishing an independent European Credit Rating Foundation with responsibility for ratings in the public sector, for companies and for structured finance instruments.
The recent financial crisis has demonstrated the need to regulate credit rating agencies (CRAs).
On the other hand, however, it has been noted that there is too much confidence in the ratings assigned by CRAs, which surely contributed significantly to exacerbating the financial crisis.
Hence, I call on the Commission to carefully assess the opportunity for a completely independent credit rating foundation, which should be provided with seed funds to cover a maximum of five years.
The recent financial crisis has highlighted that there are three key problems in the industry: lack of competition, over-reliance on external ratings in the regulatory framework and no liability for ratings by CRAs.
In a competitive and well-functioning market, the reputation of an agency is enough to ensure the quality of its ratings.
I voted in favour of the Klinz report because I consider that the measures that it proposes to address the problems that exist in the credit rating service sector are a move in the right direction.
These services have a massive impact and the results of their activities may be catastrophic for the states and organisations which they rate, as we saw very clearly in the recent financial crisis.
I support the Klinz report in order to advance the process of reforming the rating agencies.
The final text includes my amendments.
in writing. - I support this report which recognises that credit rating agencies lack accountability, competition and transparency, notably with regard to sovereign debt.
Credit rating agencies (CRAs) are information middlemen that promote liquidity and transparency in the market by reducing asymmetries in information in the capital markets and facilitating access to the global market, and by reducing the cost of information and making use of the potential of creditors and investors.
However, these agencies present certain problems, in particular, concerning their lack of competition, their oligopolistic structures, the excessive trust placed in them, and their lack of transparency and accountability.
For this reason, the rapporteur recommends examining the idea of setting up a genuinely independent European credit rating agency, stating that the new European Credit Rating Foundation must be self-sustaining.
This is why I have voted in favour of the report.
I voted in favour of the report by Mr Klinz because I think establishing a completely independent, non-public European Credit Rating Foundation is a sensible and attractive idea.
I am voting for this report as I believe it is essential that we confront failures to comply with international social legislation both inside and outside Europe; these constitute forms of social and environmental dumping that are damaging to European companies and workers.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the external dimension of social policy, promoting labour and social standards and European corporate social responsibility.
It should be stressed that the external dimension of social policy includes EU activities and initiatives aimed at promoting labour and social standards in non-member countries.
This includes opportunities for men and women to obtain decent and productive work in conditions of freedom, equality, security and dignity.
International labour standards should, above all, ensure the development of people as human beings.
Work is a part of our everyday lives and is critical for the dignity, welfare and development of a person.
One of them is to build a coherent, integrated and professional EU approach to the external dimension of social policy.
The external dimension of social policy includes European Union activities and initiatives aimed at promoting labour and social standards in third countries.
This is why the attitude of all European Union Member States has to reflect clearly the principles of the European social model when social issues and cooperation among the Member States are at stake.
I would like to emphasise that the European social model offers equal opportunities in education, training and the labour market, as well as equal access to social services as major pillars of economic success.
I voted for this motion for a resolution which supports the dignity, welfare and development of every person as values which ought to be the main objectives of economic development.
in writing. - The report on the external dimension of social policy relates to a priority for the EU social policies.
I voted in favour of this report because it also calls for a change in governance, globally and in the EU, in order to better implement workers' rights and working conditions.
I supported the report by our fellow Member, Mr Falbr, because I believe that the Union should promote the highest labour and social standards in third countries to maintain its credibility in international trade and to build strong ties with the main trade partners.
The rapporteur recommends balanced relationships with NGOs and international organisations to facilitate the ratification of conventions.
To be in a position to negotiate with the Union, third countries must comply with internationally established labour standards.
Child labour and the organised violation of human rights must not be ignored when trade agreements are under discussion and the EU must take a strong position in promoting social policy and labour and social standards in trade negotiations.
The external dimension of social policy includes EU activities and initiatives aimed at promoting labour and social standards in non-member countries.
Failure to comply with basic international social standards constitutes a form of social and environmental dumping detrimental to European enterprises and workers.
I agree that it is necessary to enhance the role of the relevant international institutions such as the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the World Trade Organisation (WTO), the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the United Nations, and to seek their cooperation in the development, implementation and promotion of basic international social standards.
However, as regards trade relations between the European Union and third countries, there remain profound differences in terms of social protection systems, as well as of working conditions.
I therefore voted for this report, which underlines the crucial role that the EU can play regarding human rights, especially through the right to a decent job.
Having a homogenous formula for a social clause that could be inserted in all bilateral trade agreements is what is proposed in the report that we have just adopted on the external dimension of social policy and the promotion of social standards.
Observing the fact that free trade agreements still generally contain few references to social standards, the report mentions a number of avenues, including the social clause and compliance with International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions - whether or not they have been ratified already by all Member States. - and enhancing cooperation between third countries and Member States.
Over and above political signalling, this would be a real step forward in achieving our social policy objectives.
This phenomenon is nevertheless associated with the risk that these countries - and, in particular, their companies - will export labour standards below those of the European Union.
I therefore believe that the European Union should be watchful of countries that wish to conclude trade agreements with us.
I voted in favour of this report because there are still cases where the conventions and agreements of the International Labour Organisation are not properly implemented or only partially implemented and the principles of corporate social responsibility are violated.
As well as social standards, corporate social responsibility should contribute to sustainable growth, but companies should not avoid dialogue with employees and they must respect and promote decent employment relations, encourage employee participation through consultation and information and through collective bargaining, develop vocational skills and lifelong learning, comply with work safety standards, promote equality of men and women, create a proper environment for social partners to anticipate and manage changes that have taken place in the labour market, including restructuring, improve the quality of work, and integrate and protect vulnerable groups of workers, such as young people, the elderly, disabled people and migrants.
The European Union should therefore continue to use sanctions and incentives in bilateral and regional agreements in order to ensure the implementation of the social provisions of EU agreements.
Furthermore, it is very important for the governments themselves not to retreat from their responsibility to maintain the European social model because then, there is the threat of the privatisation of employment law and social security systems and services.
The external dimension of social policy includes EU activities and initiatives aimed at promoting labour and social standards in third countries.
Core labour standards are embedded in the eight ILO conventions which focus on the freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation and the abolition of child labour.
In order for the EU to negotiate with third countries, they must comply with all the abovementioned requirements.
This is a mandatory condition for negotiations with third countries.
Trade policy cannot ignore failure to respect workers' rights and, therefore, the development of society may continue only after these shortcomings have been removed.
It is therefore absolutely essential to define the social responsibility of companies clearly and unambiguously so that we can limit the number of differing interpretations and establish minimum obligations in this area, as well as a method for monitoring their fulfilment.
Companies generally refuse to establish long-term links in a region, and therefore to participate in shared social responsibility in the region.
It demands changes in the global administration system and in the EU, with the aim of better protection of workers' rights and employment conditions.
in writing. - I voted against the application of an external dimension of social policy, promoting labour and social standards and European corporate social responsibility.
This is because, in my opinion, the EU should refrain from imposing social prerogatives on third countries, however correct or beneficial they may deem them to be.
Whilst I accept the importance of fostering humane methods of treating a workforce, social policy in the EU has already wreaked havoc on a number of UK institutions and should not be extended.
A degree of flexibility and freedom is needed when dealing with social policy, as one-size-fits-all policy making can be counterproductive when applied at domestic level.
I welcome EU activities and initiatives aimed at promoting labour and social standards in third countries, which constitute a guarantee that the growth of the global economy will benefit everyone in the current globalised context.
I therefore support the conditions based on social values and human dignity imposed on third countries in order to negotiate with the EU.
The International Labour Organisation (ILO) plays a key role in the international system, as it contributes to building a consensus on labour standards.
A significant part of this important acquis is recognised by all EU Member States.
In my opinion, it is imperative for the EU that these standards with those of third countries be reconciled, particularly with key trade partners, so as to preserve a basic level of equality in international trade.
This report shares this belief, setting out some strategies for these countries to respect the same principles as the EU in labour terms.
The establishment of fair standards for working conditions is a premise essential to durable and sustainable development, and will also contribute to achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
If these two factors are in balance, then this means, on the one hand, that people can do their work with adequate remuneration that is in line with human dignity and professional quality, while, on the other hand, it allows business owners to develop their businesses by following market principles, though tempered by the human environment in which this must take place.
This perspective - which some people also call the social market economy - is actually a new paradigm that goes beyond welfare economics and returns instead to the centrality of the human being.
Such a paradigm shift necessarily involves consistent support for social policy, including fostering the relevant standards and related corporate responsibility.
Respect for International Labour Organisation standards, the principles laid down in the European Social Charter and social dialogue are just some of the areas that can be discussed on these occasions.
I believe that the report we have adopted offers sound backing for these objectives.
in writing. - The external dimension of social policy includes activities and initiatives of the EU aimed at promoting labour and social standards in non-member countries.
The failure today inside and outside the EU to comply with basic international social standards constitutes a form of social and environmental dumping detrimental to both European enterprises and EU and non-EU workers and citizens.
Given the globalisation of industry and services, international labour standards are the basis for guaranteeing that the growth of the global economy can benefit all.
The Union can no longer tolerate dumping in terms of welfare, health and the environment without reacting to it, as it is responsible for far too many transfers of production outside Europe.
The ridiculously low labour costs and despicable working conditions should no longer be seen by the Commission as 'natural competitive advantages'.
I voted in favour of the Falbr report because, with the role of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) having recently been downgraded, I think we need to remember the importance of respecting the social rights of workers in the world.
The European Union should play a leading role on the world stage to force other countries to respect international standards in labour law and thus limit the frantic quest for social dumping.
It is important for all European players to be involved in the implementation of this policy, be it governments involved in concluding international agreements, or European companies expanding their business into third countries.
The external dimension of the social policy is aimed at promoting core social standards in third countries in order to meet the Millennium Development Goals set by the United Nations and to ensure that workers are protected through compliance with international labour standards.
The overseas dimension of European policy is not limited to establishing agreements or overseas aid.
In particular, it involves bringing European values to third countries, not just in terms of democratisation and greater respect for fundamental rights, but also of promoting active policies to protect the environment, and the rights of women and children, and of labour standards that respect personal dignity and enable personal development.
The same can be said for promoting social responsibility standards for companies in third countries.
The European Union has been a bastion of the defence of workers' social rights, respect for which is a sine qua non for negotiations with third countries.
Despite the eight International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions, according to the ILO itself, more than 50% of workers do not enjoy social rights, in particular, immigrants, women and children.
It is in the EU's interests to promote personal dignity and respect for social rights in all the Member States, creating, for that purpose, a mechanism for finding out who is not offering these rights to their workers and penalising them.
Whilst arguing for the importance of values in a globalising world increasingly dominated by economics, it advocates personal dignity, does not accept the exploitation of individuals, promotes welfare and personal integrated development, and calls on the EU to comply with ILO standards.
This report contains some positive aspects: the denouncing of multinationals' constant disrespect for workers' rights and decent work, and the need to horizontally integrate social policy in all European Union external policy, including so-called corporate social responsibility (CSR).
For all these reasons, we voted against the report.
The external dimension of social policy is one of the key priorities of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament.
It is essential to strengthen employment standards, such as freedom of association, collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, discrimination in employment and occupations and the abolition of child labour.
The objective and the endeavour of international employment standards should therefore be to direct economic development particularly towards improving human life and dignity, and not just to establish the conditions and rights of workers.
Globalisation is, in fact, only serving to pit the workers of all countries against each other in unfair competition, whether through relocations, the immigration of job-seekers or the infamous General Agreement on Trade in Services Mode 4.
As we speak, the 100th International Labour Conference is taking place and we all know that the current rules are ineffective.
In a context of global crisis, it is crucial that the EU sends a strong message calling for a new era of social justice.
I insist on the need to move towards more social justice and to ensure workers' rights are respected worldwide, particularly in our dealings with developing countries.
In this difficult context, the European Union and its businesses have a substantial social responsibility in the relations they maintain with third countries.
For this reason, I was keen to stress, through my vote, the need for the European Union to ensure that social standards and workers' rights are adhered to when signing agreements with these countries.
The European Union, through the values it enshrines, must ensure that the standards governing its labour law are promoted and disseminated all over the world.
The use of these instruments is proof that the EU expects certain behaviour in its relations with its trading partners.
Nevertheless, the stumbling block is the implementation of these instruments and their enforcement in partner countries.
The fact that workers do not know their rights is another important factor.
in writing. - According to the report, the EU has a unique combination of economic dynamism with a social model.
It creates equal opportunities in education, training and the labour market and equal access to social services.
The report stresses the fact that there is a need for implementation of decent work programmes that reflect national needs and priorities regarding employment and social policy, and are based on agreement between employers, workers and governments.
People living in rural areas and, in particular, women and young people, are a good example.
In my opinion, it is also important to support young farmers who take over farms from their parents.
The next key issue is corporate social responsibility.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe that businesses have a social responsibility - towards their employees and customers, the environment and society at large.
In this case, Europe's role should be that of a moderator, not a regulator.
I believe that Mr Falbr has drafted a good report, and so I would like to explain why I decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
The promotion of high labour standards, social standards and corporate social responsibility represents an extremely large challenge for the external dimension of social policy.
One of the problems which the rapporteur highlights is the inefficiency of the administrative bodies responsible for employment policy.
Ongoing and constructive cooperation with third countries, involving both the European Union as a whole and the individual Member States, may serve as a source of good practices in terms of establishing the appropriate administrative capabilities.
An excellent example of partnership, support and exchange of experience which has yielded positive results is the cooperation between Polish regions and the countries in the Eastern Partnership over the last few years.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the external dimension of the European Union's social policy.
The latter should be promoted by the EU in its relations with other countries and should involve consistent action between the two dimensions, internal and external.
The resolution highlights that this promotion should not be binding, but rather should be the result of interaction between the stakeholders on a voluntary basis.
Finally it is also aimed at incorporating within international negotiations the rights of workers, which the International Labour Organisation is tasked with defending, as well as promoting a global economic governance that takes these parameters into account.
in writing. - I welcome this report.
Core labour standards are embedded in the eight ILO conventions that focus on the freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, and the abolition of child labour.
Trade policy cannot ignore any failure in respecting workers' rights, and the development of society may therefore only continue after these drawbacks are removed.
By setting labour standards, the EU supports opportunities for men and women to obtain decent and productive work in conditions of freedom, equality, security and dignity.
I also consider the focus on employment and decent working conditions to be a key element of sustainable development, and not just in EU countries.
The social models of some European countries could also serve as a good example to developing countries.
Despite the above, I abstained from the vote because it is impossible to implement social demands in bilateral trade agreements in the absence of a clear definition of respect for human rights.
These are the words of the beloved Pope John Paul II who, in his encyclical entitled Centesimus Annus, reprised the subjects tackled by his predecessor Leo XIII in the encyclical Rerum Novarum.
Social responsibility must work to this end and the European Union - working through Parliament - must restore and reinforce these principles in its every action, above all in dealing with non-Member States whose citizens are denied fundamental rights.
Core labour standards are embedded in the eight International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions that focus on the freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, and the abolition of child labour.
In order for third countries to negotiate with the EU, they must respect all the ideas outlined above.
Trade policy cannot ignore any failure in respecting workers' rights and the development of society may continue only after such obstacles have been removed.
It is essential to use international labour standards to ensure economic development remains very focused on improving human life and personal dignity, and not on determining conditions and rights of workers.
in writing. - The external dimension of social policy is a key priority for our group and for me.
The S&amp;D Group demands a change in global governance and in the EU in order to better implement workers' rights and working conditions.
The failure today inside and outside the EU to comply with basic international social standards constitutes a form of social and environmental dumping detrimental to European enterprises and workers.
I support the principles set down in the report.
For that reason, I have abstained from voting.
In this report, the European Union has set itself very ambitious targets based on well-conceived principles.
The European Union's external social policy, targeted at countries not wishing to join the EU, should, first and foremost, be coherent, pragmatic and uniform.
We should demand that countries not wishing to join the EU respect the right of association and that they take steps to prevent discrimination on the grounds of gender or age.
The elimination of child labour and citizens' right to improve their professional qualifications are very significant issues.
As far as development cooperation is concerned, the European Union has enough funds to create sufficient structures in the field of vocational education and training.
The European Parliament has gained new competences since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, and it should cooperate actively with European and international trade unions in order to improve the social situation.
I voted in favour of the report on the external dimension of social policy, promoting labour and social standards and European corporate social responsibility.
Our objective is to promote labour and social standards and European corporate social responsibility outside the EU.
The standards that apply in my country, in Greece, where unemployment rates among 25-year-olds are 36.1% and in Spain, where this rate is 43%, are very different from the standards that apply in the strong European economies.
This report reminds us that, if the EU wishes to become a leader in the world in terms of social policy, it needs to safeguard cohesion between the social policies applied in its Member States.
I voted for this report on the external dimension of social policy, promoting labour and social standards and European corporate social responsibility.
It is essential to defend our labour standards, which are embedded in the eight International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions that focus on the freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, and the abolition of child labour.
In order for third countries to negotiate with the EU, they must respect all the ideas outlined above.
Trade policy cannot ignore any failure in respecting workers' rights, and the development of society may continue only after such obstacles have been removed.
These should lead to the creation of a bedrock of international rules shared by all Member States.
Businesses must also contribute to sustainable development in order to foster good conditions for workers, but the difference between developed and developing countries still lies in their systems of social protection.
I am voting in favour of the proposal under discussion in light of the above and also in order that there may be greater promotion of labour and social standards in EU Member States and non-Member States alike, as well as respect for fundamental international labour standards.
Core labour standards embedded in the eight ILO conventions focus on the freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, as well as the abolition of child labour.
A significant improvement needs to be made to the legal and social position of women to prevent discrimination and utilise the potential contribution from women to economic and social development.
I call on the Commission and Member States to enforce the right not to be discriminated against, which means the right to work and equal treatment, irrespective of gender, ethnic origin, age and disability, as a key principle in the fight against poverty.
I call on the Commission and Member States to cooperate with partner countries with the aim of placing greater emphasis on combating child labour with a view to creating instead decent jobs for adults and allowing children to receive a suitable education.
The freedom of association for trade unions and the right to bargain collectively must be implemented without exception in order to improve and protect decent working conditions.
in writing. - Promoting labour standards through the EU's negotiations with third party countries benefits both the Member States and the third party countries.
It is harder for EU companies to compete with third party countries who do not observe the same safety standards and who can pay employees much lower salaries.
Furthermore, it should not be forgotten how powerful the EU can be when we are talking about relations with a country that either wants to accede to the Union or is a beneficiary of EU aid programmes.
Finally, in a context in which a significant part of the economy depends on multinational companies, there is also a need for organisations to be socially responsible.
The external dimension of social policy includes activities and initiatives of the EU aimed at promoting labour and social standards in non-Member States.
Core labour standards are embedded in the eight ILO conventions that focus on the freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation and the abolition of child labour.
Trade policy cannot ignore any failure to respect workers' rights and therefore, the development of society may continue only after these drawbacks are removed.
A business may say that it is socially responsible when it commits to a robust structure that is capable of taking account not only of economic outcomes, but also of the social and environmental results of its actions.
These days, we ask not merely how businesses achieve their economic results, but also who they hire and how staff are treated.
A responsible business is an active and aware participant in the social reality in which it operates, and makes its relationships with all the parties involved in its activities the main source of its prosperity.
Through the report adopted today, the European Union has committed itself to taking a world-leading role on social policy by promoting its objectives on a global scale, thereby underlining the importance of the role attributed to Parliament by the Treaty of Lisbon.
In addition, I am in favour of the creation of socially responsible enterprises, whose core principles are the social protection of workers, the protection of consumers and observance of transparency laws.
I voted in favour of this resolution because it emphasises the pivotal role that the European Union wants and should play with respect to third countries, especially with the EU's trading partners.
Failure to comply with basic international social standards constitutes a form of social and environmental dumping to the detriment of European companies and workers.
However the EU cannot do everything on its own: it must cooperate more with the relevant international organisations (ILO, WTO, OECD), in particular, for combating the phenomenon of free zones, as these go against any social legislation.
Moreover, while corporate social responsibility is currently well-established in Europe, European companies, their subsidiaries and their subcontractors play a vital role in promoting and disseminating social and labour standards around the world because of their weight in international trade.
The Commission must encourage them in this regard, particularly by seeking and promoting best practices.
Corporate social responsibility must be the main aspect of the European social model, in a bid to boost innovation and competitiveness and contribute to employability and job creation, at a time when unemployment rates are increasing drastically and young Europeans, our sustainable force, are looking for alternatives outside the borders of Europe.
I voted in favour of the Falbr report, which seeks to promote labour and social standards when the EU negotiates with third countries.
The EU currently has the power to enter into trade agreements with third countries on behalf of all of the Member States of the EU.
in writing. - I supported this report, which precedes the Commission communication on CSR.
I also welcome the work done by my colleague, Richard Howitt, at committee stage to produce a report that promotes the positive work that corporate social responsibility can do at European level.
The European Union is at the vanguard in promoting social policies at global level and calls on developing countries to respect WTO contracts.
The Falbr report also mentions the importance of corporate social responsibility and compliance with it by companies in the EU, given that their assumption of corporate social responsibility makes a decisive contribution in promoting social prosperity and environmental protection and in combating poverty in countries in which they are active.
in writing. - The EU 2020 strategy demonstrates that social policy is a fundamental priority for Europe.
The report calls for the elimination of forced labour as well as the abolition of child labour, and also highlights the need for more focus on the protection of workers' rights.
Non-member countries must adhere to basic principles such as these if the EU is to work and trade with them.
Member States must also cooperate with partner countries to ensure the protection of vulnerable groups and to fight gender discrimination as well as discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, religion, age and disability.
The rapporteur complains that people are still not the focus for social policy and that the human factor is still required to take a back seat to the competitiveness factor.
As the report explains, the EU enjoys a good worldwide reputation in terms of the ideal link between economic dynamism and a social model, which also gives rise to a certain responsibility.
I am voting for this report because vocational education and training should be accessible, available and possible at all times of life, regardless of people's status on the labour market or of their income.
I voted in favour of this resolution on European cooperation in vocational education and training to support the Europe 2020 strategy.
The possibility and ability to learn and work in an international context is a prerequisite for a successful working life in a globalised economy.
Member States must adopt targeted political strategies to combat poverty, taking into account specific national circumstances and needs.
I agree with the provision laid down in the resolution that the aims set out in the Europe 2020 strategy, namely, to reduce the school drop-out rate to below 10% and ensure that 40% of young people are educated to university level, must be tackled by means of specific, creative and effective measures.
That is why education and training courses must meet both current and future market needs.
Subjugation to the choices and plans of the capitalist undertaking must be strengthened, while 'employability' and entry to the labour market via apprenticeship, mobility in sectors of the economy and so-called accessibility between levels of education and training must be facilitated.
Pronouncements about 'equal opportunities' and 'free choice' and satisfaction of the needs of young people conceal adaptation to the needs of the capitalist economy, which means a policy of class barriers in education adapted to the mediaeval labour practices of the 'memoranda' and of EU 2020.
There is no large business area which has been left unscathed by the damaging consequences of this crisis, with the effects reaching the level of the citizen in the form of job insecurity, unemployment and poor conditions or opportunities for finding new employment.
Vocational education and training are proving, in this context, to be a new opportunity, a new way of enabling European citizens' lives to return to normal.
I believe that with the right education and ongoing training, many young people in Europe will manage to find themselves a well-paid job, appropriate to their vocational training or retraining.
I conclude, along with Nadja Hirsch, that if we want to fulfil these wishes, vocational education and training need to be clearly results-orientated.
The data in the report by Mrs Hirsch is alarming: the youth unemployment rate is now 21%, twice the average rate of unemployment at EU level.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Hirsch aimed at making comparisons between and within education systems.
I am convinced that education should be more tailored to the needs of the labour market and should encourage creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship.
The possibility and ability to learn and work in an international context is a prerequisite for a successful working life in a globalised economy.
The Europe 2020 strategy lists the key factors for smart growth (fostering knowledge, innovation and education, and promoting the digital society), sustainable growth (more resource-efficient production going hand in hand with enhanced competitiveness), and inclusive growth (increasing the employment rate, training, and eradicating poverty).
What is needed, as far as vocational education and training are concerned, is to take practical steps at EU level and in the Member States.
I agree that in order to fully realise the EU 2020 flagship initiative 'An Agenda for new skills and jobs', the EU institutions should embark on a more pragmatic, comprehensive and wide-ranging initiative supported by all Member States which should focus on connecting the areas of vocational education, professional qualifications, lifelong learning, apprenticeships and the labour market.
The EU is experiencing a severe economic, financial and social crisis.
The consequences of this crisis have been primarily felt in the field of employment.
Young people under the age of 25 continue to be the worst hit, with unemployment at 21.3% in this age range.
On the one hand, it is estimated that, by 2020, almost 15.6 million new jobs will be created for highly qualified people, but, on the other hand, 12 million jobs for people with few or no qualifications will be lost.
The Europe 2020 strategy aims to respond to these new prospects for the professional world.
This report stresses the need to develop European-level cooperation in the field of vocational education and training to increase transparency and for ease of comparison between the various education systems.
I therefore voted for this report.
While youth unemployment is currently 21% in the European Union, and close to 25% in my country, this has become a major challenge for Europe at a time when young Europeans deprived of employment are threatened with social exclusion and poverty.
The report calls on Member States to exchange good practices regarding their vocational education system and training systems combined with work experience, which should be extended in many Member States, particularly in France.
These recommendations are going in the right direction to improve education and training in connection with the labour market and to reduce unemployment and social exclusion, but they will not be enough if Member States and the Commission do not make sufficient efforts at a time when youth unemployment is becoming the major political challenge in many Member States, particularly in my country, France.
In spite of the severe effects that the economic crisis is having on the European labour market, industrial and technological change increases the need for workers with high and intermediate skill levels.
As far as vocational education and training are concerned, the key factors listed in the Europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth need to be translated into practical steps at European Union level.
Young people should be able to take advantage of the opportunities to acquire knowledge and experience provided by membership of their country in the European Union.
In view of the above, unemployment among young people remains a worrying problem.
The use of European funds to launch concrete programmes in the field of vocational education and development is therefore particularly important.
I thus agree with the need to develop instruments supporting 'lifelong learning' or, in other words, the regular improvement of qualifications.
Creative and effective educational programmes should make it possible to accomplish one of the overriding objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, namely, to ensure that at least 40% of people complete higher education.
I do not intend to support Mrs Hirsch's own-initiative report, not so much because of its statements of principle, which are commendable in terms of emphasising the importance of bringing the labour market and the world of formal training closer together, but because, once again, we are lacking a practical, proactive approach to the issue that transcends sterile considerations and offers concrete solutions to resolve a social emergency that cannot be resolved through rhetoric.
I voted in favour of this report because I agree that demographic changes and increasing longevity mean that working lives will be more varied, and retraining and participation in lifelong learning have already become a necessity.
Consequently, the report draws attention to the need to modernise both initial and continuing vocational education and training, proposes concluding basic education with a career aptitude assessment and stresses the importance of initial training for teachers.
It also emphasises the importance, at local and regional level, of fostering effective cooperation between schools, training agencies, research centres and firms, in order to overcome the inward-looking nature of education systems and the mismatch between knowledge and skills and the needs of the labour market.
The Europe 2020 strategy states that the key factors for smart growth are not only fostering knowledge, innovation, and education, and promoting the digital society, but also sustainable and inclusive growth.
The key to achieving these, in this case, is vocational education and training, for which all Member States must adopt the same standards.
In spite of the severe impact which the economic crisis is having on the European labour market, it can be assumed that employment growth in Europe will recover, at least gradually, over the next 10 years.
Reforms have already been implemented in vocational education systems in some Member States.
As regards the comparability of vocational education and training systems in Member States, the priorities must be to break down barriers, increase transparency and facilitate comparison within and between the different systems.
I voted in favour of this report because, as it clearly points out, young people are the real resource of the future.
Hence, we have a duty to ensure that they all have access to vocational education and training.
The economic crisis that has struck Europe and elsewhere over the last few years has affected young people the most.
We need to work effectively and quickly in order to give some dignity back to these young people, who want to work and, above all, become part of a world in which they are unlikely to be accepted with open arms.
These objectives can also be found in the Europe 2020 strategy where it establishes the obligation to focus on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
Generally speaking, Mrs Hirsch's report is a good starting point for what must become one of the priority policies of Parliament and the entire European Union.
in writing. - I voted against the measure for Cooperation in vocational education and training to support the Europe 2020 strategy as I am fearful of any organisation that divides opinion having access and influence over minds.
Vocational education and training measures are absolutely essential for turning the European economy into a knowledge economy, in line with the Europe 2020 strategy objectives.
This is why I fully support the recommendations made by this report, which highlight the importance of investment in vocational education and training for the European economy's future competitiveness.
We need effective measures, complementing each other at national and European level, in order to achieve our objectives.
This report sends out a clear message: vocational education and training are key factors in tackling youth unemployment.
Clear strategies are needed to facilitate their inclusion in the labour market, which will encourage the correlation between education programmes and the demands of the labour market, so that it can take up the graduates.
This is why ongoing training plays a key role in constantly adapting vocational qualifications to the demands of the economy.
This can help people avoid being excluded from the labour market at some time during their career.
The report as a whole is driven by the philosophy of linking vocational education and training to the needs of the market and of businesses within the EU 2020 strategy, a strategy which further erodes the social fabric and workers' rights.
Although there are some positive references to general principles of 'humanising work' and promoting creativity and the need for accessible pathways from informal to formal learning, they are all stale dead letter which simply embellish a report which, in the final analysis, promotes neoliberalism in every procedure and at every stage of education and training, even at the highest level.
There is currently a tragic situation in a number of Member States as regards unemployment rates, especially amongst young people, for whom the current rate of unemployment is double the general EU rate of unemployment.
I welcome the measures adopted by the Commission aimed at facilitating accessibility, transparency and comparability for the purposes of the recognition process within and among education systems.
It is also important that the Member States start reforming their systems, and gear vocational education and training towards the true needs of the labour market.
In an effort to encourage European cooperation to support the Europe 2020 strategy, I would like to give my full backing to three points highlighted in this report.
Firstly, I strongly support the need to improve dialogue between the labour market and the educational system by increasing the number of traineeships available in businesses, in order to enable students to become actively involved in the business world and also to strengthen links between businesses and educational institutions with regard to vocational training.
I also think it is a good idea to integrate educational systems more at international level, firstly, to ensure that people's qualifications are fully recognised, and secondly, to promote cross-border mobility projects.
Finally, I fully agree with Parliament's suggestion to the Commission to make the necessary adjustments to the European Social Fund, Erasmus and the Lifelong Learning Programme in order to ensure that funding can be allocated to specific education and training projects, and to projects to tackle youth unemployment and gender discrimination, with more women being encouraged to take part in those projects.
This report aims to strengthen measures of cooperation between Member States by encouraging vocational education and training that is mutually recognised, of a better quality, more geared towards the needs of the labour market and more accessible to all.
This report also reminds us of the need for a strategy for the future of education and, above all, for guidance on all the professional needs that Europe will have in the near future.
In particular, the report warns of the need for stronger links within the European education and training system; for a system in which transparency, and mutual recognition of skills and aptitudes are, in fact, a reality.
In the face of this new situation in Europe, education and training is becoming the basis and tool for a successful future.
I agree with this report and I voted for it.
in writing. - I support this report, which calls on the Member States to ensure that people, at different times of life, have access to vocational education and training which is tailored to their needs that will facilitate and improve their participation in the labour market and in society more generally.
Vocational education and training should be accessible, available and affordable at all times of life, regardless of the people's status on the labour market or of their income.
In particular, in order to achieve a better social integration and greater social cohesion, this report urges Member States to create training opportunities specific to groups such as unemployed youth, ethnic minorities, vulnerable women and people with disabilities.
That is why the Member States must urgently adopt targeted strategies that take national specificities and needs into account.
At a time when youth unemployment in Europe is twice that of the working population, the proposals in the Hirsch report are a useful contribution to the policy pursued by the governments of the 27 Member States to combat unemployment.
Faced with the challenges that are an ageing population and the globalisation of our economy, we need to encourage the development of lifelong training programmes, particularly through the exchange of good practices between Member States, and improve young Europeans' early training by encouraging partnerships between universities, research centres and companies.
On the other hand, 12 million jobs are going to be cut for those with a lower level of qualification!
Faced with this inevitable catastrophe, the 2020 strategy had to aim at increasing the attractiveness of vocational education and training.
In the context of a post-crisis Europe that is recovering and growing, vocational education and training are of crucial importance.
We cannot forget that youth unemployment figures are overwhelming throughout Europe.
However, we should be aware that more training often does not correspond to more opportunities in the labour market.
Training must be geared towards the needs of the market and prepare young workers.
In my opinion, this paradigm shift will be vital in stopping the growth of unemployment amongst younger people and in guaranteeing them a future with more possibilities.
This report by Mrs Hirsch tackles the problem of European cooperation on vocational education and training to support the Europe 2020 strategy.
The goals of the Europe 2020 strategy - smart, sustainable and inclusive growth - must be given immediate consideration.
Although the current economic and financial situation does not seem favourable, we must be able to turn less favourable situations into opportunities.
In an increasingly globalised world, we cannot confine ourselves to a given territory, but must cultivate mobility, flexibility and international experience.
It is important that early training be of a high quality and that young people be able to choose to work in other countries.
It also believes that vocational training and lifelong learning must be geared more closely 'to the needs of the labour market and allow for entry into and mobility within it'.
The report's ideological framework suddenly becomes clear: the problem of employment is a problem for the individual and not an eminently social one, with the individual - and not society - having to solve it, whether by increasing their 'employability' or by becoming an 'entrepreneur'; a tax system that is profit-friendly and, therefore, imposed mainly on workers and consumers; and education and training totally at the beck and call of capital.
Moreover, it fails to mention the social reasons that lead to early school drop-out, to a lack of access to higher education opportunities and to youth unemployment, just so as to mask the responsibility of the neoliberal policies promoted by large companies and financial institutions.
It is necessary to create opportunities for specific groups in EU Member States, such as unemployed young people, ethnic minorities, vulnerable women, people with disabilities and others, in order to achieve better social integration and better social cohesion.
We should welcome this report, which emphasises the importance of the Europe 2020 strategy objectives: to combat youth unemployment through efficient and effective measures such as, for example, reducing the school drop-out rate to below 10% and ensuring that at least 40% of young people are educated to university level.
However, this should not be a finishing line but a starting point: future priorities should be to establish links between universities and businesses and to bring back compulsory traineeships / apprenticeships funded by public or private bodies.
Young people are the first victims of unemployment and are very prone to dropping out of school.
These efforts should also be applied to the area of lifelong training and in promoting mobility.
Achieving these objectives will only be possible if all stakeholders (European institutions, Member States, local and regional players) join forces.
Member States must adopt targeted political strategies to combat poverty, taking into account specific national circumstances and needs.
The aims set out in the Europe 2020 strategy, namely, to reduce the school drop-out rate to below 10% and ensure that 40% of young people are educated to university level, must be tackled by means of specific, creative and effective measures.
in writing. - I would like to welcome this report which draws attention to the necessity of broadening the system of vocational training in the EU since equal access to quality lifelong learning means better chances in the labour market and thereby contributes to fulfilment of the goals of the EU's 2020 strategy.
Special emphasis must be put on preventing youth unemployment, for which it is necessary to harmonise training supply with labour-market demand, provide middle-term national and regional forecasts on expected labour demand and enable national education systems to be more effective in guaranteeing the attainment of those skills that are actively sought on the labour market.
According to Cedefop, we can expect a 12 million decline in jobs available for low skilled or unskilled labour, which presages an increasing risk of poverty for the most vulnerable.
In many cases, even those who finish school are unable to enter the labour market and therefore are more likely to engage themselves in casual work or work in the black economy.
The motion for a resolution draws particular attention to the education of young people and highlights the need for practical training.
As shadow rapporteur for the Hirsch report on European cooperation in vocational education and training, I would like to explain why I voted in favour of adopting this report.
When endeavouring to secure future support for vocational education and training, we should therefore, at the same time, attach the greatest importance to monitoring the effectiveness of training and to an approach focused on achieving the goal of increasing employment levels and social integration.
It is my belief that vocational education and training must be closely linked with the labour market, a characteristic feature of which is constant adaptation to economic, demographic and social changes.
Finally, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a successful and comprehensive report, and to thank her for her excellent cooperation.
That is why the Copenhagen process which, since 2002, has been laying the foundations of greater cooperation in terms of the Member States' policies with regard to vocational education and training, is particularly important.
I voted for this resolution because it sets ambitious objectives to improve the European programmes for education and training.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of Mrs Hirsch's report.
In order to face the economic challenges of the 21st century and, in particular, the growing competition of our trading partners, European systems for vocational education and training have an obligation to be more effective, more attractive and more reactive, in order to better prepare our fellow citizens to the jobs that need filling.
I think there is also a need to facilitate access to high quality work experience in Europe and, therefore, to preserve and strengthen the existing programmes aimed at increasing apprentices' mobility.
Finally, we should also simplify and improve the system for recognising vocational qualifications in Europe, in order to revive the Internal Market and provide our fellow citizens with the keys to enhanced professional mobility.
in writing. - I voted for this report.
Education is undoubtedly a complex, long-term process, the quality and, in particular, the results of which consequently influence the future careers of young people.
In this context, I would like to say that demand for professional competence in a whole range of areas and activities will grow with the development of modern new technologies and the establishment of higher quality and safety standards, thus creating a requirement for the more goal-oriented training of young people.
The education process should result in professionally trained young people who have a clear idea of growth prospects and, first and foremost, who exploit their acquired knowledge, expertise and ability in the activity for which they have been trained and have acquired a qualification, the area of activity they have mastered and in respect of which they have shown an inclination.
The main challenge is precisely to ensure that the labour market meets the needs of new workers on an increasingly regular basis.
Young people are a crucial element of the success of the Europe 2020 strategy.
In order to achieve this, there is a need for significant investment in the area of vocational education and training.
In a globalised world, quality education and vocational training are the vital keys that every young person should have when entering the labour market.
The world economy requires skills, flexibility, availability and knowledge of languages.
Faced with these requirements, it is our duty as politicians to put in place strategies that ensure the following:  Learning centred on a specific outcome;  Teaching entrepreneurship;  Providing bridges for unqualified people who wish to find a job, in particular, through tailored education;  Simplifying the procedures for recognising foreign qualifications in order to encourage workers to be mobile;  Establishing a European framework that offers quality work placements throughout the EU;  Lifelong learning so as to enable workers to adapt to market conditions and company needs.  Promoting creativity as well as information and communication technologies.  Supporting female employment by helping to reconcile work and family life.
in writing. - Vocational education and training should be accessible, available and affordable at all times of life, regardless of people's status on the labour market or of their income.
It is necessary to create training opportunities for specific groups, such as unemployed youth, ethnic minorities, vulnerable women, people with disabilities, etc., in order to achieve better social integration and greater social cohesion.
In my opinion, this initiative is very important and timely.
I voted in favour.
The complete flexibility and mobility demanded, as well as the 'bucket' prices being imposed on the labour market in the form of new working models like 'Mac-jobs', make it impossible for many people to establish a family and to achieve a reasonable work-life balance.
Within the framework of the Europe 2020 strategy, it may make sense to support the mutual recognition of education and training.
However, the success of the strategy depends on taking steps to deal with these problematic developments.
The younger generation is faced with the problem that good education alone is no guarantee of finding a good job.
The mutual recognition of education and training is the first step in the right direction.
I voted in favour of this resolution because cooperation at European Union level in the field of vocational training is a very important factor for achieving the Europe 2020 goals and reducing the level of youth unemployment.
I agree with the proposal that, in forming a vocational education and training system, every Member State should devote particular attention to low-skilled workers, migrants, people with disabilities and other socially vulnerable groups.
Furthermore, we must promote closer cooperation among the Member States' various education systems in order to guarantee the integration of young people and encourage lifelong learning and formal/informal training.
To ensure that vocational training matches labour market needs, I feel that it is advisable to incorporate information about changes in the labour market into national education strategies and programmes.
The Commission should play major role here, by providing information about the skills and needs of individual regions and changes in the EU labour market.
I voted in favour of the report on European cooperation in vocational education and training because this issue occupies an important place in the Europe 2020 strategy with the aim of ensuring economic development.
This own-initiative report, in which the competent drafting committee incorporated numerous proposals by the Committee on Culture and Education, aims to galvanise the EU and the Member States into achieving the objectives of the EU 2020 strategy, especially in the employment and training sector.
Account is taken of specific challenges such as: the demand for ever-increasing qualifications by the labour market, which puts low-skilled jobs at risk, the spiralling increase in youth unemployment, which is over 30% in certain EU Member States, including Greece, and the failure on the part of the Member States to take adequate measures to achieve the targets set in the EU 2020 strategy (for example, to reduce the percentage of early school leavers to 10% and to increase the percentage of young people with a university education to 40%).
Alongside social protection for citizens with fewer skills or a low level of education, we urgently need investment in new skills, especially those required for jobs in strategic sectors as far as growth is concerned.
European cooperation on vocational education and training to support the Europe 2020 strategy is essential.
The possibility of learning and working in an international context is an important prerequisite for a successful working life in a globalised economy.
This process should start immediately with practical measures being adopted at EU level and in the Member States in the field of vocational education and training.
In an increasingly globalised world, it is important for young people to be able to expand their education and training through mobility.
That is why the EU has implemented the Europe 2020 strategy, which aims to focus greater attention on vocational education and training.
The education sector should pay closer attention to labour market needs, call for a method of assessing the results of learning and improve the quality of its own standards so as to become more professional.
In order to achieve these objectives and to ensure that vocational education and training continue to be a key political priority for everyone in the long term, I voted in favour of the proposal in question.
I call on Member States to support innovative activities, as well as doctoral and post-doctoral programmes, which will underpin competitiveness and sustainable economic growth.
The forecast by the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) of growth of 80 million new jobs by 2020 is welcome.
These new jobs will require workers with high and intermediate level skills.
I believe these changes to vocational education will benefit the economies of all Member States.
It is therefore important to seek to bring job supply in line with demand using measures such as, for example, independent advice on vocational training, making funds available for supporting vocational training, and competition between establishments providing said training.
Today, we voted during the plenary session of the European Parliament in Strasbourg on the report on European cooperation in vocational education and training to support the Europe 2020 strategy.
In spite of the severe effects that the economic crisis is having on the European labour market, it can be assumed that employment growth in Europe will recover, at least gradually, over the next 10 years.
As far as vocational education and training are concerned, the key factors listed in the Europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth need to be translated into practical steps at European Union level and in the Member States.
If the goals indicated in the Europe 2020 strategy are to be attained, vocational education and training have to be treated as a key priority of the European Union institutions and those involved at local and regional level.
Mrs Hirsch's report embraces the Commission measures aimed at breaking down barriers, increasing transparency, and making for ease of comparison for the purposes of recognition within and between education systems, emphasising that it is important to ensure that education is geared more closely to the needs of the labour market, helping to boost creativity and innovation.
The EU and the Member States should increase their efforts to encourage youth employment and reduce their unemployment rate, in particular, through improving the match between the training systems and the needs of the labour market.
The possibility and ability to learn and work in an international context is a prerequisite for a successful working life in a globalised economy.
In spite of the severe effects that the economic crisis is having on the European labour market, it can be assumed that employment growth in Europe will recover, at least gradually, over the next ten years.
According to Cedefop's current Europe-wide skill supply and demand forecast, the number of new jobs up to 2020 is estimated at 80 million.
The possibility and ability to learn and work in an international context is a prerequisite for a successful working life in an ever more globalised economy.
What matters is that those who have completed a vocational education or training course should bring their newly acquired abilities and skills to the working environment.
The resolution adopted today is a first step towards ensuring that Europe's workers are put in a position to adapt to the requirements of the economy.
Education, vocational training and also the universal idea of 'lifelong learning' are the building blocks for the future of European integration, which is coming up against ever-new challenges in respect of support for the Europe 2020 strategy.
Vocational education and training make it possible to move around freely within the labour market, according to the changing economic situation and the demands of a particular economic sector.
Mobility eliminates the difficulties which arise as a result of the natural diversity of the individual labour markets, and provides young workers with access to the enormous European labour market, full of new challenges and opportunities to make use of the experience they have gained.
The fight against youth unemployment must be a priority for all European governments.
In particular, I believe that vocational education and lifelong learning should thus be more in tune with the needs of the labour market.
Furthermore, higher education should be combined with vocational training by giving priority, for instance, to a mix of training and work.
Consequently, I voted in favour of the Hirsch report.
Training and education are the major challenges the European Union is currently facing, enshrined in the Europe 2020 strategy.
Finally, I should like to mention the need to recognise vocational qualifications, thereby facilitating the increased mobility of professionals and students.
Combating youth unemployment is one of the most important challenges facing the EU.
The report also quite rightly states that the European Social Fund could contribute more towards the education of the financially weak.
European cooperation to draft a single policy is needed in this sector.
The mismatch between young people's qualifications and the needs of the labour market is one of the reasons why Lithuania has such a terribly high rate of youth unemployment (34%).
In 2010, 52% of all unemployed young people (50 000) who registered with the Lithuanian Labour Exchange did not have any vocational training.
It is important for vocational training to be accessible to all people.
in writing. - Both young and old people alike should have access to vocational education and training.
Current unemployment levels, particularly among young people, are worrying and more needs to be done to ensure that young people are able to gain vital skills and qualifications.
I strongly believe that the ESF has a valuable role to play in training and educating people.
It is important that those on lower incomes receive financial support to help them attend training courses, which would, in turn, give them more opportunity to fully integrate themselves in the labour market.
The Europe 2020 strategy should provide for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
It assesses the financing instrument for development cooperation (DCI), but I note the importance of the mechanism that should succeed it this year.
Further simplification and adaptation to new challenges, such as climate change, as well as determining the external dimension of the EU's internal policies, are important aspects that must be taken into consideration.
I agree with the provision set out in the resolution that the future instrument for supplying EU development aid must be adequately equipped in financial terms.
The EU has committed itself to the collective target of spending 0.7% of its Gross National Income (GNI) on Official Development Assistance (ODA) by 2015.
Coordination and division of labour must be the guiding principles of programming under the new development instrument.
The idea of European strategy documents should be pursued as a matter of high priority, and the European Parliament must be actively involved in this process.
Parliament must have the opportunity to defend the specificity of the EU's development policy in the post-2013 development cooperation instrument by scrutinising strategic programming decisions on an equal footing with the Council.
I must stress the need for greater transparency for all funds earmarked for this purpose and, more importantly, for increasing the assessments of the impact which the DCI has among the population in those countries.
This is because these funds must be backed up by effective social policies implemented in developing countries.
These funds must be, in the medium and long term, the 'rod' which the relevant peoples will use to learn to 'fish' and successfully become self-sufficient.
in writing. - The purpose of this report on the establishment of a financial instrument for development cooperation is to set at an early stage a Parliament position on this topic.
Parliament's position was only sporadically reflected in the draft implementing measures submitted by the Commission to the DCI management committee.
I supported Mr Mitchell's report because I believe we have to increase the participation of parliaments in developing countries when drawing up strategy papers for these countries, for the poverty eradication strategy for instance.
The European Union has pledged to devote 0.7% of its Gross National Income (GNI) to Official Development Assistance (ODA) by 2015, which will mean increasing the current amount of European aid.
Therefore, the ongoing cooperation with local authorities must be expanded and their role in combating poverty and hunger, improving water and health services, and encouraging local economic development must be developed.
That information would help in the future when efforts are being made to allocate resources and funding more efficiently, and consequently would allow any problems in the distribution system to be identified.
The Commission has committed itself to presenting a legislative proposal for the financing instruments for external action later this year, and to reconsidering the overall structure of the external financing instruments when debating the next Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF).
I agree that the future instrument for supplying EU development aid must be adequately equipped in financial terms, given the commitments made by the EU in this field to spend 0.7% of its Gross National Income (GNI) on Official Development Assistance by 2015.
I voted against the motion for a European Parliament resolution on establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation with developing countries, areas and regions because of the wish expressed by the motion in respect of the management of illegal immigration.
In particular, it maintains that development funds for migration should not be used for strengthening border management and combating illegal immigration.
This position is incompatible with our political approach in which strengthening borders and combating illegal immigration are key priorities, and therefore we would argue that additional resources should be invested in this direction.
I therefore decided to vote against the motion.
The issue of development cooperation is one of the cardinal principles underpinning my work.
This review must be based on a Neighbourhood Policy that is sensitive to the range of needs of poorer countries and no longer just to the interests of Europe.
I firmly believe that EU development policy must be the result of work by both Parliament and the Council, and that Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should also apply to this issue.
These principles have been clearly stated in the report in question, and I therefore voted in favour.
To begin with, I should like to welcome the efforts that have been made by the European Union to eradicate poverty in developing countries.
I therefore support increased European funding for this cause, as well as the creation of a financial instrument focused exclusively on it.
In the context of the debate on the next Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) post-2013, it is particularly important to redefine and reinforce the positions Parliament has adopted on a new financing instrument for EU development cooperation (DCI), given the lessons learned from implementing the DCI during the period 2007-2013.
To begin with, I consider it essential that this new instrument continue to prioritise achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
The Commission should ensure that EU aid is consistent with development goals and targets set at international level.
I believe it should help to ensure proper linkage of relief, rehabilitation and development operations.
In recent decades, numerous aid programmes have been carried out in developing countries by a variety of public and private organisations.
Coordinating and sharing tasks need to be the guiding principles for orienting planning in respect of the new development instrument.
It also demonstrates the need for reliable and consistent retrospective analysis work in this area, proposing a new approach to development aid based on greater differentiation, on the involvement of civil society, and on strict eligibility criteria.
Now that the financing instrument for development cooperation (DCI) has been in place for four years, it is time to assess how it has been operating, in order to improve future financial instruments for this area.
It is now evident that there is a need for Parliament to maintain democratic scrutiny of this financial instrument and future ones; it is even clearer how important it is becoming for developing countries' national parliaments to be involved in drafting strategic national documents linked to aid received from the Union.
The situations in developing countries should not all be approached in the same way, but rather in a more differentiated way, bearing in mind that traditional financial aid can become less important in many cases, for example, in the case of the so-called emerging countries.
I support the rapporteur's proposals - not least, achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the eradication of poverty, the channelling of 20% of resources into health and primary education, particular attention to climate issues, a new approach to aid in developing countries that demands respect for human rights, and the more efficient and effective use of scarce resources - so I voted in favour.
Nevertheless, we believe the report could and should have gone further on each of these points, especially in advocating consistency between the goals stated in the area of development cooperation policy and the EU's various sectoral policies.
The report evaluates the financing instrument for development cooperation (DCI), four years after the regulation that implemented it came into force.
Nevertheless, we believe the report could and should have gone further, on each of these points, especially in advocating consistency between the goals stated in the area of development cooperation policy and the EU's various sectoral policies.
The report examines the effectiveness of the Development Cooperation Instrument (DCI) in relation to the debate on the Multiannual Financial Framework.
A reassessment of the overall structure of external funding instruments appears to be appropriate.
It is, in its own right, one of the branches of foreign policy; however, it should also be an important part in a strategy for reversing migratory flows that enables populations to remain in or return to their country of origin and live life there with dignity and increasing prosperity.
Since these two areas fall within the sovereignty of states, most of the institutional and financial requirements of the Mitchell report are not acceptable.
I welcomed the report because 2011 is a strategic moment to draw lessons from four years of operation of Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation (DCI).
The purpose of this report is to establish at an early stage Parliament's position with regard to a new financing instrument for EU development cooperation, based on the lessons drawn from our scrutiny of the implementation of the DCI.
I believe that the Mitchell report, which is an extremely good report, touches on many key issues, and I therefore decided to vote in favour of it.
I voted in favour of adopting this report.
Funding for development cooperation requires well-thought-out regulations, and the report provides a synthesis of what our priorities should be when adopting them.
The goals pursued by the European Union when establishing this instrument are to ensure special EU assistance for developing countries.
In view of our current struggle to cope with the financial crisis, the problems of poorer countries are becoming ever more evident.
The financing instrument for development cooperation is aimed at helping poorer partner countries in the field of trade and regional integration, the natural environment and the management of natural resources, infrastructure, water and energy, rural development, agriculture and food security, human development and social cohesion.
in writing. - The future instrument for supplying EU development aid must be adequately equipped in financial terms.
The EU has committed itself to the collective target of spending 0.7% of its GNI on ODA by 2015.
Despite the economic crisis we are experiencing, it is important to maintain these instruments for aiding developing countries so that they may be able, in the near future, to increase their levels of wealth, with the inherent improvement in the living conditions of the populations in these so-called emerging countries.
Official Development Assistance currently represents more than USD 120 billion.
However, doing more and doing better is not just a case of increasing resources.
The inclusion of the European Development Fund (EDF) in the budget would be significant progress as long as it does not lead to a reduction in total funding amounts at EU level.
I am also in favour of 'more' budgetary aid, whether general or sector-specific, and fewer projects whenever the macro-economic and governance criteria allow.
in writing. - EU principles of rendering assistance to developing countries which are not covered by the Cotonou Agreement or by the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument are very important.
Furthermore, it is the Member States and not the EU that should determine how development aid is to be used.
However, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, development aid payments should be a matter for the individual states.
The Commission must make every effort to ensure that appropriate and sufficient aid is allocated to the development of the domestic private sector and small- and medium-sized enterprises in low income countries.
It is important to ensure that money earmarked to combat illegal immigration is used as it was specifically intended.
The Commission has announced that it will present its proposals for the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for the post-2013 period before the summer recess and the legislative proposals for the financing instruments for external action later this year.
I would stress the need for the following broad areas to be promoted: adequate funding within the available resources; the effect of poverty eradication and Official Development Assistance (ODA) criteria; geographic and thematic programmes; procedures for programming EU aid, with better coordination and division of labour; and bridging the democracy gap, with Parliament being called on to take part in the decision-making process.
Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation has been in operation for four years now.
The Commission will soon present its proposals for the post-2013 Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) and the legislative proposals for the financing instruments for external action later this year.
The purpose of this report is to establish at an early stage Parliament's position with regard to a new financing instrument.
Part of the report is dedicated to perspectives for the future and finally, the report looks at geographic and thematic programmes, insisting on strict eligibility criteria for budget support, emphasising the important role that civil society plays in development and the application of the delegated acts procedure for those decisions which fulfil the criteria of Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
As four years have passed since Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 came into force, and as the Commission has already announced the tabling of proposals relating to the Multiannual Financial Framework for the post-2013 period, there is a need for a brief analysis of the results achieved since then and of future means of development.
As such, Parliament should take on a more important role, not just because of the various ways that this confers democratic legitimacy, but also because of what it can offer in material and procedural terms.
in writing. - In favour. 2011 is a strategic moment to draw lessons from the four years Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation (DCI) has been in operation.
The Commission has announced that it will present its proposals for the post-2013 Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) before the summer recess and the legislative proposals for the financing instruments for external action later this year.
The purpose of this report is to establish at an early stage Parliament's position with regard to a new financing instrument for EU development cooperation, based on the lessons drawn from our scrutiny of the implementation of the DCI.
The purpose of the report adopted today is to establish Parliament's position with regard to a new financing instrument for European Union development cooperation, based on the lessons drawn from our scrutiny of the implementation of the Development Cooperation Instrument (DCI).
It should be clarified, therefore, that development cooperation is the only EU external action policy which has not been designed to serve European Union interests, but to defend the interests of the most marginalised and vulnerable populations on this planet through poverty alleviation and sustainable human, social and economic development - in short, the right to a decent life for all.
Parliament clearly recognises the importance of these activities and therefore calls for an instrument which would enable the European Union to finance such actions from sources other than the DCI.
EU funds for development cooperation are a real mechanism for combating poverty and promoting democratisation and development in developing countries.
Thus, development aid should finance projects aimed at tackling the deep-rooted causes of migration (fighting against poverty), but it should not be used to improve border control or combat illegal immigration.
I am voting for this report because the amendments introduced by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament (S&amp;D) were included in the compromise text.
These include key points such as general guidelines, the potential for improvement at Commission level and the potential for improvement at Parliament level.
I voted in favour of this resolution on guaranteeing independent impact assessments.
IAs show legislators the possible consequences of their policy options and help them make a decision.
However, they can in no way be a substitute for political debate and the legislator's democratic and legitimate decision-making process.
It is important for IAs to be completely independent and transparent and, moreover, the consequences for small and medium-sized enterprises should be taken into account.
Parliament already has the power to issue its own IAs and submit Commission IAs to thorough scrutiny.
I agree with the position set out in the resolution that the European Parliament should make greater use of the powers it has been given in this field.
I voted in favour of this report.
Impact assessments (IAs) are an instrument central to the legislative process.
Impact studies should be applied to all legislative proposals, they should have a clear methodology, and they should be undertaken with full independence and transparency.
IAs should also assess the option of inaction, as well as the specific consequences for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Despite the improvements in this area, IAs by the European Commission and European Parliament could improve even further.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on guaranteeing independent impact assessments.
In the second place, the motion highlights another very important factor, which is the specific nature of national economies.
Finally, the motion calls for greater transparency and efficiency in the European Union's administration processes, urging the Commission to be accountable to Parliament for its work.
The report also calls on the European Parliament itself and its committees to carry out impact assessments of draft legislation more often and to scrutinise more closely the impact assessments carried out by the Commission, which frequently serve to justify a legislative proposal rather than to permit an objective consideration of the facts.
Assertive and successful legislation requires not just good political debate and a joint effort leading to cooperation and consensus, but also a trustworthy technical basis that guides the legislative entities by assessing the context and consequences of the policies in question.
in writing. - Having worked on this area at Committee level before, I am obliged to stress the point that impact assessments must be free from outside interference and that this independence must be protected at all levels.
in writing. - I voted against the Niebler report on impact assessments.
Unfortunately, the Niebler report fails to meet these criteria.
One of the priority goals of European Union policy should be to introduce a transparent, clear, effective and high-quality regulatory environment.
They must be characterised by total independence and transparency, must follow a clear methodology, and must proceed to a substantiated and objective analysis of the potential effects, which is always accompanied by a cost-benefit analysis.
Impact assessments are tools that are especially useful for improving the quality of legislative activities (political proposals, for example).
However, these impact assessments need to be adapted: new adaptations are indeed necessary, in particular, through creating an independent mechanism, for the impact assessments proposed by the European Commission are often inconsistent from a qualitative point of view and generally only serve to justify a legislative proposal rather than allow for an objective examination of the facts.
Impact assessments (IAs) are a key instrument for the legislative process in that they take into account the potential consequences of applying given legislation, and so help reach a decision for that very reason.
This report, drafted by Mrs Niebler, concerns the problem of 'guaranteeing independent impact assessments'.
Moreover, and despite the creation of the Impact Assessment Board (IAB), created by the European Commission, and the positive results already achieved, I also believe it is crucial to create an autonomous IA structure for the European Parliament.
Impact assessments (IAs) can constitute important support for the legislative process.
However, the current IA process has numerous failings, as the report acknowledges.
That is why it is very important to ensure that impact studies are independent.
Transparency, openness, consultation, and public participation and scrutiny in connection with the studies and their results are of decisive importance in guaranteeing, as much as possible, this independence and the quality of the study.
The methodologies of some assessments and specialists will be more independent than others.
Impact assessments are a central instrument of the legislative process, which European law makers must use to the full in future.
Although they are in no way a substitute for political discussion or the democratic and legitimate decision-making process followed by law makers, and serve only to prepare the ground for political decisions, they draw the attention of law makers to the potential effects of their policies from the perspective of specialised content and help them to take decisions.
In this way, they can make a considerable contribution to better law making.
The Niebler report represents an important contribution to the debate on improving the EU legislative procedure, with a view to ensuring that new legislation serves citizens and is genuinely necessary.
Firstly, we should note the need to maintain the institutional balance enshrined in the Treaty, within which framework the European Commission proposes laws and Parliament and the Council adopt them.
The independence of impact assessments is extremely important, but they must not be removed from Parliament's democratic control.
At the same time, I would draw attention to the fact that the most crucial aspect of law making is the political will to resolve a given problem, and an impact assessment prepared as part of a particular project can merely supply objective information.
I do not know whether the solutions put forward by the rapporteur are the right ones.
On the other hand, I do know that I agree with her diagnosis and that some of her observations are particularly relevant.
Member States must therefore be closely involved in these studies because they are in a better position to assess the national impact of initiatives coming from Brussels.
These studies must guide the choices and reflection of national parliaments, who, from now on, are the guardians of the respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
For all these reasons, even though I am under no illusions about its realisation, I voted for Mrs Niebler's report.
I welcomed this report because impact assessments (IAs) are a key instrument in the legislative process, and one which European legislators should make greater use of in future.
The benefits of IAs are obvious.
IAs show legislators the possible consequences of their policy options and help them to make a decision.
However, IAs can in no way be a substitute for political debate and the legislator's democratic and legitimate decision-making process.
The third section is devoted to the IAs carried out by the European Parliament.
The fourth and final section calls for an autonomous IA structure within the European Parliament which all of Parliament's committees should use to further improve law making and create synergies.
in writing. - I have several reasons why I support this resolution.
A special Impact Assessment Board was set up at Commission level some time ago, and it assesses impacts both ex ante and ex post.
The Commission also carries out public consultations on its legislative plans.
I therefore applaud the fact that the report calls for the creation of infrastructure making it possible to evaluate the impacts of proposals and plans formulated in Parliament.
I would also like to call for a simplification of the process of public consultations, and an extension of the deadlines for submitting concrete proposals, including the possibility of submitting proposals in all official languages of the Union.
I supported Mrs Niebler's report on guaranteeing independent impact assessments.
Impact assessments are, in fact, a suitable instrument for evaluating the impact of the adoption of new laws and the simplification and recasting of existing laws.
However, I believe that recognition of their usefulness should always depend on respect for certain fundamental principles, such as transparency and independence.
Finally, I applaud the decision to create an autonomous impact assessment structure for the European Parliament, with a view to further enhancing the quality of European Union law making.
The benefits of IAs are obvious.
They show legislators the possible consequences of their policy options and help them reach a decision.
However, they can in no way be a substitute for political debate and the legislator's democratically legitimate decision-making process.
The impact assessment instrument presented by the rapporteur is a good way of improving the quality of law making at European level.
Mutual assessment, however, should take into account not just financial impacts, but should also focus on other aspects, such as the economic, environmental and social aspects.
Impact assessments are a key instrument for the legislative process, and one of which European legislators should make greater use in future, as they show the possible consequences of their policy options.
We believe that the impact assessments used by the European institutions should comply with certain principles.
They should cover all categories of legislative proposal, employ a clear methodology, and must always be kept up to date with current developments in the legislative process.
Finally, we confirm the importance of the creation of an autonomous structure for carrying out impact assessments within Parliament, with a view to further enhancing the quality of its law making and creating new synergies.
Impact assessments (IAs) are very important to the legislative process and should be encouraged in the future.
I cannot support the report.
The benefits of IAs are obvious.
They show legislators the possible consequences of their options and help them in making a decision.
The draft report divides these evaluations into four sections.
The first section takes the view that the impact assessments used by the European institutions should comply with certain principles and should be completely independent and transparent.
The second section discusses the Commission's impact assessments and highlights scope for improvement.
The fourth and final section calls for an autonomous impact assessment structure within the European Parliament which all of Parliament's committees should use to create more synergies.
With regard to the above, and in view of the fact that impact assessments can in no way be a substitute for political debate and the legislator's democratically legitimated decision-making process, but merely permit the technical, substantive preparation of a political decision, I voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. - Impact assessments (IAs) are a key instrument for the legislative process, and one of which European legislators should make greater use in future.
The benefits of IAs are obvious.
They show legislators the possible consequences of their policy options and help them in making a decision.
However, they can in no way be a substitute for political debate and the legislator's democratically legitimated decision-making process.
Not only should impact assessments state the possibilities and make recommendations to legislators, they must also be prepared to recommend taking no action at all if it is considered to be the most appropriate course.
This is why impact assessments can make a significant contribution to improving the quality of EU law making, particularly in terms of reducing the timescales and costs of the legislative process.
Impact assessments should also be completely independent and transparent and be carried out in the early stages of the legislative process.
The independence of impact assessments (IAs) needs to be guaranteed, above all, because of their importance in the decision-making process.
As such, while they do not replace the decision of whether or not to adopt a given solution, they can be decisive in shaping the choice of a given political solution.
Moreover, we presented an alternative resolution in which we wanted to clarify the role of impact assessment and external experts in the impact assessment process.
Impact assessment can only be an aid for making political decisions and should never replace political decisions within the democratic decision-making process.
Impact assessments are a key instrument for the legislative process.
However, they can in no way be a substitute for the legislator's democratically legitimated decision-making process.
Parliament also calls for the creation of an autonomous structure for carrying out impact assessments within Parliament, with a view to further enhancing the quality of its law making and creating synergies.
in writing. - I welcome S&amp;D amendments to this report at committee stage representing greater transparency in the legislative process and promoting greater ease of access for SMEs and NGOs through the publication of road maps and an extended consultation period.
The impact assessments (IAs) carried out in the European Union benefit all Europeans because they contribute to better law making through independent analysis of potential and possible European-level measures.
The rapporteur demonstrates the need to analyse better and more efficiently the economic, social, environmental and public health consequences of the Union's political choices.
However, they must not just be promoted prior to a piece of legislation (ex ante), but also following its adoption (ex post).
IAs must be independent and undertaken in a transparent and objective way.
For this reason, I voted in favour of the alternative proposal tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution on the Green Paper from the Commission on policy options for progress towards a European contract law for consumers and business.
Contract law determines and organises transactions within the Internal Market; its potential for both hindering and facilitating those transactions is therefore obvious.
Choosing the right way forward in the area of contract law can make a significant contribution to improving the functioning of the Internal Market and opening up its full potential for businesses, in particular SMEs, and consumers.
The potential benefits of European contract law to the Internal Market have been discussed for a good many years.
The EP pronounced itself for the first time on the issue in 1989 and, with this resolution which the EP adopted today, it intends to respond to the recent Commission Green Paper on European contract law, and to set out the Parliament's priorities in this area.
The most obvious obstacles which consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises face with regard to the Single Market are complex contractual relations, unfair terms and conditions in contracts, inadequate and insufficient information, time-consuming procedures, language barriers, different taxation systems, reliability of online traders, demographic composition of the population of individual Member States, concerns regarding confidentiality, complaint handling and intellectual property rights.
European contract law stipulates and regulates Internal Market transactions, and aims to resolve problems relating to the Single Market which have arisen for various reasons, including even differences in contract law legislation.
This makes it vital to provide a coherent European contract law regime in order to achieve the Internal Market's full potential and help meet our Europe 2020 strategy objectives.
Choosing the right way forward in the area of contract law can make a significant contribution to improving the functioning of the Internal Market and opening up its full potential for businesses, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, and consumers.
This is why I voted in favour of this report.
In this regard, I think that we need to support the introduction of an optional instrument by way of regulation so that this parallel system does not work against national systems.
Consumers have no confidence in cross-border commerce and companies face huge administrative and legal difficulties if they want to expand their activities in other EU Member States.
It is partly for these reasons that consumers and enterprises, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with limited resources, avoid cross-border transactions, which prevents the creation of a competitive Internal Market.
Contracts are the fundamental links in relationships between companies and consumers.
The European Union's Single Market is founded on a variety of contracts regulated by various national-level bodies of law.
These differences in contract law discourage companies, and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in particular, from dedicating themselves to cross-border trade, thus preventing them from accessing the new opportunities and income offered by the Internal Market.
Furthermore, consumers are disadvantaged by limited choice, high prices and lower quality because of weak cross-border competition.
It should be noted, for example, that only 8% of consumers buy online from other Member States.
This report, which I voted for, advocates the need for an Optional Instrument (OI) for European-level contract law in the form of a regulation.
I voted against Mrs Wallis's report because the optional instrument envisaged, based on a regulation, basically marks the first step towards harmonising contract law in Member States.
Contracts with an international element are currently drawn up based on international private law and, at EU level, on the basis of Regulation (EC) No 593/2008.
I voted against a report that proposes an optional legal instrument for contract law, effectively laying the foundations for a future body of European civil law, to take precedence over domestic civil laws.
In any case, although the objective of introducing an optional instrument is to facilitate cross-border trade, taking the needs of consumers and companies into due account, it must be borne in mind that existing European legislation already satisfies the needs of the various actors involved.
The real objective of the report therefore appears to be more ambitious than the creation of a European civil code, with which I cannot agree.
The Wallis report sets ambitious objectives in respect of conceivable measures with a view to establishing a European contract law for consumers and businesses.
Given the significant impact of contract law on financial transactions and, therefore, on the Internal Market, I welcome all the efforts made by the Commission and the European Parliament towards harmonising their parameters within the EU and adapting them to the Single Market.
I am voting for the report tabled on this issue.
By regulating both business-to-business and business-to-consumer contractual relations, adopting an optional instrument together with a 'toolbox' could ensure enhanced protection of consumers in Europe.
This report, by Mrs Wallis, concerns policy options for progress towards a European contract law for consumers and businesses.
A correct option in terms of European contract law could benefit the Internal Market, small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers.
This issue has been current in the European Parliament since 1989, which led the Commission to draw up an action plan in 2003.
The commission tabled a proposal for a directive on consumer rights in 2008, has drafted two progress reports and has now tabled a series of measures in the form of a Green Paper, to which this report seeks to respond.
The rapporteur's vision is markedly neoliberal, as is clear from the stress given to breaking down 'barriers faced by those who wish to enter into cross-border transactions in the Internal Market and considers that, along with other measures, the European contract law project could be useful for realising the full potential of the Internal Market'.
These reservations are borne out by statements in the report, such as that the optional instrument 'must offer a very high level of consumer protection, in order to compensate consumers for the protection that they would normally enjoy under their national law'.
It also stresses that the instrument proposed at EU-level, which is the same for all contracts in the European Union, is also set out in very general terms.
It also advocates an EU-level instrument, albeit optional, that is the same for all contracts in the European Union, which is also set out in very general terms.
Here are some statements made in the report: 'Supports action to address the range of barriers faced by those who wish to enter into cross-border transactions in the Internal Market and considers that, along with other measures, the European contract law project could be useful for realising the full potential of the Internal Market'; 'Believes that both business-to-business and business-to-consumer contracts should be covered; emphasises that the [optional instrument] must offer a very high level of consumer protection, in order to compensate consumers for the protection that they would normally enjoy under their national law; wishes for further explanation on how this could be achieved'.
Contract law determines and organises transactions in the Single Market.
Bearing in mind the fact that every initiative in the area of contract law will have to respond clearly to the actual needs and problems of businesses and consumers, I take the view that any justification in this area will have to be based on practical evidence relating to the current situation in contract law and any difficulties encountered by businesses and consumers, particularly in cross-border transactions.
That is why I voted against this report.
I abstained from voting on this report because, according to the rapporteur, complexity in contractual relations is one of the most evident impediments that consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) face in the Single Market.
Hence, the proposal to establish a common European contract law, which would benefit consumers and help ensure increased cross-border trade within the Internal Market.
Further attention is required to ensure that the OI offers protection to consumers and small businesses given their position as the weaker commercial partner and that any confusion is avoided when making a choice of law.
The creation of this instrument is the first step towards the creation of a pan-European civil code, which would gradually replace the contract law of the individual Member States.
If this instrument is created, we will be introducing a completely new type of supranational law, which will be on the boundary between EU law and international private and commercial law, not to mention the fact that the mandate for creating a European contract law for consumers and businesses does not have sufficient support in primary EU law.
When it comes to implementing the common market, we should not make do with removing the positive barriers between the Member States of the Union.
To enjoy the fruits of an effective integrated market, it is also necessary to tackle the indirect causes that stifle the cross-border aspirations of our fellow citizens.
On top of a number of administrative difficulties, European entrepreneurs are too often faced with very diverse contractual regulations in force in the Member States.
These obstacles are particularly difficult to overcome for SMEs, which nevertheless are the most effective tool for boosting growth.
As a result, the European Commission has published a Green Paper on the subject and launched a broad public consultation.
This 'European contract' would be optional, would come with a 'toolbox' to clarify how it should be used and it would encourage greater protection of consumers.
in writing. - I voted against this report.
Divergences in European contract law end up discouraging businesses from engaging in cross-border trade and keep them from benefiting from opportunities and gains which the Internal Market offers.
Finally, the introduction of a trust mark system would ensure additional consumer protection.
Choosing the right way forward in the area of contract law can make a significant contribution to improving the functioning of the Internal Market and opening up its full potential for businesses, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, and consumers.
Although I believe that there is still a lot to be done in terms of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and of consumer rights, this report is a first step in facilitating cross-border trade between SMEs.
in writing. - Labour Euro MPs want to see improvements in the Single Market and to facilitate cross-border transactions for consumers and small businesses.
However, consumer and business groups have come together on this issue to reject Mrs Wallis' proposal of an optional instrument of contract law.
They maintain that rules of national contract law are not a factor in influencing consumer attitudes to buying from another Member State; in fact, there are other genuine barriers to cross-border trade, such as administrative and cultural differences and a lack of effective means of redress for consumers.
Indeed, such a proposal could even undermine existing consumer rights.
We need to take time and evaluate the seven options in the Green Paper and make an evidence-based decision on the basis of clear impact assessments.
Similarly, we cannot accept the ECR toolbox-based approach without sufficient evidence and impact assessment to demonstrate that this is the best way to protect consumers and help businesses.
Contract law determines and organises transactions within the Internal Market, so its potential for both hindering and facilitating those transactions is therefore obvious.
Choosing the right way forward in the area of contract law could make a significant contribution to improving the functioning of the Internal Market, and to opening up its full potential for businesses, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, and consumers.
in writing. - On 1 July 2010, the Commission presented a Green Paper on policy options for progress towards a European contract law for consumers and businesses.
I totally support the report, especially in the context of human rights violations in the Latvian Republic.
I voted in favour.
The related efforts to find a common legal framework here have been ongoing since 1989.
In 2008, the EU Commission circulated a proposal for a directive on consumer rights.
It is open to question whether European contract law will improve market access for small enterprises because, according to analyses, it is mainly medium to large-sized retail businesses that are involved in cross-border trade, something that is due to the bureaucratic red tape entailed, as well as the costs.
The existing problems with cross-border online shopping will persist for some time to come.
When in doubt, I back the principle of subsidiarity, which is why I am voting against the Wallis report.
It is for that reason that I am voting against this report.
The Rome I Regulation currently in force is an adequate regulatory instrument, which provides for a high level of protection of the weaker contractual party.
Divergences in contract law in the Member States create structural problems that discourage businesses and consumers.
Furthermore, the instrument would not replace Member States' contract laws, but would merely help ensure a better choice of contract model between the parties, thanks to examples based on general principles, definitions and model regulations for both commercial and consumer contracts, without going against the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
I voted in favour of the report on the creation of a European law of contract for consumers and businesses which will help to facilitate cross-border transactions and strengthen the Internal Market, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and consumers.
The differences in contract law between the various Member States are slowing down SMEs wishing to carry out cross-border transactions.
We need to adopt a flexible procedure that will provide security to small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers and help to protect the parties' rights.
In fact, contract law determines and organises transactions within the Internal Market, so its potential for both hindering and facilitating those transactions is therefore obvious.
Choosing the right way forward in the area of contract law could make a significant contribution to improving the functioning of the Internal Market, and to opening up its full potential for businesses, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and consumers.
The present Commission working method involving an expert and a stakeholder group already ensures the participation of stakeholders.
However, as the process has not yet left the consultation phase, it is important to ensure that the legislative procedure itself does not start yet.
The immense costs incurred in cross-border trading represent a serious barrier.
According to a Flash Eurobarometer survey in 2008, this barrier is seen as a major concern by up to 60% of retailers.
The removal of these barriers would encourage more SMEs to exploit the potential of e-commerce.
I believe SMEs are crucial for economic recovery in many Member States.
The findings and recommendations of this report also show the potential for great benefits for consumers.
On the one hand, it seems that the need for greater internal consistency is being felt, in order that companies can benefit from the common market's potential without fearing that there might be solutions in a given foreign legal system that they had not anticipated and for which they had not prepared, which has been a real problem.
As such, in its Green Paper of 1 July 2010, the Commission tabled several solutions for regulatory models ranging from mere soft law to a European civil code.
The report intends to respond to the recent Commission Green Paper on European contract law and to set out the Parliament's priorities in this area.
The potential benefits of European contract law for the Internal Market have been discussed in the interinstitutional framework and with the broad public for a many years, and Parliament pronounced for the first time on the issue in 1989.
Within this framework, Mrs Wallis's report is a move in the right direction: it refers to the adverse impact which differences in contract law within the Internal Market are having both on consumers and on businesses, and to the benefits to the Internal Market of an improved contract law framework.
I consider that, in order to achieve this, we need to create a user-friendly, flexible, clear legislative act which, where feasible, is binding on the Member States and which will facilitate and provide security of law to contracting parties, without interfering in national laws and without affecting the financially weaker.
I was unable to support it because, as a response to a Commission Green Paper, it ruled out far too many options for the future of an EU contract law and neglected a duty to request an impact assessment on the full costs and implications of each of the Commission's options.
As yet, there is no European contract law, even though the option of such a law has been debated within European institutions for over 20 years.
For this reason, I have decided to abstain on this own-initiative report, pending the Commission's proposal for a regulation on this matter.
One consequence of the implementation of the Internal Market is an increase in the number of potential consumers in the European Union.
For the above reasons, I voted for this report and I support a European Commission proposal on this matter, which should, in future, involve the European Parliament itself, as well as economic and civil-society stakeholders.
The fact that we have 27 legal regimes is one of the most formidable barriers encountered by entrepreneurs and consumers in the EU who wish to take advantage of the benefits of the Internal Market.
The work in progress on the establishment of an alternative EU contract law fills me with optimism, particularly in the context of the EU's Digital Agenda and e-commerce's potential for the Single Market.
The rapporteur favours an optional instrument.
I voted in favour of the text presented by Mrs Wallis.
The problems deriving from divergences in Member States' contract laws often discourage businesses, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, from engaging in cross-border trade and keep them from benefiting from opportunities and gains which the Internal Market offers.
The text voted on today aims to create an optional instrument for European contract law by means of a regulation.
This optional instrument would stand alongside Member States' contract laws as an alternative option which the contractual parties would be free to choose.
Sixty percent of Internet transactions within the European Union fail, mainly due to the fact that the parties involved in such transactions are afraid of the unfamiliar legal systems of other Member States.
In this instance, the differences that exist between the legal systems of the Member States constitute a barrier to the proper functioning of the EU market.
I therefore also believe that an optional instrument, or a '28th legal regime', stands a good chance of helping to unlock the potential of the European market in the field of e-commerce, and of helping to expand the market for entrepreneurs while guaranteeing equal access to goods and services for consumers.
I am voting for this report because it includes a range of concerns highlighted by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament (S&amp;D), by acknowledging the limitations of gross domestic product (GDP) and the need to include additional indicators to measure economic and social progress in the medium and long terms.
I voted in favour of this resolution on GDP and beyond - Measuring progress in a changing world.
GDP is an indicator of economic market activity that has become a standard benchmark used by policy makers throughout the world.
It is necessary to emphasise that GDP is a measure of production and does not reflect environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion or social progress in general.
I therefore welcome the provision set out in the resolution that we need to develop additional indicators for measuring medium and long-term economic and social progress, and to establish clear and measurable indicators that provide information on climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion.
In the light of the ever closer degree of interdependence between economic, social and environmental issues, GDP today suffers from many shortcomings, as it does not record important social factors such as well-being, social inclusion, climate change or resource efficiency.
Therefore, in a context in which the correlation between a range of non-market activities and GDP is no longer automatic, there is a need to develop additional clear and measurable medium- and long-term indicators that ensure comparability between countries and regions and that can be used for projecting future developments and designing policies.
I would like to support the adoption of a clearly defined measuring system which will go beyond GDP, in the sense of complementing GDP in the context of making and assessing decisions.
Achieving and sustaining quality of life involves important factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing and environmental conditions.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report because it stresses the importance of agreeing on a systemic approach to setting up a coherent 'Beyond GDP system' to contribute to improved policy analysis.
We need to measure quality of life in societies; we need to consider that achieving and sustaining quality of life involves important, consensual factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing, environmental conditions, etc.
For these reasons, this report deserves to be given the highest consideration.
Gross domestic product (GDP) is an indicator of economic market activity that has become a standard benchmark used by policy makers throughout the world and is best known as a measure of macro-economic activity.
GDP does not reflect current environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion or social progress in general.
I agree with the Commission's proposal to develop additional indicators for measuring medium and long-term economic and social progress, and to establish clear and measurable indicators that provide information on climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion.
For many years, GDP has been the main index for economic assessment, but its shortcomings are increasingly apparent when it comes to assessing social or environmental progress.
Hence, the importance of this resolution which insists on the need for the European Union to adopt other indicators in addition to GDP in order to take better account of, among other things, climate change, biodiversity or even social integration, these being major political challenges that are close to my heart.
I voted for this report because defining and implementing a new range of indicators is an important challenge for measuring the quality of life of European citizens more accurately, and improving the political answers that cannot be drawn up solely on the basis of GDP.
A series of international initiatives highlighted broad support by policy makers and experts from the fields of economics, environmental protection and civil society for the development of indicators to complement GDP, providing more comprehensive information to support policy making.
Therefore, while I acknowledge the importance of adopting a clearly defined system for measuring GDP, I call on the Commission to submit, in the first instance, a tiered strategy that shows how the new 'Beyond GDP' approach can be used in day-to-day political work.
I welcome the Rosbach report because it clearly defines GDP as an indicator of the economic activity of the market and production in the relevant country, but which does not measure environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion and social progress.
A high GDP, even when calculated per capita, can be misleading because GDP is not distributed equally among the population, which is why it is not a good indicator of quality of life in a society.
To enable us to cope with current and future problems, new indicators need to be devised which will complement and further refine GDP.
This will allow us not only to define the quality of life more accurately, but these indicators will also provide a more reliable knowledge base, which will contribute to a better analysis of the policies in different areas.
The report by Mrs Rosbach is a critical analysis of the Commission's communication 'GDP and beyond - Measuring progress in a changing world'.
While the Commission's aim - to adopt a measuring system that would go beyond gross domestic product to provide a more comprehensive picture of a country's progress and development, including, for example, environmental sustainability and social inclusion - is important and non-controversial, the rapporteur questions the strategy that the Commission is proposing to achieve it.
I voted for this report because I believe that it is only by using proper instruments that we can have a realistic view of the situation, and therefore do our best to change it if necessary.
Gross domestic product, or GDP, is an instrument designed to indicate the aggregated added value of all money-based economic activities.
I believe we should introduce new indicators for measuring GDP, such as environmental sustainability and social inclusion, so that all the information making up GDP provides a truer picture of the country or region to which it refers.
Although gross domestic product (GDP) is a measurement of production that is useful for economic market activity, it does not take into account the sustainability of the development demonstrated, or environmental and social aspects, etc.
I therefore welcome the 'GDP and beyond - Measuring progress in a changing world' initiative, which aims to encourage and raise awareness of the use of other complementary GDP indicators when evaluating and discussing politics.
I believe this system of measurement based on corroborating various study parameters will lead to political decisions more suited to the needs of society and the economy in general.
We cannot present our citizens, who are caught up in their own everyday problems, with a clinical file describing the state of the economy.
At the same time, we cannot insist exclusively on strictly economic indicators, which are not always able to pick up on social phenomena.
I therefore agree with the report's general objective.
I voted for this report because I think that indicators need to be found to complement GDP and help us measure factors such as climate change, biodiversity or resource efficiency.
Gross domestic product is a simple indicator, while development is a complex phenomenon.
Other elements of interpretation are totally neglected, such as investment in intangible infrastructure, including know-how (people, processes and products, to mention just a few examples), and investment in tangible infrastructure, including communication and transport networks (ICT networks and road and rail networks, for example).
The report that we have adopted seems to me to be moving in this direction.
in writing. - GDP (gross domestic product) is the aggregated added value of all money-based economic activities.
Indeed, GDP has become the primary indicator for overall societal development and progress in general.
There is growing international recognition of the inadequacy of GDP as an indicator of social progress, social inclusion, environmental sustainability and resource efficiency.
I support this report which calls for the development of clear and measurable indicators that take account of climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion.
It further underlines the need to measure quality of life in societies, considering that achieving and sustaining quality of life involves important, consensual factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing, and environmental conditions.
It also fully supports the establishment of a solid legal framework for the European Environmental Economic Accounts as a positive step in the 'GDP and beyond' process, and, indeed, welcomes the Commission initiative to present an index for environmental pressure, to be submitted alongside GDP.
Despite all the more or less sentimental constructions that we might make, the truth is that it is by analysing gross domestic product (GDP) that we can achieve a reliable image of societies' state of development and progress.
In 2007, the European Parliament, alongside the Commission, the Club of Rome, the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), organised a conference on the theme of 'Beyond GDP', at which those involved advocated the need to develop other indicators complementary to gross domestic product (GDP).
This report, by Mrs Rosbach, is based on a communication tabled by the Commission on 28 September 2009 called 'GDP and beyond - Measuring progress in a changing world', and it reflects this need to provide politicians and researchers with data that is more comprehensive.
The exacerbation of social inequalities in the countries of the EU, which are currently reaching worrying levels, is a telling example of this.
By taking into account only economic activity - wealth creation - and being useful, therefore, in determining economic growth, it does not cover parameters as important as wealth distribution, social inequalities, the quality of goods and services, non-commercial transactions or even outcomes not recorded by the market, which are essential to the assessment of development and progress.
It is therefore increasingly controversial to use gross domestic product (GDP) as a basis for working with social development and progress, and a statistical indicator for measuring them.
It is a statistical indicator with many shortcomings, since it takes into account only economic activity, leaving aside other important factors like wealth distribution, social inequalities, the quality of goods and services, non-commercial transactions or even outcomes not recorded by the market.
With regard to the need to improve this data and the indicators, the Commission has released a communication entitled 'GDP and beyond: Measuring progress in a changing world'.
In this communication, it proposes, for example, creating comprehensive indicators which would provide a more reliable knowledge base.
I believe it is necessary to create an instrument that can supplement GDP, taking account of the fact that it must have a practical application, use clearly defined indicators and rely on high-quality data.
I therefore voted in favour of the motion.
Unfortunately, despite being widely used, there is a growing awareness that the economic and social fabric in Europe has profoundly changed.
Nowadays, in addition to information about income and wealth, other indicators of an environmental nature influence the quality of life in a country and can no longer be ignored.
This is why I support the report by Mrs Rosbach, which draws up new indicators taking account of major strands of environmental policy such as energy use, biodiversity, water use and waste generation.
The challenge lies in integrating existing indices with other elements that are politically relevant and empirically measurable, and which provide reliable statistics on the future development of countries.
In this sense, I believe that by eliminating subjective factors such as personal happiness, which cannot be considered to be indicators, the new text has reached a good compromise.
Finally, I hope that both Eurostat and the Eurobarometer will play a major role in this innovative process.
I welcomed the report because GDP is an indicator of economic market activity that has become a standard benchmark used by policy makers throughout the world.
However, GDP is a measure of production and does not reflect environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion or social progress in general.
I feel that we need to establish clear and measurable indicators that provide information on climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion, as well as indicators that reflect the household level more accurately: income, consumption and wealth.
There is also a need to measure quality of life in societies, because in order to ensure and sustain quality of life, it is necessary to take into account important, consensual factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing, environmental conditions, etc.
The further development of qualitative and quantitative metrics should be based on the European Quality of Life Survey (EQLS) indicators, covering the core areas of quality of life.
Gross domestic product no longer seems able to meet growing economic and political requirements.
GDP is the most effective instrument for measuring macro-economic activity, while also serving as an indirect indicator of social development and progress.
This indicator underpins many of the European Union's policy decisions and instruments.
I think that we need to step up our efforts to provide indicators which will meet the needs of all citizens.
in writing. - I welcome this report which stresses that GDP is an indicator of economic market activity that has become a standard benchmark used by policy makers throughout the world; emphasises that GDP is a measure of production and does not measure environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion and social progress in general; underlines furthermore that it can be misleading in the sense that remedial measures following certain incidents such as accidents and natural disasters are treated as a benefit instead of a cost; notes that besides measuring economic development and productivity, there are other indicators that influence and explain the living standards in a country and that have not been quantified until now, although relevant indicators exist; stresses the need to develop additional indicators for measuring the full impact of economic activity.
There is often a lack of clearly defined information, data and indicators.
Although it is difficult to develop a method that is coherent at the same time, we believe that what is required is a comprehensive concept, taking account of existing measures, which can be implemented in practice.
We agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to submit a tiered strategy that should show how the new approach can be used pragmatically in day-to-day political work.
I voted for the report on GDP and beyond - Measuring progress in a changing world, by Mrs Rosbach, because I believe that gross domestic product is no longer a sufficient, appropriate indicator for measuring progress in a changing world, and it is therefore necessary to develop more comprehensive indicators that would provide a more reliable knowledge base.
It should be remembered that GDP is a measure of production and does not measure environmental sustainability for example.
The development of these new indicators will help to understand and measure the quality of life in societies.
Therefore, the development of a Member State or region cannot be assessed solely by an economic indicator such as GDP: quality of life, which is determined by factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing and climate and environmental conditions, must also be taken into account.
As rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy for this report, I believe that achieving and sustaining quality of life involves important, interlinked factors such as health, education, culture, jobs, housing and environmental conditions.
I therefore believe that the indicators measuring these factors are also important, and that more importance should be attached to them.
I voted in favour because this report is a step, albeit a hesitant one, towards improving and complementing gross domestic product (GDP) as an instrument for the measurement and evaluation of social and economic performance, and, by association, of the progress of societies.
The 'GDP and beyond - Measuring progress in a changing world' initiative is a complementary instrument capable of contributing to improving analysis and political debate.
GDP is an indicator of market economic activity that has become the standard point of reference at the service of the world's decision makers.
GDP is a measure of production that does not measure environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion and social progress in general.
I therefore agree that in the future, other types of instruments should be studied that allow for a greater number of reliable data for measuring a world that is changing.
in writing. - It is known that GDP (gross domestic product) is the aggregated added value of all money-based economic activities.
Today, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on GDP and beyond - measuring progress in a changing world.
There are also some significant parameters which are interpreted incorrectly.
The Commission has suggested that it is essential to develop an indicator which clearly depicts the situation in the country in question, and which also reflects the situation of households and individuals, as well as how efficiently the country's resources are exploited and the state of the environment.
The Commission expects greater involvement from the Member States in terms of systematising research into the quality of public life, which would make it possible for clear comparisons to be made between countries.
A coherent policy would result in it being easier to analyse research, and also in it being possible to predict the potential long-term development of countries.
GDP is an indicator of economic market activity that has become a standard benchmark used by policy makers throughout the world.
It does not reflect environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion or social progress.
Consequently, we must make every effort to develop additional medium and long-term indicators for measuring the factors mentioned and the household level.
Thus, we must find means of developing an appropriate and effective tool to complement GDP, which could be applied in a practical way, using clearly defined indicators and relying on high-quality data. 'GDP and beyond - Measuring progress in a changing world' is a report that aims to assess levels of progress in the European Union through gross domestic product, which has taken on the role of a comprehensive indicator for societal and economic development.
Unfortunately, however, it no longer provides a reliable basis for policy debate because it does not measure environmental sustainability or social integration.
For this reason, I voted for a text that tries to integrate development in the European Union with new social indicators, seeks a clearly defined measurement system that goes beyond GDP, and complements it in the context of decision making.
I voted for this report entitled 'GDP and beyond - Measuring progress in a changing world'.
As the report rightly says, gross domestic product (GDP), which is used by political decision makers worldwide and referred to in public debates, has also come to take on the role of a comprehensive indicator for overall societal development and progress in general.
For example, GDP does not measure environmental sustainability or social integration.
In the Commission communication on 'GDP and beyond - measuring progress in a changing world', various measures are suggested as suitable ways to complement GDP.
I would express my support for the Commission's intention to adopt a clearly defined measuring system that would go beyond GDP, in the sense that it complements GDP in the context of decision making and assessment, using clearly defined and quantifiable indicators.
It has come to take on the role of a comprehensive indicator for overall societal development and progress in general, but does not take into account or measure environmental sustainability or social integration.
There is a need for improved data and indicators to complement GDP, or else it will not provide a reliable basis for policy debate.
For the above reasons, and in order to be able to develop a clear and comprehensive set of indicators that are, at the same time, consistent, relevant and objectively measurable, I voted for the motion being discussed.
The Commission Communication 'GDP and beyond - Measuring progress in a changing world' focuses on developing more comprehensive indicators to complement GDP, which will provide a more reliable knowledge base.
GDP has come to take on the role of a comprehensive indicator for measuring society's overall development and progress, but it does not provide a reliable basis for policy debate on every issue.
I voted for this report because it is important that we develop a tool which can complement GDP, taking into account that it has to be done in a way so that it can have practical use, based on clearly defined indicators and high-quality data.
This report calls on the Commission to submit a tiered strategy for the 'Beyond GDP' approach which should explain how the new approach can be used pragmatically in day-to-day political activities.
I believe that achieving and sustaining quality of life involves important, interlinked factors such as health, education, culture, jobs, housing and environmental condition.
I therefore believe that the indicators measuring these factors are also important, and that more importance should be attached to them.
I voted in favour because this report is a step, albeit a hesitant one, towards improving and complementing gross domestic product (GDP) as an instrument for the measurement and evaluation of social and economic performance, and, by association, of societies' progress.
It would be useful, therefore, to develop new indicators that enable other aspects of the reality to be sounded out, in order to obtain a better overall view of countries' development.
As my colleague, Mrs Blier, has said, although this report could have gone further with the ambitions and guidelines that it could have set, it does represent a first step and a strong signal sent out to the Council and the Commission for Europe to press ahead with an overhaul of the wealth and development indicators so as to make them more representative of the environmental and social realities and constraints with which we are confronted.
It paves the way for the recognition of new indicators that are fairer and that will allow us to undertake the ecological and social transition of our societies.
This report proposes the adoption of a clearly defined measuring system that would complement gross domestic product as an indicator of overall social development.
The complementary tool should have practical use and be based on clearly defined indicators and reliable data.
The Commission is therefore invited to present a comprehensive, tiered strategy that should show how the new approach can be used pragmatically in day-to-day political work.
The report on the Commission communication of 20 August 2009 on 'GDP and Beyond - Measuring progress in a changing world' highlights the importance of gross domestic product as a comprehensive indicator of social development and economic growth.
The objective is to adopt a new clearly defined and quantifiable measuring system based on reliable, accurate data, but the Commission's communication does not indicate the tiered strategy for delivering it.
I voted in favour of the report as I believe it is important to carry out socio-economic analyses using appropriate tools that will complement GDP.
in writing. - I support this report, which recommends several concrete actions, including the creation of an environmental index, more timely publication of environmental and social data, more accurate reporting on social disparities and extending the system of national accounts to include environmental and social issues.
In the Commission communication to the European Parliament and the Council entitled 'GDP and beyond - Measuring progress in a changing world' (COM(2009) 433 final), it is acknowledged that 'GDP has also come to be regarded as a proxy indicator for overall societal development and progress in general' but 'does not measure environmental sustainability or social inclusion'.
I believe that the aforementioned indicators will take on a strategic importance in the definition of future cohesion policy, thereby contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the principles enshrined in the Europe 2020 strategy.
I voted in favour of the report on GDP and beyond - Measuring progress in a changing world, for the following reasons.
Everyone knows that GDP is an indicator used to measure macro-economic activity and cannot be used to measure other things.
Parliament should have put forward a proposal taking into account factors including education, health and personal activities, but it confined itself to highlighting the need to establish new parameters, delegating the task of defining them to the Commission.
Above all, EU policy should be measured by the progress made in improving the well-being of Europeans.
This includes all commercial aspects of the exploitation as well as the legal, contractual and financing structures of the different exploitation models that will guarantee that the governance model is put into practice.
The Galileo programme (satellite navigation) is extremely important as it enables the European Union to be competent in cutting-edge technologies.
This is why I supported Mr Remek's report, which is aimed at looking into all the possible sources of funding on top of the contribution from the European budget.
Galileo, together with EGNOS (European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service, an augmentation system that improves the accuracy and the reliability of the US Global Positioning System (GPS) information), is the Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) developed by the EU.
The EU decided to set up its own global navigation satellite system for two key reasons: firstly, Europe's independence from other global navigation systems and autonomy, and secondly, to gain a share in this fast growing worldwide high-tech market, which today, to a large extent, is dominated by the US.
I agree that there should be a broad and comprehensive debate at political level about the desired level of ambition (deciding the level of services provided) and the financial resources available (whereby a political choice would need to be made between a purely EU funded programme and one allowing national or private contributions).
The result of this debate will impact the policy options for the future governance and management of the GNSS systems.
The project to implement a European satellite navigation programme is a major challenge and undoubtedly useful for the future of technology in Europe, but the forecasts of expenditure and investment by the European bodies for this project are still not clear or transparent at present.
I therefore abstained from the final vote on the own-initiative report.
in writing. - (FR) It is with satisfaction that I voted in favour of this report, which is the culmination of a far-reaching political decision, particularly regarding the implementation of Galileo.
It is absolutely crucial that the European autonomous satellite radionavigation system be commissioned as soon as possible and, as the report highlights, with long-term funding guarantees.
Competition from the United States (with the Global Positioning System - GPS) requires us to introduce Galileo quickly, bearing in mind what is at stake economically, technically, politically and strategically.
The European Union has set itself the objective of becoming the world leader in Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) with the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) and Galileo programmes, thus ensuring its technological independence from American GPS.
Current budget lines already in place for this project are easily sufficient to bring about its completion, yet - true to form - the suggestion is to spend even more.
I am not questioning the strategic importance of these projects, but I cannot fail to highlight that they have been falling short of expectations.
I agree that, as both Galileo and the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) are European programmes and are in the common public interest of the Union, they should, overall, be financed through the EU budget, but I think that other possible sources should be weighed up, including innovative forms of financing.
Since 2000, when the Global Positioning System (GPS) service was made available, this sector has grown exponentially (EUR 124 billion in 2008), with the domestic market forecast to be worth EUR 230 billion overall in 2025.
In 2008, the EU decided to create its own satellite navigation system (Regulation (EC) No 683/2008), Galileo and the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS), with the objective of ensuring Europe's independence and autonomy, raising its market share and putting the industry in a position to be competitive in a strategic and fast-growing market.
I voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposals, in spite of the cost overruns recorded in the implementation of the project, because I understand that the EU should be at the forefront of researching and developing cutting-edge technology, especially when that same technology represents a scientific and economic asset to the EU.
As we have said regarding the application of a global European satellite navigation system for transport, the use of this technology could represent an important contribution to the development, modernisation and diversification of public services, in the creation of opportunities for cooperation, and progress in science and its applications, and in the exchange and accessibility of information, with the guarantee of respect for the public's rights, freedoms and guarantees.
The issue at stake, however, is not that of the existence of a global navigation satellite system for Europe based on use for non-military ends and not integrated into the EU's security arrangements.
In particular, the fact that this satellite navigation system being set up in competition with the Global Positioning System (GPS) of the United States, on which the EU depends, and which is well known to be under military control, with financing from US federal military programmes, is worrying.
We are therefore reaffirming our doubts about the limits to the potential uses of these programmes in a context of assumed EU-US competition regarding the functionalities and efficiencies of these systems.
The issue at stake is not that of the existence of a global navigation satellite system for Europe based on use for non-military ends and not integrated into the EU's security arrangements.
Its use for non-military ends could represent an important contribution to the provision of public services, with opportunities for cooperation, and progress in science and its applications, and in the exchange and accessibility of information, with the guarantee of respect for the public's rights, freedoms and guarantees.
The European Union has taken the important step of introducing, through its political decision based on Regulation (EC) No 683/2008, an autonomous European Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS), owned and operated by the Union.
The Commission should produce a comprehensive analysis aimed at securing a more precise description of possible scenarios and resources in terms of operation and use after 2013.
in writing. - Galileo, Europe's own global navigation satellite system, is of great importance to Europe and, in particular, the UK.
This project, which I fully support, has not only received significant public funding but private industry throughout the EU is also investing money, time and expertise into developing this system.
However, despite recognising the need to push forward with this, I felt the need to abstain on the final vote.
I welcomed this document because this report is a response to the Commission's Communication on the mid-term review of the autonomous European Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) (Galileo and EGNOS), which assesses the process and implementation so far and launches the debate on its future governance, exploitation and financing.
The EU decided to set up its own global navigation satellite system for two key reasons: firstly, Europe's independence from other global navigation systems and autonomy, and secondly, to gain a share in this fast growing worldwide high-tech market, which today, to a large extent, is dominated by the US.
Indirect benefits of the programme are estimated to be around EUR 60 billion per year (including the downstream and upstream market and public benefits).
The Commission should launch a comprehensive analysis to identify more precisely the possible scenarios and means of operation and exploitation post 2013.
This includes all commercial aspects of the exploitation as well as the legal, contractual and financing structures of the different exploitation models that will ensure that a stable governance model is put in place.
The EGNOS and Galileo systems, when they are completed, will increase security in transport, using certain applications.
The development of these systems will make an essential contribution to the development of European aviation transport and to a more economical and efficient system of rail and road transport.
A problem for the development of these applications and for completing the systems on time may be a lack of investment.
It is important to see the benefit to the Member States of investment and of developing the systems so that they are completed on schedule.
I voted in favour of Mrs icu's report because the project under examination meets many expectations of those looking to developments in research and technology with optimism.
Ten years ago, the European Union launched two satellite navigation programmes: Galileo and EGNOS (European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service).
The first will be operational in 2014 and will be accurate to within less than a metre, whereas GPS is accurate to within several metres.
However, there is also a strategic dimension to Galileo.
The civilian and military resources of the Member States will be much more effective as a result.
I voted for this resolution which, while praising the technical success, reminds the European Commission of the points where the programme can be improved: funding, public awareness, and involving our international partners.
in writing. - The main challenge for the international activities of the GNSS Programmes will be to ensure the compatibility and interoperability with Galileo, to access global GNSS-related resources and set worldwide standards, to ensure security of the space segment and network of ground stations, while ensuring a stricter control of sensitive GNSS technologies developed with European funding, and to join in an international effort to develop innovative applications and specialised applications of supra-regional interest.
An important objective will be to create market opportunities for the European GNSS technology and applications industries.
We believe that the EU's Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS), consisting of the Galileo and EGNOS programmes, is an important step for Europe, firstly, as it ensures its autonomy and independence from other global navigation systems and, secondly, as it enables it to claim a share of this booming worldwide high-tech market.
It is very important, however, that continuity of service is guaranteed, as a (temporary) limitation or degradation of GPS signals will have tremendous effects on our economy and society, without other independent GNSS systems in place.
Finally, we maintain that it is important to launch a comprehensive analysis to obtain a more precise identification of the possible scenarios and means for operation and exploitation after 2013, which includes all commercial aspects of the exploitation as well as the legal, contractual and financing structures of the different exploitation models that will ensure that a stable governance model is put into place.
The European satellite navigation programmes, Galileo and the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS), will enable Europe to establish autonomy and strategic independence from other economic blocs, which is very important, and will contribute to improving the lives of the European public, as well as bringing direct and indirect benefits to the European economy.
However, the problems financing these programmes could cause significant delays in their implementation, along with the inherent damage.
We have to implement a medium- to long-term financing strategy in order for it to be possible to create the necessary market confidence and, consequently, to attract investment and the purchase of applications and services.
Only a fully functional Galileo and EGNOS system will be an asset to the EU, in all its policies, not least in transport, in agriculture, in the fight against climate change, in the prevention of natural and man-made disasters, and in the area of science, technology and innovation.
The European Parliament has always supported the European Union's Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS), implemented by means of the Galileo and the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) programmes.
Unfortunately, today, the European Union is dependent on the Global Positioning System (GPS) of the United States.
Space policy and the GNSS programme are of strategic importance and should provide tangible benefits for citizens and businesses.
From this point of view, the Commission must ensure the compatibility and interoperability of Galileo with other satellite navigation systems.
Finally, it is important that these European programmes receive the funding they need to be brought to fruition.
The report is a mid-term review of this flagship initiative, assessing the process and implementation so far and launching the debate on its future governance, exploitation and financing in the EU system.
In my view, it is necessary to launch a comprehensive analysis to obtain a more precise identification of the possible scenarios and means for operation and exploitation after 2013.
I fully support the report of Vladimir Remek and I voted in favour.
The GNSS (Galileo and EGNOS) satellite navigation system project, like the Schengen Information System II project, has turned into a bottomless money pit.
The follow-up costs still seem impossible to estimate in concrete terms; all that is clear is that savings are necessary if we are to prevent a final explosion in the already mushrooming project costs.
However, problems arise here when the associated cuts in services only affect the citizens of Europe as taxpayers, only leaving services for military use untouched.
Once again (as in the case of the ITER project), the EU has managed to delay a project for so long that the costs are impossible to estimate.
It is not just follow-up costs that have exploded: 'normal' project costs have also reached massive proportions.
For that reason, I have abstained from voting.
I voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the Galileo programme.
The ambitious European endeavour to develop a European satellite navigation system, based on a constellation of 30 satellites and offering quality global positioning services, guarantees Europe's autonomy and independence from other global navigation systems and a share in the important global high-tech market, on which the USA and Japan are currently top of the league.
Moreover, Galileo will have the facility to support the implementation of previous traffic management systems for all means of transport (road, air, sea, etc.), which will improve efficiency and reduce the environmental impact.
In the agricultural sector, Galileo will be able to support improvements to agricultural output by guaranteeing more efficient use of land and water, thereby reducing the need for fertilisers and pesticides.
However, the questions raised and my previous question to the Commission about the very high cost of this particular endeavour have remained unanswered.
To be precise, the cost of implementing the programme was initially estimated at EUR 3 330 million (of which 1 800 million was to be paid by the public sector).
I voted in favour of this report.
The EU has taken an important step with the adoption of its policy decision, recorded in Regulation (EC) No 683/2008, on the creation of autonomous European global navigation satellite systems (GNSSs) - Galileo and European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) - under the ownership and management of the EU.
In the current economic context, there is a pressing need to conduct a wide-ranging political debate about the desired level of ambition, which will determine the level of service provided, and on the resources available, during which it will be necessary to make a political choice between a model whereby it is exclusively funded by the EU and one whereby national or private contributions may be permitted.
This new system will be important for ensuring Europe's autonomy and independence from other global navigation systems and enabling it to claim a share of this booming worldwide high-tech market.
As we know, the programme is funded fully by the Union budget with a budget of EUR 3.4 billion until 2014.
We know that the indirect benefits of the programme are estimated to be around EUR 60 billion per year, but the Commission has admitted that additional investment will be required in order to reach full operational capacity.
The Galileo programme, which, in conjunction with the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS), aims to create a global navigation satellite system (GNSS), is in line with a strategic choice on the part of the Union: it confirms its entry onto the global market, while its efforts assert itself in the global market, which is currently dominated by the United States, and is important to boosting the European economy itself.
Let us remember that, as is said in the report, 7% of EU gross domestic product (GDP) depends on the use of the Global Positioning System (GPS), reinforcing the need for an autonomous satellite navigation system.
The intention at the moment is to carry out a comprehensive analysis of the project.
Nevertheless, it is estimated, on the other hand, that the indirect benefits could be worth as much as EUR 60 billion per annum.
In this context, I think it is important, as the rapporteur suggests, to launch the debate about the structure of this programme and how to make money out of it in future, so as to adopt robust and safe solutions for the future of Europe.
I fully support the autonomous European global navigation satellite system, and I agree with the adoption of all the measures essential to securing its full operational capacity.
This view prevails across the groups of the European Parliament, as is borne out by the fact that no amendments have been submitted for the report.
In the interests of retaining the EU's competitive advantage, the launch must not be delayed, otherwise other countries such as China, India and Japan will outstrip us.
We voted against the two separate votes (paragraphs 19 and 20), and both were adopted; we voted against at the final vote, but the text was adopted.
I voted for this report because I agree on the importance of the Galileo project, as part of a European global navigation satellite system.
in writing. - I welcome this report, which asks for the Commission to launch a comprehensive analysis to obtain a more precise identification of the possible scenarios and means for operation and exploitation after 2013.
This includes all commercial aspects of exploitation as well as the legal, contractual and financing structures of the different exploitation models that will ensure that a stable governance model is put into place.
The report was adopted in committee by an overwhelming majority (44 to 4).
The European initiative to create the Galileo and European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) programmes will not only enable Europe to establish autonomy and strategic independence from other economic blocs, but, above all, will also bring improvements to the daily lives of Europeans, and will generate direct and indirect benefits for the European economy.
However, in order for the programme's real benefits to be achieved, there is a need to establish a medium- and long-term strategy for financing and governance, covering the main actions to be carried out.
That is the only way it will be possible to create the necessary market confidence and, consequently, to secure investment as well as the purchase of applications and services.
Only if they become fully functional will the Galileo and EGNOS systems provide concrete benefit for all European Union policies, specifically, in transport, in agriculture, in the fight against climate change, in the prevention of natural and human disasters, and in the area of science, technology and innovation.
To increase support for these projects, it is crucial to increase communication between those in charge of them and the general public, in order to create a direct relationship between these initiatives and European citizens.
in writing. - This report looks at the progress that has been made towards a European global satellite navigation system, or Galileo, and looks at issues regarding the future governance of the initiative.
Although there has been substantial technical progress, the report is more critical of the financial situation regarding the project.
It raises issues that need to be addressed and recommends courses of action that can ensure that the satellite system reaches Full Operational Capacity (FOC) as soon as possible, meaning a quicker return on the investment, and this report serves as the basis for the debate on how the Commission can best achieve this.
I am voting for this report in that it presents suitable political priorities for Parliament for the Multiannual Financial Framework, in both legislative and budgetary terms.
Some priorities included by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament which I would highlight are, for example: 1) investment for jobs and growth; 2) the social aspect, and the workers' rights and conditions; 3) sustainability; 4) European added value; 5) proposed structure and duration.
I note the need to pay particular attention to the outermost regions, to regions with serious and permanent natural or demographic limitations, such as the most northerly regions with very low population density and islands, and to cross-border and mountain regions; this is because the resources and capabilities of these regions can play a significant role in the future competitiveness of the European Union.
in writing. - I voted against the Garriga Polledo report from the SURE committee because it wants to increase the EU budget for the period 2014-2020 by 5%.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this important resolution on Investing in the future: a new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive Europe.
I support the rapporteur that with the rejection of the option of freezing the resources, as proposed by five Heads of Government in December 2010 (France, United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany and Finland), the European Parliament is sending a strong political signal for the negotiations between the 27 Member States, due to start after the official presentation of the European Commission proposal expected on 29 June.
It is important to note that unanimity between the Member States and the assent of the European Parliament are needed to take the final decision, not expected until at least June 2012.
We, Members of the European Parliament, demand at least an increase of the level of resources of 5% compared to the 2013 budget.
After around a year's work, the special committee on policy challenges and budgetary resources has finally presented the future decisions determining priorities in expenditure for the efficient and effective use of European Union appropriations leading to the implementation of result-oriented policies.
Bearing in mind that the European Union budget is primarily an investment budget, which can generate more investment from public or private sources, it must be possible to adjust it adequately to changing needs and circumstances.
The decision to increase the resources of the new Multiannual Financial Framework by 5% will guarantee the stability of existing programming cycles and new investment in areas such as European energy and transport networks, which will allow Europe to defend its competitiveness and prepare the ground for long-term economic growth.
These sectors also appear in the Europe 2020 strategy, which aims to deliver smart, sustainable and inclusive growth through knowledge, innovation and the promotion of social and territorial cohesion.
in writing. - The report on a New Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive Europe is a valuable piece of collective analysis on the future configurations of the EU budget.
It estimates the financial resources needed for the Union to attain its objectives and carry out its policies for the period starting 1 January 2014.
Its essential point is a request for an increase of at least 5% in the total EU budget for 2013, and the request for the introduction of an autonomous source of funding.
I voted in favour of this report also because it calls for a more transparent, simpler and fairer financing system for the European Union.
I voted in favour of this excellent report by my colleague, Mr Garriga Polledo, as it provides an extremely good presentation of the budget that the European Union will need after 2013 to respond to the political challenges it will face.
Therefore, I voted for the collection of 'own resources' and the creation of a 'tax on financial transactions' to fund the European Union's budget.
Furthermore, the common agricultural policy (CAP), which is essential for the food security and independence of our continent, and EU regional policy, strengthened by creating an intermediate category of regions to enable additional financial support to be channelled to those regions where per capita GDP is between 75% and 90% of the European average, such as Auvergne and Limousin, find within it all the space that they deserve.
The EU must have adequate resources and a strong Multiannual Financial Framework if it is to achieve those goals and meet the needs of the people of the Union.
We also urgently need to consider innovative financing mechanisms, such as a tax on financial transactions, which would make a significant contribution to financing the EU budget.
The reason for this is that I am fundamentally against Member States' contributions being replaced with direct EU funding, for which read an EU tax.
After all, the Union should be at the service of Member States and that must be visible in the financing arrangements.
The objectives of the strategy concern social and employment policies, which fall within the competence of individual Member States.
The failed Lisbon strategy shows where we will end up if we base our strategy on matters over which the EU has no say.
The report also seeks to reduce the amount of arrears by increasing payments.
If projects are not being implemented smoothly, then the sensible thing to do would be to enter into fewer new contractual commitments.
In this way, we are repeating, at a European level, the mistakes which several countries have made in recent years.
The Polledo report focuses attention on the numerous challenges faced by the European Union, but mainly on the need for ordinary citizens to be convinced that European institutions and the European Union are serving their values and interests.
This is why I support the forthcoming Multiannual Financial Framework, which will help convince European citizens that the Union has the ability to think and act to protect their long-term interests and achieve effective results in ensuring stable growth and internal cohesion.
Although I support some paragraphs, such as the one regarding the reduction of the European Parliament to one seat, the report hopes that an actual European tax will be introduced to finance European Union activities.
It discusses funding for Roma communities, a subject that my political party has always opposed, and the allocation of large amounts of funding for a new round of enlargement of the European Union in the direction of the Western Balkans, another point with which I do not agree.
We will have to face very complex challenges as well as the economic crisis, demographic decline and energy shortages.
The response to these challenges will have to be sought in the Europe 2020 strategy, which should be the policy reference of the next MFF.
We must identify a number of key priorities for the next MFF, such as growth and employment, sustainable development, cohesion for growth and employment, citizenship and Global Europe.
The next MFF must therefore be designed in such a way as to ensure flexibility in order to avoid the shortcomings of the current MFF.
I voted on Wednesday, 8 June for an increase in the 2014-2020 budget.
The EU budget must therefore reflect the EU's growth strategy and its ambitions for its citizens.
The Member States have suggested freezing the EU budget for two reasons.
Member States would like to see the EU playing a decisive role when it comes to taking risks but they criticise it when it does so.
I therefore, like the majority of my fellow Members - with the exception of the Eurosceptics - voted for a 5% increase in the budget to fund future major projects.
Our ambition is to have a competitive, sustainable and inclusive Europe.
If we want to achieve this ambitious goal, I believe that the financial resources the EU has need to be just as ambitious.
This is why I believe that a minimum 5% increase is needed to the budget envisaged for the next MFF.
The EU also needs to hold an in-depth discussion on the topic of own resources involving both representatives of the European institutions and national parliaments, so as to reach a consensus on an own resources system which will ensure the effective implementation of European policies.
I support the idea expressed in this report about the need to channel the resources towards those measures aimed at achieving the Europe 2020 strategy objectives.
I also fully concur with the need to ensure coherence and complementarity between the various instruments which currently exist for supporting research, development and innovation.
The great virtue of this report is to seek to mobilise all the EU's budgetary resources in a coherent fashion and as a means to achieve the Europe 2020 strategy, and to take a stand that is diametrically opposed to the narrow approach of most Member States.
While these Members bring Europe down to the common denominator of their contributions, which they would like to see fall, and of its financial returns, which they would like to see increase, this report argues for strong, integrated community policies, both in terms of long-standing policies and in terms of the new competences entrusted under the Treaty of Lisbon.
The long term EU budget should also follow the agreed so-called EU 2020 strategic objectives, especially our internationally binding climate objectives.
We need to maintain the CAP budget to ensure these vital environmental services are provided in Ireland and across Europe.
in writing. - (NL) The report on the EU's Multiannual Financial Framework does not in any way take into account the frustrations of the Member States and of the voters and taxpayers throughout Europe.
We keep hearing calls for more revenue for the European Union, at the same time as all other levels of administration are having to make cuts.
I voted for the report on the new Multiannual Financial Framework because it introduces the option of applying a financial transaction tax at European level.
This would levy a tax on speculative financial transactions to discourage this kind of practice and would help generate new incomes intended for European Union Member States.
The European Union, through its funding for research and innovation, and through its support to agriculture but also to regional development, contributes in a very tangible manner to boosting the European economies.
For this reason, I fully support the proposals adopted today by our Parliament to set the European Union's budget for the next seven years.
I fully support this proposal, which will, for instance, benefit directly people living in my constituency in Languedoc-Roussillon.
The European Parliament has spoken out again on the European budget through the Multiannual Financial Framework, a kind of EU five-year plan.
Now the EU, which requires what can be very demanding sacrifices of Member States, in no way provides for the application of this good advice to itself.
The proposals contained in this text are unrealistic and are nearer to mind-numbing mantras; waste and bureaucracy still have a bright future ahead of them.
By adopting this report, I welcome the fact that Amendment 74 was preserved, since it advocates the creation of a category of regions referred to as 'intermediate' for the next programming period 2007-2013 of the cohesion policy and is therefore along the lines of fairer distribution of structural and cohesion funds between regions.
It addresses the issues of the climate and the environment as constituting an element of all policy areas, the fight for democracy, peace and freedom at a global level, and the urgent need for research, innovation and infrastructure.
However, I am deeply concerned about the fact that we have given the authority to set priorities to the Council.
The European Parliament should have had the courage to set priorities.
Even though all of the requirements for an inclusive, sustainable and competitive Europe are included, there is nevertheless no way in the world that we could finance everything all at once from the EU budget.
I want a realistic and implementable negotiating strategy and this has not been achieved, as no clear priorities have been set in this report.
I consider placing the MFF at the service of the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, and the concern for at least maintaining the common agricultural policy (CAP) budget and keeping the two-pillar system, to be positive.
However, I would state, once again, that the call for the introduction of a financial transaction tax has once again appeared in a report which is not directly related to setting out financial policy, and which I do not consider transparent practice.
I would congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work, which has resulted in a report enabling us to start drawing up the next Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for the post-2013 period, which constitutes a challenge for the Commission and for the Council.
The Europe 2020 strategy is consensual, its priorities are clear and its objectives are measurable.
However, the strategy will only be successful if it has budgets corresponding to its actions and objectives.
In this sense, it is necessary for the MFF's values to match the ambition and commitment that the Europe 2020 strategy constitutes.
Cohesion policy is a result of the solidarity principle.
I consider it essential that funding for cohesion policy be at least maintained at the same levels.
The common agricultural policy (CAP) has been a success.
It is important that we move towards an MFF whose revenues are not more than 80% dependent on national budgets.
The rapporteur has stated that the time has come to put a stop to loudly proclaimed statements of intent that are not properly backed up with the financial resources enabling the announced objectives to be actually achieved.
This report is a perfect example of this exercise.
In the face of a serious economic and social crisis, exacerbated by EU policy, the budgets made possible by these financial perspectives will thus be rendered incapable of ensuring a redistributive function, which is essential to the effective realisation of the principle of cohesion.
We have made countless proposals on the need to increase the EU budget to support economic and social cohesion, as well as to reduce the compulsory nature of national contributions, cutting them to a maximum of 10% of the total cost for the project submitted, particularly in the countries with the greatest financial difficulties.
Furthermore, we have been stressing the importance of promoting investment in public services, of supporting production, of creating jobs with rights, of eradicating poverty, and of combating social inequality.
The path proposed in this report is something else; something very different.
That is why we voted against it.
We therefore voted against.
It is especially serious that it does not tackle, as an absolute priority, the response to the serious social problems created by the economic and social crisis, with a significant increase in the EU budget for supporting economic and social cohesion, accompanied by a cut in compulsory national contributions, reducing them to a maximum of 10% of the project submitted.
Above all, in the countries with the greatest financial difficulties, it should commit to investment in public services, to supporting production, to creating jobs with rights, to eradicating poverty, and to combating social inequality and all types of discrimination, not least gender.
Lamentably, the report limits itself to proposing a residual increase in current EU budget values of 5%, despite opposing the freezing of the post-2013 EU budget, as advocated by some Member States.
However, this suggested increase means that the next Multiannual Financial Framework (financial perspectives) 2014-2020 would represent just 1.11% of EU gross national income (GNI), as opposed to 1.06%, the sum projected for 2013.
The structure of the future Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) should be realistic, and it should enable continuity of planning and avoid the shortcomings of the current MFF, especially the lack of flexibility within the areas.
In particular, the current exemptions and corrective mechanisms should be gradually phased out, which would be an essential step towards greater fairness and transparency in the EU budget.
in writing. - The EU budget post-2013 must be fit for purpose to maintain competitiveness, to increase economic growth and to combat high unemployment in Europe.
I believe that agriculture and a strong, well resourced common agricultural policy are central to this objective.
I fully support the call in the report to link agriculture to the Europe 2020 strategy as I firmly believe that the agriculture and food sector can make a valuable contribution to future economic growth in Ireland and across Europe.
A strongly funded common agricultural policy will protect Europe's food security, contribute to our climate change targets and maintain employment in our rural communities.
I believe that we must direct more funding to these communities under the European Fisheries Fund post-2013.
I urge all Members to support the retention of these important programmes.
To be brief, notwithstanding the exceptional length of the text, Parliament calls for the European budget, in its total amount and distribution, to be adapted after 2013 to the competences and very large number of priorities of the European Union, as it defines them.
With the adoption of the Garriga report on the political and budgetary challenges facing the European Union after 2013, Parliament is anticipating, much too timidly in my view, the debate to come on the future financial prospects of the Union.
Furthermore, in a context where citizens are subjected to austerity, we must maintain a strong cohesion policy.
We have therefore reiterated our desire to introduce a tax on financial transactions, a project which is widely supported by the public and which would encourage greater support on their part for the European project.
By voting for the Garriga Polledo report, the European Parliament has made its voice heard on the future of the European budget and put forward an ambitious proposal for the next Multiannual Financial Framework.
The request to increase the post-2013 EU budget by 5%, and therefore to increase the total European Union GNI from 1.06% to 1.11%, corresponds to a desire to honour commitments made to support growth and development, first and foremost, the Europe 2020 strategy, for which adequate resources are needed.
It is important, in fact, to remember the added value of the European budget, which can act as a driver for economic growth, research and development and employment, particularly for young people, alongside national budgets.
The report also reinforces Parliament's position in favour of new financial instruments, such as the tax on financial transactions and Eurobonds, which are an opportunity for the European economy.
The resolution adopted by the European Parliament is our first contribution to the debate on the future financial perspective.
Reducing or freezing the European budget, as proposed by some of the Member States, is not a good solution for the European economy.
The European budget must be a budget which will support the Member States as they exit the crisis, and which is also able to respond to unexpected events more flexibly.
I also welcome Parliament's support for the idea of categorising some areas as intermediate regions, in order to ensure that their further development is promoted despite the fact that they exceed the currently binding criterion of 75% of the European Union's GDP.
Introducing this category will help regions which are still contending with many development challenges even though they have exceeded the EU average and, in the near future, this will include Polish regions.
I believe that the EU budget must be given sufficient resources to be able to finance the commitments that have been decided upon.
At the same time, I would like to emphasise that the EU ought to have an attitude of restraint and provide these resources by means of redistribution within the existing EU budget.
Therefore, I also do not believe that the 2013 budget level for agriculture should be retained, but would welcome the distribution of agricultural aid evenly between the Member States.
I do not believe that the own resources ceiling should be revised, as it should be possible to finance EU policy within the current income ceiling.
The current system is very complicated and lacks transparency.
The rebates have not made the system any fairer, but instead have given rise to a number of new exemptions and corrections.
However, a change in this system does not give the EU a direct right of taxation, as the Treaty does not provide for any such competence for the Union.
Any change to the own resources system also requires all Member States to give their approval in order for it to enter into force.
In the vote on the report on the EU's long-term budget in Strasbourg on 8 June 2011, we Swedish Conservatives in the European Parliament chose to vote against the proposal.
This is something that we have worked hard for and its inclusion is a step in the right direction.
When determining the EU financial perspective 2014-2020, it is necessary to ensure adequate financing for areas that stimulate economic growth and successful development; in other words, to focus on research and fostering innovations, combating unemployment, poverty and exclusion, adequate preparedness for demographic changes, responsible use of natural resources, internal and external security, regional and agricultural policy, and the development of energy and transport infrastructure.
I abstained from voting on this document because we need to fundamentally review the common agricultural policy, which must guarantee a fair and uniform system of direct payments, and many other important areas, without which we will be unable to create a competitive and strong Europe.
I confidently voted for it and hope that it will send a clear message to the Council, which will take into account the European Parliament's position.
I should particularly like to emphasise the call contained in the resolution for the Commission to present proposals for an effective and efficient EU common agricultural policy (CAP), which would more fairly distribute direct payments between Member States and farmers, and strengthen the link between delivery of public goods to society and support payments to farmers.
The new EU financing system must be more transparent, simpler and fairer.
That is why I support the proposals for the system of national contributions, which places disproportionate emphasis on net balances between Member States instead of on the principle of European solidarity and the European common interest, to be slowly replaced by the Union's own resources, which the Union would collect directly and independently of national budgets.
Even though the European Parliament's report on Investing in the future: a new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive Europe contains many ideas that should be supported, I did not support it because I believe that it damages the European Union's image in the eyes of its residents.
However, this would require the creation of a federal Europe, which should be done through open debates, and not through the back door using tax policy.
To make this type of decision, European politicians must involve society, which has not happened in this case.
Mr Garriga Polledo has presented the House with an effective summary encompassing the positions of the various national delegations and the various political groups.
I strongly support the decision to request an increase in resources for the next Multiannual Financial Framework of at least 5%.
Therefore, I fully support the decision to at least retain the existing agricultural budget, while recalling that the CAP is the only real European policy that can play an important role in a strategic sector that provides goods for public use and generates real European added value.
Finally, I would like to highlight the vote on cohesion policy, where a safeguard clause was successfully added in the event that intermediate categories are introduced in order to avoid resources being withdrawn from the regions eligible for funding under the convergence, competitiveness and cooperation objective.
This means that additional resources will be needed to finance a new objective.
We believe that the EU budget must be given sufficient resources to be able to finance the commitments that have been decided upon.
At the same time, we would like to emphasise that the EU ought, as far as possible, to have an attitude of restraint and provide these resources by means of redistribution within the existing EU budget.
We do not believe that the own resources ceiling should be revised as it should be possible to finance EU policy within the current income ceiling.
The current system is very complicated and lacks transparency.
The rebates have not made the system any fairer, but instead have given rise to a number of new exemptions and corrections.
However, a change in this system does not give the EU a direct right of taxation, as the Treaty does not provide for any such competence for the Union.
Any change to the own resources system also requires all Member States to give their approval in order for it to enter into force.
This motion for a European Parliament resolution on Investing in the future: a new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive Europe is important both in terms of achieving the EU 2020 objectives (with regard to restoring and providing long-term protection for the levels of economic growth) and of preventing a recurrence of the current economic crisis.
Furthermore, the qualitative dimension of expenditure is at least as important as the quantitative one.
Finally, the transfer of funds unspent at European Union level to the EU budget rather than returning them to the Member States represents a source of considerable 'savings'.
As for introducing a system of own resources, I remain extremely hesitant about the unilateral introduction of a tax on financial transactions without a serious impact study.
Support for a measure of this nature without being aware of its implications shows that the majority of the European Parliament is on the wrong track.
in writing. - I voted with a heavy heart against this resolution.
While believing that good value can be obtained when 27 Member States pool their resources, I could not vote for a 5% increase in the EU budget beyond 2013 when we have not thoroughly examined existing expenditure with a view to eliminating waste and duplication.
The European Union budget should provide the highest degree of European added value, be managed soundly, and leverage as many public and private resources as possible.
In order to respond to the challenges ahead, we support the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, a strategy that should help Europe recover from the crisis and come out stronger, through job creation and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
The structure of the next MFF should be realistic, facilitate planning continuity and avoid the shortcomings of the current MFF.
Finally, we believe that in order to make the European Union budget more equitable and transparent, the existing exceptions and correction mechanisms should be progressively phased out.
Narrowing the economic and social disparities within the EU must continue to remain its main priority.
In order to achieve the proposed results, we must keep the main criteria for allocating funds according to the level of development and the convergence between the EU's regions.
In addition to the provision of funding for research and development and energy and transport, we must also consider investments in the areas of cohesion and agriculture.
This will certainly help us face the new global challenges.
I voted in favour.
in writing. - Labour Euro MPs believe the focus and priority for EU spending must be the funding of economic investment and research which boosts the economy and creates jobs.
That is why Labour Euro MPs voted against calls for a 5% budget increase.
Savings can and must be made in other areas, in particular, the common agricultural policy, including harmful agricultural export subsidies and tobacco subsidies, in order to fund Europe's economic priorities.
That is why we back a debate on alternative ways to fund the EU, cutting the amount coming from VAT and the national budget through options such as coordinated measures addressing the under-taxed financial sector.
This report makes Europe 2020 the very framework of the future European budget.
The EU budget should provide the highest level of European added value (EAV), should demonstrate robust management, and should serve to stimulate public and private resources as much as possible.
The Europe 2020 strategy is the EU's response to such challenges.
It is a strategy which should help Europe to recover from the crisis and emerge invigorated, through the creation of jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
I agree with the rapporteur when he says that 'the Europe 2020 strategy should be the policy reference of the next [Multiannual Financial Framework] and that it should reflect the ambitions of the strategy'.
An important point in the report is the request for the introduction of one or several genuine own resources to replace the present GNI-based system and to achieve an autonomous, fairer, more transparent, simple and equitable financing system.
In order to avoid abusive use of accounting figures, it is necessary to support this report.
I voted in favour.
Since the fiasco with the euro rescue package, the net contributors have been asked to pay up two and three times over.
For this reason, I have no hesitation in voting against the Garriga Polledo report.
I voted against Amendment 39 in this report and, by extension, for Amendment 62.
A European tax will guarantee that the EU's goals can be accomplished, without the constraints imposed by the positions of the Member States, which too frequently sacrifice the EU's interests to short-term goals.
We are faced with the challenge of making the European economy the most competitive in the world and, in my opinion, it is unacceptable to create a burden which will result in the outflow of capital from Europe.
Similarly, I believe that attempts to introduce a carbon tax as an alternative to FTT are exceptionally harmful.
The Europe 2020 strategy should be the implementation reference for the MFF.
Above all, any new system for financing the budget should not increase the burden on national treasuries or the tax burden for citizens.
We must increase transparency in the allocation and use of funds and reduce administrative costs and bureaucracy.
Significant attention should be paid to reducing poverty and unemployment, to industry and energy, and the creation of a knowledge-based society.
We must provide for adequate financing for large-scale research and development projects.
I do not agree with the proposal to reduce the financing allocated to the common agricultural policy in the future because agriculture is a particularly sensitive sector.
The European Social Fund should become a political priority in order to achieve social and employment goals.
I agree with the content of the text, although there are two points that I did not agree with and which I opposed: the tax on financial transactions and the amendments to introduce the 'intermediate category'.
I do not believe that a reference to the tax on financial transactions should be included in this report.
A debate about this tax is important, but it requires in-depth analysis.
The addition of an intermediate category, on the other hand, would compromise the horizontal approach for Objective 2 regions, which has proven to be effective in recent years, the phasing-out system and funds for Objective 1 regions.
This would hurt Italian regions to the benefit of regions in the new Member States which, with the recent enlargement, have already received a huge share of funding.
The new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) is crucial in order for the Europe 2020 strategy to be properly realised and, in general terms, to be able to provide the conditions for robust development which can respond both to the problems that Europe's various peoples are experiencing and to their expectations of improvement in their lives.
In this context, I commend the author of the report for the proposal of a seven-year MFF, in line with the Europe 2020 strategy, subject to mid-term review, advocating, as a minimum: the maintaining of the EU budget, with particular emphasis on the common agricultural policy (CAP) and on cohesion policy; a greater sense of flexibility, which becomes more necessary as the financial constraints become more tangible; and also greater democratic responsibility, so that European funds can genuinely promote development projects that are capable of being sustainable.
In this context, it is important that regions that have already emerged from Objective 1 are able to move to an intermediate stage, reinforcing the development which they have already proven themselves capable of, instead of them being abruptly abandoned, jeopardising the progress that has been achieved in the meantime.
Our proposals to modernise the agricultural budget were not included in the final document.
This report therefore proposes finally giving the EU the resources to match its ambitions, by arguing for a substantial increase in the EU budget of a minimum of 5% and a mobilisation of the budgetary resources of the Union for the benefit of the EU 2020 strategy.
Thanks to action by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, the European Parliament also argues in this report for two strong measures: as far as revenue is concerned, an in-depth reform of the own resources system, in particular, through the creation of a tax on financial transactions (Tobin tax); as far as expenditure is concerned, the creation of a category of 'intermediate regions' to increase solidarity between the territories of the EU and ensure a fairer distribution of the regional policy's Structural Funds.
The combination of a smaller working population and a higher share of retired people will place additional strains on social welfare systems and economic competitiveness, causing increasingly significant problems in terms of gender poverty, given the high number of elderly women and current disparities in social protection.
The importance must be emphasised of gender budgeting as a good governance tool to improve efficiency and fairness, proper monitoring of how budgetary allocations affect the economic and social opportunities of men and women, and flexibility to restructure the ones that negatively affect the achievement of gender equality.
Specific measures to develop the technical and scientific skills of young women need to be included in the European investment plan for employment, environmental protection and innovation, in order to improve their qualifications and employability, in particular, in strategic growth sectors in which they are under-represented.
The European Social Fund (ESF) should provide adequate resources for measures aimed at improving labour market access and combating unemployment and social exclusion.
At the same time, I call on the European Commission to propose active measures through the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) in order to support women's employment in rural areas.
in writing. - Renegotiation of the EU budget will impact on how the Union operates in the coming years and on the programmes it can afford.
But the negotiations must also reflect Member States' needs in light of the consolidation efforts under way in many countries, including Ireland.
in writing. - (FR) To do more with less money, as certain Member States recommend, is mission impossible!
It points out that, in the absence of significant reallocations within the additional resources budget, Europe will never be able to accomplish the new missions assigned to it under the Treaty of Lisbon nor embark on the road towards sustainable growth.
However, there are very many domains which can contribute to synergies or economies of scale: the European External Action Service, humanitarian aid and civil protection, pooling of resources in defence, research and innovation, major infrastructure projects (especially in the areas of energy and transport).
I am also pleased that the European Parliament has reaffirmed its support for own resources because it is only right that the Union should manage its own budget.
I voted against the amendments to Mr Garriga Polledo's report calling for intermediate categories of regions, or regions with per capita gross domestic product between 75% and 90% of European Union GDP, to be introduced for the next financial programming period.
This innovation is apparently one of openness and greater financial flexibility, but in a period of austerity and budget restrictions like the present, it will inevitably lead to cuts in funding for other regions, particularly Objective 1 (convergence) regions, which specifically include the regions of southern Italy.
I note with regret that my fellow Members failed to pick up on this aspect and have allowed themselves to be influenced by reasoning that goes against the principles of European solidarity.
Fortunately, Amendment 64, which was approved, underlines that these transitional measures must not in any case be established at the expense of the current convergence, competitiveness and cooperation (Objectives 1, 2 and 3) regions.
While the EU budget is a major political lever, the ceiling on the EU's own resources has remained unchanged since 1993.
This resolution calls for the European budget to be allocated resources equal to the EU's ambitions.
Personally, I am particularly in favour of implementing the European tax on financial transactions as quickly as possible, if we cannot have an agreement at world level.
Although I am not entirely in favour of the resources released in this way being allocated to the Union's budget, as I think that the Millennium Development Goals should benefit, at least in part, I wished to vote for paragraph 171 to send a positive signal to the Commission and the Council regarding the implementation of this tax.
As my colleague, Bas Eickhout, said before, freezing or decreasing the EU's budget post-2013 is not a credible approach if the EU and its Member States are serious about achieving the policy priorities they have set themselves, notably in the Europe 2020 strategy.
The EU needs a proper and predictable system for financing its own budget in order to end the perpetual, damaging squabbling over national contributions to the EU budget.
I believe that with today's vote, the European Parliament has sent a strong and clear signal to the Member States asking to freeze the European Union budget for 2014-2020.
This substantial reduction in resources is not, in fact, a valid choice for those who believe in a truly competitive Europe, and the countries pursuing it should clearly specify which priority projects will have to be abandoned in order to allow for these cuts.
Reducing long-term budgets could compromise both the increase in expenditure on research and innovation and investment in infrastructure, foreign policy and enlargement.
Furthermore, to reduce them now would have serious consequences for the future of all the Member States.
The creation of this third category of regions will enable them to benefit from funding for employment, sustainable growth and competitiveness.
Another important point in this report is that it supports the creation of a system of funding the European budget that is transparent, simpler and more equitable.
Amongst the measures put forward by the Commission, there is the creation of a tax on financial transactions.
Parliament regularly speaks in favour of this, and I strongly support this measure which will improve how the market operates by reducing speculation, by contributing to financing global public goods and to reducing budget deficits.
While I would have liked a more ambitious outcome, the Garriga Polledo report on the financial perspective from 2014 is a step forward, the result of a broad political compromise within the Special committee, created for the first time in Parliament, before the Commission presents its proposal.
I consider the support for activities related to the sea and the creation of a new category for regions that have between 75% and 90% of EU per capita income to be very positive for Galicia.
The European Parliament voted for contributions to continue in areas that keep the European economy locked in its old ways, by, among other things, setting aside amounts for the common agricultural policy that are at least as large as for the 2013 budget year.
I am also opposed to the European Parliament's proposal to reform the EU's financing by introducing an own resources system.
Some of these resources are intended to come from a financial transaction tax (FTT).
in writing. - I will be supporting an amendment in the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) report which limits Member State EU contributions to the rate of inflation (currently 3.2%) or below, as suggested by the Heads of State of the UK, France, Germany, Netherlands and Finland.
The MMF Garriga Report seeks to increase funding from Member States for the period 2014-2020 by 5%, and this I cannot support at a time when extreme adversity is being experienced in the UK from the government's dangerous and socially divisive austerity measures.
My argument is that if there isn't enough funding after inflation-only increases in Member State contributions, ways should be found to re-allocate budget lines to meet any shortfalls.
This report aims to contribute to setting out the post-2013 Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF), approving a 5% increase in budget appropriations on the current MFF, the maintenance of funding for cohesion and agriculture, and a financial strengthening of the areas of research, development and innovation, and of energy and transport.
The strengthening of economic governance and the importance of cohesion policy are some of the areas that I would like to emphasise in the pursuit of a smarter, more sustainable and more inclusive Europe.
I consider it important to create an intermediate category for regions whose per capita gross domestic product (GDP) is between 75% and 90% of EU GDP, thus contributing to increased equality at regional level.
However, I would like to stress that this new category should not harm the more disadvantaged regions in terms of the allocation of EU funding.
The information from the current financial framework illustrates that, instead of being used to satisfy grassroots needs, the funds available under the euro-unifying budget are being directed against them, in order to support the profitability of the monopoly groups.
Its predominant feature is that it calls not only for this increase, but for all spending under the EU budget to be directed towards promoting the barbaric measures unleashed by capital, the EU and the bourgeois governments against the working classes and grassroots classes in all the Member States.
The position adopted by Parliament today is the first victory in the battle over the shape of the new financial perspective for the period 2014-2020.
For Poland, and also for Warsaw, a key factor will be the level of funding and the priorities set out under the cohesion fund.
The Garriga Polledo report assumes a figure of between 75 and 90% for the intermediate category for regional support.
I am pleased that the rapporteur stresses the importance of cohesion policy for growth and employment.
For Lithuanians, it is crucial that the sums earmarked for cohesion policy in the next MFF are not smaller than those in this financial period.
European cohesion policy continues to play an important role in reducing significant social and economic disparities among the Member States.
For instance, Lithuania's GDP per capita remains low (when we joined the EU, it was 48% of the Union average).
However, it is believed that by 2020, Lithuania's GDP will be at least 50% greater than it was without cohesion policy assistance.
Dwindling cohesion policy funds will continue to crush our economy.
Trust in the EU will only return when our citizens are convinced that the Union serves their values and interests.
in writing. - By passing this report on the new Multiannual Financial Framework by 468 to 134 (with 54 abstentions), the Parliament confirms that it is living in a different world from the harsh economic reality of our times.
Indeed, many of us want budget cuts and a reduction in Britain's excessive contribution. (...).
The British public (...) will not accept taxes imposed by the EU and nor would the citizens of the other (...) countries, if they but realised what was going on (...).
Informed economic opinion will tell you that lower taxes are the best incentive to economic growth and job creation.
This report is intended to provide the financial foundations of the EU superstate which I and my constituents (...) reject.
I joined my fellow Conservatives in voting against this report. (Written statement abbreviated in accordance with Rule 149)
