EU-Canada trade relations (debate) The next item is the debate on the question to the Commission on EU-Canada trade relations, by Vital Moreira, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade - B7-0213/2011).
Madam President, as Chair of Parliament's Committee on International Trade, it falls to me to table an oral question to the Commission concerning the negotiation of an economic and trade agreement with Canada.
We therefore believe this oral question and the developments that it may entail to be of particular importance.
Madam President, Commissioner de Gucht is currently absent and has asked me to make the following statement in response to the parliamentary question from Vital Moreira.
Within the framework of trade relations between the two partners, important offensive and defensive agricultural interests, among other things, are at risk.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Madam President, my group can see many benefits in an ambitious, comprehensive, economic trade agreement with Canada.
That said, if we find that the final text deals with these issues and is ambitious in reducing tariffs on EU spirits, on EU machinery, on EU automobiles and other areas, we will be happy to back such a free trade agreement.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution tabled by the Committee on International Trade clearly expresses support for the ongoing negotiations with Canada on concluding the comprehensive economic and trade agreement.
The private sector in the European Union and Canada has also expressed strong support for concluding such a comprehensive agreement, even though a number of challenges still remain, taking into account the lofty ambitions declared during the negotiations.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, as others have mentioned, Canada is indeed a solid trading partner for the EU.
The investment chapter would, outrageously, give corporations the right to sue governments when social or environmental policies cut across their profiteering.
Canada's tar sands have become a playground for big oil companies like BP, Total and Shell.
As far as the British national interest is concerned, the coalition government consistently neglects trade relations with the Commonwealth, of which Canada is a founder member.
To paraphrase the commentator, Ruth Lea: because the Trade Commissioner negotiates trade deals for the whole of the EU, the brutal truth is that EU membership constrains Britain's economic prospects. (DE) Madam President, we can be extremely pleased that our long-standing relations with Canada, one of our oldest and closest trading partners worldwide, have been defined by common roots and values.
As we know, in recent decades, a whole series of framework agreements for trade and economic relations have been concluded, from sectoral agreements right through to the most diverse trade initiatives.
The EU-Canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement (CETA), with regard to which there are probably only the last few minor details that need to be worked out, will probably enter into force in the near future.
If the experts prove to be right, the conclusion of the CETA could increase bilateral trade between the European Union and Canada by 20% by 2014.
That is what I see as the biggest threat, in other words, that conflicts concerning various side issues take the focus away from the main issue.
Also, from a general point of view, the chapter on investment must respect both parties' right to legislate in areas such as the environment, public health, employee and consumer rights, industrial policy and cultural diversity, among others.
It goes without saying that we should lay down clear environmental requirements in these free trade agreements.
As a result of this piece of legislation, amongst other things, the market pretty much collapsed, as the number of animals killed fell from 217 000 in 2008 to 38 000 this year, while the price of fur also fell from USD 100 in 2006 to USD 15 in 2009.
Taking all of these important matters into account, I believe that our economic relations will achieve their full potential because they are supported by both sides.
That is because we are talking about the Boreal forests, about a quarter of the world's virgin forests, and this mining activity will put those forests and local biodiversity and first nations at risk. (RO) Madam President, I think that EU-Canada trade relations are at a crossroads at the moment.
The EU has established its environmental standards in accordance with Member States' requirements.
Now free trade agreements, bilateral agreements, are the norm at this point in time and I think we have much more in common with Canada than any differences.
But the bottom line is - and nobody referred to it other than the Commissioner - that there is a EUR 20 billion benefit to both economies here if we can work out a free trade agreement.
It is worth trying. (GA) Thank you, Madam President. (DE) Madam President, I would like to congratulate the Commission on conducting these negotiations so intensively.
At the end of the day, this is about trade relations, and I believe that environmental and social issues clearly also need to be regulated in separate agreements.
Commissioner Geoghegan-Quinn, perhaps you could provide some impetus here to get a tar sands research programme put in place alongside this trade agreement. (CS) Madam President, Commissioner, I broadly support the reservations voiced by my colleagues from the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection.
The question is whether they can be resolved in this agreement or, as Mr Rübig said, whether other agreements are necessary.
I am asking you to take this issue seriously. (RO) Madam President, Canada is currently the European Union's 11th biggest trade partner, with trade relations between the European Union and Canada accounting for 1.6% of the EU's total external trade in 2010.
I would therefore like to ask what the trade agreement's impact will be on other agreements already signed between the European Union and Canada. (RO) Madam President, I, too, wish to emphasise how important it is to conclude the negotiation of the European Union-Canada economic and trade agreement, thereby strengthening trade and economic links, which are already considerable, and yielding beneficial effects.
The consequences are also well known: the domination of markets by a few, an impact on weaker production systems, and increasing pretexts for attacks on rights, and on working and living conditions. (SK) Madam President, the European Union engages in negotiations on trade and economic agreements with all influential countries, within the bounds of its competence.
Although Canada has a strong presence in international trade, and is one of the European Union's oldest trading partners, we must proceed very sensitively and constructively as we finalise the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada.
Our divergent positions on areas such as drug policy, fisheries policy and the production of oil from tar sands need to be set out in the agreement in such a way as to represent European Union policy while respecting the views of our trading partner.
However, the comprehensive economic and trade agreement should by no means diminish Europe's established and accepted certification parameters.
As I mentioned in the introduction, this agreement is hugely beneficial to our two economies and not just in material terms.
In this context, the Commission takes careful note, welcomes the resolution to be adopted by Parliament on EU-Canada trade relations and is grateful for its general support.
The debate is closed.
The EU-Canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement (CETA) could be very advantageous for both trading partners.
Discussions of tricky subjects like extraction from tar sands and the associated environmental impact, ILO standards, as well as the recognition of technical standards and the traceability of food products, must also continue on equal terms in order to reach a consensus.
It is only natural, therefore, that this relationship should be formalised via a comprehensive trade agreement.
Regarding the chapter on public works contracts, lastly, Canada must grant the EU the same access it granted the United States under their trade agreement; in other words, European businesses must be able to tender for contracts in the provinces, regions and certain municipalities.
