Implementation of the first railway package directives (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Brian Simpson, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the implementation of the first railway package (Directives 2001/12/EC, 2001/13/EC and 2001/14/EC) - B7-0204/2010) author. - Mr President, I do not think I will pull my punches here tonight in regard to this particular oral question on the implementation of the first railway package.
We are now demanding to know what aspects in each failing Member State of each directive have not been enacted.
We need to know why certain Member States have not correctly implemented these directives.
We want to know which Member States are still resisting the concept of fair competition in the railway sector and deliberately protecting their own national companies.
If you add to this various national measures such as rolling stock taxes, then you have to question whether certain Member States ever intended to implement these directives in the first place.
The report on rail market monitoring which the Commission published at the end of 2009 shows that the progressive decline of the railways since the 1970s has been stopped in all market segments after the opening of the market and adoption of the first package.
So there are some positive notes as well.
The first line of approach - infringement procedures - required a detailed analysis of the legal situation in all the 25 Member States that have railway systems and resulted in the reasoned opinions that were sent out in 2009.
In 2003, we decided that the transposition should be completed in 2006 and now, in 2010, we are asking why 21 countries are not doing what they themselves have put their signature to.
Today, we are in a position in which - whether we are for or against liberalisation in this area - we have to assess this liberalisation and we are faced with the problem that it has largely not been transposed.
It is, in fact, shameful that 21 states are still setting up obstacles.
As we all know, in 21 Member States, including the Czech Republic, there has been no proper implementation of the first railway package, while questions remain unresolved relating, in particular, to the opening of railway markets to economic competition.
No wonder 21 countries are too wise to get caught in an EU rail web leading to mayhem on all stations to Brussels.
Brian Simpson, who is responsible for this debate, is a member of the Labour Party.
The one thing that we can be sure of is that there is fat chance that this EU directive will be accepted, as it will derail the EU rail network. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I welcome the review of the transposition of the first railway package and the planned recast.
The initiatives already taken in this connection have shown that there are still many hurdles to be overcome and that the Commission would do well to first of all carry out a complete technical harmonisation and ensure the thorough transposition of the directives adopted. (RO) Rail transport must be a priority in the EU's transport policy up to 2020, supporting such objectives as opening up competition, improving the national networks' interoperability and safety and developing the rail transport infrastructure.
The ERTMS was implemented at the end of last year along approximately 2 700 km of railway lines in the European Union and it will be implemented along 24 000 km of railway lines by 2020.
This means huge investment is required, and we are expecting, Commissioner, new solutions and financial instruments that are capable of providing the necessary funding, as well as investment in the appropriate modernisation of the rolling stock. (PL) In my country, we have a saying, a proverb, which says that if one person tells you that you are drunk, you do not have to worry about it, but when five people tell you that you are drunk, you had better go to bed, lie down and go to sleep.
If only one or two Member States had not introduced this first package, we would be able to impose sanctions today and fulminate in this Chamber, but if twenty-something Member States have not introduced this package, then perhaps the package - to put it mildly - is not the best.
However, it is definitely in our common interest to have well-organised transport and a well-operating rail transport structure as a meaningful alternative, in particular, to road transport, which undoubtedly places a very significant burden on our environment.
And therefore, if high-speed rail lines could be successfully extended from Paris to Vienna and Bratislava in the near future and, at the same time, a wide-gauge line could be extended from Čierna and Tisou at the Ukrainian border to Bratislava and Vienna, then three different railway systems - classic rail, high-speed and wide-gauge - would meet at a section between Bratislava and Vienna.
We only need to look at the investment opportunities and possibly toward making the rules more precise, as well as investing in new projects to support rail transport so that it will become more profitable and better able to serve the citizens of Europe. ). - (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this period, we have been talking a great deal about transport planning and we will be talking about it in the next period as well.
I believe that it is discouraging to begin with the revision of the first package in light of what has happened up to now.
The second key point is interoperability between the Member States and between the various internal modes of railway transport.
Yet I would ask you this, Commissioner: when an outlying country is separated from Europe by a mountain range more than 500 kilometres in length - the Pyrenees - which railways can only cross at either end and which requires the axles to be changed on every train that crosses the border, on account of the different track width passed on to us by a long history of autarchies, what can possibly be the incentive for other operators to cross the border with France when there are so many obstacles?
We must change that system and improve interoperability.
However, the fact that the transposition of the three directives included in the package caused serious problems for 21 Member States created a serious difficulty which could hinder the proper transposition of any further packages.
A problem for the proper functioning of the railway market in the new Member States and, in turn, a factor which restricts liberalisation of the market, is the incorrect financing of the railways, in other words, a lack of sufficient means to maintain the railway infrastructure.
