Explanations of vote Oral explanations of the vote (SK) Mr President, I would like to talk about the vote on the bilateral safeguard clause.
I support the adoption of the regulation on the implementation of a safeguard clause concerning free trade between the EU and Korea.
I also support all amendment proposals calling on the Commission to monitor the proper and timely implementation of this legal instrument in order to prevent serious damage to industries in the European Union, and to take account of the legitimate interests of Member States regarding the specific economic situation in certain sectors of manufacturing industry.
The six countries are calling for a more effective and strategic defence of European foreign trade, because the very existence and development of the European economic and social model are at stake.
The six countries point out that the European Union has opened up 80% of its market to third countries, while the other major developed economies have only opened up 20% of theirs.
This problem has brought many of our small and medium-sized enterprises to their knees, because they are suffering from unfair competition that stops them from being competitive in the markets.
Mr President, I come from Prato, a town that was once considered one of the most important textile areas in Europe.
All these reasons have led us to vote against this agreement. (SK) Mr President, in the framework of the revision of budgetary guarantees provided to the European Investment Bank (EIB) by the European Union, I support particularly those elements, which have been designed to boost the momentum of this institution.
In order to improve access to financial resources for poorer groups in the eligible countries, an additional grant of EUR 500 million should be allocated to the EIB immediately to finance micro-credits. (IT) Mr President, I voted against the report, since I find it unacceptable that we should be supporting investment in third countries instead of facilitating investment for European small and medium-sized enterprises, which really form the most important economic fabric of the Union.
Moreover, there is no guarantee of transparency when the European Investment Bank (EIB) grants Union guarantees and finance to third countries.
Our abstention confirms that we are in favour of a free market, but one that includes the necessary guarantees, whereas we are against the conclusion of trade agreements that do not sufficiently guarantee the rules of competition. (SK) Mr President, the EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement will bring innumerable benefits to European industry, businesses, entrepreneurs and employees.
Goods and products placed on the European market must comply with all standards of the European Union, and I welcome the establishment of a monitoring committee for the motor industry, which should help prevent so-called hidden protectionism through new technical barriers to trade.
I am therefore in favour of granting final approval to the agreement in question, provided that a bilateral safeguard mechanism will be created as well, in order to prevent possible serious damage to Member State industries, or even the threat of such damage. (GA) Mr President, I voted for this Agreement; I followed it from the beginning and was glad that it was accepted today.
At the same time, he said that 90% of these agreements are not worth a pin.
Be that as it may, I welcome the opportunity it provides for agricultural products, especially whiskey, pork and dairy products.
Therefore, I am very pleased that it was accepted. (DA) Mr President, I think it is a really splendid agreement that has been finalised here today, and I only regret that there are some people who believed that they could protect inefficient European enterprises by saying 'no' to this agreement.
I would also just like to point out today that the EFTA countries have had a free trade agreement since 2006, and this has resulted, among other things, in Norway tripling its exports to South Korea since 2006.
If we want to help the Egyptian people, we should be ready to counter these reactionary views of the unfolding of history. (PL) Mr President, Egypt is an important economic and commercial partner of the European Union.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, and in doing so I expressed my hope for a rapid stabilisation of the political situation in Egypt and further development of good relations with the countries of Europe.
Not long ago, we witnessed shameful events relating to discrimination against Coptic Christians, and this makes concentrating EU diplomatic efforts on stabilisation and law and order in Egypt an essential condition for mutual relations to develop properly.
It is also necessary to make every effort to ensure that the coming elections are held in a way which does not attract criticism and which is in accord with democratic standards. (DE) Mr President, we enthusiastically support the movement for democracy in Egypt, but it is important to realise that free elections are not enough.
We need an integrated approach in order to give the people prospects - a kind of Mediterranean Plan, a kind of Marshall Plan for North Africa and Egypt.
This will involve giving people social prospects, strengthening education policy, strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises, ensuring that criminality and corruption are combated and above all, initiating close cooperation in the area of energy policy, where in the area of solar energy North Africa and Europe have a lot to offer each other.
While we have rightly expressed our support for the popular desire for an open society, we should be aware of the complex, and yet unsolved, problems in Egypt and in the Middle East.
The EU has yet to formulate a proper policy towards the new developments in North Africa.
Egypt needs our support, but we need an Egypt ruled by law and human dignity.
This proves that we should be well prepared, and stand our ground. (FI) Mr President, the motion for a resolution is good, and it adopts a position in favour of democratic and peaceful forces of change.
Perhaps, though, it is worth remembering and acknowledging that for 30 years the EU and the West have supported Mubarak.
Now the EU needs to find ways, including financial measures, to boost its support for civil society actors, both in Egypt and in other undemocratic countries in Africa and the Arab world.
The arms trade ought to be in line with international agreements on human rights and humanitarian treaties. (SK) Mr President, Egypt is at the beginning of its democratisation process.
Europe should certainly assist Egypt in this, and I believe that we will find ways of preventing Egypt from taking one direction in a totalitarian manner, for instance through an extreme step toward a militant Muslim movement which does not respect democratic rules and which would hinder democratic elections and the application of civil society.
I believe that Egypt will uphold its international agreements with its neighbours, including Israel, even under these new conditions, and that it will be a society which treats all of its citizens fairly, including non-Muslims, and including Christians. (DE) Mr President, this motion for a resolution represents another important step in the right direction, but no more than that.
However, as Commissioner Hahn proposed, people are now talking about a strategy for the Danube region rather than a Danube strategy, because this is not just about cleaning up the river - as important as that is - but is about cooperation across a major region that extends from Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg through the former Austria-Hungary and across large parts of the Balkans.
I particularly welcome Articles 36 to 40, which deal with culture and the involvement of civil society, because without these the strategy for the Danube region will not be a success. (PL) Mr President, for many years, it has been clear that the legal system in Russia is not infrequently in conflict with the standards of international conventions and human rights.
The majority of cases which come before the Court of Justice and here in Strasbourg are brought against Russia.
I would like to express my anxiety concerning the Russian authorities in relation to the dramatic situation on human rights and the restrictions placed on civil society there.
However, as a result of compromises, paragraph 8 has become too ambiguous and non-committal.
The EU must take concrete measures to show that it is serious about the need for a real improvement of the rule of law situation in Russia.
I have been a close observer of political developments and the situation as regards the rule of law in Russia for many years now.
During the visit I had a first-hand opportunity to observe how the rule of law is upheld in Russia when attending the trial of the former Yukos boss, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, and his business associate, Platon Lebedev.
The trial of Khodorkovsky and Lebedev is only the most conspicuous of many examples of the selective application of the rule of law in Russia, which means that there is no genuine rule of law.
If Russia wants to be a strategic partner of the EU it must follow a path of comprehensive modernisation.
To this extent we need to be highly critical; naturally we must maintain a dialogue, but we also need to ensure that the rule of law prevails.
That has nothing whatsoever to do with the rule of law. (RO) Mr President, I voted for this motion for a resolution.
The Structural Funds and the basic principles of cohesion policy, such as an integrated approach, multi-level governance and real partnership, are key elements in achieving the EU 2020 Strategy's objectives, which also means that they must be fully integrated into it.
I agree that we need an ambitious social agenda which will include combating poverty and social exclusion.
The brake on the real economy caused by financial malpractice must be released as quickly as possible to enable the single market to resume its development.
This calls for an integrated response from the international community.
The wholehearted involvement of the EU in issues of global food security is urgently required.
The resolution approved today is a first step in the right direction.
The resolution states that the right to food is a fundamental human right and makes several useful recommendations.
I would like to focus in particular on an industry which, alongside others, is also a source of food production - fishing.
The fishing industry is one which supplies the EU and world market with a substantial amount of food.
Excessive liberalisation of this market may lead to its collapse, and as a consequence to the loss of this source of food in Europe.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution and I would hope that the EU High Representative, Baroness Ashton, will make food security and all its various aspects one of the priorities of the EU's foreign policy.
Obviously, too, Parliament and the EU as a whole should support her in this.
It is important that people should have food, that people should be able to buy food, and that, here in the EU, we should obviously also discuss the need to end the food scandals. (PL) Mr President, a billion of the world's people are suffering hunger.
This situation has been caused, in addition, by the general economic crisis, and it is now even more necessary to make a concerted effort to find fair ways of distributing food products on a global scale.
Unfortunately, it is being forgotten in the European Union that the common agricultural policy is principally a policy intended to secure the supply of high quality food at a suitable price to all European consumers, with a guarantee of a decent return for farmers.
It is also essential to put an end to speculative activities in the market.
It is reprehensible that capital groups are condemning millions of people across the world to suffer hunger.
Written explanations of vote I voted for this report because the safeguard clause provides for the possibility of re-imposing the most-favoured-mation rate when imports increase to such an extent - either in absolute terms or in relation to domestic production - that they could undermine industry in the European Union, which is in direct competition with imported products.
I therefore agree with the introduction of this safeguard clause, and recall that following the Treaty of Lisbon the European Parliament has powers of codecision with the Council.
in writing. - I voted for the Zalba Bidegain report on a bilateral safeguard clause in the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of South Korea because it adequately protects the increase in trade with Korea that is brought about by the Free Trade Agreement.
The bilateral safeguard mechanism will permit the EU to revert to the prior MFN rates of duty if this agreement even threatens to damage our industry.
This is an extremely important vote for the European Union's new international trade strategy.
In fact, the Free Trade Agreement with South Korea is the first example of a new generation of agreements that aim at lowering trade and non-trade barriers and expanding investment prospects in the partner country.
Those concerns have now been partly dissipated, not least due to Parliament's work on the attached regulation on the safeguard clause annexed to the agreement and to a clarification by the South Korean Government on the amendments to internal legislation on carbon emissions.
Today, therefore, we confirmed the vote of the Committee on International Trade in order to allow the procedure to be completed, given that the Council has already agreed to it.
in writing. - (LT) On 23 April 2007, the Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations with the Republic of Korea with a view to concluding an EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement.
The agreement incorporates a bilateral safeguard clause that provides for the possibility of re-imposing the most-favoured-nation (MFN) rate when, as a result of trade liberalisation, imports increase to such an extent and take place under such conditions as to cause, or threaten to cause, serious injury to the EU industry producing a similar or directly competing product.
The proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council that is before us constitutes the legal instrument required for implementation of the safeguard clause in the EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement.
in writing. - UKIP wants the UK to leave the European Union and retain friendly trading links through a UK-EU Free Trade Agreement, similar to that with non-EU Switzerland and Norway.
I voted in favour of this EU-South Korea Free Trade Agreement as it can be a model and a template for a future UK-EU Free Trade Agreement, and because it demonstrates that tariff-free and favourable trading access to the EU can be achieved without the UK (or South Korea) being a member of the EU.
I voted in favour of this South Korea/EU Free Trade Agreement as it can be a model and a template for a future UK/EU Free Trade Agreement, and as it demonstrates tariff-free and favourable trading access to the EU can be achieved without the UK (or South Korea) being a member of the EU.
This is especially the case for the UK, which is the largest single trading partner with the EU.
I voted for this report because I believe that the bilateral safeguard clause can guarantee that industry in the European Union, which produces a similar or directly competing products would not be damaged as a result of trade liberalisation by the Republic of Korea.
This clause should also function as an instrument to which European industry can turn to prevent serious losses, or to enable it to adapt to unfavourable situations, resulting from the volatility of the international market.
In relation to the conclusion of the process of adopting the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and Korea, the European Commission has drafted a proposal for a regulation on a safeguard clause that would ensure the reintroduction of customs tariffs if increased imports of a specific product put the related industry at serious risk.
The number of amendments of which the Commission's proposal has been the subject seems to reflect a certain lack of clarity in its wording, as well as the Members' desire to protect various interests.
I hope that the resolution that we have adopted today will contribute to improving the original text, and that the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and Korea will be established in a way that enables a significant increase in trade between the two markets, as is expected.
This report concerns a proposal for regulation of the European Parliament and the Council, which applies to the bilateral clause of the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and Korea.
This agreement was concluded on 15 October 2009 and includes a safeguard clause guaranteeing the reinstatement of tariffs when imports increase to such an extent as to damage industry in the European Union (EU) which produces competing products.
In order for it to be possible to apply this measure, it is necessary for it to be incorporated into EU legislation.
I welcome the adoption of this proposal, which introduces increased guarantees for European companies, and I hope that the European Union will receive periodic reports to assess compliance with these safeguard mechanisms.
Our position in the vote on this report should be considered in the light of the profoundly negative assessment that we have made of the signing of this Free Trade Agreement.
The particular goal of the bilateral safeguard clause is to enable the EU to re-impose most-favoured-nation (MFN) customs duties if it is proven that liberalisation resulting from the agreement could cause serious injury to EU industries.
We have serious doubts as to whether this mechanism will be enough to protect small producers or small and medium-sized enterprises, which will find it very difficult to stay afloat in a liberalised market; to prevent the decimation of their production capacity and, consequently, the loss of many jobs.
The solution ought to be to prevent the consequences that are currently being anticipated, not to remedy them in this way.
I am a clear advocate of such safeguard clauses and I therefore voted in favour of the report.
During this sitting, this House has expressed its opinion on the EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement and has adopted the report on the bilateral safeguard clause of said agreement.
My opinion and my vote on the latter are positive.
It would be beneficial to update these safeguard clauses in that respect as well because, although it is a fact that agricultural trade with Korea is worth approximately EUR 1 billion every year, it is also true that removing or at least limiting those barriers would enable us to defend our products and farmers in the best possible way.
in writing. - I welcome this regulation, which incorporates a bilateral safeguard clause into the EU-South Korea Free Trade Agreement providing for the possibility of re-imposing the most-favoured-nation (MFN) rate when, as a result of trade liberalisation, imports increase to such an extent - in absolute terms or in relation to domestic production - and take place under such conditions as to cause, or threaten to cause, serious injury to the EU industry producing a similar or directly competing product.
The proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council for which I voted provided the legal instrument required for implementation of the safeguard clause in the EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement.
On 23 April 2007, the Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations with the Republic of Korea with a view to concluding a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) between the European Union (EU) and this country.
The agreement was initialled on 15 October 2009.
The bilateral safeguard clause incorporated into this agreement, which provides for the possibility of re-imposing the most-favoured-nation (MFN) rate when, as a result of trade liberalisation, imports increase to such an extent - in absolute terms or in relation to domestic production - and take place under such conditions as to cause, or threaten to cause, serious injury to the Union industry that produces similar or directly competing products, is very important for maintaining healthy competition that is not damaging to either party.
The proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council under consideration constitutes the legal instrument for implementing the safeguard clause in the EU-Korea FTA.
Various sectors of the economy, such as textiles and agriculture, will be seriously damaged by this agreement, and the very fact that this clause needs to be included is proof of that.
in writing. - (DE) The Free Trade Agreement between the EU and North Korea contains a bilateral safeguard clause under which the most-favoured-nation duty rate can be reintroduced if, as a result of a liberalisation of trade flows, a product is imported in such increased volumes - either in absolute terms or in comparison with domestic production - and under such conditions as to cause or threaten to cause significant damage to a branch of the economy in the EU that produces equivalent or directly competing goods.
The report contains important proposals for ensuring that this safeguard clause can actually be implemented in serious cases in order to avoid substantial damage to EU industry.
I therefore voted in favour of this report.
The report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council implementing the bilateral safeguard clause of the EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement is, in my view, an important instrument designed to defend European production in sectors that are currently in danger of incurring serious difficulties because of the rise in imports from Korea.
This situation, a consequence of the entry into force of the EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement, should provide for all customs barriers to be gradually and fully removed on a bilateral basis.
I therefore voted in favour of this proposal, since its adoption is a necessary condition for the above-mentioned agreement to enter into force as planned on 1 July 2011.
Safeguarding the free trade agreements between the two parties is essential for an increase in products made in Europe.
I voted for this report because I consider the introduction of a bilateral safeguard clause to the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union (EU) and Korea to be very positive.
This clause provides for the possibility of re-imposing the most-favoured-nation (MFN) rate when, as a result of trade liberalisation, imports increase to such an extent - in absolute terms or in relation to domestic production - and under such conditions as to cause, or threaten to cause, serious damage to the Union's industry producing similar or directly competing products.
I hope that the European Commission will monitor the implementation of this agreement and check compliance with this safeguard mechanism.
The far-reaching EU-Korea FTA sets a dangerous precedent for future EU trade policy, going far beyond mere tariff elimination to include sweeping market access provisions at the expense of social and environmental standards.
Among the more odious provisions of the agreement, the EU succeeded in pushing Korea to massage its rules on CO2 emissions from vehicles in order to allow European car makers to export more big gas-guzzling cars to Korea.
Worse, the EU is trying to spin this environmental loophole as allowing Europe's car industry laggards to 'compete fairly' in the Korean market with smaller, cleaner and more efficient Korean cars.
In fact, it is predicted that this agreement's entry into force in July this year is liable to leave the European internal market in difficulties.
I am pleased to note that it will be possible to introduce specific measures even when the increase in imports into Europe is concentrated just in certain areas.
This provision takes up the Italian request to introduce a genuine 'regional safeguard clause', applicable only in certain regions of the European Union.
Shutting ourselves off from the international market today is a mere pipe dream: it is not only impossible but it would also be damaging.
It assumes, however, that any opening must be balanced and gradual and takes account of the European Union's internal requirements.
Protecting jobs remains a priority for Europe, as does the quality of the products placed on the market.
It will only be possible to build economic relations of benefit to both parties if these fundamental criteria are respected.
The introduction of this clause does not, of course, make us change our vote against the text of the Free Trade Agreement, which in any case will result in severe economic damage to our businesses.
In my view, it is a vital addition to the agreement, because it guarantees the reintroduction of customs duties in the event of a detrimental increase in imports of a particular product, and in this sense responds to the fears that we expressed during the debates held prior to its conclusion, in September 2009.
The reimposition of the most-favoured-nation rate can be requested by the Member States, the European Parliament or European associations representing the industry concerned, thus ensuring that companies have a real opportunity to react.
I am voting for this regulation because of the elements introduced in the new decision.
The European Investment Bank (EIB) can invest in projects essential to the EU: in particular, in combating climate change, in developing social, economic and environmental infrastructures, and in local business sector development.
Another element of this regulation that I consider to be pertinent is the fact that the EIB can support EU presence in third countries through foreign direct investment, contributing to the promotion of new technology and to knowledge transfer.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for this text because I think it is important for the EU to support the EIB with the aim of extending the funding of investment projects in third countries in order to achieve the European Union's foreign policy objectives.
In addition, we must support the reform efforts which this country has recently undertaken.
At the same time, one main objective of EU foreign policy, in accordance with Article 21(2) of the Treaty on European Union, is independence.
Consequently, the development of economic and political relations with the main suppliers, Iraq, Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan, is vital, and this decision contributes to this.
This decision aims to keep the mandate of the European Investment Bank (EIB) in place, specifically as regards the guarantee provided by the European Union against losses resulting from loans and guarantees for projects outside the European Union.
Under this decision, the EIB's mandate is also expanded in terms of competences, with new elements introduced that aim to direct the EIB's activities toward investment in projects that contribute to combating climate change, to developing social, economic and environmental infrastructure, and to developing the local private sector, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises (SME).
This report is on a proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council granting a guarantee from the European Union (EU) to the European Investment Bank (EIB) against losses under loans and guarantees for projects outside the European Union.
In addition to financing projects in the European Union, since 1963 the EIB has undertaken financing operations in outside regions, so contributing to the implementation of EU external objectives as regards cohesion and development policy.
Therefore, so that there would not be a vacuum after October 2011, the parties initiated a series of meetings aimed at a consensus that would enable its adoption by the European Parliament and would not interrupt the aid granted by the EIB after that date.
I agree with this proposal because it reflects better cooperation between the EU and EIB; it contributes to the struggle to eradicate poverty; it stimulates small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as local communities; it introduces greater transparency; it promotes sound practices at the EIB; it increases funding for projects combating climate change; and it makes countries that do not pay attention to environmental issues ineligible.
The decision of Parliament and of the Council intends to grant a European Union (EU) guarantee to the European Investment Bank (EIB) against losses under loans and guarantees for projects outside the EU.
The objectives of these EIB projects, currently being carried out in a number of countries on different continents, focus on development cooperation and aid.
Where these objectives and the projects that serve them relate to genuine cooperation, taking into account the interests, priorities and specific conditions of the countries where they are taking place, we value them, naturally.
I am taking advantage of the vote on this report on EIB financing of projects outside the European Union to denounce a very serious matter to which European shipbuilders have drawn our attention: that a public bank is financing the construction of vessels in Korea by a shipyard which charges rock-bottom prices and which benefited from a public bail out a few years ago.
The Commission and the Member States must react.
In addition to its core mission of financing investment in the European Union, the European Investment Bank (EIB) has, since 1963, undertaken financing operations outside the EU in support of the EU's external policies, particularly in the field of development cooperation.
The aim of the proposed EU guarantee for the 2011-2013 period is to allow the EIB to finance investments outside the EU without affecting its credit rating.
The proposal also contains a number of new elements, for example activation of the EUR 2 billion 'optional mandate' for combating climate change in line with the Europe 2020 Strategy, the introduction of new horizontal goals, and the expansion of the group of countries eligible for EIB loans.
The proposal also calls for greater transparency, the evaluation of concrete results and the involvement of the European Court of Auditors in auditing the transactions in question.
The proposal rightly includes arrangements for the EIB to act in such matters in accordance with the principles of aid effectiveness outlined in the European Consensus on Development and also Article 208 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Paris Declaration of 2005 and the Accra Agenda for Action of 2008.
in writing. - I voted for the Kalfin report on the new external mandate of the European Investment Bank (EIB), providing for an increase in its budget from EUR 27.8 billion to EUR 29.567 billion until the end of 2013 and expanding its fields of competence to climate change action and the advancement of development goals for countries outside the EU.
The European Union provides the European Investment Bank (EIB) with a budgetary guarantee to cover risks of a political and sovereign nature in connection with its loan and loan guarantee operations for projects carried out outside the EU.
This EU guarantee is an effective means of combining EU budgetary funds with the EIB's own resources, while ensuring that the EIB's financial health is not affected.
The development of its external action will now have to be reflected in an increase in the volume and quality of loans and a diversification of new recipients (local authorities).
On the question of internal organisation, the EIB should gradually be encouraged to divide up all its external activities on a geographic basis so as to better adapt to the specific requirements of each area and promote the participation of partner countries.
It proposes that we support such harmful projects as Desertec and Invest in Med.
In so doing, the EIB contributes to the general guiding principles and policy objectives of the European Union, including the development of third countries and the prosperity of the Union in the changed global economic climate.
The EIB operations in support of the Union's external policies must continue to be conducted in accordance with the principles of sound banking practices.
The majority of its operations in external regions have benefited from an EU budgetary guarantee administered by the Commission with a view to supporting the EU's external action, and enabling the EIB to finance investments outside the EU without affecting its credit standing.
This additional guarantee makes it possible for the EIB to continue with its investment policy, which is of great benefit to the world economy.
To support the EU's foreign policy the European Investment Bank also finances projects outside the territory of the EU, such as in the area of development cooperation.
This report is about a proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council granting an EU guarantee to the European Investment Bank (EIB) against losses under loans and guarantees for projects outside the European Union.
In fact, the EIB also finances projects in outside regions, contributing to the realisation of EU external objectives as regards cohesion and development policy.
This proposal reflects better cooperation between the EU and EIB; it contributes to the struggle to eradicate poverty; it stimulates small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as local communities; it introduces greater transparency; it promotes sound practices at the EIB; it increases funding for projects combating climate change; and it makes countries that disregard environmental issues ineligible.
I am voting for this report and I support the strengthening of the EIB's external mission, which I would like to see accompanied by enhanced parliamentary oversight, in order to uphold the democratic legitimacy of the EIB's operations.
The EIB should step up its reporting back to Parliament on all aspects under its external mandate, from overall policy to practical implementation, including assessment of social, environmental and human rights criteria.
The vast majority of eligible countries under the EIB's external mandate are developing countries.
In addition to its core mission of financing investment in the European Union itself, the European Investment Bank (EIB) undertakes financing operations outside the European Union in support of the EU's external policies.
This allows the EU budget funds available to the external regions to be complemented by the financial strength of the EIB for the benefit of beneficiary countries.
In so doing, the EIB contributes to the general guiding principles and policy objectives of the European Union, including the development of third countries and the EU's prosperity in the changed global economic circumstances.
The EIB's operations in support of the Union's external policies must continue to be conducted in accordance with the principles of sound banking practice.
The goal of the document in question, voted on today in the European Parliament, is to ensure the granting of an European Union guarantee to the European Investment Bank (EIB) against losses under loans and guarantees for projects outside the European Union.
The ceiling set for the EIB under this guarantee is EUR 27.8 billion for the remainder of the current period, 2007-2013.
In addition to this aspect, Parliament's proposal seeks certain amendments to improve the EIB's work outside the EU, such as the activation of EUR 2 billion available for combating climate change.
Improving access to EIB financing for small and medium-sized enterprises (SME), increasing the transparency of its operations, and introducing greater flexibility in terms of risk-capital investment are other new measures proposed by Parliament.
The intention is also to replace the current system of regional objectives with a programme of horizontal objectives, and to implement a mandate for relations with countries such as Iceland, Libya, Iraq and Cambodia.
I support the European Parliament's position and the external activity of the EIB, although I would stress the regrettable fact that financing projects outside the European Union often harms competitiveness within the EU in cases of direct competition.
in writing. - (DE) Through its financing outside the Union the European Investment Bank makes a contribution to the realisation of EU foreign policy.
Moreover, the report calls for comprehensive obligations in respect of information and transparency for citizens, Parliament and the Commission.
The rights of Parliament have been taken into consideration, which is something that I also consider to be absolutely essential.
in writing. - (SK) The European Union has a commitment to solidarity, which arises directly from our Christian heritage.
Even those who would like to eliminate Christianity from the public space recognize that the EU must contribute to development aid.
The European Investment Bank (EIB) has become an important instrument of the Union for eradicating poverty in less developed regions.
On the other hand, it should remain a bank, that is, an institution, which does not spend the funds entrusted on it, but invests them effectively.
I therefore voted in favour of the report on providing a guarantee to the EIB.
I am voting for this recommendation as the South Korean market offers new trade opportunities, not least in the agricultural and service sectors.
The most important factor in this agreement is the safeguard clause without which I could not have voted for it.
The bilateral safeguard mechanism will permit the EU to revert to the prior MFN rates of duty if this agreement even threatens to damage our industry.
In fact, the Free Trade Agreement with South Korea is the first example of a new generation of agreements that aim at lowering trade and non-trade barriers and expanding investment prospects in the partner country.
As soon as it was signed in October 2009, the agreement was received with fierce criticism from the European motor industry, which felt it was being severely penalised by certain clauses conceded to the Korean partner, duty drawback in particular.
Those concerns have now been partly dissipated, not least due to Parliament's work on the attached regulation on the safeguard clause annexed to the agreement and to a clarification by the South Korean Government on the amendments to internal legislation on carbon emissions.
Today, therefore, we confirmed the vote of the Committee on International Trade in order to allow the procedure to be completed, given that the Council has already agreed to it.
The Free Trade Agreement between the EU and South Korea will yield immediate, general benefits for many economic sectors in the EU, even though it will highlight the vulnerability of some.
The Korean market obviously offers significant opportunities for EU goods and services, but has remained until now relatively closed off due to high tariffs and costly non-tariff barriers.
The agreement will succeed in quickly removing almost EUR 2 billion worth of EU export duties levied annually on exporters of industrial and agricultural products.
The benefits will become even more evident in the agricultural and services sectors as Korea is one of the most valuable export markets in the world for EU farmers, with annual sales in excess of EUR 1 billion.
Against this background, all that remains for me is to welcome the adoption of the EU-Korea Agreement in the European Parliament, and I hope that there will be as many such free trade agreements as possible, starting with Canada and the US and ending with the BRIC states.
South Korea is the fourth most important market for the European Union's exports outside Europe.
It is positive in all senses and enables both parties to make significant gains.
European exports to South Korea are expected to increase by more than 80%.
Three years ago, the European Parliament adopted a resolution aiming to improve the European business sector's access to foreign markets.
We are now being called on to adopt a Free Trade Agreement that, in practice, makes it possible for the European Union's companies to access the South Korean market - which, as we know, is important for Europe - by increasing exports and so creating jobs.
As the first in a series of trade agreements to be established following the Treaty of Lisbon and the first use of codecision powers, this represents significant innovation as regards bilateral respect for International Labour Organisation (ILO) standards, compliance with legislation on public procurement, the transparency of state aid and the implementation of sustainable development.
I welcome the adoption of this report, which represents a set of new opportunities for the European Union - previously closed off due to the tariffs being applied and which defends business interests with the added value of the 'safeguard clause'; in other words, the re--imposition of customs duties.
However, the agreement also covers agricultural products, promoting intensive, environmentally unsustainable production models; models that are at odds with local production and consumption, which are needed to safeguard food sovereignty and safety.
We are faced with the largest free trade agreement concluded by the European Union in many years, which is now intended to function as a first step in concluding a 'new generation of bilateral new business agreements'.
The Commission's analysis of these agreements is always in terms of millions of euros earned by economic groups and multinationals.
It is important to do the same for the number of jobs lost, which the rapporteur assumes is inevitable; for the number of small and medium-sized enterprises which have gone bankrupt; or even for the number of tonnes of CO2 emitted because of the increased flows of energy and goods that these agreements involve.
I voted in favour of the report on the safeguard clause that accompanies the Free Trade Agreement with Korea, even though it seems inadequate and its implementation uncertain.
Opening our borders without protection to imports that are in direct competition with our products is suicidal, particularly in the automotive sector.
In particular, the agricultural sector can expect to save EUR 380 million in duty.
This opens up new export opportunities for our domestic farmers.
I voted in favour of the entry into force of the Free Trade Agreement.
I would like to add some comments in respect of my own position regarding the process for drafting the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) between the EU and the Republic of Korea, and the accompanying fears and expectations of the industries affected and other parties.
I welcome this FTA because it is the most comprehensive ever negotiated by the European Union.
I reject and regret the establishment of a Free Trade Agreement between the EU and Korea, as I consider that, being one of the major trade agreements signed by the EU in recent years, it deepens the negative consequences of the global liberalisation of trade by responding to the multi-millionaire interests of the big European multinationals without taking into account the serious economic, social, employment and environmental consequences of it being adopted under the terms given.
Therefore, as the rapporteur acknowledges, this agreement will mean the irreversible destruction of numerous jobs for thousands of workers in Europe, in very sensitive economic and strategic sectors such as agriculture or the textile industry.
I took care to familiarise myself with the agreements, and I consider that many of its clauses are incomplete and superficial.
In this context, there are parts that could be interpreted ambiguously.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Korea.
Firstly, in order to achieve more effective cooperation between the EU and Korea it is important to remove existing trade barriers, which have hitherto isolated the Korean market.
The entry into force of this agreement will create favourable conditions for economic growth and the creation of new jobs.
The Free Trade Agreement (FTA) concluded between the EU-27, on the one hand, and the Republic of Korea (South Korea), on the other, aims to improve European companies' access to the South Korean market through a series of unprecedented tariff liberalisations.
I voted in favour because the agreement is overall very positive and enables both parties to make significant gains, with European exports to South Korea expected to rise by more than 80%.
I hope that Portuguese companies too can make use of this window of opportunity, specifically in the agricultural and services sectors, areas in which the advantages are particularly impressive.
In fact, South Korea is currently one of the most profitable export markets in the world for European Union farmers, with annual sales in excess of EUR 1 billion.
The far-reaching EU-Korea FTA sets a dangerous precedent for future EU trade policy, going far beyond mere tariff elimination to include sweeping market access provisions at the expense of social and environmental standards.
Among the more odious provisions of the agreement, the EU succeeded in pushing Korea to massage its rules on CO2 emissions from vehicles in order to allow European car makers to export more big gas-guzzling cars to Korea.
Worse, the EU is trying to spin this environmental loophole as allowing Europe's car industry laggards to 'compete fairly' in the Korean market with smaller, cleaner and more efficient Korean cars.
Until now the South Korean market place has remained relatively closed off due to high tariff levies and costly non-tariff barriers, but it will soon be able to offer significant new opportunities for EU goods and services.
The removal of tariff barriers would play against the interests of our productive sectors.
Lastly, this agreement crowns the new generation of free trade agreements in that it contains a chapter on sustainable development which commits the two parties to respect ILO conventions, as well as provisions laying down conditions for the genuine involvement of civil society.
The EU-South Korea FTA is the most comprehensive and ambitious agreement of its type that the EU has concluded so far.
It covers many areas beneficial to EU producers and consumers, such as the elimination of tariffs on EU exports of industrial and agricultural goods, improved market access for EU services suppliers, the removal of non-tariff barriers in electronics, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, enhanced access to government procurement, protection of intellectual property rights, improved market access for EU car manufacturers and, very importantly and thanks to the safeguard clause, the protection of European car manufacturers against any imbalances that may occur in the sector in the future.
I hope this agreement will be a model for many other FTAs that are in prospect - with Canada, Singapore and MERCOSUR, for example.
At the same time, I congratulate Parliament on the use of its new powers, this being the first FTA to which we are giving our consent under the terms of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because the European Union (EU) needs to respond rapidly since Egypt can play a key role, both in efforts for peace in the Middle East and in reshaping mentalities in this region of the world.
In order to achieve this, I consider it essential that the EU review its neighbourhood policy.
We also need to mobilise and review current instruments so as to assist social, political and economic reforms, and strengthen cooperation with civil society organisations, inasmuch as events in Egypt and other countries have highlighted the need for policies and instruments that are more ambitious.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which I believe is fair and balanced.
The European Union must offer its support to Egypt so that the achievements of the revolution are not destroyed by a harsh economic and social crisis.
However, our role remains crucial.
Furthermore, these events should be an incentive for us to overhaul our partnership agreements so that we do not remain on the fringes of the movement.
The European Parliament must strive to ensure that our words and deeds are aligned in a comprehensible and identifiable European policy towards Egypt and the whole of the region.
There needs to be a dialogue with all the political and social forces that respect democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms.
These are fundamental principles of the European Union and constitute a common basis for the development of the Euro-Mediterranean area.
I call on the EU to revise its policy to support democracy and human rights, so as to create a mechanism for implementing the human rights clause in all agreements with third countries.
Secondly, I hope that the transition between Egypt's old regime and its future democracy will take place peacefully, sensitively, and with broad-based agreement between the various political, civilian, military and religious players in this important Middle Eastern country.
in writing. - (PT) In the same way as when the Berlin Wall came down, the international community and press, and even the leading countries' intelligence and security services, were taken by surprise by events that they were unable to predict, and which call into question many notions and theories on politics in the Middle East, as well as the region's very stability.
Its strategic importance puts Egypt right at the heart of this change and whatever takes places there will have a decisive influence on the region's other countries.
It is still far too early to say what direction will be taken by this force that led thousands of people onto the streets demanding the end of regimes that had been in power for decades in their respective countries.
Nevertheless, I believe that the European Union cannot be indifferent to its development or ignore what is happening on its borders.
We must seek to help those who are struggling to establish democracy and the rule of law, and who reject the dichotomy between militarised secular regimes or radical Islamist revolutionaries.
The EU now has a great task in monitoring the political and social transformations in Egypt, not least the revision of the Constitution, and the holding of free and fair elections without human rights violations.
However, it also has the obligation to support the Egyptian people with funding, so as to promote the necessary economic development.
I agree with this motion for a resolution and hope that the transition from a dictatorial to a democratic regime in Egypt takes place quickly and peacefully, as it is a nation that could play a crucial role as a mediator with a view to establishing lasting peace in the Middle East.
The majority of the European Parliament, which until now pointed to Egypt as an example of stability in the region, is now obliged to applaud the actions of the Egyptians aimed at breaking from this 'stability'.
The Egyptian people have demonstrated with great tenacity and combative unity that it is possible to achieve resignations, and move forward towards winning political and democratic freedoms, even in a country profoundly dominated by imperialist interests, particularly those of the United States, Israel and the United Kingdom.
Now that the geopolitical map of the Mediterranean and probably the balance of world power are changing, the European Union needs to bring its foreign policy up to date by reviewing and improving its strategy for providing political and financial assistance for democratic transition in countries, including support for the organisation of free elections.
The European Union should take action to support the Egyptian people with every financial assistance instrument as well as initiatives to promote democracy and defend human rights.
Similarly, we need to monitor the situation that has come about in the Mediterranean, particularly on the Italian coast, where 4 000 landings were recorded in just four days.
It is up to the EU to be proactive and aid in Egypt's political transition to a democratic system of governance.
Following the unprecedented wave of revolutionary movements currently sweeping through the countries of the southern Mediterranean and which, in Tunisia and Egypt, have led to the fall of the government, the European Union must rethink its vision and its relations with those countries.
Although it was a little late in coming, the joint motion for a resolution that we adopted today, Thursday 17 February 2011, was necessary, because it sends a strong message to the Egyptian people, by showing them that the European Union supports them in their aspirations and is ready to assist their efforts to turn their country into a democracy and to support them in their economic development.
The events in Egypt may be termed historic, as they involve the crumbling of a particular political model that has permeated the whole country for two decades.
Through this motion for a resolution, this House wishes to extend its solidarity to the Egyptian people and to praise the courage and determination of the young protesters, who have certainly played a key role this month.
The European Parliament's intention is to be able to come to their aid by appealing, for example, for talks between the political parties to be set up as soon as possible in order to find the best way to combat corruption and violations of the principles of freedom of expression and freedom of information, so as to lay the foundations for the rule of law.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution, although I cannot quite get the strong smell of hypocrisy, on the part of the EU institutions, out of my nostrils.
The Egyptian issue is very serious, bearing in mind the size of the country and its geographical position.
Egypt has always stood out in the Middle East for its positive contributions towards resolving problems in the area.
The European Union must continue to develop a genuine foreign policy that is consistent and effective with regard to its partners, and it is crucial that it speak decisively, with one strong voice, reiterating their call for the defence of human rights to become a reality.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution in order to show my unconditional support for the peoples who are fighting for their rights, and in this particular case for the Egyptian people in their fight against authoritarianism and the deplorable political, social and economic conditions that they have been subjected to for the last 30 years by the regime led by President Mubarak.
I also support the strong condemnation of violence and the use of force against peaceful protests.
I believe that the Egyptian people alone are responsible for defining their future, and that they should be able to do so without the intrusion of external players, who in many cases are only seeking to defend privileges acquired with and through the support of the illegitimate authoritarian regime.
As Khaled Hroub wrote, the Arab spring has shown that freedom and dignity are aspirations shared by all human beings, all nations and all peoples.
We must not forget that the initial requests made by the populations that revolted were social: the people of Egypt, like the people of Tunisia for that matter, are requesting a better distribution of wealth and a future.
The only way to respond to this is to organise elections, more or less in a hurry, even though the (former) opposition is very unorganised.
The EU should introduce a policy for genuinely supporting the democratic process and should play a leading role in this matter.
Before expressing solidarity with the Egyptian people, we must understand what gave rise to this process.
I am opposed to financial aid for any kind of extremism or disorder.
Parliament has been overhasty in announcing financial support for the protesters, many of whom were openly displaying anti-Semitic slogans.
The Iraq war and the dual power situation in Pakistan are enough.
The EU needs to revise its naïve expectations of Arab efforts to achieve democracy.
Amongst all the celebrations of the 'Arab spring', Brussels now needs to acknowledge that the changes in Tunisia and Egypt are not only devouring hundreds of millions of euros in local aid payments, but are also becoming apparent to the citizens of Europe in the form of thousands of economic migrants who have already come to Europe.
After all, the people of Tunisia and Egypt took to the streets not just to achieve democracy and freedom of speech, but also and above all because they want greater prosperity.
Some more of these will come to Europe, particularly since there has been a real explosion in the population of Arab countries over the past two to three decades.
The EU will also be judged by whether it continues to respect democratic elections when Islamists come to power.
in writing. - (DE) The motion for a resolution welcomes the reforms in favour of democracy, the rule of law and social equity in Egypt.
The aim is a rapid transition to a peaceful, democratic and pluralistic Egypt.
I therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
Recent events in Egypt and Tunisia have shown that the idea that society in Arab countries is not capable of accepting democracy is erroneous.
Working on this mistaken assumption, the European Union - and almost all other global political forces - placed the stability of the region above the right of the people of the Arab world to decide their own future.
One step resulting from this motion for a resolution should be the freezing of assets belonging to Egyptian leaders responsible for the embezzlement of state funds in Egypt.
The next few months will be decisive for Egypt.
The European Parliament should give every possible assistance to Egypt's nascent civil society and democratic institutions.
The European Union will now have the task of monitoring the situation and seeking to support political dialogue through the neighbourhood policy, in order to guarantee a transition to democracy and free elections while avoiding a slide into fundamentalism.
I voted for this motion for a resolution and would highlight Parliament's firm support for reforms aimed at democracy, the rule of law and social justice in Egypt.
Egypt is a country with thousands of years of history, which deserves to open a new, democratic chapter in its history.
I voted for this motion for a resolution, and echo its expression of solidarity with the Egyptian people, who, prompted by legitimate aspirations of democracy, freedom and better living conditions, have opened up a new phase of political transition in Egypt.
The wave of protest that has swept through Egypt in recent weeks and resulted in the resignation of President Hosni Mubarak, marks an important stage in the country's political transition.
By lending my support to the European Parliament's joint motion for a resolution, I wish to express my solidarity with the Egyptian people and to pay tribute to their courage and their determination in fighting for democracy.
I think it is crucial for the EU and the Member States to actively support a swift transition to democratic governance, in particular by establishing a 'task force' involving the European Parliament so as to respond to the requests made by Egyptians carrying out that transition.
Furthermore, the events that have taken place in Egypt and Tunisia, and which are still taking place at the moment in other countries, show the need for Europe to review the European neighbourhood policy (ENP) so that the assistance that it provides to its partners is strictly dependent on respect for human rights and democratic principles.
The review of this policy must be accompanied by the introduction of a set of political criteria that neighbouring countries should meet in order to obtain a superior status in their relations with the EU.
It is therefore vital for the European Commission and the Council to call into question the realpolitik they have been practising for years in these parts of the world, both in Egypt and in Tunisia, just as it is crucial to question the ambivalence of the relations that the EU maintained with the dictators who have been ruling these countries for decades.
The financial assets not only of Mr Mubarak and his associates, but also of his family, must be frozen.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because of the exceptionally important part that the recent demonstrations in various Arab countries in North Africa and the Middle East have played in institutional, political and economic change in the area.
The wind of change is again blowing on the groundswell of strong popular demand for freedom and real democracy, as a basis for achieving better living conditions for the whole population.
It is a fundamental objective of the European Union to promote respect for democracy, human rights and civil liberties, and it constitutes a common ground for the development of the Euro-Mediterranean area.
The priority will now be to establish a government chosen directly by the Egyptian people in free elections, which, with international support, can tackle the transition period towards full democracy, when the Coptic Christian communities will no longer be the victims of current events and all religious communities can live in peace and freely profess their faith throughout the country.
in writing. - (SK) I voted for the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in Egypt, because, for anyone in public governance who puts the human dignity of the individual above all else, democracy is the best possible form of government, and that applies both in Europe and in Egypt.
However, I could not help thinking of Iran, where the overthrow of the corrupt, autocratic regime of the Shah led to the formation of a repressive Islamic Republic.
I also thought of Iraq, where six years after the overthrow of the dictator, members of the oldest Christian communities in the world are being harassed, expelled and killed.
Egypt is at a crossroads, and I just hope that it chooses the path of freedom for all of its citizens, including the Coptic Christians.
I am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, drawing attention to the importance of an approach that is simultaneously top-down and horizontal, whilst also involving all actors in developing a Strategy.
In this context, I would stress the importance of technical assistance for the implementation of actions and projects.
I would also remind you that this macro-region is of particular significance to Europe, since it can improve neighbourly relations with south-east Europe and encourage political and economic cooperation with the Balkans.
In order to evaluate this strategy's effectiveness, I agree that its implementation should be analysed; along with an analysis of the Baltic Sea Strategy, which could point to possible sources and methods of funding for pilot projects of other macro-regional strategies in Europe.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the implementation of the EU Strategy for the Danube Region.
The Danube region, comprising 14 European countries and 115 million people both within and outside the EU, is an area where enhanced synergies between various EU policies - cohesion, transport, economic, energy, environment, culture, education, agriculture, fisheries, enlargement and neighbourhood policies - can be developed.
Importantly, the strategy should contribute significantly to improving multi-level governance and involvement of partners operating in the Danube region and civil society, and would ensure prosperity, sustainable development, job creation and security in the area.
I agree with the resolution's call for the Member States and the regions to use the Structural Funds intended for the period 2007 to 2013, in order to ensure as much support as possible for the implementation of this strategy, particularly by promoting the creation of new jobs and economic growth in the areas worst affected by the economic crisis.
The Danube region is Europe's gate to the Western Balkans, and therefore I believe that the European Strategy for the Danube Region will not only be conducive to the improvement of neighbourhood relations in Central and South Eastern Europe, but will provide important added value in the EU's Eastern European policy.
This will be an excellent opportunity for the entire Union to fortify its political and economic cooperation with the Balkans, and to contribute to the expansion and consolidation of European integration in the region.
The Strategy for the Danube Region is a European Union project which third countries bordering the river are also invited to participate in, with the aim of developing the Danube region's huge economic potential.
The River Danube links 10 European states, six of which are European Union Member States.
All these countries are encouraged to cooperate in areas such as river transport, social protection and development, sustainable economic development, transport and energy infrastructure, environmental protection, tourism, culture and education.
I believe that better coordination is required between local and regional authorities and the organisations doing business in the Danube region in order to ensure job creation and security in this area.
I also support the economic and social development of the Danube region as a priority community area and the promotion of deeper regional integration in this zone, which would provide dynamic impetus for a wider European economic area.
I support the implementation of this strategy as the Danube region offers significant socio-economic potential within Europe.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of adopting the Strategy for the Danube Region.
By promoting and supporting this project, which is now taking shape under the Hungarian Presidency, which I would like to congratulate, the Strategy will become a political, economic and financial priority.
At the same time, the new strategy will enable the new concept of territorial cohesion to be implemented, which is included in the Treaty of Lisbon.
The financial resources not used from the instruments featuring in the current EU financial framework can be used as part of the Strategy for the Danube Region for macro-regional projects.
It is necessary to establish a civil society forum in this region, which would bring together actors in the public and private sectors and would give them the opportunity to participate in the preparation of macro-regional strategies.
Cooperation in the area of cultural projects plays a vitally important role in supporting cultural dialogue and mutual understanding between the countries of the Danube Region.
It is important for the EU Strategy for the Danube Region to be adopted during the European Council summit in June so that its implementation can be launched as soon as possible.
These funds will provide direct support to the strategy's implementation.
The purpose of the Strategy for the Danube Region is to create jobs and boost economic growth in the crisis-hit regions.
Utilising the regions' specific features could result in a much more efficient use of the Structural Funds and in creating added value at regional level, while the financial resources which have not been used could also provide a source of funding for macro-regional projects.
The adoption of the Strategy for the Danube Region is a natural outcome of the summit on this region which was held in Bucharest at the end of last year when a significant indication was given of the economic importance that the EU attaches to this river.
The Danube region is an important focal point for EU cohesion policy programmes.
The Strategy for the Danube Region is focused on three priority areas: connectivity and communications (including transport, energy, and the information society); environmental protection and prevention of natural disasters; and boosting the potential for socio-economic development.
In my opinion, the Strategy for the Danube Region should be implemented with a bottom-up approach by facilitating the movement of goods and upgrading infrastructure, and thereby improving general business conditions throughout the region.
For this reason, the Strategy should not be allocated any specific funds.
I welcome an integrated approach, which includes drawing up macro-regional strategies applicable to the entire European Union, in order to make regional policy more effective.
I particularly welcome the adoption of the Strategy for the Danube Region and support the Action Plan that accompanies it, which satisfies the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchanges, security and civil protection in the Danube region.
This would also improve cooperation on issues such as transportation, energy security, scientific exchange, the development of tourism, security and the fight against illegal immigration.
in writing. - (RO) I think that the EU Strategy for the Danube Region offers a means of coordinating EU policies and that it will need to respond to the challenges facing this region.
I voted for the resolution on the implementation of the EU Strategy for the Danube Region because it satisfies the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchanges, security and civil protection in the region.
The Danube region has its own characteristic features and a particular historical importance which, as with the Baltic, justify a specific strategy from the European Union.
Mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchanges, security and civil protection in the surrounding area can be improved through the intended increase in interdependence.
I hope that investment in these regions will neither compromise nor reduce the support given to the outermost regions, whose very nature makes them deserving of special assistance and incentives.
I therefore welcome the adoption of this motion for a resolution, in the knowledge that it will bring sustainable development to a region crossed by the European Union's largest river, where almost 160 million people live, and whose environmental and heritage resources merit classification as a World Heritage Site by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO).
Article 3 of the Treaty on European Union acknowledges territorial cohesion as an objective of the EU.
The joint motion for a resolution, on which Parliament voted today, calls for that principle to apply also in relation to the Danube region.
Fourteen EU Member States are included in that region, including Germany as well as Romania and Bulgaria, and it is primarily for those countries that we call for the effective application of the principle enshrined in Article 3.
Back in 2008, Parliament urged the Council and the Council Presidency to draw up a strategic plan that would provide for and implement aid for that region, so as to give it the input it desperately needs to be able to enjoy a strong economy independent of other funding sources.
Three years later, we are again calling for the implementation of a policy committed to achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth; we are calling for the promotion of the most disadvantaged areas, the development of which would result in improved environmental and social conditions.
Regional policies' effectiveness equates to support for development, as well as to the application of strategies that will solve a series of local problems and will stimulate the economic growth of countries whose populations are linked to the river, so as to promote sustainable development.
That being the case, and as this Strategy - which is based on the three interlinked objectives of socioeconomic development, improved transportation, and support for alternative energy sources and environmental protection - and the accompanying Action Plan will contribute to promoting this region and minimising existing regional differences by better coordinating the efforts of the eight Member States in the region, I welcome its adoption.
The Strategy for the Danube Region aims to improve how this river is used as a transport route, which is likely to involve deepening the navigation channels.
The Strategy is furthermore intended to be an important stimulating factor for the economy.
in writing. - (BG) I was happy to sign and vote in favour of the motion for a resolution of the European Parliament on the implementation of the EU Strategy for the Danube Region.
The Danube Strategy is a chance to unlock the potential for development and cooperation of many European regions in different fields.
I would like to concentrate on two very important aspects for me of the Danube Strategy: the development of tourism; and maintaining security in the region.
The Danube Strategy can help to maintain security in the region surrounding the Danube, and play an important role in controlling migration in and outside the Union and in the fight against crime.
In order to achieve real results, joint operations in sensitive areas such as security and migration are of primary importance.
in writing. - (DE) The EU Strategy for the Danube Region and its 115 million inhabitants offers an opportunity to accelerate cross-border cooperation as well as sustainable economic and cultural development in this region.
We would also wish to see an initiative at macro-regional level for greater safety as regards nuclear policy in the Danube region.
This region in particular still has nuclear power stations that represent a risk to the environment and the population, yet in the environmental impact assessment procedure there is insufficient consultation or no consultation whatsoever with neighbouring states and regions.
I very much welcome the fact that only funds that have already been made available in the Structural Funds (around EUR 1 billion for the period 2007-2013) can be used within the framework of the Strategy for the Danube Region - in other words, that no additional funding is being allocated and that neither new institutions nor new legislation are needed.
I therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
At the vote, today, I endorsed adoption of the joint motion for a resolution on the implementation of the EU Strategy for the Danube Region.
The idea of an integrated approach, including the creation of strategies for macro-regions that are EU-level strategies, is the best example of territorial cooperation, is a good way to increase the effectiveness of regional policy and should be supported and developed.
The extensive Danube region, which includes 14 European countries and numbers 115 million people both within and outside the EU, required the creation of a single plan combining economic, environmental, social and cultural aspects (these are also the four pillars of the strategy).
In the context of the need to carry out interim analyses of the implementation of the strategy, analogously to the report on the Strategy for the Baltic Sea Region, the resolution calls on the European Commission to prepare concrete instruments and criteria for evaluating projects based on indicators that allow comparisons to be made.
In my view, the strategy should therefore combine economic, environmental, social and cultural elements, since a macro-region such as the Danube would significantly increase the economic wealth of the whole European Union by stimulating employment and promoting integrated development.
I therefore believe that the unifying and integrative character of the strategy expresses the conviction held by all EU Member States that it could represent a significant contribution to overcoming past divisions in Europe and to the overall success and greater efficiency of Europe.
I cannot fail to welcome the adoption of the Strategy for the Danube Region by the European Commission or to support the accompanying Action Plan, which is based on four pillars: linking up the Danube region, protecting the environment, creating prosperity, and strengthening the Danube region.
The strategy satisfies the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchanges, security, and civil protection in the Danube region.
I hope that the European Strategy for the Danube Region will be adopted by the European Council and that progress will be made with applying it as soon as possible.
in writing. - (RO) The Danube's job is to provide the backbone for a macro-regional structure which features Länder, regions and Member States, along with countries which do not belong yet or at all to the EU, all in search of common prosperity.
The Danube is no longer blue, as in the title of Strauss's waltz and, indeed, environmental protection projects are estimated at EUR 9 billion.
These investments mean the creation of new opportunities for sustainable economic growth and an improvement in quality of life, thereby developing natural/environmental assets and promoting the EU's environmental policy, for example, creating an environmental factor management and control system, eliminating the adverse environmental impact in the event of natural disasters, protecting biodiversity, preserving and extending forested areas, parks and green belts in urban areas.
in writing. - With this resolution, the EP: 1.
welcomes the approval by the Commission of the Strategy for the Danube Region and supports the Action Plan accompanying it, focused on four pillars (connecting the Danube region, protecting the environment, building prosperity and strengthening the Danube region) and meeting the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchange, security and civil protection in the Danube region; 2.
recalls that the European Parliament has been calling for this strategy since 2008 and calls on the Hungarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and on the European Council to endorse the EU Strategy for the Danube Region by the June European Council and to start its implementation as quickly as possible.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because the Danube region, which comprises 14 European countries and 115 million people, needs to be managed through a joint, collective plan aimed at promoting it economically and culturally, so as to preserve its inestimable artistic and environmental beauty.
The Member States should now take advantage of the Structural Funds available for 2007-2013 in order to ensure maximum support for the strategy.
In particular, there should be a commitment to job creation, especially in areas most affected by the economic crisis.
The Strategy for the Danube Region is a European Union project in which third countries bordering the river are also invited to participate, with the aim of developing the Danube region's huge economic potential.
The River Danube links 10 European states, six of which are European Union Member States.
All these countries are encouraged to cooperate in areas such as river transport, social protection and development, sustainable economic development, transport and energy infrastructure, environmental protection, tourism, culture and education.
I believe that better coordination is required between local and regional authorities and the organisations doing business in the Danube region in order to ensure job creation and security in this area.
I also support the economic and social development of the Danube region as a priority community area and the promotion of deeper regional integration in this zone, which would provide dynamic impetus for a wider European economic area.
I support the implementation of this strategy as the Danube region offers significant socio-economic potential within Europe.
The Danube region comprises 14 European Union (EU) Member States and a total of 115 million people.
It is a rich region with strong economic capacities but that requires coordinated efforts in order for it to develop in a cohesive, integrated and sustainable way.
I am voting for this motion for a resolution on the Danube and hope that similar strategies will be developed for other European macro-regions.
This resolution is important because it places an emphasis on the Partnership for Modernisation.
I am therefore voting for this resolution because I believe that the modernisation of Russian society involves implementing the rule of law.
I voted for this motion for a resolution because I advocate that full respect for human rights and the rule of law by the Russia Federation will improve its image and credibility in the world, in particular as regards its relations with the European Union.
It is important for the Russian Federation to respect the international commitments it has made, not least in the context of the Council of Europe, where it has committed to respect fully European standards regarding democracy, human rights, fundamental rights and the rule of law.
Any impartial observer is bound to acknowledge that respect for human rights and individual freedoms has significantly improved in the present Russian State compared with the Soviet regime that preceded it; a regime that still continues to shock us the more we find out about it.
I hope that Russia will continue to distance itself from its brutal Soviet heritage, will increasingly converge with the European Union on respect for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of its citizens, and will take on its role as the European power that Peter the Great dreamt of.
Russia is an important partner of the European Union and should contribute to the establishment of sustainable cooperation based on democracy and the rule of law.
It is therefore important that there be no doubt regarding the Russian authorities' defence of the rule of law.
I would stress the need for the Russian authorities to respond to this attack using a legal and moderate means, and to allow the Russian judicial system to operate freely and independently to try and sentence those responsible for the attack.
in writing. - (LV) With this motion for a resolution, Members wish to draw attention to the disquieting events in Russia, which, as a member of the Council of Europe, has undertaken to comply fully with European standards of democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
A glaring example of this is the trial of Mikhail Khodorkovsky and Platon Lebedev, the former owners of Yukos.
If Russia wishes to become a member of the World Trade Organisation, its leading politicians must greatly change their attitude towards democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. - (LV) I supported the European Parliament motion for a resolution on the rule of law in Russia, drawing attention to infringements of human rights and fundamental rights, as well as to the threat existing in that country to the development of democracy.
Nevertheless, I should like to stress that the European Union policy towards Russia will be successful only when Member States pursue a common foreign policy.
The European Union can promote the rule of law in Russia only if the Member States place the common interests of all European countries above their own individual interests.
Russia has two main problems associated with the rule of law.
We must strengthen our commitment to working with Russia to respond to shared challenges in key areas, such as combating terrorism, energy policy and world economic governance.
The EU and Russia need to intensify negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement that is comprehensive and binding, and which covers the areas of democracy, the rule of law, and respect for human and fundamental rights.
It is necessary to develop joint initiatives with the Russian Government aimed at enhancing world security and stability and, in particular, on common neighbours, in order to achieve a peaceful resolution of the conflicts in Nagorno-Karabakh, in Transnistria and in Georgia, in line with international law.
The market economy cannot be virtuous without a fair State, by which I mean a State that fully assumes its normal tasks in a fair and just way; a State that can guarantee that its citizens have impartial access to all fundamental rights such as access to education, healthcare, justice, culture, administration and vital basic needs.
To this extent I am in favour of the text when it talks of the need to remedy existing shortcomings in the Russian legal and justice system.
The condemnation of the terrorist attacks on Domodedovo airport is also important and demonstrates the EU's solidarity with this important partner state.
In view of the talks between the European Union and Russia on the subject of human rights, and as the EU is still committed to strengthening and further developing EU-Russia relations, with respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights, I believe that Russia remains an important partner for the EU, in line with greater development of cooperation between the countries.
I voted in favour of the motion since I believe that intensifying the negotiations and the new partnership agreements with Russia will reinvigorate the Member States' broad agreement in favour of democracy and the proper operation of the justice system.
Respect for European standards regarding democracy, human rights, fundamental rights and the rule of law is fundamental for all European peoples.
I agree with this motion for a resolution's call for the Russian State to apply measures to remedy violations in individual cases, including ensuring effective investigations and holding perpetrators accountable, as well as to adopt general measures to implement any judgments that involve political and legal changes, so as to prevent human rights violations from being repeated.
in writing. - With this resolution the EP: 1.
reaffirms its belief that Russia remains an important partner for the European Union in building sustainable cooperation based on democracy and rule of law; 2.
strongly condemns the terrorist attack at Moscow's Domodedovo airport and expresses its condolences to the families of the victims and its solidarity with those wounded in the attack; underlines the need for the Russian authorities to respond to this attack in a lawful and measured way and to allow the Russian judicial system to work freely and independently to prosecute and convict those responsible for the attack; 3.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because I believe it can strengthen the existing partnership and cooperation agreement with Russia.
Eighty per cent of foreign investment in Russia comes from Europe, and therefore strengthening this partnership would help Europe to implement a more competitive policy in all spheres of activity.
Moreover, this resolution encourages Russia, as a member of the Council of Europe, to commit itself to complying fully with European standards on democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
It is time to realise that the Berlin Wall fell more than 20 years ago and that the current regime no longer bears any relation to its predecessors.
Nevertheless, this is a regime that has nothing to do the rule of law and which constantly flouts the most basic human rights.
To my mind, there is no reason why Russia should be treated any differently from the other countries in the world.
This resolution is too indulgent towards the Russian Government, and particularly towards Dmitry Medvedev.
in writing. - (SK) I supported the motion for a resolution on the rule of law in Russia, although I think that this is not the last such resolution to be discussed and voted on in the European Parliament in relation to Russia.
I am voting for this motion for a resolution, the main objective of which is to reconcile the World Bank's investments relating to energy with the development goals.
I agree that energy strategy should tackle and facilitate the transition to environmentally sustainable energy development, and that the World Bank should adopt an approach to private sector development that provides the greatest benefit to the poor whilst simultaneously combating climate change.
Finally, I would express my total agreement with the need for the World Bank clearly to identify and publicly disclose the development benefits before financing is committed.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because the energy strategy should specifically address how access to energy can help lift people out of poverty, while facilitating the shift to an environmentally sustainable energy development path.
The World Bank should pursue an approach to private-sector development that delivers maximum benefit to the poor while tackling climate change.
Environmental and social factors, at both national and regional levels, must be taken into account in a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis of energy options.
Fossil-fuel investments are also taking place through financial intermediaries, and this is not being accounted for by the Bank in its annual energy sector figures.
I voted against the report on the World Bank energy strategy for developing countries, mainly because a very negative amendment by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) was adopted, which alters an important point in the initial motion for a resolution.
To conclude, therefore, not only is nuclear energy accepted; the proposal is to promote it as a 'clean' form of energy to combat climate change and reduce carbon emissions.
However, promoting nuclear energy directly conflicts with the demand for a world free of nuclear energy, be it for military or for 'peaceful' purposes.
I voted for the motion for a resolution on the World Bank's energy strategy because I think that it should support the transition to a route toward energy development that is sustainable in environmental terms in the least developed countries, whilst simultaneously contributing to European Union objectives regarding climate change and combating poverty.
According to the data in the motion for a resolution, 1.5 billion people are currently without access to electricity, four out of five of whom live in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, and nearly 2.4 billion people still use traditional biomass fuels for cooking and heating, which is an unsustainable use of natural resources.
For this very reason it is crucial that the World Bank adopt a new strategy for financing energy projects, committing to providing efficient, accessible and clean energy as a means of reducing poverty and fostering economic growth.
This motion for a resolution of the European Parliament, deals with the World Bank's energy strategy for developing countries.
We can understand the importance of this subject if we consider that more than 1.5 billion people currently do not have access to electricity, which is a fundamental right of all citizens.
In truth, and despite this subject having been debated more than 20 years ago, the results are in no way satisfactory.
in writing. - I voted for the resolution, which welcomes the World Bank's energy strategy and recalls that it should specifically address how access to energy can help lift people out of poverty, while facilitating the shift to an environmentally sustainable energy development path; urges the World Bank to pursue an approach to private-sector development that delivers maximum benefit to the poor while tackling climate change; and underlines that environmental and social factors, at both national and local community levels, must be taken into account in a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis of energy options.
Nobody doubts that access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for poverty eradication and economic development, or that in order to achieve this it is necessary that energy services be reliable, affordable, especially for the poor, and evenly distributed, so as to bridge the gap between urban and rural areas.
Well into the 21st century, some 1.5 billion people remain without access to electricity, four out of five of whom live in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, mainly in rural areas, and nearly 2.4 billion people still use traditional biomass fuels for cooking and heating, causing severe health problems and the death of 1.9 million people per year from indoor pollution, as well as environmental damage resulting from unsustainable use of natural resources.
The World Bank should therefore prioritise small-scale, local access to energy, particularly in the least developed countries in Africa and Asia.
Around 1.5 million people worldwide, mainly in the developing countries of Africa and east Asia, still have no access to electricity.
In rural areas in particular it may be observed that the population for this reason frequently makes recourse to traditional fuels made from biomass, such as charcoal ovens.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the World Bank's energy strategy for developing countries.
Energy needs in developing countries are growing and it is therefore necessary to take into account energy efficiency and renewable sources of energy.
Furthermore, there must be more stringent monitoring and control of the activities of financial intermediaries.
I share the concerns and agree with the suggestions set out by the European Parliament in this motion for a resolution on the World Bank's energy strategy, for which I voted.
Given that access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for poverty eradication and economic development, and that the right to energy implies that energy services will be reliable, affordable and evenly distributed, so as to bridge the gap between urban and rural areas, it seems crucial to me to promote an investment policy based on the sustainable use of natural resources.
in writing. - We have finally voted in favour of the proposed resolution because Amendments 2, 3, and 4, which intended to remove the phrase 'low carbon', have been adopted.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for poverty eradication and economic development.
The World Bank's energy strategy takes that approach and must make a growing commitment to lifting people out of poverty, while facilitating the shift to an environmentally sustainable energy development path.
The World Bank should therefore pursue an approach to private-sector development that delivers maximum benefit to the poor while tackling climate change.
in writing. - (SV) I voted in favour of the report, which is a good one overall.
I would also stress that the strategy for growth and jobs cannot be threatened by the current short-term vision of budgetary consolidation: due consideration must be given to public investment in its objectives.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution on the Europe 2020 Strategy.
The European Parliament expresses its conviction that the EU2020 Strategy should help Europe recover from the crisis and come out stronger, through job creation and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth based on five EU headline targets as regards promoting employment, improving the conditions for innovation, research and development, meeting our climate change and energy objectives, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, in particular through the reduction of poverty.
I believe that the Europe 2020 actions are of crucial importance to the future prospects of all European citizens, delivering sustainable jobs, long-term economic growth and social progress, but I share the fears set out in the motion for a resolution that the Europe 2020 Strategy will not be able to deliver on its promises due to its weak governance structure.
The economic and financial crisis that we are currently experiencing has caused significant job losses in Europe.
The aim is to transform Europe into a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy, whilst providing high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
This motion for a resolution is a step in this direction, calling on the Commission and the Council, along with the European Parliament, to involve national parliaments, social partners and regional and local authorities in policies designed to restore jobs and growth.
Before the European Council in March and the presentation by the Member States of their national targets in April, we gave our verdict on the EU 2020 Strategy.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because the European Union Member States should be encouraged to give the highest priority to tackling unemployment and preventing long-term exclusion from the labour market in their national programmes and plans.
I welcome the flagships aimed at implementing the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy, such as 'An industrial policy for the globalisation era', 'An agenda for new skills and jobs', the 'European platform against poverty and social exclusion' and other initiatives.
I agree with the proposals on the 'European platform against poverty and social exclusion', but I would encourage more specific action to be taken to ensure social inclusion.
I voted against the motion for a resolution on the Europe 2020 Strategy.
The Europe 2020 Strategy follows on from the failed Lisbon Strategy and cannot provide answers to questions such as how we are to recover from the crisis and create new jobs.
Together with other MEPs on the left of the House, we tabled an alternative motion for a resolution describing the measures and mechanisms needed for a Europe which targets economically, socially and environmentally viable growth with full employment and rights for its workers.
in writing. - (RO) I think that the inclusion on the European Union's list of objectives of economic growth, the social objective and the fight against poverty is also important for Europe because achieving them will help safeguard the European Union's economic independence.
The major challenges facing the EU and its Member States in terms of employment and unemployment should be reflected in and integrated into the political framework of the EU employment guidelines.
This motion for a resolution, which is in line with some proposals on economic governance currently under discussion, sets out basic principles to be followed in future discussions, and establishes key ideas to take into account.
In particular, I am referring to the need to follow a Community method that leads to increased unity between Member States, to the inclusion of a European Semester that enables improved coordination between national policies, and to the need for policies that encourage European competitiveness, such as support for innovation, for small and medium-sized enterprises and for the implementation of the Single Market.
The world in general and the European Union in particular have been experiencing difficult times, of which the current economic and financial crisis is an example.
With the goal of bringing about the end of this situation, on 17 June 2010 the European Council adopted the Europe 2020 Strategy for employment and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
I welcome the choice for Europe 2020 of flagship initiatives aimed at education, employment, young people, innovation, the digital agenda, the environment, globalisation, resource use, and combating exclusion, which will encourage growth and competitiveness.
I also welcome the adoption of this strategy and call on the institutions of the European Union and the governments of the Member States to spare no efforts to achieve the goals set out in the Europe 2020 Strategy.
The leap they are attempting to make in this so-called economic governance with the creation of the 'European Semester' - the deepening of the penalties relating to compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact, of the economic policy guidelines, and of any indicators that may be adopted - is not accompanied by a significant increase in the Community budget, which is always a crucial condition for moving towards economic and social cohesion, and for preventing the worsening of the current divergences.
We therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - (DE) Amendment 2 is intended to point out that the Commission needs to give greater consideration to the role of mobility and transport in this strategy.
In the transport sector we need not only to contribute to CO2 reductions, but also to maintain Europe as a centre of production and development.
in writing. - (DE) In the Europe 2020 Strategy the European Union declared employment policy to be a key issue.
It is important that all the Member States pursue the declared objectives both jointly and individually, so that a high level of employment and productivity can be achieved in Europe.
These aims can only be achieved if we all act together in areas such as combating structural unemployment, developing a skilled workforce, promoting job quality and improving the performance of education systems.
Although ambitious, that target is the guiding principle behind the European Union's economic activity.
That, of course, includes responsible activity aimed at changing the economic strategy itself, as far as the Member States are concerned, but even before that it is necessary for all the European institutions to work together towards a single goal.
These requirements pertain to the need to work with the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in drawing up a package of measures in the fields of energy, food security, climate change, health, youth policy, research and, above all, industrial policy aimed at creating strong social protection systems and cutting the unemployment rate.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution, which underlines that the Europe 2020 actions are of crucial importance to the future prospects of all European citizens, delivering sustainable jobs, long-term economic growth, and social progress; fears that the Europe 2020 Strategy will not be able to deliver on its promises due to its weak governance structure, and strongly urges the Council, therefore, to strengthen the Community method; reiterates the importance of integrating the EU 2020 goals into the economic governance framework and calls for the European Semester to be part of the legislative governance package, while including national parliaments and social partners at an early stage in order to foster democratic accountability, ownership and legitimacy; stresses that the achievement of Europe 2020 is essential and not optional.
in writing. - (RO) The economic crisis has had a disproportionate impact on social groups.
In this context, I can mention the measures adopted by the Romanian Government aimed at encouraging entrepreneurial initiative among young people.
In addition to increasing the number of jobs, it is also vital to improve their quality.
Furthermore, recognition of diplomas at EU level would facilitate the free movement of labour and support the creation of a proper single European market.
What is worse, it makes it easier to control the national budgets via the European semester and promotes free trade.
The goal of the Europe 2020 Strategy is to lead Europe to recover from the crisis and emerge from it strengthened through job creation, and through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
This is to be based on the European Union's five major objectives, namely: promoting employment; improving conditions for research, development and innovation; meeting climate change and energy targets; increasing levels of education; and promoting social inclusion, in particular by reducing poverty.
I reject the motion for a resolution on the Europe 2020 Strategy as I think it continues along the anti-social lines of the Brussels Consensus, which does not concern itself with the European people, but is designed to consolidate the neoliberal policies that have led us to the serious economic crisis that we are suffering.
This crisis that we are going through is not a natural disaster but rather the consequence of the way in which the conservative, liberal and social democrat political forces have moved from the Washington Consensus to the Brussels Consensus, imposing no public intervention in the economy, pay restraint, and the privatisation of public services and of the main businesses in key sectors of the economy, such as energy and telecommunications.
We already know the consequences of these neoliberal measures and of the Brussels Consensus: crisis, widespread unemployment, poverty and cuts in workers' rights and the welfare state.
I therefore voted against this resolution on the Europe 2020 Strategy, because I consider this 'new' strategy to be more of the same: neoliberal measures that do not incorporate the necessary distribution of wealth, and improvement of the social and employment rights of the European people.
The strategy is intended to promote the future prospects of European citizens as regards secure and sustainable jobs, long-term economic growth and social progress.
If we are to implement this, the Community method needs to be reinforced and the objectives included in our economic policies.
I did not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, mainly because the financing of the Europe 2020 Strategy was unable to be resolved.
I should like to comment on the motion for a resolution on the Europe 2020 Strategy which has been adopted by the European Parliament.
The need to emerge from the economic crisis, ensure sustainability and develop a 'smart economy' are the underlying objectives of the strategy that will mark out the future context of the European Union's market economy.
High employment levels favouring social and territorial cohesion, productivity, efficient resource use, innovation and especially stronger economic governance should be the foundations of Europe's new path.
For all the reasons above, I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the Europe 2020 Strategy.
It is clear from economic developments in the euro area and the problems of monetary union which the debt crisis highlighted in the region, that the Europe 2020 Strategy needs to focus on budgetary stability, policies for growth and the need for European economic governance, if it wants the ambitious targets it has set, such as increasing youth employment to 75% and increasing investments in research to 3%, not to end up as simple symbolic pronouncements.
The motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) on the Europe 2020 Strategy moves in this direction and I voted for it.
I voted for this motion for a resolution because I agree with the proposals tabled by the European Parliament, specifically the need for the governance of the Europe 2020 Strategy to be strengthened.
We realise that the Europe 2020 Strategy has high ambitions and requires us to stand firm at both national and European levels.
To revive the challenge of sustainable growth, we have to use all the political means and financial instruments at our disposal.
This challenge marks the beginning of a new stage of European integration, one that pays greater attention to employment and social security and mobilises all the actors present in Europe.
The Europe 2020 Strategy establishes European Union goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for the coming years.
Therefore, all institutional actors - at European, national, regional and local level - must be called on, as well as civil society, to implement this strategy.
In this context, I would stress the need to implement the Territorial Pact of Local and Regional Authorities for Europe 2020.
Strong cohesion policy is needed for all European regions, as an essential prerequisite for implementing the Europe 2020 Strategy.
The cohesion policy is cross-cutting in nature and is therefore a key element in the strategy's success, so its complementary nature should be made clear.
Economic growth and an atmosphere of job creation should be incentivised as part of this programme, in order to reserve a particular role for small and medium-sized enterprises (SME), which are the engine of European economic growth.
in writing. - The Commission's EU 2020 Strategy is essential in order to enhance the EU's growth and competitiveness as it emerges from the economic crisis.
However, its objectives can only be achieved with a coordinated and focused approach from all member states.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the Europe 2020 Strategy because I believe that it sets out the need for Member States to be completely committed to the strategy's targets.
The resolution calls for the economic governance of the EU 2020 strategy to be better coordinated and I fully support this because it outlines the need for a credible funding framework to be established by national governments.
Member States should also ensure that policies, as well as budgets, are aligned with EU 2020 targets, especially with regards to objectives such as tackling unemployment and social inclusion.
Some of the EU-level employment guidelines entail increasing participation in the labour market, including that of specific population sub-groups, reducing structural unemployment and promoting the quality of jobs, developing a well-qualified workforce which will meet the labour market's needs and improving the performance of education systems which will provide vocational training at every level.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because there is an urgent need to step up efforts at all levels to ensure that the European Union employment guidelines are properly implemented.
Furthermore, the goal of the guidelines for the employment policies is to ensure that, under the Europe 2020 Strategy and economic governance, the employment targets are achieved and sustainable economic growth and social progress are guaranteed.
As a result of the economic and financial crisis, the situation in Europe's labour market is still tense and therefore combating unemployment must be one of the most important policy priorities for both the European Union and Member States.
The European Employment Strategy and the national strategies applied by the Member States are among the main instruments designed to ensure the Europe 2020 Strategy objectives are achieved.
It is therefore very important to work with the business sector and social partners to implement the employment policy guidelines correctly and effectively.
The Union lacks a strong horizontal policy to combat unemployment and social exclusion, which would undeniably involve a cohesive economic governance package suited to responding to the needs of the Union and its Member States; it would also require ambitious targets such as those set out in the Europe 2020 Strategy to be achieved.
This motion for a resolution of the European Parliament on implementation of the guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States rests on a number of pillars, of which I would highlight: the current economic crisis, which is increasing unemployment and social exclusion; the need to create synergies that encourage development with a view to pursuing the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy; and the Commission's proposal that, under the terms of the Annual Growth Survey, the same employment policy guidelines should be adopted for 2011 as for 2010.
The European Union is playing a crucial role here in directing the policies to be followed and in respect for the principle of subsidiarity, by encouraging social dialogue and promoting the adoption of fair and effective measures.
I hope that these guidelines will contribute to helping to overcome the crisis, consolidate social-protection systems and relaunch the economy so that we can achieve the goals set out in the Europe 2020 Strategy.
We find it regrettable that the European Commission is maintaining the same employment policy guidelines as those adopted for 2010, so we are maintaining the same critical position as we adopted then.
The lack of jobs, particularly in recent years, is a serious problem and must be tackled with a dash of ambition to ensure that by 2020 we can guarantee 75% of Europeans decent, secure jobs that meet the needs of the wide range of people who are preparing for the world of work.
During these years in which we are recovering from the economic and financial crisis that has hit many countries in the Union, when our governments are striving to implement common policies and strategies in order to attain the goals that we have all identified and decided to pursue together, I believe it is important to acknowledge Parliament's deserved and rightful central position as the most representative institution in the European Union.
It is a matter of acknowledging its representativeness and its function, not least with regard to the provisions of the Treaties.
Although this motion for a resolution has the virtue of reminding the EU that wage policy is a national responsibility, it still endorses the above.
The European Employment Strategy and the guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States are some of the main instruments aiming to guide the policy of the European Union and the Member States in achieving the objectives and targets set out in the Europe 2020 Strategy.
The European employment strategy and its guidelines therefore represent an important instrument for curbing unemployment.
The implementation of the guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States is crucial for the implementation of the guidelines included in the Europe 2020 Strategy.
There are a number of important concerns in this motion for a resolution that I share: ensuring that the employment guidelines are implemented; stepping up action to deliver on more and better jobs; and acting decisively to deliver on fighting poverty and social exclusion.
In order to ensure success in all these policies, it is crucial to make a joint effort at all levels: governments, social partners and civil society.
in writing. - (LT) Following the assessment of preliminary National Reform Programmes (NRPs), the European Commission presented a proposal to keep the employment guidelines adopted by the Council last year stable until 2014 in order to devote most attention to their implementation.
Although these guidelines will not be reviewed annually as a rule, the main priority of the European Union's employment strategy must continue to be full employment which would increase economic growth and competitiveness and strengthen social cohesion.
The examination of the Member States' draft National Reform Programmes shows that Member States should continue to make every effort to address the following priority areas: increasing labour market participation and reducing structural unemployment, developing a skilled workforce responding to labour market needs, promoting lifelong learning, improving the performance of education and training systems at all levels and increasing participation in tertiary education, promoting social inclusion and combating poverty.
Among the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy, the Commission prioritised increasing employment, strengthening the single market and encouraging growth.
The European Union and this Parliament in particular have done well in tackling the problem, but concrete action is needed to attain these goals.
I voted against the Beres report on the guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States.
Finally, it calls for the employment policies that have resulted in a mediaeval labour market, that have increased unemployment and under-employment, that promote flexible forms of work and attack the wages and pensions and rights of European workers, especially young workers, to be continued.
I voted for this report because I advocate an annual review of the Europe 2020 Strategy, the main focus of which should be the integrated economic and employment policy guidelines.
The involvement of stakeholders, including the social partners and parliamentary bodies in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the National Reform Programmes, is a crucial element of effective governance of the employment and social policies by the Member States.
Given that the crisis has meant that the number of unemployed people in Europe has increased from 16 million in 2008 to 23 million in 2010, any exit strategy has to involve the recovery of jobs.
The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union obliges the Council to produce guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States every year and to consult the European Parliament before adopting these decisions.
The economic and financial situation being experienced by the majority of the countries requires the attention given to the Member States' employment policies to be redoubled.
I agree with the rapporteur's recommendations, so I am voting in favour of this proposal for a Council decision on the guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States.
We disagree that the European Commission should maintain the same employment policy guidelines for 2011 as those adopted for 2010, so we are maintaining the same critical position as we adopted then.
In fact, the aforementioned guidelines are clearly inadequate when we look at the figures relating to the 25 million unemployed and 30 million people in precarious or poorly paid jobs.
For all these reasons, we voted against this report.
This is why it is essential to keep young farmers in rural areas by guaranteeing them a decent income and standard of living.
Following the assessment of preliminary National Reform Programmes (NRPs) presented by the Member States under the Europe 2020 strategy, and in parallel with the presentation of the first Annual Growth Survey, the Commission adopted on 12 January a proposal for a Council decision that suggested confirming the validity, for 2011, of the integrated economic policy and employment guidelines of the Member States adopted in 2010.
It actually supports EU authoritarianism where increasing the retirement age, creating a flexible labour market and cutting budgets and wages are concerned.
The European Employment Strategy and the guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States are some of the main instruments aiming to guide the policy of the European Union and the Member States in realising the objectives and targets set out in the Europe 2020 Strategy.
We must stress the importance of focusing the annual review of the Europe 2020 Strategy on the integrated economic policy and employment guidelines.
I am against this report on the employment policies of the Member States essentially for one reason, which is that it repeats and includes the guidelines adopted by this House last September, which sought to facilitate access to employment for the Roma people.
The Commission's proposal to maintain the guidelines for the Member States' employment policies adopted in 2010 for 2011 is perfectly in line with the Europe 2020 Strategy and is supported by Parliament through this report.
All EU Member States are therefore called on to fight unemployment, especially youth unemployment, by means of constructive proposals with precise deadlines for providing a concrete response to the problem of employment and poverty.
I am voting for this proposal for a Council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States and I agree with the rapporteur's recommendations.
The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union obliges the Council to produce guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States every year and to consult the European Parliament beforehand.
The involvement of stakeholders, including the social partners and parliamentary bodies in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the National Reform Programmes, is a crucial element of effective governance of the employment and social policies by the Member States.
in writing. - On 12 January 2010, following assessment of preliminary national reform programmes (NRPs) presented by the Member States under the Europe 2020 strategy, and in parallel with the presentation of the first Annual Growth Survey, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council decision in favour of confirming the validity, for 2011, of the Member States' integrated economic policy and employment guidelines adopted in 2010.
Furthermore, the Commission's proposal is based on the commitment included in the 2010 Employment Guidelines to keep the guidelines stable, insofar as possible, until 2014 so that the Member States can focus on their implementation.
The new Europe 2020 integrated guidelines must be fully included in the Member States' policy measures and initiatives.
It is not only the number of jobs that must be increased, but also their quality, and this requires action particularly by the Member States, which must also maintain their commitment to fighting poverty and promoting social inclusion.
The number of unemployed people in the Union has reached over 23 million, which means that in the last year half a million people have lost their jobs.
I voted for this motion for a resolution because I believe it is necessary to face up to the increasing volatility in food prices and commodities, with an increase of around 90% in 2010, which have led to problems in the operation of the food supply chains that make the measures proposed in this resolution necessary.
These measures include internal action, such as: a strong common agricultural policy that is capable of compensating farmers facing increased costs; greater commitment to small, organic farms producing for local consumption; tabling adequate proposals relating to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and the Market Abuse Directive; giving the European Securities and Markets Authority more powers to oversee raw materials markets or even to issue a mandate to regulators and supervisory bodies to restrict speculation.
The European Union also needs a strategy at global level to combat speculation, which includes international coordination of a mechanism to prevent excessive price fluctuation and the creation of specific regulation to be applied to the greatest possible number of countries.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on rising food prices.
Poverty and famine still exist in the European Union, and 79 million people still live below the poverty line.
I therefore agree with the call made in the resolution for immediate action to ensure food security for EU citizens and at global level.
It is also very important for food to be available to consumers at reasonable prices, and, at the same time, for a fair standard of living to be ensured for farmers.
I therefore call on the EU to support rural development, increasing investment in food security, and taking particular account of urgent hunger needs, small-scale farming and social protection programmes.
The index of food prices on the financial markets has shown an uncontrollable rise in these prices over recent months, due to the international economic and financial crisis and also the recent environmental disasters resulting from climate change.
As we know, this can have a domino effect and end up threatening peace and security in other countries.
The European Union therefore has a duty to confirm both its commitment to establish a sound agricultural and rural development policy and also its support for research and technological innovation aimed at improving productivity, while meeting energy efficiency and sustainability requirements.
The problem of poverty in the world is not a matter of inadequate resources; it is the result of imperialist aggression and capitalist exploitation of natural resources based solely on the profit motive.
Rising food prices in the European Union and worldwide pose a major problem in 2011.
A slow supply chain with too many intermediaries, natural disasters caused by climate change, low incomes earned in the agricultural sector or the volatility of the agricultural product market are just some of the reasons why the price of agricultural products has risen in an unacceptable manner across Europe.
Although, according to forecasts, global cereal, wheat and sugar stocks will be higher than in 2007 and there does not seem to be any recurrence of the situation that led to the food crisis in 2008, there is an over-reaction by the markets, causing excessive volatility, which can be explained by the actions of speculators' investments funds.
Furthermore, whole sectors of the agricultural industry are under threat.
In our report on the recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security, adopted in December, we stated that the right to food security is a fundamental human right, and that the EU has a duty to feed its citizens.
We should also turn our attention to developing countries and support them in their efforts to achieve food self-sufficiency, in contrast to everything that has been done in recent years.
The challenge is huge: in Europe alone, almost 80 million people still live below the poverty line.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because there is a need to take specific action to ensure food security for EU citizens and at global level.
Food prices have peaked for the seventh consecutive month between 2010 and 2011, reaching the highest levels since the Food and Agriculture Organisation started measuring food prices in 1990.
Food must be available to consumers at reasonable prices, and, at the same time, a fair standard of living should be ensured for farmers.
The European Union therefore has a duty to ensure food security for its citizens.
To be precise, no link is made between the food crisis and the price rises caused by the agricultural and trade policies applied and, therefore, no proposal is made to change that framework.
in writing. - (DA) We have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on rising food prices.
Global food prices have reached dramatic levels recently.
This type of speculative behaviour has a direct impact on people's standard of living and can contribute to political instability.
For this reason, I voted for the motion for a resolution on rising food prices.
in writing. - (RO) The global economic crisis and the rise in food and fuel prices have caused poverty and hunger for millions of citizens, but especially for poor people living in developing countries, who are the most vulnerable to the adverse impact of price volatility and the food crisis.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats voted against the motion for a resolution on rising food prices.
The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) warned in January of possible increases in the price of food products in 2011 after they had hit record highs in 2010 and following the increase during the 2008 food crisis.
In fact, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) estimates that the number of undernourished people in the world reached 925 million in 2010.
The common agricultural policy should ensure this objective.
Moreover, European farmers have to meet the highest food safety, environmental, animal welfare and labour standards in the world.
in writing. - (PT) The motion for a resolution includes several significant aspects, such as: the need to prioritise agriculture in development aid and acknowledge the divestment that has been taking place in this area; the need for strategic stocks and intervention; and the need for market intervention instruments to become a key aspect of the future common agricultural policy, even though these instruments are not specified later and it is true that many people are only advocating so-called 'emergency mechanisms', compatible with the liberalisation of the market that has been pursued.
It does not mention that the food crisis is the result of current agricultural and trade policies such as the CAP and free trade, and it does not make the fair and necessary criticism of these policies or call for the change that is needed.
The basic concept of food sovereignty, which cannot be dissociated from food security, is not touched on.
The problem of speculation is touched on, but very inadequately.
Based on this belief, I support the motion for a resolution calling for urgent measures to combat the manipulation of food commodity prices and to ensure that agricultural production is maintained in the EU.
Good soil and water management are therefore essential to prevent the loss of farmland.
It is also necessary to curb the abusive speculation that burdens the markets for food products, agricultural raw materials and energy.
Food security depends on having a strong policy that guarantees a future for our young farmers and encourages the introduction of more effective and sustainable farming practices in the less developed countries.
The rise in food prices is unacceptable.
In order to feed 9 billion people better, agricultural production needs to increase by 60-70%.
This trend, which is exacerbated by price volatility caused by speculators, is completely unacceptable, when we know that more than a billion people are suffering from poverty and hunger worldwide.
I therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which recommends the introduction of global regulation to prevent speculation from violating the right to food; reaffirms the European Union's commitment to becoming one of the main actors in the field of food and agriculture at global level; takes account of climate change; and encourages the Member States to increase the share of official aid dedicated to agriculture.
in writing. - (DE) I welcome the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) on the current problem of rising food prices.
However, the high prices are also a problem within the EU.
This situation has come about as a result of commodity shortages, high fuel prices, dependence on harvests and exports, the world market situation and profiteering.
The current hike in food prices, and especially in the prices of food commodities such as cereals and oilseeds, is primarily due to natural disasters in Russia and Australia.
Even though this rise in food commodity prices could conceivably boost our European farmers' incomes, we must not forget that the livestock sector is seeing a corresponding hike in the price of animal feed.
Our life insurance consists in maintaining a common agricultural policy worthy of the name, so as to ensure a fair income for our farmers, and in maintaining productive agriculture in every region of Europe.
That is why I played an active part in this resolution and why I voted in favour of it.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution on rising food prices.
According to the resolution, food prices have reached the highest levels since the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) started recording them in 1990.
Anger over soaring food prices has led to great unrest in a number of countries.
A crucial cause has been speculation by traders and brokers who have no commercial interest in these markets.
I am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because I agree with all the principles set forth in it.
I am in favour of producing healthy food in sufficient quantities to contribute effectively to the global demand for food.
It is essential to ensure income for farmers and create mechanisms to prevent enormous volatility in terms of prices and markets.
We have to ensure that everything is being done to combat climate change at a global level so that natural resources and income from farming do not decrease.
It is essential to strengthen the farmers' position in the food supply chain.
Growing speculation related to agricultural and food commodities lies in the background of the current increase in food prices.
Price rises exacerbate the problem of accessibility, in particular for people with low or no income.
Expenditure on food is one of the main components of family budgets, accounting for 60 to 80% in developing countries and 20 to 30% in the less developed Member States.
Financial instruments must serve the economy and must help agricultural production overcome major crises and climatic events, and for this reason speculation cannot be permitted to jeopardise agricultural production.
I condemn speculation in agricultural commodities and raw materials, which contributes to increased price volatility and the deepening of the global food crisis.
I think that the call for immediate and sustained action to guarantee global food security is positive, and I welcome the re-affirmation of the right to food as a human right.
I support the call for the EU to increase its rural development aid by investing in social protection programmes and small-scale agriculture, and to undertake effective measures to combat climate change.
I also support the call for the EU to respect and promote the guarantee of a sustainable future for farmers in the context of trade agreements, and not to put European agricultural production, rural agriculture and global access to food at risk.
Food prices have risen to a record high.
This rise is resulting in food insecurity for millions of people, destabilising the world economy and causing riots and unrest.
The international community made a commitment, moreover, to halve world hunger by 2015 as part of the Millennium Development Goals.
This inalienable and universal right was confirmed during the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly held in Kinshasa in December.
While the Commission must honour its commitments to developing countries and the least developed countries, it must also promote a strong and sustainable common agricultural policy that reflects the needs of European farmers.
I share the latter's concerns, because their drop in income as a result of the rise in production costs and of price volatility has meant that they have not benefited from the rise in food prices.
It is essential that we rapidly develop a management system for the control and optimisation of food prices.
The EU should look at its own behaviour.
I took these considerations into account when voting.
in writing. - (BG) I was pleased to sign and vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on rising food prices, as special measures are needed to ensure the stability of food prices.
We want the reform of the common agricultural policy to secure a stable first pillar to maintain the incomes of farmers and to undertake measures to support the market.
In order to reduce speculation on the commodity markets, the European Parliament wants the Commission to ensure greater transparency by exchanging good and timely information regarding developments on the market.
I also welcome the call for prompter action on the part of the G-20 to coordinate the mechanisms to prevent rising prices and to prepare regulation for dealing with crises which affect food and agriculture.
The vote was held today on the motion for a resolution on rising food prices.
Rapidly rising food prices are causing the food security of millions of people to be undermined, both in developed and in developing countries.
In relation to the fact that the effects of the rise in food prices have been felt most by groups that are in a difficult social situation, Europe, together with third countries and international institutions, should take the following action without delay.
It is necessary to introduce regulation and oversight at national and international level which will solve the problem of speculation in agricultural markets (dealing with food commodity derivatives restricted as far as possible to investors directly linked with agricultural production).
The common agricultural policy should be provided with appropriate market intervention instruments, because I think a strong common agricultural policy is the only guarantee of solving the problem of food security.
It is very important to set up adequate risk prevention and management measures to limit the consequences of natural disasters for agricultural production.
I agree with the proposal that the Commission must adopt a new trade and development strategy which would give developing countries greater independence in solving the issue of rising food prices.
Only by implementing measures to prevent concentration along the food supply chain and speculation in agricultural commodities and to reduce production costs, can we limit the rise in food prices.
So that the measures for combating rising food prices provided for in the resolution function effectively, we must establish an independent regulatory agency and ensure that food safety systems work properly and effectively at regional and local levels.
The hike in food commodity prices is causing difficulties for the European Union as well.
They have risen constantly over recent months and have reached the highest levels ever recorded in the history of the Food and Agriculture Organisation.
That is due to a whole range of factors, including the lack of a global trade agreement, the increase in certain raw material prices and the increased demand for foodstuffs, but it is also due to speculation and 'financial games' that are played out on other markets but have repercussions on the global market.
I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on food prices.
As a global power in agricultural production, the EU needs to take account of and effectively adapt to emerging challenges, such as extreme weather conditions, limited availability of natural resources, dependence on food imports and increasing speculation in commodities.
I voted for the motion for a resolution on rising food prices because in six months, the cost of the food basket prepared by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), including 55 of the basic essentials, has increased by 34%.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on rising food prices, because no one can be content with the situation that has prevailed for months and which is primarily affecting small-scale farmers and consumers.
Cereal prices have even surpassed the highs of 2008, when soaring food prices already caused unrest in Haiti and Egypt.
While the responses must, first and foremost, be on a global scale and coordinated together with the Food and Agriculture Organisation, they must be extended to Europe, where the objective of price stability must be attained.
These are all measures that make for strong and sustainable European agriculture.
Five years ago, wheat was worth EUR 100 per tonne.
In the face of this crisis, the European Union cannot wait until 2014 to come up with solutions.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it strongly criticises the rise in the food commodity price index, which in recent months has reached its highest level for 20 years.
In the European Union alone, around 80 million people still live below the poverty line, and many of them are helped through food aid programmes.
Poor harvests in the United States, natural disasters in Russia and Brazil, the hike in energy and crude oil prices and the ageing of operators in the farming sector are among the problems that need to be addressed without further ado.
It is now more important than ever to condemn speculation, and to examine the idea of a European food stock system in order to withstand crises such as the one we are now experiencing.
The aim is to look for shared, collective strategies to respond promptly to the increased demand for foodstuffs, not least through specific incentive policies to attract young people into the world of farming.
The most recent price increases bring to the fore many of the concerns the EPLP have long held over distortions in the food supply chain, the role speculation can play in exacerbating the situation and the lack of agricultural investment in many developing countries to build up production capacities.
The EPLP is supportive of the need for a global response to the food security challenge but would also like to stress the role an ambitiously reformed CAP can play in helping to address this challenge.
A reformed CAP must be in line both with global food security and development policy objectives, abolishing once and for all export refunds, that undermine the ability of developing countries to build up their own agricultural production, limiting market intervention mechanisms, which also serve to distort the market and promoting sustainable agricultural production to help both the agricultural sector mitigate and adapt to climate change, thereby protecting the EU's natural resource base and food production capacity.
in writing. - (NL) Food safety policy is first and foremost defence policy.
Any country which fails to provide safe and affordable food to its people and ensure a reasonable standard of living for its farmers is heading towards instability and food riots.
The text before us rightly emphasises the need for a multidimensional approach.
The steps needed to ensure safe food have much in common with the steps needed for a more efficient fight against climate change, improved development aid, the development of other commercial structures, greater transparency on the commodity markets and measures against speculation.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also wanted to propose actions which are necessary to reduce food waste: 20 to 30 per cent of crops are lost at as early a stage as sowing and harvesting.
Meanwhile, consumers and distributors in developed countries throw 40 percent of their food products untouched into the waste bin.
Finally, I think that food does not belong in the forum of the WTO.
Price hikes thus become a huge challenge for developing countries, which already devote almost three quarters of their income to buying basic foodstuffs.
Europe has a vital role to play in guaranteeing global food security.
The right to food, established in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in Article 39 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, has been severely affected by the current economic and financial crisis.
This cross-cutting issue must be discussed multilaterally as it affects people worldwide and the multiplying effects are indisputable.
The riots that have taken place in developing countries are examples of this.
Support for at-risk countries should be reinforced to prevent future food crises.
in writing. - I supported the resolution drafted in response to rising food prices, which are having an impact on global food security.
The most recent price increases highlight many of concerns relating to distortions in the food supply chain, the role speculation can play in exacerbating the situation and the lack of agricultural investment in many developing countries to build up production capacities.
Promotion of sustainable agricultural production is necessary in order to help the agricultural sector both mitigate and adapt to climate change, thereby protecting the EU's natural resource base and food production capacity.
