By making trade an end in itself, and not a means to serve its development policy, the European Union is sacrificing the populations of developing countries for the benefit of its multinationals.
The European Union and the ACP countries must tackle this matter, which is likely to create violent conflicts and hunger riots, in particular, by making access to natural resources such as land and water a fundamental and inalienable right of local populations.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the negotiators will seize the opportunity they are being given to make the necessary amendments to this partnership and to make it a success of which the principal beneficiaries will be the populations of the ACP countries.
On the contrary, the Commission proposal must be seen in the broader context of growing parliamentary oversight functions, in particular, with a view to existing and future Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) and EDF programmes.
Building on Article 9 of the Cotonou Agreement, the Commission is currently preparing a new policy on good governance in tax matters in the context of development cooperation.
Finally, I take note that you deplore that the Commission has not consulted a wider variety of actors before launching the revision process - paragraphs 2 and 8 - and I fully agree that, for the future of the ACP-EU relations post-2020, a comprehensive consultation process is needed, possibly in the form of a green paper.
I would first of all like to congratulate Mrs Joly for compiling this report.
The subject areas touched on in it are extremely important in terms of ensuring that the Cotonou Agreement remains the basis for a solid partnership with the ACP countries, as well as a relevant instrument against the backdrop of the new challenges which these countries are facing.
The negotiations are taking place in a climate which, as we all know, is difficult and complex.
In paragraph 25, it is important to make a clear reference to dealing with the issue of food security in a consistent manner as part of the EU's development policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to congratulate Mrs Joly on her work, on the report and also on taking into account the contributions of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, and, although we have again tabled some amendments, we see our contribution in the resolution that she has presented.
We are most concerned that this partnership should preserve, in particular, the consistency of all European Union policies - trade policy, budgetary policy - with objectives in the area of development, but also in relation to the promotion of peace, security and democracy and human rights in ACP countries.
From this point of view, it is very important for this revision to enable us to take into account new elements of the last five years: the fight against climate change, technology transfers, renewable energy development aid, the fight against food crises, and therefore greater emphasis in our cooperation on agriculture, on food sovereignty, the fight against financial deregulation, good fiscal governance and the fight against tax havens.
I would like to stress two points.
This agreement must, of course, guarantee that these countries will be able to take control of their development policy.
I would like to say a few words on the organisation of the work of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly: I believe that we must keep two sessions.
Regional meetings should perhaps be organised more closely together; on 25 January, I will make some concrete proposals in this regard to the Bureau of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly.
Mr President, my group supports Mrs Joly's report.
Here, we should take the side of food self-determination more decisively. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, the second revision of the Cotonou Agreement comes at a very interesting time, because it allows analysis of the provisions of the agreement in the light of a rapidly changing reality.
I am not against regionalisation, but I am convinced that regional meetings of the Joint Assembly must not replace plenary sessions.
In addition, I agree, of course, that functions should not be duplicated and that complementarity and synergy between Economic Partnership Agreements and the Joint Parliamentary Assembly is very important. (FR) Mr President, Article 13 of the Cotonou Agreement has not been revised since 2000.
The tragic example of the bilateral agreement between Italy and Libya, which has led to intolerable humanitarian situations, does not seem to have discouraged the zeal of those who want to toughen up Article 13 in order to strengthen the section on the fight against illegal immigration.
Thank you. (PT) This revised version of the Cotonou Agreement introduces key issues for sustainable development and the gradual integration of ACP countries into the global economy.
In view of this, the implementation of the Cotonou Agreement should take account of the Mauritius Strategy and the Barbados Action Plan, which identify a number of measures to assist developing island countries in bringing about sustainable development. (PT) Mr President, Parliament has been convened at this precise moment in order to decide on the second revision of the Cotonou Agreement.
In terms of the topic in question here, we know that Cotonou aims to create a framework for cooperation that will constitute a joint ACP-EU response to globalisation, contribute to peace and security, and foster a democratic political atmosphere.
The global economic and financial crisis, climate issues and the increased cost of food and energy are the reasons behind a new revised version.
I agree with the argument that the national parliaments of those countries need to be involved in the process of revising the agreement both now and in the future, and I reiterate the need for them to be invited to do so. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one objective that the second revision of the partnership agreement should have is definitely to promote a culture of responsibility.
I urge the Commission and the Spanish Presidency to rectify this. (RO) The report we have debated today refers to many problems linked to food security in ACP countries.
I believe that we cannot talk about this subject without also taking into account some of the realities of European agriculture.
It is unusual to speak about all of this to a Commissioner who today is in charge of development but tomorrow will be in charge of trade and, precisely for this reason, I would like to give you three suggestions.
Secondly, why not subject the Economic Partnership Agreements to parliamentary control in the case of the ACPs, rather than to a strictly commercial logic, so that, here too, parliaments can be involved and made responsible for controlling the repercussions for the populations of the Economic Partnership Agreements and the defence of their interests in this framework? (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Cotonou agreements should promote a shift in the European Union's policy of cooperation and development aid.
This policy should be aimed at genuine cooperation and solidarity, and should help to promote autonomous and sovereign development in ACP countries.
It is therefore our responsibility, it is our duty, it is our creed, it is the foundation stone of the European Union for us to put human life above all else and any technical or economic dimensions after that.
That is why, everything we have debated today, the red tape, the technical issues, need to be resolved as quickly as possible. (DE) Mr President, when I think of the Caribbean, two images come to mind: the current major disaster in Haiti, and, when you have been working in this House for many years, also the MEPs luxuriating at the meetings of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly (JPA).
In relations with ACP countries, we can recall the reform of the sugar market, which was carried out under the noble slogan of support for those countries, but which, in reality, made the situation in the European Union, for our farmers and consumers, much worse, and was not of much help to the ACP countries.
Member of the Commission. - First of all, with respect to the GSP and GSP+, we have nothing in principle against these being included in the Cotonou Agreement, but we should realise that GSP and GSP+ are unilateral and Cotonou is contractual.
I therefore agree in principle with the idea of having two plenary meetings, but let us try to bring them closer to the regional meetings.
This is the term we agreed on, but in fact we should really talk in terms of development partnership agreements, and I think that this would also make the discussion with the ACP countries easier.
I think that I have already dealt with this point in my introduction, and I really believe that it is important that this becomes a crucial subject in our discussions with the ACP countries, but also among ourselves, since, let us be serious - and I know that the Spanish Presidency also has a keen interest in this subject - if we really want to do something, we also have to have the courage to intervene with our societies in these developing countries.
The problem does not only arise there, the problem arises in particular, and I would even say above all, in the relationship between Europe and its own societies and industries in developing countries.
We have therefore failed in our development mission.
This was the case in Zambia, where very substantial investments - to the tune of USD 46 million, I believe - were made in the Mopani mine, for example.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Wednesday, 20 January 2010).
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be voting in favour of this report, as I think that the deepening of cooperation between the European Union and the ACP states within the framework of the partnership agreements is important.
Today, the second revision of the Cotonou Agreement introduced in 2000 is in progress, and within the framework of this revision, the aim is to introduce a range of changes to the agreement, changes which will help us to achieve the objectives set out in the agreement: the abolition of poverty, economic development and the gradual integration of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States into the world economy.
