Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (IT) Mr President, I support the compromise reached on the proposal for a directive because, despite some sticking points, I think it is a good text which protects patients from the great dangers arising from taking falsified medicinal products.
To understand the safety requirement affecting the sector, one need only think that, in 2008, approximately 34 million illegal medicines were seized.
Nevertheless, the step we have taken today is still important. (IT) Mr President, the Commission proposal on preventing the entry of falsified medicines into the supply chain highlights a concern that is becoming a priority for all Europeans: the quality and safety of the medicines we use every day.
The latest reports on the subject have indeed recorded a truly sharp increase in seizures of falsified medicines by customs, as well as a growing, and therefore extremely dangerous, trend for falsifying not only 'lifestyle' medicines but also life-saving medicines, including medicines to treat cancer, heart disease, psychiatric disorders and infections. (IT) Mr President, the number of falsified medicines seized along the border of the European Union in 2007 was 384% higher than in 2005.
These figures reflect an alarming scenario, in which patients are likely to encounter situations such as treatment failure, thus endangering their health and, in some cases, their lives.
Mrs Matias's report rightly points out, however, the negative aspects and points on which we are bound to reassure our citizens.
The sanctions in the Commission proposal are inadequate, but above all the proposal takes no account of the sale of medicines on the Internet, one of the main channels through which falsified medicines enter the European market. (IT) Mr President, I voted for the report by Mrs Matias since the entry of falsified medicinal products into the legal supply chain poses a threat to the entire European pharmaceutical system, as it undermines the confidence citizens have in the quality of medicines sold in pharmacies and other places of legal distribution.
It is important to curb the steadily growing phenomenon of falsified medicines in all European countries in order to protect and ensure the health of our citizens.
The active ingredients contained in a falsified medicine may in fact be sub-standard, completely absent, or present in an incorrect dose. (IT) Mr President, the official figures say it all: 1% of the medicines sold legally in the European Union are falsified.
I voted for the report to say No to cowboy sales via the Internet, the preferred channel for placing these poisons on to the European Union pharmaceutical market.
With the adoption of this document, Parliament will finally be able to make its voice heard, acquiring the means necessary to find and punish these people who are no better than drug dealers, unscrupulous criminals who have been getting rich for too long at the expense of sick people. (IT) Mr President, the problem of falsified medicinal products is one that is having an ever greater impact at international and EU level, in terms of the increased number of cases as well as the advances in the development of these products.
The report, for which we expressed our support, has established a regulatory framework which, taking as its basis more precise and detailed definitions, took into account all the actors, stages and aspects of the pharmaceutical supply chain - safety, traceability and obligations of the distribution chain - in order to achieve a good compromise.
They may also be a risk to health.
This represents one of the most common ways for fake products to get onto EU markets. (HU) Mr President, I too gladly supported this report, because, as my fellow Members have mentioned several times, WHO estimates indicate that falsified medicinal products are circulated in large quantities in EU Member States.
Their number is continuously increasing, and we must therefore do everything in our power to prevent falsified medicines from entering the supply chain.
Even though this does not threaten the entire pharmaceutical industry, it still undermines people's confidence in pharmacies, not to mention the fact that falsified medicinal products may contain sub-standard active ingredients.
Estimates indicate that the number of boxes of falsified medicines could reach 42 million by 2020, exposing the European economy to significant risk.
The European pharmaceutical sector realises a total annual turnover of more than EUR 170 billion.
This is one of the key points of Europe's neighbourhood and enlargement policies.
I voted for this report even though I am not entirely convinced that the definition of a falsified product is correct.
Moreover, through the adoption of a number of guarantees, we will establish strict regulations that require permits and inspections.
This is an opportunity for Member States to better regulate the matter, but we must remember, Mr President, that citizens can order medicines from another Member State and that this regulation should not be seen as another opportunity to benefit the pharmaceutical industry.
Instead we must continue to progress along the trail of liberalisation that the EU is currently blazing by adopting measures such as this. - (SK) Mr President, we are debating a law on counterfeit medicines.
Frequently a medicine that is supposed to treat cancer or the heart does not contain any of the effective ingredient, or only a small percentage of it, and this crime puts at risk the health and often even the life of the patient.
It is good that we have also adopted principles in this text, new principles, which tighten up the penalties for those who engage in criminal activity in this area, and I am pleased that Europe has taken a step in the right direction.
This is a requirement and a duty that we must fulfil on behalf of all European citizens, who are often unaware that they are buying a falsified medicine.
I agree with the thrust of the report, which introduces obligations to be met not only by distributors but also by all those involved in the supply chain.
Indeed, it is often in the intricacies of the various steps in the distribution chain that high-risk products are introduced.
The latter placed the sole responsibility for compliance with wholesale distributors, thus failing to guarantee the reliability of the pharmaceutical supply chain in any way.
The report we voted on today introduced measures to further ensure the safety of pharmaceutical products such as, for example, the stepping up of inspections of manufacturers outside the European Union on the basis of a risk analysis.
If they had been introduced, we could have avoided the oft repeated situation of European companies having to meet very high quality standards, while companies that produce in other parts of the world benefit from regulatory frameworks that are undoubtedly less stringent.
I therefore hope that improvements can be made in the future. (IT) Mr President, more than 100 million workers depend directly or indirectly on small and medium-sized enterprises today in Europe.
These are the reasons why I voted for this resolution: the SMEs and the 100 million European workers employed in the sector expect it of us. (SK) Mr President, of all the practical aspects relating to the revision of EU instruments supporting the funding of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), I would like to highlight in particular the problems of external funding.
I therefore consider it necessary to strengthen individual programmes at the Member State level, and also to boost the resources of the EU and the European Investment Bank focused on innovative financial instruments.
It is necessary to support the further implementation of guarantee instruments in connection with revolving loans - and I would emphasise this - and the exploitation of financial instruments involving risk spreading, as well as the expansion of microfinancing institutions. (PL) Mr President, this is an important motion for a resolution on the mechanism of financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Occasionally, we face criticism that on one hand we talk about the important role of this business sector - in manufacturing, in the creation of one third of the GDP in the European Union and in the creation of secure jobs - but without good instruments providing financial support to these companies.
Most of the EU funds for development and innovation go primarily to large companies due to their requirements.
I believe that access to funding for business development, particularly in the field of innovation, is especially important.
It is prompted by a requirement to make European Union support programmes consistent in order to provide better guarantees and a good balance between national and EU schemes.
I therefore support the proposal to establish a one-stop shop for the various EU financing instruments aimed at SMEs.
Simplifying bidding and procedures for access to markets is an important means of support even if it proves necessary to increase funding.
The next European Union financial programming cannot therefore ignore these considerations and must increase and diversify the resources available.
It is important to act with the aid of a long-term strategy to avoid stopgap or one-off measures - I refer to the new financial rules that the EU is preparing to implement.
In countries undergoing severe austerity measures - like my own country, Ireland - this issue is particularly severe and I believe it needs to be dealt with immediately.
Yes, it is a balancing act, but we have a situation where the health of our financial institutions is improving day by day but SMEs still remain in intensive care. (IT) Mr President, demographic trends recorded in recent years lead us to consider the need to implement a strategy for fresh cohesion and coherence in the pensions field, to promote solidarity between generations and between people, while helping to ensure a safe and adequate income after retirement.
I agree with the rapporteur when she notes that there are major differences between pension systems in Europe.
During the reform of their pension systems, many Member States have made swingeing cuts.
Financial sustainability is important, but we should also take into account the need to ensure an adequate income.
By virtue of my experience as Minister for Employment in Italy, Mr President, I can confirm that if there is no compliance by the Member States, it will be very difficult for individual States to adapt to this type of legislation. (DA) Mr President, not so long ago, the European Court of Justice ruled that Germany must have greater transparency with regard to its occupational pensions and that it must put these pensions out to public tender.
I had great expectations that this would be a ruling that would have a knock-on effect on other countries in Europe.
This, unfortunately, did not happen, and the Commission has not been willing to put pressure on other countries that tie their people to certain pensions.
All of these are good and sound liberal principles, but if we take this to its logical conclusion, people should also be able to move their pensions from one fund to another if the unemployment or pension fund that they have been assigned to by their trade union or employer does not do its job properly.
We did not achieve that much this time round, but we have nevertheless taken a step in the right direction today, and I think this is good for the internal market and for citizens' chances of getting a decent return on their pensions. (IT) Mr President, given the pressure it exerts on budgets, efficiency in social spending currently plays a key role in the economic systems of Member States.
This has been illustrated in recent years, when we have seen a rise in unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, resulting in worsening budget deficits in many Member States, followed by pension funding problems.
I welcome the report by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, which aims to provide new impetus at national and European Union level, helping to create solid pension systems that are adequate in the long term, sustainable and safe.
I therefore call on the Commission to remedy this shortcoming by taking appropriate action to come up with a typology of pension systems in Member States as well as with a common set of definitions in order to make systems comparable. (NL) Mr President, I would just like to make a suggestion.
If you ask me to be strict, I will be strict, but always in moderation of course. (IT) Mr President, I, on the contrary, appreciate your generosity, because during the discussions we never have an opportunity to go over one minute and this is therefore another chance to speak and debate, on the explanations of vote in this case, which after all go to the root of the reports that we vote on.
European pension systems are in an increasingly alarming state.
We must act now to ensure that men and women have equal opportunities, protecting those who decide to retire today and, at the same time, protecting those who are only now taking their first steps in the labour market.
In Europe, women still earn on average 18% less than men.
The main effect of this wage disparity is apparent at retirement age: because they have earned less throughout their working lives, women also have lower pensions.
Especially in times of crisis, we need to include a gender perspective in all policies, adopting national measures that are agreed on and coordinated at European level. (PL) Mr President, the purpose of the Green Paper is to gather the views of the Member States on how to achieve the intended goal of adequate, stable and secure pensions, given that the report adopted by the Commission rightly concludes firstly that there is no reason to harmonise pension systems, and secondly that Member States should provide various forms for the development of future pensions, and above all that they should recognise a minimum pension in order to protect people from poverty.
Thirdly, Member States such as Poland which implemented a difficult pension reform, resulting in a deficit increase and public debt, should not be penalised by the excessive deficit procedure.
In my opinion, the conclusions are fully in line with the EU's Europe 2020 economic strategy, and in particular with the employment strategy and the fight against poverty and social exclusion. (IT) Mr President, I voted for this resolution because I believe that the compromise reached with such difficulty within our committee is essentially positive, insofar as it is a tool to remind Member States to ensure that pensions are adequate, sustainable and portable throughout Europe, in the context of a significantly ageing population.
I would however like to make three criticisms, which I hope the European Commission will implement in the coming White Paper.
Thirdly, European citizens' right to a common programme of welfare education and information about their pension and insurance situation should be affirmed, in particular for young people and workers throughout the course of their working lives. (FI) Mr President, it is very important at European level to try to move towards adequate, sustainable and safe pension systems.
We will therefore definitely have to think about systems in a new way, so that this situation can be dealt with in a manner that is sustainable for everyone. - (SK) Mr President, I voted in favour of the report, even though the Green Paper drawn up by the European Commission has its shortcomings.
The 2020 Strategy presents a dream future to us.
The Green Paper launches a discussion on the actual future, but ignores reality.
The authors of the Green Paper do not even try to look for a solution at the point where life begins.
I therefore think that the Commission should draw up its White Paper in a substantially more comprehensive way, emphasise the importance of motherhood and the informal work of women, listen to the Confederation of Families from all over Europe and incorporate a new imperative into all of its policies and strategies: family mainstreaming. - (SK) Mr President, the differences between the various Member State pension systems are enormous, which results from the fact that this area belongs within, and should continue to belong within, the direct powers of the Member States.
It is therefore necessary to encourage people to enter the labour market, increasing employment levels and economic growth.
I would also like to say that the changes, which I also support, and which involve the Commission setting up groups of experts to draft projects with which to help the national systems, should not extend their authority too much.
Pension policy is a policy of the Member States and the Commission must not exceed its authority, even though its advice will be useful in all cases. (PL) Mr President, we have adopted an extremely important report on pension systems in Europe.
The birth rate is very low, life expectancy is increasing, and public spending is growing due to ageing societies.
The current economic and demographic situation forces us to give serious thought to this issue.
As I said, life expectancy is increasing.
We are working under better conditions, which allows us to work for longer.
There is a yawning gap between current pension provision and what will be needed to provide pensions at current levels for the next 40 years.
Indeed, an estimate from a major insurance company states that the gap between what we are currently providing, both public and private, and what will be needed to ensure that pension provision remains at the same level in 40 years' time for the EU 27, is EUR 1.9 trillion per year.
I hope that this debate and the subsequent White Paper from the Commission will ensure that we begin to deal with this matter in a realistic way. (GA) Mr President, I was pleased to vote for this report, because I feel that it is more than time for us to discuss this issue in Parliament.
Without a doubt the pensions problem at this point is a 'bomb ready to explode', and it will be worse in the future.
If we confined ourselves to the idea of making sure that a worker in one State can move to another Member State and take their pension with them, that might be a valid idea to pursue.
We must make sure we have a consistent message. (DE) Mr President, I have voted in favour of the Oomen-Ruijten report and would like to emphasise two points.
Firstly, when we see that in some countries in Europe too many pensions are being paid out too early, but these countries are getting into difficulties and the others are having to bail them out, that is unfair.
We need European coordination in this regard.
I therefore consider this report to be a step in the right direction in that, on the one hand, we in Europe are recognising that our citizens want more coordination in the social sphere because they feel unfairly treated and, on the other, we are making it clear where the main responsibility lies, namely with the Member States.
This report represents a step in this direction.
Nevertheless, European cooperation is needed in cases where people who have been working in other EU countries and who then possibly return to their country of origin receive their pension from those countries where they have been working.
If there is free movement of labour, pensions must also always move from one country to another. (ET) I am very glad that we have dealt with this report and that we are adopting it today.
I am glad that this report does not infringe on Member States, but that it takes into account the principle of subsidiarity: it provides guidelines rather than mandatory rules.
It is clear that the aim of the report is to give a new momentum to the consolidation of the pension system while keeping its sustainability in mind.
The report provides Member States with new ideas for dealing with their own pension systems in order to make them more satisfactory.
Several points in the report have been tackled positively, including mobility and transferability, retirement age, the framework for pension systems, and their relevance to the 2020 Strategy.
I also supported the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisory Office, because the economic crisis has shown us that there is a need for an institution such as this. (IT) Mr President, I visited Croatia several times in the early 1990s, during the war, precisely in order to take humanitarian aid, and this is one of the reasons why I care about Croatia's entry into the European Union.
However, there is still much to do in memory of the extensive ethnic cleansing campaign conducted against the Italian population between 1945 and 1948 by the militias of the Croatian authorities of the former Yugoslav communist regime.
On 10 February, the Day of Remembrance, Italy commemorates the Foibe Massacres and the Istrian and Dalmatian exiles in order not only to remember those who were brutally killed, but also to reaffirm the rights of those exiled, starting with rights to property confiscated during those years, and the right of repatriation. (RO) Mr President, I would like to return here to points I raised in some of the amendments tabled along with Bernd Posselt, which successfully passed through the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
First of all, I would like to repeat the hope that the accession negotiations with Croatia will be concluded in the first half of 2011, as announced in the Hungarian Presidency's programme.
From this perspective, it would be a symbolic act because it would take place 20 years after the declaration of independence from the former Yugoslav Republic.
On the other hand, concluding the negotiations in this manner would send out a very strong signal to the other candidate countries in the Balkans at a time when, as we are aware, the Union's power of attraction seems to be waning.
Finally, I would like to highlight the Croatian authorities' determination to combat corruption and organised crime.
This is an indication, as we have noticed on other occasions too, that corruption is not fatal if political will exists. (NL) Mr President, I have voted against this report, despite the fact that I am in favour of Croatia joining the European Union.
My problem with this report is that, even though it reads like one long list of the current corruption problems in Croatia, we still seem to be insisting that the negotiations be concluded in the next few months.
In 2007, we admitted Romania and Bulgaria, even though we knew that they had not met the conditions and that corruption was a major problem.
This is a key objective of the Hungarian Presidency, which will also be a great success for Croatia and send out an important message to the other countries in the region hoping to join the European Union.
The most important factor here is the political will demonstrated by Croatia, which has declared its determination to implement all the provisions and criteria for membership.
All of the countries that have recently become EU members know that final negotiations are the toughest, because they include many provisions that apply to large social groups.
I voted for this report and I congratulate the rapporteur.
Religion is one of these and I would stress that, in future, respect must also be shown for aspect's relating to the Croatian people's freedom of religion.
This too is an example of reciprocal loyalty and richness of diversity, which should, in theory, characterise the European Union. - (SK) Mr President, the accession talks with Croatia are entering the final phase.
Over the past year, Croatia has shown the will to continue with the necessary reforms, particularly with the adoption of substantial amendments and supplements to the constitution, but also with the harmonisation of legislation with the Community acquis, and I would like the Hungarian Presidency now to complete the accession talks with Croatia.
On the other hand, widespread corruption remains a significant social and economic problem, which it is perhaps also necessary to resolve with the assistance of the EU, so that this negative feature is not then transferred into European structures, and I believe that in the popular vote, in the referendum in Croatia, the citizens will confirm the decision of the Croatian state to become a new Member State of the EU. (PL) Mr President, the integration of the Western Balkans into the European Union guarantees that the region will be stabilised and that its development will be accelerated.
Croatia and Ireland are very similar in terms of population - 4.5 million - and will have the exact same number of MEPs - 12.
They are not joining willy-nilly: they are joining as a result of a very rigorous accession process and Croatia has made much progress in that regard.
So it is progress of a kind that at least the ordinary people of Croatia will have the final word over EU accession.
I think there are real losses potentially to Croatia.
It is a country with an educated and industrious workforce that could do extremely well pricing itself into the market and exploiting the advantages of relatively cheap exports; but I am a democrat, and of course, if the people of Croatia vote in favour of EU accession, if that is their considered will, then I will support their bid when it comes before this Chamber.
I just raise the question of why some of the existing Member States should not also consult their people on the issue of continued membership.
They worry about certain Member States that were let in which, they feel, had not addressed issues such as corruption and property rights.
The rule of law, the rights of property and enforceable contracts are all seriously challenged in Croatia.
If this country, Croatia, is considered a suitable country for joining the European Union, then heaven help all of us.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (PT) In light of the alarming increase in falsified medicines, I am voting for this report.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution, in which the European Parliament expresses its position on the directive on the prevention of the entry into the legal supply chain of medicinal products which are falsified.
We must take into account the concern expressed by EU citizens over the quality and safety of the medicinal products they are consuming.
All the more so given that experts are observing alarming tendencies: a sharp increase in seizures of falsified medicines by customs (an increase of up to 384% since 2005); a trend towards the falsification of life-saving medicines, which can have fatal consequences; counterfeit medicines are increasingly being found in legal supply chains.
To achieve this objective I feel that it is very important to establish strict controls and determine responsibility at all levels of manufacturing, distribution and sales.
Falsifying of medicines is steadily increasing: in 2008 alone, 34 million falsified medicines were seized in the EU, and that is without mentioning the online market for these products, in which it is estimated that 50-90% of the medicinal products available are falsified.
We are talking about traffic not only in anabolic steroids, stimulants, diuretics and hormones, but also in medicines used to treat a number of dangerous illnesses, which in this case are sold freely and at a lower price, even though they require a prescription.
I believe that strict regulation to protect public health is essential not only in the legal pharmaceutical supply chain, through the implementation of devices to detect tampering with packages and to track active ingredients in order to establish the source, or through inspections of third-country production sites, but also on the Internet.
Provisions should also be laid down for online sales, including the introduction of an EU certification logo, a centralised database at national level listing all authorised retailers and severe penalties for traffickers in illegal products.
Falsified medicines are a global danger.
I think that European citizens should be informed at both European and national level about the risks posed to their health by products ordered from various uncontrolled websites or from the illegal supply chain, given that the Internet is one of the main routes by which falsified medicines enter the EU market.
This is the reason why I voted for this report.
The report presented by the Commission notes that seizures of falsified medicines are increasing, and that life-saving medicines intended to treat cancer and heart disease are being falsified.
Falsifying of medicinal products must be viewed as a criminal act that denies patients the necessary medical treatment and is harmful to their health, sometimes even leading to their death.
Therefore the objective of the directive should be the protection of public health, ensuring a high level of quality control of the import of medicinal products, since this is one of the key entry doors of falsified medicines to the European market.
I believe that it is essential to properly regulate and control the sale of medicines on the Internet, because this is one of the main routes for falsified medicinal products to enter the European market.
I voted for this report as European citizens are becoming increasingly concerned about the quality and safety of medicines.
For this reason, the directive's first and most important objective should be to protect public health against falsified medicines.
While, on the one hand, we must gauge the impact of this and reflect on consumption, it is also essential to fight against the increasing falsification of medicines.
The report in question on the prevention of the entry into the supply chain of medicinal products which are falsified highlights an important element of concern for the European public, namely the quality and safety of the medicines they use.
Therefore, I welcome the provisions that will make it possible to combat the phenomenon of falsified medicines and which represent a necessary step towards responding to this rising public health threat and ensuring patients' safety.
More specifically, it regulates the sale of medicines over the Internet, which is one of the main channels through which falsified medicines enter the EU market.
In fact, in order to operate, online pharmacies in Member States must obtain special permits to supply products to the public over the Internet.
Lastly, because I believe that the falsification of medicines should not be viewed as a minor offence - we need only think of the implications of falsifying life-saving drugs - but rather as criminal activity that endangers human lives, I fully support the strengthening of sanctions.
Patients must be absolutely sure that the medicines they take are authentic.
I fully agree too with the proposal to include the online distribution of drugs in the directive.
In such cases patients are mainly reliant on themselves, and their medical knowledge does not necessarily enable them to identify a fake product.
The rules must be clear when it comes to such an important issue as health.
We should eliminate any risks.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report because we must take into account a concern which is getting higher and higher on the agenda of the European citizens: the quality and safety of the medicinal products they are consuming.
There is data indicating a sharp increase in seizures of falsified medicines by customs.
For instance, 2.7 million medicinal products were confiscated at EU custom borders in 2006 and 2.5 million in 2007, hence seizures of medicines are up 384% compared to 2005.
Treatment with such falsified medicines can have fatal consequences.
Besides the Internet, the licensed distribution chain is increasingly targeted.
I therefore believe that the protection of public health against falsified medicines should be the main focus of the directive.
This situation is highlighted by the fact that, in 2008 alone, the customs authorities announced that more than 34 million counterfeit medicinal products were confiscated in Europe.
Admittedly, the EU has not yet reached the situation of other geographical areas where up to 30% of the medicines available on the market are counterfeit.
It is currently estimated that 1% of medicinal products sold are counterfeit, but there are warnings indicating that this proportion is on the rise.
The new safety regulations adopted by Parliament, the penalties imposed on the manufacturers of counterfeit medicines and the control system between manufacturers and consumers are intended to halt the growth of the pharmaceutical black market in the EU.
Therefore, the introduction of new, mandatory safety regulations governing the trading of medicinal products, including those sold via the Internet, is a welcome step.
Selling counterfeit medicines is a criminal activity with serious repercussions which can affect a huge number of consumers who very often choose the easy route of the Internet to order medicines which they would otherwise not be able to access without a medical recommendation.
The number of falsified medicinal products is rising sharply in all European countries.
New estimates also suggest a worrying increase in this phenomenon, which also includes online medicine sales and, even more seriously, increasingly involves novel 'life-saving' drugs.
A new European strategy must therefore be implemented as soon as possible so as to combat this phenomenon and to better protect public health and European consumers.
I therefore voted in favour of this report, because I think it has the merit of having achieved a good compromise, the main aim of which is to protect patients so that they do not take falsified medicines.
We must act as a matter of urgency in response to the alarming increase in medicinal products which are falsified in relation to their identity, history or source.
These products normally contain low-quality or falsified substances, representing a serious threat to public health, and also leading to a loss of patient trust in the legal supply chain.
They should also identify any falsified products, while ensuring the functioning of the internal market for medicines.
The risk-assessment process should take account of criteria such as the cost of medicines and the history of falsified medicines in the EU and in third countries, as well as the effects these falsified products have on public health, in terms of the specific nature of the products in question and of the severity of the conditions they are intended to treat.
The marketing of falsified medicinal products has increased public health risks over recent years.
There are worrying data that, apart from the Internet, more and more falsified medicinal products are entering the legal supply chain.
I voted in favour of the Matias report because: 1.
It puts patient protection at the heart of the legislative proposal, by adopting measures to provide access to a high standard of safe and appropriate treatment and information. 2.
It establishes safety features for prescription and non-prescription (black-listed) medicinal products, in the aim of preventing falsified medicinal products from entering the legal supply chain. 4.
It demands full traceability of medicinal products and, at the same time, establishes an early warning system in all the Member States, so that medicinal products which are suspected of being dangerous can be withdrawn. 5.
It sees falsification of medicinal products as an organised criminal activity and imposes strict penalties on the offenders. 6.
The falsification of medicines is an organised crime that endangers peoples' lives just like narcotics trafficking.
This increase is largely due to the lack of detailed legislation in some countries because of either a lack of resources or the unwillingness to implement it, and to the fact that the level of penalty set out does not have a truly deterrent effect.
This is a step in the right direction, even though it excludes important issues such as, for example, the fact that generic medicines and non-prescription medicines are not covered by the implementation of safety features.
in writing. - (RO) Given the ever-growing risks to patients from counterfeit medicines, I think that interim measures to strengthen patient safety need to be introduced urgently.
I voted in favour of this report, as it aims to combat at EU level falsified medicines within the legal supply chain without hampering the functioning of the internal market in medicines.
It aims to do so, for example, by introducing obligations for operators in the distribution chain, by prohibiting those operators situated between the original manufacturer and the final operator in the distribution chain (generally the pharmacist) or the end user (doctor/patient) from manipulating (that is removing, modifying or covering) the safety features on the packaging, and by establishing stricter criteria governing the importation of active pharmaceutical ingredients from third countries and product inspections.
in writing. - The quality of medicinal products is crucial to ensure safety, and to give peace of mind to consumers.
It is clear that there is a rising threat to the health of our constituents as a result of these products flooding the market, especially with falsifications becoming more sophisticated year on year.
It is currently estimated that perhaps 15% of the global medicine supply is counterfeit, while it is estimated that in some developing countries over 30% of medicines on sale may be counterfeit.
The use of falsified medicines can have a serious detrimental impact on a patient's health, in some cases leading to death.
It is clear that a comprehensive strategy on tackling this issue is vital, both at national and international level, in order to ensure that high standards of public health and safety are maintained.
I am delighted that the European Parliament has decided to enforce these safety features not only on the conventional supply chain but also on sales via the Internet, which is the main gateway for falsified products.
I also welcome the fact that the European Parliament advocates the need for controls on medicines entering and leaving the EU and plans to implement heavy penalties, as these crimes are endangering lives.
I believe that consumer safety is a matter of vital importance, particularly when the consumers involved are also patients who are seeking a cure from the medicines they take, or at least a significant improvement in their health.
Consumer safety is of even greater importance when it aims to safeguard the authenticity of medicinal products sold on the open market, whether through traditional channels or over the Internet.
For this very reason, I consider it vital that very clear regulations be adopted on the falsification of medicinal products, as this is a growing phenomenon throughout Europe and the rest of the world which has devastating effects on consumer confidence, on companies and, even more importantly, on the health of those who take these falsified medicines.
I therefore support this report and would congratulate Mrs Matias on the work she has carried out and on all the compromises that she has negotiated.
in writing. - (PT) The clandestine trade in medicinal products has already been compared with the illegal trade in weapons of war and drug trafficking.
It is a scourge that affects millions of people around the world, and which is a nightmare for those whose duty it is to look after public health: someone who is ill, often with chronic or terminal diseases could take something that is harmless and has no effect, or even take something that could even be harmful.
We know that there are increasing amounts of counterfeit or falsified medicinal products in circulation, with the figures running into the millions.
I welcome the adoption of this directive of Parliament and the Council which, by tracking the entire product cycle, will prevent falsified and/or counterfeit medicinal products from being brought into the European Union and will reinforce the protection of public health by improving the quality and safety of the medicinal products consumed.
Finally, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, my compatriot, Mrs Matias, on the work she has done.
in writing. - (PT) This is a problem with serious effects on public health and on the economies of the Member States.
The report tackles the relevant issue of sales via the Internet, which is part of the legal supply chain.
It refers to the importance of raising public awareness to the risks associated with purchasing medicinal products in this manner.
We believe that the compromise reached is a positive step in the essential fight against this problem.
The quality and safety of the medical products being sold to the people of Ireland is a matter of great concern.
We voted for the Matias report on falsified medicines.
This is indeed a public health and safety issue in a Europe without borders where the worst counterfeit or simply poor-quality rubbish can circulate freely.
It may even be the cause of them, for example with the 2004 Directive on traditional herbal medicinal products, coupled with the 2006 Regulation on health claims.
From studies it is clear that the use of falsified medicines is so dangerous for patients that it puts lives at risk: it is therefore right to consider falsification to be a criminal act warranting the adoption of a strong stance by the European Union.
Hence my support for the points contained in the report, namely: that there should be clear definitions relating not only to the scope, but also to the different actors in the supply chain, in order to clarify their roles and responsibilities; that sanctions should be equivalent to those applied for illegal acts involving narcotics; and that there should be enhanced transparency and regulation of medicine sales on the Internet, thereby enabling consumers to distinguish between illegal operators and online pharmacies.
Such a system can ensure appropriate monitoring not only of pharmaceutical falsification within the European Union but also of falsified medicines exported to third countries, the numbers of which continue to increase.
The guiding principle should be patient welfare in all cases.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report because we must take into account a concern which is getting higher and higher on the agenda of European citizens: the quality and safety of the medicinal products they are consuming.
It is estimated that 1% of medicinal products currently sold to the European public through the legal supply chain are fake.
It is well known that the Internet represents one of the main routes for falsified medicinal products to enter the European market.
For too long we have lacked a proper response to dishonest repackagers and fraudsters rampant in the vastness of the Internet, while an ever increasing number of people buying medicines from untrustworthy websites have begun to put their health or even their lives at risk.
I am pleased that penalties for counterfeiters have been set, along with measures to ensure a more stringent review.
Registered pharmacies in countries where the sale of medicines over the Internet is permitted must obtain a special licence; their websites must carry the European logo and be included in the European database.
The protection of public health against falsified medicines should be the main focus.
in writing. - (DE) I am very pleased that Parliament and the Council were able to agree on a compromise with regard to the problem of falsified medicinal products.
This is particularly important because the falsification of medicinal products has now become a very serious problem, which has widened to include life-saving preparations.
With the measures that have been adopted we have taken an important step in the right direction, without excessive bureaucracy.
In this way, we will achieve greater safety for patients - which, in view of the extent of the falsification of medicinal products, was urgently needed - without imposing excessive burdens on the parties involved.
Unfortunately, it is sometimes the case that a patient dies as a result of taking these medicines.
It is therefore necessary to step up precautions with regard to imports of drugs from third countries, to limit the sale of medicines over the Internet to a minimum, to initiate a campaign to raise patients' awareness of the risks of taking non-certified counterfeit medicines and a campaign that ensures that those buying medicines are aware that counterfeit medicinal products are in circulation.
I agree with the rapporteur that copyright protection is not a priority here.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the directive on combating falsified medicines.
In light of the number of counterfeit medicines confiscated in the European Union (more than 34 million counterfeit pills were confiscated in 2008), it is high time for the European Union to set up an effective traceability system to guarantee the origin and the quality of medicines available in the European Union.
in writing. - (RO) Falsified medicinal products pose a real threat to the entire pharmaceutical system in Europe since, apart from the danger patients are exposed to by taking such products, this results in a decline in the general public's confidence in the quality of the medicinal products available in pharmacies.
Although the scale of this problem is still relatively minor in Europe, unlike in other regions, I voted for this report as I think that there are a number of factors indicating the need for measures to be adopted promptly at EU level.
The new directive will include penalties imposed on the manufacturers of counterfeit medicines, enhanced safety regulations and a verification system whose aim is to prevent dangerous medicinal products reaching the European market.
One encouraging aspect is that the European Parliament has successfully added to the European Commission's proposal the regulation of the sale of these products via the Internet, which is the main channel for introducing counterfeit medicines into the EU market.
In today's vote I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Matias on falsified medicinal products.
I believe that the document adopted today will reduce the growing problem of counterfeit medicines and introduce a well-functioning system for monitoring the European market, from the manufacturer to the patient.
I am convinced that coordination between the various national and international bodies is necessary, and we are taking a step forward towards strengthening this cooperation by approving the report.
I believe that the problem of counterfeit medicines in Europe is a serious one and the European Parliament, by adopting the report, is sending out a clear message to the Commission that only effective cooperation and the effective enforcement of sanctions will make it possible to reduce this practice.
in writing. - Counterfeit medicines are already widespread in the developing world where 20-30% of medicines on the market are fake.
They are now being found increasingly in the EU.
Around 1% of medicines sold in Europe are estimated counterfeit.
The Commission proposal avoids giving specific definitions, despite the many recommendations.
This kind of approach may lead to incomplete or unenforceable protection for patients who are consumers of medicinal products.
In this context, the proposed text also allows Member States to take their own action in support of greater consumer protection.
The scandalous case of benfluorex, known by the name of Mediator in France, is proof positive of this.
I am therefore voting for this report.
Since this is a very serious problem that puts public health in the EU at risk, I believe the implementation of new rules is key to protecting patients from falsified medicinal products.
That is why, on 23 April 2010, I asked the European Commission a question about a joint operation involving the 27 Member States, called 'Medi-Fake', which at the time had confiscated 34 million counterfeit tablets in only two months.
For this reason, I have always supported severe measures to combat this situation, as a way of closing down a trade that represents EUR 45 billion of profit to some criminal networks.
in writing. - (ES) I have voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2001/83/EC as regards the prevention of the entry into the legal supply chain of medicinal products which are falsified in relation to their identity, history or source, as I consider that it positively strengthens the measures against counterfeit medicines and their distribution and, therefore, improves the protection of citizens.
Furthermore, I think it is very positive that Parliament's position reinforces the transparency and the right to information as a means to prevent this illegal activity.
I support stepping up the legal fight against the distribution of those medicines via the Internet since the majority of cases of counterfeit medicines entering the European market occur in this way.
I have voted in favour of the text as the amendments considerably improve the text put forward by the Commission as they strengthen control measures, increase transparency, improve access to information and, therefore, enable improved protection for citizens.
That is why I voted in favour of this report, which focuses on health and therefore the protection of consumers.
The EU must remain vigilant and energetically pursue a purposeful policy against this unacceptable corruption.
However, I consider the measures featured in the report to be insufficient.
Measures should include forfeiture of licence from suppliers and distributors of counterfeit medicine, maximum fines and criminal responsibility for all people related to illegal activity in the area of medicine trading.
The increased occurrence of falsified medicinal products is exposing more and more patients, including in Europe, to incalculable risks that could even result in them paying with their lives.
However, I have voted against the report because the proposed measures, particularly the import controls, do not, in my opinion, go far enough.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution because the counterfeiting of medicinal products is a significant problem throughout the EU, and we therefore need to take radical measures to ensure that counterfeit medicines, which could have adverse effects on human health or even life, do not enter the market.
We must make every effort to ensure that a strict labelling system for prescription medicines is in force in the EU, including safety labels that establish the manufacturer and supplier.
I feel that there should be harsher penalties for medicine counterfeiters, and the control mechanism must operate effectively across the whole of the EU, including every link in the medicine supply chain.
in writing. - (PT) This report is based on a Commission proposal aimed at preventing the introduction of falsified medicinal products to the supply chain, drawing attention to an issue that is of increasing concern to Europeans: the quality and safety of the medicinal products that they use.
We should highlight the positive effect of this proposal, which promotes debate on a crucial subject, with the ultimate aim of combating falsified medicinal products.
It also seems essential to me to safeguard the distribution network for medicinal products, establishing clear and precise definitions, not only with regard to the scope of the directive's application, but also with regard to the roles and responsibilities of the various parties involved in the supply chain: retailers, distributors, brokers.
I therefore welcome the agreement reached between Parliament and the Council to establish a common legal framework in the 27 Member States to limit the risk of falsified medicines.
Falsified medicinal products are 'silent killers', even if they have no effect, because they contain toxic substances that can damage or even kill those who take them.
We have seen disproportionate growth of this criminal activity, with a 400% increase in seizures of falsified medicinal products since 2005.
We have therefore approved today a new law to prevent the entry of falsified medicines into the legal supply chain and to protect patient safety.
The legislation also covers Internet sales and introduces new safety devices and traceability measures, as well as penalties for counterfeiters, to prevent the sale of falsified medicines to European Union citizens.
The directive should prevent confusion and should not allow any room for 'grey' areas.
in writing. - The opportunities for selling falsified medicinal products have increased rapidly in recent years.
In particular, regulation of sales on the Internet is notoriously difficult and can only be tackled effectively at international level.
in writing. - (NL) There has been an alarming increase in counterfeit medicines in the EU.
They may contain inferior quality, counterfeit or inaccurately measured substances, whether active or not, or they may contain no active substances at all, and thus pose a serious danger to the patient.
For industry, the direct and indirect social costs of taking no action on this certainly amount to more than EUR 10 billion.
It brings existing rules up to date and introduces safety features which ensure the identification, authentication and traceability of the product, whilst regulating the sale of medicines on the Internet.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which aims to prevent falsified medicinal products from entering the legal supply chain by increasing harmonisation, improving traceability and by ensuring that penalties are dissuasive and effective.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the report because it provides new bases for combating falsified medicinal products.
in writing. - (LT) Ladies and gentlemen, the amount of falsified medicines entering the EU is growing at a terrific rate.
Eastern Europe is the main route of the trade in falsified medicines worth billions.
This is a major problem - the Commission puts the number of boxes of falsified medicines sold within the legal supply chain each year in Europe at 1.5 million.
Even more alarming is the fact that volumes are increasing by up to 20%.
Falsified medicines are silent killers.
The people distributing them are dangerous criminals and should be viewed as such.
This will require improved coordination between various national and international institutions.
According to the World Health Organisation, 50% of the medicines sold online are falsified.
I believe that one of our priorities should be to draw the public's attention to the risks involved in buying medicines online.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the legislative motion for a resolution of the European Parliament on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2001/83/EC as regards the prevention of the entry into the legal supply chain of medicinal products which are falsified in relation to their identity, history or source.
To date, counterfeit products have mainly come under the heading of 'life-style' drugs, whereas there is currently a dramatic increase in the number of counterfeit life-saving medicines.
in writing. - (PT) I only voted for this motion for a resolution because of the Commission's strong commitment to improving the finance schemes currently being used to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) have greater access to capital to fund their growth and innovation policies.
I voted in favour of this important motion for a resolution on practical aspects regarding the revision of EU instruments to support SME finance in the next programming period.
The 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the EU, which account for around 99% of all businesses and provide over 100 million jobs, make a fundamental contribution to economic growth, social cohesion and job creation, are a major source of innovation and play a vital role in sustaining and increasing employment.
However, the limited ability of SMEs to access finance is a major impediment to their creation and growth, particularly faced with the current financial and economic crisis.
I therefore agree with the resolution's call for a significant increase in funding for innovative financial instruments under the EU budget to cater for the financing needs of SMEs, and in light of the Europe 2020 Strategy.
However, it should be noted that the current EU financial regulations on the use of European funds and programmes are unduly complicated, and the expense in terms of time and money involved in complying with these regulations is out of all proportion to the benefits for the final recipient of the funding.
Last October, the European Commission presented a policy paper entitled 'An integrated industrial policy for the globalisation era', which contains a number of specific initiatives intended to give a strong impetus to European industrial policy.
This is in fact a priority objective that I hope will be thoroughly addressed in the review of the Small Business Act, which will be presented on 23 February in Rome by Commissioner Tajani himself.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the EU account for around 99% of all businesses and provide over 100 million jobs.
The limited ability of SMEs to access finance is a major impediment to their growth, and the continuing financial and economic crisis has restricted their access to funding even further.
The banking sector is asking for more collateral and higher risk premiums.
I agree with the initiators of this motion for a resolution that the scheme needs to be as coherent as possible during the 2014-2020 financing period.
These SMEs encounter each other on the single market, but receive different levels of support in their national environment.
I also believe in the benefit of a point of single contact for all EU financial instruments intended for SMEs as a solution for balancing national support systems with European systems.
The employment crisis is more than sufficient grounds for adopting a text in which the appeal to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the area of pensions finally recognises the fact that the governments must be the main players in the rebuilding of social Europe.
I would point out the central role of SMEs in all of this.
Lowering the cost of work by reducing taxes, and giving our small enterprises the chance to carry on working and investing in the region are essential moves to ensure equalisation of contributions for the older generations and a future of certainty and quality of life for the new ones.
in writing. - (LT) It should be noted that a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) will continue to depend mainly on credits and loans when it comes to external financing.
We need to draw attention to the fact that an increasingly capital- and risk-sensitive banking sector is asking for more collateral and higher risk premiums, both requirements resulting in insufficient financing and missed business and employment opportunities in this very large sector of the economy.
It is very important to continue to implement guarantee instruments in the framework of the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme (CIP), the Risk-Sharing and Financing Facility under the Seventh Framework Programme and the Structural Funds (JEREMIE).
Their proper implementation is currently being hindered by overly complex administrative procedures, therefore the Commission should make it easier to use the Structural Funds in connection with SME finance instruments, particularly to finance revolving funds for guarantee schemes, whilst avoiding the creation of structures which duplicate existing schemes.
The Commission should also push for the removal of barriers to the development of European venture capital and bond markets, and should expand risk-sharing facilities for investments in equity.
I think that the complexity of EU financial regulations and guidelines for European financial instruments is a serious problem, in particular when European funds and programmes are used to support individual enterprises through the provision of relatively small amounts of funding.
The expense in terms of time and money involved in complying with these regulations is out of all proportion to the benefits for the final recipient of the funding.
in writing. - (PT) The 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the EU play a crucial role in economic growth, social cohesion and job creation.
However, I call on the Commission to make using the Structural Funds easier and more flexible with regard to SME finance schemes.
I support the creation of a new European instrument for providing micro-finance for employment and for improving the regulations and SMEs' access to the single market and financing.
As the providers of some 100 million jobs in Europe, SMEs are the backbone of the European economy.
That is why I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution adopted by the European Parliament calling in particular for special attention to be paid to SME finance in the next EU programming period (2014-2020), through the use of innovative financial instruments.
I welcome the clear message sent to the Commission and the Council by Parliament: it calls on them to remove the administrative obstacles that are particularly difficult for small businesses to overcome and which prevent them from gaining access to EU funding and support programmes.
in writing. - Small and medium-size enterprises will play a vital role in reinvigorating economies across Europe that are currently witnessing economic contraction or, at best, slight economic growth.
In my constituency of Northern Ireland, 98% of all companies can be classified as SMEs.
Portugal is an example of this: approximately 300 000 SMEs represent more than 99% of the total number of companies, and these are directly responsible for more than 2 million jobs and have a combined turnover of some EUR 170 billion.
As a result of the recent economic crisis, the financing capacity of these SMEs, which was already limited, became significantly worse, specifically because of even more restrictive credit conditions imposed by the banking sector.
It is also important to progressively correct market failures and remove administrative barriers.
in writing. - (PT) This European Parliament motion for a resolution deals with practical aspects regarding the revision of EU instruments to support finance for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the next programming period.
The number of small companies has been increasing significantly in Europe in recent years.
They already represent 99% of the total, are responsible for approximately 100 million jobs, and make a crucial contribution to economic growth and social cohesion.
This only serves to protect the economic and financial interest groups that charge high prices to make ever greater profits, whether by issuing credit or through the prices of energy and other commodities.
I believe that this motion for a resolution constitutes in some respects an overdue action for an economic sector - that of small and medium-sized enterprises - which plays a significant role in the EU economy.
A review of support tools is also appropriate in the context of an economic crisis that has had a particularly virulent effect on SMEs, as eloquently documented by the loss of 3 250 000 jobs between 2009 and 2010 alone (more than a third of the new jobs that this sector had created).
In particular, it is necessary to ensure the continuity of credit through action on liquidity and capital requirements and new initiatives in three strategic areas to boost the competitiveness of companies in a phase that is still difficult but certainly more development-oriented: internationalisation, innovation and growth in size.
in writing. - SMEs form an essential part of the backbone of the European economy and are the main drivers for job creation, economic growth, social cohesion and innovation in Europe.
The participation and active role of SMEs are imperative for the advancement of the competitiveness of the single market.
Following the financial crisis, it has become evident that the European financial markets are currently unable to provide SMEs with adequate finance mechanisms.
More adequate and sustainable financial instruments should guarantee that SMEs have better access to capital.
The Commission should redouble its efforts to remove red tape from existing EU support schemes and facilitate cross-border banking, by removing all existing obstacles to the usage of competing clearing and settlement systems and by applying common rules on trading.
The Commission should conduct a comparative analysis of what is actually being made available to SMEs in the equity investment market and what their actual needs are.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this document, because 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which account for around 99% of all businesses in the EU and provide over 100 million jobs, make a fundamental contribution to economic growth, social cohesion and job creation, are a major source of innovation and play a vital role in sustaining and increasing employment.
However, the limited ability of SMEs to access finance is a major impediment to their creation and growth, and the current financial and economic crisis has exacerbated this problem.
The banking sector is asking for more collateral and higher risk premiums, both requirements resulting in insufficient financing and missed business and employment opportunities in this particularly large sector of the economy.
The availability of credit and loan guarantee schemes are crucial to exploiting the growth and job potential offered by SMEs.
in writing. - I have voted in favour of this resolution, as it highlights one of the crucial problems we are currently facing.
SMEs are the driving force of our economies - they should not be punished for mismanagement in the financial sector.
However, the increase in venture capital called for by the European Parliament is to be rejected on principle.
Instead of placing banks under an obligation to support the real economy by providing appropriate credit, Parliament is calling for it to be easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to get contributions from investment funds and private equity firms on the capital markets.
Small and medium-sized European companies make a major contribution to economic growth in the European Union.
These numbers alone explain why we wish to and must protect these companies, which are the true driving force behind our economy.
The economic crisis that has afflicted Europe in recent years must be overcome, and we can only hope to revitalise our economy by supporting these companies.
In the EU we have 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), equivalent to 99% of all companies and more than 100 million jobs.
The current financial and economic crisis is exacerbating the problem.
In the light of the Europe 2020 Strategy, a significant increase in financing for innovative financial instruments in the EU budget is therefore crucial, in order to satisfy SMEs' financial requirements.
Small and medium-sized enterprises make a fundamental contribution to growth and social cohesion and play a vital role in sustaining and increasing employment.
However, SMEs' limited ability to access finance is a major impediment to their creation and growth, and the current financial crisis has exacerbated this problem.
We therefore need to strengthen the functioning of SME finance schemes, support the continued implementation of guarantee instruments and increase funding for innovative financial instruments.
The complexity of financial regulations and administrative burdens also restrict the development of SMEs, and it is therefore important to remove any administrative barriers and propose simplified and less costly regulations and guidelines.
in writing. - (DE) Small and medium-sized enterprises provide 100 million jobs in the EU.
Following the crisis, however, these enterprises are increasingly faced with the problem of financing, as most of them are externally financed.
I voted in favour of the report, as SMEs should, in my view, be supported financially in order to keep the economy stable.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this draft motion for a resolution, because small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) make a fundamental contribution to economic growth, social cohesion, job creation and innovation.
I agree with the proposal aiming to create better conditions for start-ups and innovative enterprises to have access to private equity.
It is very important for the Member States to implement fundamental reforms in SME taxation and support systems.
Furthermore, administrative obstacles must be reduced for SMEs, streamlining management in connection with innovative financial instruments, coordinating SME financing programmes and creating a one-stop shop.
They are also the undertakings that have always driven economic growth.
The European Parliament wishes to make clear in this motion for a resolution that the new generation of EU programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises must be predicated on the new situation in Europe, on facilitating access to borrowing by small and medium-sized enterprises and on creating flexible financing mechanisms, such as micro-finance.
This motion for a resolution on the practical aspects of the revision of EU instruments to support finance for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the next programming period is essential in the current situation.
The current financial and economic crisis has exacerbated the problem of SMEs' access to finance.
If we consider that SMEs contribute to economic growth, social cohesion and job creation; are a major source of innovation and play a vital role in increasing employment, we can understand the importance of the proposed amendments to this legal framework, which aim to improve the functioning of the SME finance schemes.
I voted in favour of this text because I believe it can go some way to helping the more than 23 million European small and medium-sized enterprises, which make a crucial contribution to economic growth and social cohesion within the European Union through the 100 million jobs they provide.
For this reason it is necessary to significantly increase the financial instruments that can help such businesses, and to encourage the implementation of instruments that allow, for example, risk sharing between the various stakeholders.
Now we have agreed on the guidelines, it is up to Member States to adopt ad hoc measures to revitalise and support the specific situation of their own SMEs, fuelling growth in a sector that by itself represents over 90% of all enterprises in the Union and constitutes the very lifeblood of our economy.
in writing. - (ET) Today I voted for the motion for a resolution supporting the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
I believe that the situation of SMEs and the use of the European Union's resources need to be made more effective so as to ensure that the liquidity crisis that occurred during the financial crisis, which had an impact on SMEs in particular, will not be repeated.
Both in Estonia and in the European Union as a whole, SMEs constitute 99% of all businesses, which is why it is important that this particular majority should have access to financial backing, especially during difficult crisis years.
I sincerely hope that both the European Union and SMEs will bring the European economy to a new ascent, and that in the future, we will be better prepared to face any new crisis.
in writing. - (HU) I voted in favour of Amendment 6 of the proposal.
The Commission should place stronger emphasis on programmes and financial instruments scheduled for the upcoming period, and on supporting these instruments with risk-sharing funds and facilities.
in writing. - (LT) Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are the backbone of our society and the engine of our economy.
Both in Lithuania and the EU SMEs account for 99% of all businesses.
SMEs, as well as start-ups and innovative enterprises must be given better access to the EU's financial instruments.
in writing. - Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) constitute around 99% of all businesses within the European Union, contributing greatly to the European economy through innovation, economic growth and the creation of over 100 million jobs.
I therefore subscribe to the idea that after 2014, 70-80% of support for entrepreneurs should be disbursed in the form of loans and guarantees, and the rest in non-repayable grants.
The future of the European public's pensions is one of the key challenges for the future of Europe and I acknowledge the difficulties that the Member States' pension systems are encountering.
However, the European Union can add value by providing coordination between the various schemes and by sharing best practices, since it also has competence in the area of pension portability and supervising institutions for occupational retirement provision (IORP Directive).
I am only voting for this report because of the compromise based on more than 450 amendments, which include some of the main concerns regarding the White Paper.
Financed pensions must be based on solidarity and this must be taken into account in EU regulations.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this very important resolution on European pension systems.
Undoubtedly, the regulation of pension systems is a Member State issue, but it is clear that there needs to be more European Union coordination in this area.
In the European Union the number of pensioners is rising due to the increase in life expectancy.
Pension systems come under Member States' remit, with different rules about the retirement age and the money spent on social security.
The financial crisis has led to a rise in unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, as well as to an increase in budget deficits and to problems relating to the funding of pensions.
The European Parliament's report and the European Commission's Green Paper seek to maintain pension systems which are adapted to citizens' needs without questioning the states' authority and suggesting that a single model would suit all.
I think that solidarity between states and generations is an important factor in EU policies' success.
There is coordination at EU level of aspects of the pension systems relating to the operation of the internal market, such as compliance with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact and the EU 2020 Strategy.
I voted for this report which encourages the efforts of Member States to meet the expectations of their citizens in terms of an adequate, sustainable and safe pension system.
in writing. - (GA) The European population is ageing and it will not be long now until the age group '55 years old or older' will be the largest age group in the EU.
Although there are four people of working age for every person over 65 at present, the ratio will be half that by the year 2050.
The pension systems must be brought up to date so that they are flexible, transparent and accessible.
in writing. - (LT) The European Union faces enormous challenges, one of the most important of these being population ageing.
Due to changing demographic trends, life expectancy is increasing, and older people remain healthy and active and participate in society for longer.
The financial crisis has led to a growth in unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, and has demonstrated the fragility of certain pension fund systems.
There are rising budget deficits in many Member States and problems in the financing of pensions.
The current situation makes it necessary to take decisions that ensure the sustainability of social security regimes.
I am voting for this report because it advocates the need to build a system together that is sustainable, safe, and that provides adequate pensions at Member State level.
It calls on the European Commission to consider setting up a special task force on pensions.
I voted for this report and concur with the rapporteur, who mentions in a clear and well-argued manner not only the need for intergenerational solidarity, but also the major differences between national pension systems in Europe.
The impact of public expenditure in a Member State is easy to pass on even to another Member State, whereas pension funds are part of the financial markets.
I welcome the idea of a flexible labour market for pensioners, in view of the demographic changes we are going through and the obvious trend for extending working life.
I agree with the idea that not only each Member State but also the Union as a whole must adapt their policies to the concept of active ageing.
in writing. - (NL) The sustainability of our pension systems is a problem which has been passed around like a hot potato in Europe for far too long.
Therefore the EU has a coordinating role to play.
The rapporteur has gone to great lengths to obtain a compromise; this text contained some good points, not least the idea that pension systems should guarantee all citizens a decent standard of living, that diversity should be respected, that inequalities between men and women are unacceptable and unjustifiable, that a life course approach should be taken and that older workers should be rehabilitated.
In addition, there are still certain ideas that I cannot subscribe to, such as calling upon the Member States to improve citizens' access to private savings schemes and encouraging work by older people through fiscal and social security exemption measures.
For these reasons I abstained from the final vote.
Demographic development, that is, the inverted population pyramid that we can expect in due course, and longer life expectancy, which means that older people remain in work and participate in society for longer, make it necessary to consider social welfare systems.
As a result, I feel that steps really must be taken to redefine the future of young and old, thus contributing to secure and adequate income provision after retirement, while the need to give fresh impetus to the responsibilities of Member States, the two sides of industry and Europe must also be kept in mind.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this report, because given the rapid ageing of Europe's populations, it is necessary to devote particular attention to the age of retirement, to ensuring the security of pension saving funds and strengthening common minimum pension standards, in order to guarantee normal living conditions for all of Europe's older people.
Although setting the retirement age and the size of pensions is the responsibility of the Member States themselves, the European Parliament and the Commission are proposing measures that would help to overcome the threats to pension systems.
Furthermore, a certain amount of coordination of the reforms of national pension systems is unavoidable as we establish the internal market and implement the Europe 2020 Strategy.
It is unfortunate that the Commission's Green Paper scarcely pays any attention to gender equality.
Economic and financial capabilities vary across the Member States, therefore more attention needs to be paid to the means of improving pension systems, such as timing the start of working life, 'flexible' assessment of retirement age, better reconciliation of work and family life, and the general criteria for setting a minimum pension.
Public pay-as-you-go systems operating in some Member States are facing big increases in costs, which means growing pressure on solidarity and a heavier burden for the younger generation.
The year 2060 may seem far away, but this does not change the predictions at all: an increasingly ageing population, a low birth rate, and therefore huge pressure on budgets.
Each of the Member States is obviously directly responsible for establishing their own pension systems.
Raising the pension age is one of the relevant solutions when discussing the fact that states are no longer going to have a working population of sufficient size to pay for the pensions of those who have left the labour market.
Indeed, a gradual increase in the retirement age is a natural solution in these circumstances, which is supported by the fact that life expectancy is much higher than 40 years ago.
It is true that the financial and economic crisis and demographic change, with the increase in life expectancy, have prompted all Member States to strengthen their pension policies.
These measures therefore prompt a drive to modernise and coordinate national policies on the adjustment of pension systems, sustainability, balance between the duration of working life and pensions, greater transparency of pension systems and protection of solvency.
I also agree with the need to prolong workers' careers through a modern employment policy and improvement of working conditions, and I agree with the need to make pension systems and the information provided to citizens more transparent.
I am very concerned, however, about the serious impact that the measures called for in this document may have on the Member States' coffers, many of which are already under great pressure as a result of the tough economic crisis.
In a context of demographic change and economic crisis, pensions must remain a fundamental part of our social pact.
Nevertheless, I wish to make it clear that each Member State is free to organise its own pension system and that the European Union is there to simply facilitate coordination between the States.
The goal of a 75% employment rate laid down in the Europe 2020 Strategy should help secure the sustainability of pension systems, as it is linked with higher levels of employment, greater productivity and economic growth.
The holistic approach adopted by the Green Paper intends to impart fresh impetus, both at national and EU level, with the objective of establishing pension systems that are robust, suitable for the long-term, sustainable and safe.
I voted against the report on the Green Paper on European pension systems.
The report clearly promotes the harmonised, anti-social policies of the European Union and the reduction of social rights to the lowest common liberal denominator.
The text makes provision for an increase in the retirement age of European workers and for retirement ages to be linked to life expectancy.
European workers, having paid to rescue the banks and been subjected to exhausting austerity measures, are again being forced to pay for the consequences of the crisis, a crisis which they did not cause, by working longer years for a smaller pension.
Although the responsibility for paying pensions falls to the Member States, it is, nonetheless, important for there to be coordination at European level on certain issues.
I am aware of the disparities between pension systems in Europe.
This strategy must take into consideration the current economic and demographic situation, but also the completion of the internal market.
We must therefore not forget that freedom of movement within Europe is a fundamental right of European citizens, which entails the mobility of individuals and namely of workers who must be able to benefit from an effective and efficient labour market, as well as from the guarantee that they will have access to a sustainable, secure and adequate income after retirement.
It is also important to provide the public with adequate and continuous information about their rights regarding the pension system, especially as regards systems relating to cross-border activities and mobility.
in writing. - (RO) I feel it is beneficial that the Europe 2020 Strategy supports an active, focused labour market policy, which will help increase the employment rate of older workers, women, members of minority groups and the long-term unemployed.
By achieving this objective, I believe that Europe will see an increase in the number of people in work and, by extension, economic growth, which will have a positive impact on the viability of pension systems at EU level.
in writing. - (NL) I today voted in favour of the Oomen-Ruijten report on pensions.
This will ensure adequate protection of the Dutch pillar system.
I voted in favour of the proposed text because pensions are one of the fundamental institutions of the system of worker's rights and duties.
By setting this threshold as a long-term goal, it is obvious that sustainable pension systems are necessary to offer certain minimum prospects to workers.
Indeed, while I acknowledge the differences in the cost of living and in wage levels between Member States, there is a need to establish long-term convergence both internally within each Member State and within the EU as a whole, so as to promote a decent and adequate level of life expectancy.
I voted for this report because I think that pension systems throughout the whole European Union are already facing major sustainability problems, which are likely to get even worse in the future, thereby requiring a rethink.
Reducing pension levels below the subsistence limit, which has been done in some Member States, is inhumane and must be avoided.
I think that one of the EU's goals in this area must be to curb the excesses of governments in certain Member States against pensioners.
I voted for this report because I advocate the need for the EU and the Member States to coordinate their various policies on pensions in a more effective way, and to guarantee the adequacy, safety and sustainability of pension systems for women and men.
It is essential to separate pension entitlements according to gender, and to set specific criteria to be used in calculating women's pensions in such a way as to guarantee the economic independence of both men and women.
With regard to paragraph 6, we Swedish Social Democrats chose to vote in favour of the removal of the reference to the inclusion of direct pension liabilities in public debt and deficit calculations.
The reason for this is that we feel there a risk that a link like this between pension liabilities and debt deficit calculations could, in the short term, have a number of undesirable and disproportionate consequences in certain Member States.
However, in the longer term, we believe that each Member State should establish procedures that will result in public pension liabilities being accurately reflected in relevant debt and deficit forecasts.
Increased average life expectancy and the inversion of the population pyramid in Europe present significant challenges for a society that is ageing, and will have to ensure adequate living conditions for its older people and a role that, in many cases, can and should be active.
However, faced with the real threat of the collapse in traditional pension systems, the Member States must, bravely and head-on, adopt the necessary measures to save their social security systems, which do not just involve raising the retirement age.
The current crisis has highlighted a problem which, it became apparent, was serious: the bankruptcy of the social security systems.
Moreover, young people are entering the labour market increasingly later, and so are not taking part in the contributory system.
All these problems are reflected in the European Commission's Green Paper on pensions.
The majority of the Members of the European Parliament, including those of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, therefore took the side of the antisocial policies that the Commission and Council are implementing, so legitimising the neoliberal path that they are following and wish to develop.
For example, recent studies show that a general tax of 0.1% on financial transactions in European Union Member States could provide an increase in annual revenue of around 2.1% of gross domestic product, or almost EUR 262 billion.
There are 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises in the EU at present.
Many viable enterprises still have difficulty accessing credit at a reasonable rate from the banks.
I voted in favour of Mrs Oomen-Ruijten's report on adequate, sustainable and safe European pension systems.
After seeing the losses recorded by private pension funds in Europe and the United States during the financial crisis, I prefer to stick with the intergenerational solidarity of pay-as-you-go schemes.
A potential market of hundreds of billions of euros.
The occupational pension funds that one would like to see developed are still pension funds, and we know what part they played in the global financial meltdown.
We also know what they are good for during a financial crisis: ruining savers.
The social security system as a whole, and the pension system in particular, is the responsibility of the Member States alone.
The problem that needs to be resolved is not just financial, it is demographic, too.
The European Union, which has a serious responsibility where these matters are concerned, is by no means the appropriate level at which to address them.
Removing the obstacles to workers' mobility by making pensions portable, respecting the diversity of national pension systems, reducing gender inequalities and the unacceptable gaps that exist between men and women with regard to employment and retirement provision, including older workers in the labour market, providing greater redundancy protection for older workers, and so on, are all recommendations that are made in this report and which I very much welcome.
in writing. - (DE) Demographic change towards an increasingly older society in conjunction with the setbacks in the areas of economic growth, state finances and the financial markets caused by the economic and financial crisis make it necessary to adapt our practices with regard to pensions.
This adaptation is in keeping with the completion of the European internal market and the Europe 2020 goals for employment and the long-term sustainability of public finances.
I am firmly convinced that pension provision should not only enable older EU citizens to live in dignity, but it should also be a reward for their working life as a whole.
In addition, with regard to subsidiarity, all pension systems should remain 'exportable' for citizens.
in writing. - (FR) Although this text has positive aspects, particularly the importance given to promoting employment to ensure the sustainability of pensions systems or the position of the social partners, other aspects seemed to me difficult to support, which is why I abstained on this text.
In fact, the life expectancy of certain social categories is diminishing as a result of their working conditions and the difficulties they encounter when trying to access preventive and medical care.
We have to ensure that all European citizens can live out their retirement with dignity.
in writing. - Labour MEPs voted in favour of this non-binding report on pensions and the challenges of ageing societies and spending pressures being faced across the EU.
We welcome the fact that this report explicitly states that there is no 'one size fits all' approach to pension provision across Member States but that the EU can clearly add value in sharing ideas and coordination.
The UK's system, including the Pension Protection Funds set up under the Labour Government, provides a high level of protection to pension scheme members and beneficiaries.
in writing. - (LT) Demographic trends, in other words, the inverted population pyramid which we can expect in due course and the longer life expectancy, which we have the good fortune to enjoy, in which context older people remain healthy and active and participate in society for longer, make it necessary to consider a strategy for fresh cohesion and coherence in the field of pensions.
The financial and economic crisis has shown that no pension system is immune to such events but that large budget deficits, high unemployment and very limited scope for increasing the burden of taxation and other levies particularly hit pay-as-you-go systems, and some Member States, such as Lithuania, even had to take drastic measures, that is, reduce pensions, which in my opinion is intolerable and unacceptable.
I abstained on this report, because many of the decisions proposed are socially sensitive and there is also insufficient evaluation of the benefits and risks in the report, particularly when we are talking about increasing the retirement age or Member States losing influence in pension policy.
in writing. - (DE) I abstained from voting on the European Parliament report on a European pension system.
in writing. - (LV) I supported the report on the creation of adequate, sustainable and safe European pension systems, since I believe that changes to the existing pensions model are essential to secure its sustainability.
This must change.
This can be done in various ways, but we must also admit that we can no longer rely on drawing a pension soon after we reach the age of 60.
Retirement age must be raised in stages throughout Europe, and it must approach the 70 years of age threshold.
Mrs Oomen-Ruijten's report is based on the Commission Green Paper submitted in July 2010 and on the issues that this Institution has raised for debate with regard to the adequacy and sustainability of European pension systems.
However, we can describe it as a good starting point, since it provides an overview of the pension system enlarged to 27 States.
It was with great satisfaction that I took note of the result of today's vote on Mrs Oomen-Ruijten's report on the subject of adequate, stable and secure pension systems in Europe.
Current statistics provide a clear signal that the problem is getting worse and that demographic changes in Europe are unequivocal.
Experts have shown that at present in the EU four people are working to support one pensioner, but in about 50 years' time there will only be two.
It is clear therefore that further work on the pension system is needed and further reforms are essential.
In addition, in accepting the report, the European Parliament is stating clearly that there can be no room for discrimination on the grounds of age or gender, which is particularly significant in the context of the social debate on equality of men and women in the workplace.
That is what our citizens expect when pension systems, which are the real prizes of the European social model, are in danger.
in writing. - (NL) The delegation of the Dutch People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) in the European Parliament today voted against the initiative report on the Green Paper on European pensions, because it contained several ambiguities and inaccuracies.
However, rising unemployment, problems in the financial markets, high national debt and slow economic growth could lead to difficulties in terms of Member States' pension payment obligations, with repercussions on the Stability and Growth Pact and therefore the stability of the euro.
In addition, the increasingly ageing population is having a major impact in many Member States, because they do not save as much as the Dutch.
We therefore need harmonised supervision of pension systems, and some Member States ought to organise their pension systems differently.
In order to guard against this, despite voting in favour of a number of good points in the report, we remain against the report as a whole.
The VVD Group in the European Parliament: Hans van Baalen, Jan Mulder and Toine Manders.
in writing. - I voted for this Report which makes it clear at the beginning (Paragraph 1) and the end (Paragraph 61) that the main responsibility for pensions rests through the subsidiarity principle with the Member States, the EU contribution being to provide coordination where possible and the sharing of best practice.
The serious problem of demographic trends, in other words, the reversal of the age pyramid which we can expect in due course, as well as longer life expectancy, in which context older people remain healthy and active and participate in society for longer, make it necessary to consider a strategy to increase cohesion and coherence in the field of pensions.
This new reality makes it necessary to take initiatives which redefine the future of young and old, as well as solidarity between generations and people, thus contributing to a sustainable, secure and adequate income after retirement.
in writing. - (ES) I have voted against this motion for a resolution as I consider it to be an unacceptable attack on workers' rights, as it advocates an increase in pension contribution years, the raising of the retirement age and the progressive privatisation of the public pension systems.
Furthermore, I consider it unacceptable that the resolution which, while emphasising the importance of granting a relevant role to social dialogue in pension reforms, defends antisocial measures, such as the raising of the retirement age, which have been rejected by the majority of Europeans through massive general strikes.
According to Lszl Andor, Commissioner for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion, the number of retired people will double by 2060 in relation to the active population able to finance pensions.
It is therefore urgent to give thought to the future of pension systems.
Although it falls within the competence of the Member States, this issue must not prevent the European Union from assisting Member States in their deliberations in order to guarantee European citizens an adequate, stable and sustainable pension system.
The economic and monetary crisis demonstrates the need for an integrated approach, encompassing the demographic and social aspects as well as the economic and financial aspects.
in writing. - I hope that Parliament will not confine itself simply to producing reports and votes.
It is necessary to analyse all 27 pension systems in the EU.
I am confident that violations of the rules on a massive scale will be revealed in this sphere in Latvia, where the Government constantly tries to solve the budget deficit problem at the expense of pensions.
As a result, pensioners in Latvia have become hostages to the current Government's risk-taking activities.
in writing. - (DE) Within the European Union we are still seeing a considerable decline in prosperity, which will certainly be evident with the loss of the periods of protection for the labour market.
Every country is having to grapple with the demographic changes and the associated lack of financial viability of its pension systems.
Private pensions, which were to provide additional support, have not brought the much talked about relief to the pension systems but have instead placed state pensions under even more pressure.
I wanted to express my support for the Oomen-Ruijten report on future pension systems in Europe, since it clearly illustrates a principle on which European actions and initiatives should always be based: the principle of subsidiarity.
In an effort to respond to a real need, that is, to a new assessment of European pension systems in the wake of changed demographic, economic and social conditions, it has been decided that individual Member States will be given the flexibility to act within the framework of a general European guide.
The contribution of families to safeguarding the intergenerational contract should be taken into account in social legislation by means of a gradual reduction in social insurance contributions.
in writing. - (PL) In today's vote I supported the acceptance of the report on stable and secure pension systems in Europe.
The issue of pensions in the future is a problem not only in Poland but all over the European Union.
In the report, the European Parliament confirmed that in matters concerning pensions systems, the Member State is responsible for the organisation of its national pension system.
However, EU institutions will support the activities of the Member States on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity.
For me, a very important issue is that attention has been focussed on discrimination against women in the context of pension systems, and we need to overcome this.
The number of pensioners continues to increase, while we have falling numbers of people active on the labour market.
I voted for Mrs Oomen-Ruijten's report because I believe that trying to lay the foundations for a goal as important as that of a common European pension system, while having due regard for the principle of subsidiarity, is a big step towards true socio-political integration.
The legislative framework is certainly complex, but the European Commission White Paper on pension systems already indicates which way the Union is heading.
We are discussing the economic governance package at EU level in order to reform the Stability and Growth Pact and to establish common rules.
No State can get away from pension reform if it wishes to put its finances in order.
This report on adequate, sustainable and safe European pension systems represents an important step in implementing a coordination policy in the European Union.
It is becoming necessary, for demographic reasons of which we are all aware, to consider a strategy that increases cohesion and coherence on pensions.
We must create initiatives which redefine the future of young and old, and solidarity between generations and people, thus contributing to a sustainable, secure and adequate income after retirement.
There are marked differences between the various pension schemes in Europe, but it is important to create a common platform by clearly defining the division of responsibilities.
In this way, it will be possible to create a sustainable and safe system together; a modern system which recognises freedom of movement in Europe, which is based on the assumption that mobility is essential, particularly for the younger generations and, of course, for an effective and efficient labour market.
For all these reasons, I voted in favour.
in writing. - (RO) In November 2009 Romania had 5.54 million pensioners and 5.65 million contributors to the public pension system.
Achieving these objectives in an ageing Europe is a major challenge and Member States must prepare for this by reforming their pension systems.
Member States must improve the adequacy of pensions by combating gender discrimination on the labour market, especially through a 10% reduction in the pay gap by 2020.
The public pension system must be strengthened to the detriment of the private system.
We must not privatise the public pension system simply to ensure the stability of pension funds for current and future pensioners.
Although the trend at European level is to raise the retirement age, it should be applied flexibly according to the sector and the severity of the working conditions, while also taking into account the number of years' service.
Active support is required for job creation.
The quality of work also needs to be improved in order to increase the number of people who will actively contribute to funding their future pensions.
Making pension systems sustainable is one of the major challenges facing the political class if it wishes to maintain the common good and social peace.
Although European competences are limited in this regard, it was also important or the European Parliament to give its opinion as a follow-up to the Green Paper issued by the Commission.
In the case of my country, Belgium, alone, where the rate of employment among older workers is one of the lowest in the European Union, there is an urgent need to encourage Belgian workers to remain longer in the labour market.
Today Parliament voted on the report entitled 'Towards adequate, sustainable and safe European pension systems'.
The Commission, taking account of demographic trends and the effects of the economic and financial crisis, has decided that in order to modernise pension policies it is necessary to take coordinated action on: adjustment of pension systems, sustainability, balance between the duration of working life and duration of pensions, removal of obstacles to mobility, greater transparency of pension systems and protection of solvency.
In this report we wish to acknowledge and maintain individual responsibilities in order to create a sustainable and safe system that is capable of ensuring an adequate pension at Member State level.
A modern system that acknowledges, in particular, the new generation's need for mobility and offers solutions not only for the present but also for the near future.
in writing. - (ES) Despite the fact that the vote has allowed the incorporation of some crucial elements of the social conscience, there remained some unfortunate aspects that led me to abstain in the final vote.
This is the case, for example, in the part of paragraph 21 where it is asked that Member States improve access for citizens to private saving schemes.
European pension systems are in an increasingly alarming state.
We must act now to ensure that men and women have equal opportunities, safeguarding those who decide to retire today and, at the same time, protecting those who are only now taking their first steps in the labour market.
In Europe, women still earn on average 18% less than men.
Especially in times of crisis, we need to include the gender perspective in all policies, adopting national measures that are agreed on and coordinated at European level.
I voted in favour of the Oomen-Ruijten report, because I think it is a good compromise that can support the dialogue between Member States and European Institutions on the modernisation of pension systems.
The European Union's 27 Member States have different pension systems.
However, the inverted population pyramid and the increase in life expectancy require a European strategy to be devised for strengthening the cohesion and coherence of pensions in the European Union.
I would also like to mention, nevertheless, the inadequacies which are evident in the case of labour mobility between different Member States.
On the other hand, we have a moral duty to safeguard our citizens' right to enjoy pensions which provide them with a decent living.
However, given the current diversity in pension systems in Member States as well as in scope and depth of pension provision, it is important that the Commission follows through on Parliament's wish not to impose capital standards akin to insurance or banking standards.
in writing. - Mr President, there is much to like in this report.
It is right that we in this house should have concern for the pension provisions of our Member State governments, and it is right that we should share best practice.
The best authorities to deal with pensions, and indeed all social matters, are the national or local authorities, not us.
in writing. - (NL) The problem of our increasingly ageing population is hitting us hard and the crisis is prompting Member States to make cuts.
However, we should not allow the ageing population problem to lure us into a new European debt crisis.
I am also pleased with the recognition of pension rights for women and a greater emphasis on gender equality, along with the recognition that discrimination against older people in the labour market should not be allowed.
It is fundamental, in a united Europe, that citizens are able to transfer such entitlements.
The European Parliament is therefore asking the European Commission to better coordinate the transferability of pensions at a European level.
in writing. - (RO) The report drafted by Ria Oomen-Ruijten on the Green Paper entitled 'Towards adequate, sustainable and safe European pension systems' makes an important contribution to the debate on the future of European pension systems.
I think that Member States need to draft provisions for ensuring adequate pensions for their citizens.
I voted for point 24, which calls on Member States to encourage older people to continue working through fiscal and social security exemptions.
I voted against raising the retirement age because I think that people who pass a certain age, but who will and can work, should be encouraged and not forced to work, especially at a time when the unemployment rate in the EU-27 is 10%, and 20% among young people.
The European Commission's Green Paper on European pension systems adopted today under the report by the alliance of the political representatives of capital in the European Parliament (social democrats, conservatives and liberals) is an anti-grassroots monster.
The Greek Communist Party voted against the EU's abortive anti-labour paper on European pension systems.
in writing. - (DE) I have voted in favour of the Oomen-Ruijten report on the Green Paper on pension systems.
What is important going forward is retention of the German occupational pensions, the length of service and protection against the risk of bankruptcy for existing commitments.
Under no circumstances must occupational pensions be transferred to a compulsory European system.
in writing. - (LT) I am pleased that the rapporteur recognises that there are significant gaps in the pension systems in Europe and the fact that the citizens of some Member States - for instance, Lithuanians - face additional problems.
Life for pensioners in my country is not the easiest.
However, when we need to take practical measures, our leaders state that they cannot find the required resources to return pensions to their former level.
In reforming our pension systems financial sustainability is important, but so too is providing an adequate income.
Ageing society and financial pressures show that our labour market is changing.
It is necessary to take this into account when reforming pension systems.
in writing. - (NL) Europe and pensions, now that is a sensitive issue.
Various Member States are considering arrangements to shrink their national debts by tying pension funds to their debts.
I am against any regulation of pensions at a European level.
I do not want to see the robust Dutch pension system suffer because of the chaos in some other Member States.
An immediate halt should be put to such excesses, but that does not mean that we need to revamp the entire system on a European model.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report urging Member States to ensure pensions are sustainable in light of the challenges of ageing societies and the spending pressures being faced across the EU.
I welcome that this report recognises that there is no 'one size fits all' approach to pension provision across Member States, but that the EU can clearly add value in sharing ideas and coordination.
The inclusion of private debt in any assessment of sustainability of public finances should not be included in this report, as current market conditions would not support this kind of assessment.
This should not be made compulsory where there is an existing protection scheme; for example the UK's Pension Protection Fund, set up by the previous Labour Government, already provides a high level of protection to pension scheme members and beneficiaries.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, although I feel that the text adopted is overcautious in repeatedly indicating the importance of the principle of subsidiarity.
I nevertheless believe that this report, pending the imminent publication of the Commission White Paper, can allow the continuation of an effective working relationship between the Member States and EU institutions on the difficult issue of the modernisation of European pension systems.
To achieve this, during this last stage Croatia will need to mobilise all its efforts to strengthen public administration and the judiciary, to make progress on combating corruption, to ensure full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, to continue with the privatisation process, and to adopt restructuring plans.
Although Croatia still has to conclude negotiations on six political chapters of the acquis communautaire, I believe that the good results achieved in 2010 will serve as a basis for the Croatian authorities to make final efforts to complete the negotiations.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the 2010 progress report on Croatia.
With this document the European Parliament confirmed that Croatia has made significant progress in the talks on integration into the European Union.
I agree with the resolution's provision that the accession negotiations with Croatia can be completed in the first half of 2011 provided that the necessary reforms continue to be pursued resolutely by, in particular, strengthening public administration and the judiciary, continuing to combat corruption, ensuring the sustainability of refugee return, full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), the continuation of the privatisation process and the adoption of restructuring plans for the shipyards in difficulty.
These are very important conditions, and their proper implementation or at least significant progress in the areas mentioned will show Croatia's commitment and willingness to become an EU Member State.
in writing. - (LT) I agreed with this motion for a resolution, through which the European Parliament supports Croatia's accession to the European Union.
The accession of Croatia entails both a European and a regional dimension, and would encourage the rest of the countries of the Western Balkans to launch and implement accession-related reforms.
The accession negotiations with Croatia have progressed significantly, but fundamental reforms in the areas of public administration and the judiciary, corruption, refugee return and so on, have yet to be completed.
Croatia must make significant progress in the resolution of bilateral disputes with neighbouring countries, such as the border issues with Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, so as to prevent these disputes from becoming an obstacle to further enlargement of the EU once Croatia has joined.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of adopting the progress report on Croatia because I think that the EU accession process highlights the significant improvement in the situation in this area.
Indeed, respect for fundamental rights, the situation of refugees and the privatisation of the shipping sector are the most advanced chapters.
One of the issues mentioned in the document is war crime trials.
The legacy of conflict in the 1990s and a lack of respect for minorities' rights are unacceptable from a future Member State.
The Hungarian Presidency's intention to complete the negotiations by the end of the first six months in 2011 is commendable and Croatia can potentially cross the finishing line on time.
The country report on the progress made by Croatia in 2010 indicates the determination of the government in Zagreb to meet the European Union's accession criteria.
However, the European Union is confronted with a first-time situation in that the majority of Croatia's citizens do not think that accession to the EU will benefit the country, which is in contrast to the significant wave of optimism seen among the population of the Central and Eastern Europe states which joined in the last two rounds.
The 2010 country report on Croatia highlights the EU institutions' concern about this situation.
I welcome the efforts of the Croatian authorities and their ambition to conclude the accession negotiations this spring.
I voted decisively in favour of this report because I believe that Croatia is correctly continuing with its implementation of the reforms necessary for EU membership.
In fact, despite the global crisis, it has managed to maintain a certain macroeconomic stability, particularly through the development of service and tourism infrastructures.
With this in mind, its cooperation with the European Union on the implementation of sections of the TEN-T, TEN-E and e-TEN, which also affect Croatian territory and could be developed into a PPP system in full cooperation with the EU, is proving very fruitful.
The negotiations will close in the first half of 2011, when the accession process will be concluded.
I would commend Croatia for the substantial progress achieved in attaining the benchmarks needed to conclude the accession negotiations.
I strongly believe that Croatia's swift accession will contribute to encouraging the rest of the countries in the Western Balkans to implement accession-related reforms.
I welcome the efforts of the Croatian Government to take a strong stance against all forms of corruption, but call on the Croatian authorities to further strengthen the administrative capacities of anti-corruption bodies and to foster a culture of political accountability.
I welcome the progress made in the area of women's rights and gender equality, as some 25% of parliamentary seats and almost half of administrative positions in the public sector are held by women, demonstrating the progress towards gender equality.
However, these can only be fulfilled if Croatia is truly ready for accession and all accession criteria are met.
The Commission's progress report clearly shows, however, that there is still work to be done in some areas.
I voted for the motion for a resolution on the 2010 progress report on Croatia, as I believe that the negotiations on Croatia's accession to the EU will be completed by June 2011, provided that the necessary efforts toward reform continue to be made.
I am in favour of expansion, provided that candidate countries meet the pre-established criteria.
Croatia has been meeting the accession criteria with undeniable success, and has been making an effort to continue down this path, despite the additional difficulties it faces in the current international situation.
It is a good example for any country intending to become part of the European Union.
I find it regrettable that, in her motion for a resolution, the rapporteur has chosen to give opinions about issues such as sexual orientation and its constitutional protection, which not only have nothing to do with the real issues in question, but should also be the exclusive competence of the Member States.
I welcome the progress made in the accession negotiations, which should be completed by the end of the first half of 2011, as well as all the efforts made by the European Commission towards the other countries of the Western Balkans joining the EU.
It is clear that accession to the EU is not to promote the right to development of Croatia and its people, but above all to benefit the great powers and their economic groups.
Last year's achievement emphatically shows Croatia's determination to continue with its reforms and will soon allow its citizens to benefit from EU membership.
During the last meeting of EU and Croatian ministers which took place on 22 December 2010 in Brussels, the negotiators closed three important chapters, namely those concerning justice, freedom and security, foreign, security and defence policy, and the environment.
The closure of these chapters indicates that Croatia's legal system has been strengthened and that progress has been made in several areas simultaneously, such as wider cooperation between Croatia and the international community concerning military missions and civil affairs ("foreign, security and defence policy), and the guarantee of better air and water quality for the population of Croatia (environment).
Negotiations on the accession of Croatia to the European Union began in October 2005.
My vote on the motion for a resolution of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of this Parliament on the progress of Croatia towards membership is a sign of no confidence in the benefits of the European Union which, according to the opinion polls, is shared by the majority of Croatians.
It is regrettable that the authorities of a country which has become independent and sovereign in the wake of a terrible conflict have not wished to rest until they have placed the country under a foreign yoke, against public opinion.
I voted against the Treaty of Maastricht.
To vote in favour of a resolution which regrets that the fate of minorities practicing this or that sexual deviance is not a central preoccupation, which advocates intensive propaganda to reverse negative opinion polls, which encourages the same economic errors as those committed in our countries, was really not possible.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the progress made by Croatia, which confirms the efforts made by the latter with regard to its forthcoming accession to the European Union.
Indeed, Croatia's membership has several advantages, such as consolidating peace and stability in the Balkan region and strengthening the position of the EU in that region.
The text we have adopted also raises issues that remain problematic and on which Croatia must continue to work, such as combating corruption, which remains one of the major scourges in the country, and giving support to returnees, which is still inadequate.
I hope that Croatia will continue further along this positive route.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the 2010 Progress report on Croatia, because with this document the European Parliament confirmed the fact that Croatia has made progress in the talks on integration into the European Union.
Accession negotiations with Croatia can be completed rather quickly, provided that the necessary reforms continue to be pursued and implemented resolutely.
Furthermore, the Croatian Government urgently has to address the structural weaknesses of the economy and devote greater attention to regional cooperation, in order to tackle bilateral issues with neighbouring countries.
I believe that the accession of Croatia would also encourage the rest of the countries of the Western Balkans to move closer and more quickly towards EU Membership.
With its motion for a resolution on the 2010 progress report on Croatia, Parliament's aim was to applaud the improvements made by Croatia in several respects, which are bringing the country ever closer to the European Union.
That country's achievements over the last year deserve to be mentioned, as substantial changes have been made to the Constitution in order to adapt it to the founding charters of the other 27 Member States.
I fully agree with this motion because I strongly believe that Croatia deserves to become a Member State.
There is no doubt that even more must be done, especially as regards the fight against corruption, but the fact remains that the country is making significant headway in its path to membership of the European Union.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for this report because what we all want is a stable, prosperous neighbourhood.
Zagreb has already made progress on this matter through its parliament's approval of a law allowing the confiscation of assets obtained illegally, as well as by the actions taken against senior officials.
I welcome these measures, but Zagreb needs to demonstrate convincingly that it has left behind its widespread culture of corruption and impunity.
Croatia's accession to the Union will extend the area of peace and stability in Europe, and it therefore entails a dual European and regional dimension, which should encourage the Western Balkan countries to achieve greater cohesion at regional level.
Greater cohesion at regional level will facilitate the future access of the entire Western Balkans region to the European Union.
The most important reforms are the strengthening of public administration and the judiciary, combating corruption, supporting the return of refugees, fully cooperating with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, and restructuring the shipyards.
However, at this final stage it is necessary to continue resolutely with the reforms needed to be able to conclude the negotiations regarding EU accession on time.
The fact that that the majority of Croatian citizens believe that accession to the EU would not benefit the country is worrying, so we need to work to ensure that Croatians see the European project as being theirs as well.
It is therefore crucial to give the citizens clear and factual information on the implications of Croatia's accession to the EU.
I am delighted with the progress made by Croatia in its accession into the European Union, including the amendment of the Constitution, the reform of the judiciary, freedom of the press, the protection of minorities, and closer cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
I therefore fully support the 2010 progress report on Croatia.
in writing. - (DE) By supporting the motion for a resolution on the 2010 progress report on Croatia I would like to express my support for the swift acceptance of this country into the EU.
in writing. - (DE) Among the candidate countries, Croatia is the country that has made the greatest amount of progress.
Progress has also been recorded with regard to the fight against corruption, as can be seen by the arrest of the former prime minister, Ivo Sanader.
When it comes to addressing the issue of war crimes, Croatia seems to be moving away from its past, for example by providing support for returning war refugees.
I therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
During the last few years, Croatia has shown great initiative and has made progress in many areas, from the judiciary, to human rights.
Progress in these areas has given me great satisfaction, as a year ago I called on the Croatian Government to increase its efforts in amending its legislation in exactly these areas.
Solving problems of this type requires a huge effort not only from the authorities, but also from society.
One cannot change the situation of sexual or ethnic minorities without exerting some influence on the citizens' outlook.
However, as the example of new Member States has shown, belonging to the European Union gradually helps to foster acceptance of persons of foreign descent or differing sexual orientation.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because Croatia has made huge progress in attaining the criteria necessary for the conclusion of the accession negotiations.
Furthermore, the Croatian Government urgently has to address the structural weaknesses of the economy and devote greater attention to regional cooperation, in order to tackle bilateral issues with neighbouring countries.
The Balkans region is crucial to the future geopolitical configuration of the European Union and, in this regard, Croatia is the country that has made the greatest progress in the accession process.
That is why I voted for the motion for a resolution, given the policy of integration and expansion toward the democracy and market economy of south-west Europe.
It is important, then, to see Croatia as a nation that will help the entire Union to open its doors to other countries in the region.
in writing. - (RO) I welcome the progress made by Croatia in fulfilling the criteria required to conclude the accession negotiations.
I think that the region's economic development could be accelerated through close cooperation between Croatia and the other countries as part of the Strategy for the Danube Region, using various forms of cooperation in the field of transport, the environment and economic development within the Danube macro-region.
I abstained from this vote.
Nor can I accept the Commission's political interference in the internal decision-making process by supporting organisations that advocate accession in a country where, as the latest Eurobarometer shows, the majority of citizens believe that it would not be beneficial; this is not surprising if we consider the antisocial nature of current EU policy.
Accession negotiations with Croatia can be completed in the first half of 2011 provided that the necessary reforms continue to be pursued resolutely by, in particular, continuing to combat corruption, ensuring refugee return, restructuring shipyards, as well as reforming the Constitution and the judiciary.
Judicial system reforms must also continue, notably by continuing the prosecution of war crimes and improving witness protection programmes.
Indeed, a recent Eurobarometer survey indicated that the majority of Croatian citizens believe that EU membership would not benefit the country, which is a concern.
in writing. - With this resolution, the European Parliament commends Croatia for the substantial progress achieved in attaining the benchmarks necessary for the conclusion of the accession negotiations; it asks Croatia to pursue resolutely the necessary reforms in order to be able to attain the final benchmarks and to conclude the negotiations; and it calls on the Commission to use all its capacities to support Croatia's efforts to attain the benchmarks.
I voted in favour of this report because it sheds light on Croatia's progress in terms of completing the procedures for accession to the European Union.
in writing. - (NL) By June 2011, candidate country Croatia will have completed its negotiations for accession to the European Union.
I am pleased with the progress of the negotiations, but I want to see action before then.
On paper, combating corruption is clearly one of the priorities of the Croatian Government, but we have seen very few corruption cases actually come to court.
After all, Croatia will receive some EUR 4 billion euros after it joins the EU.
Thus, as long as the fight against corruption remains stuck at the current level, we will be unable to complete the negotiation process with Croatia: it is as simple as that.
For this reason, we voted in favour of this resolution.
However, we believe there are serious issues which still need to be resolved before Croatia accedes to the EU.
in writing. - (DE) The motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs is a very balanced one.
Recent months have shown that Croatia's efforts to accede to the European Union as quickly as possible have had tangible results.
Reforms which began in previous years have contributed significantly to the development of many areas of life.
It is particularly heartening to see increased cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague and also progress achieved in the field of women's rights and protection of ethnic minorities.
European Union Member States should continue to support Croatia's reform programme, paying particular attention to its most pressing problems, namely corruption, high levels of unemployment and the difficult situation the fragmented agricultural sector finds itself in.
