Regulation applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Daniel Caspary, on behalf of the PPE Group, Kader Arif, on behalf of the S&amp;D Group, Niccolò Rinaldi, on behalf of the ALDE Group, Yannick Jadot, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Joe Higgins, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, and Robert Sturdy, on behalf of the ECR Group, on the Regulation applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences - B7-0018/2010) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP), the European Union is currently granting market access by way of reduced import duties to 176 developing countries.
For example, if countries like Qatar, whose per capita income is higher than that of 25 Member States of the European Union, are included in the GSP system, I am certain that we need to take a very critical look at this when reviewing the whole system.
It is right that the 49 poorest countries in the world should get open access to our markets for everything but their arms.
It is right, as Mr Caspary has said, that the 176 developing countries should be given preferential access to our market.
It is also right that 16 countries should get even better access to our market, through GSP+, in return for setting up and implementing 27 specified international conventions on human rights, co-labour standards, sustainable development and good governance.
That is not all, as we in effect punish the other GSP countries by eroding their preferences and giving preferences to 16 countries not respecting their rights.
Commissioner, we are asking for the following: a new proposal, if possible by June; clear criteria regarding the eligibility of beneficiary countries, bearing in mind that the GSP is a development instrument and that we have some countries on the list that are frankly not really developing countries; the signing and application of the 27 International Labour Organisation conventions in the beneficiary countries; transparency of the rules on their conduct; a system by which to assess the impact of the GSP; and a communication to Parliament.
First, the current regulation expires on 31 December 2011.
author. - Mr President, the system whereby the EU gives preferential treatment in trade to some countries has been in place since 1971.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the current GSP scheme expires on 31 December 2011.
This proposal will, of course, be subject to the ordinary legislative procedure, which may well last beyond the expiry date of the current scheme, 31 December 2011.
You will all agree that we must avoid a situation whereby GSP beneficiaries lose all their preferences on 1 January 2012.
The basic criterion for GSP+ is the ratification and effective implementation of 27 international conventions in the fields of human rights, core labour standards, sustainable development and good governance.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, following on from what has been said by our colleague Daniel Caspary, whom I fully support, I would like to stress a few points.
Thirdly, Parliament should also be drawn into the process of monitoring whether the GSP beneficiaries uphold - not only ratify but also effectively implement - the 27 ILO and United Nations conventions.
The Commission should draft the new regulation on GSP as soon as possible.
Colombia is a country like many countries in the region and we cannot ignore positive developments, achievements in the field of human rights and on the situation of human rights defenders in this country.
The European Parliament should have the facility for creative participation within the framework of the new, revised system and for effective monitoring of the application of contracts by beneficiary countries. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, we all know that GSP is a good system and that GSP+ is a very good system.
I would like to see the coordination of civil society in the country in question in the assessment of the implementation of GSP+, just as we have now agreed in the agreement with South Korea.
Parliament should also initiate an investigation in this connection.
Then I would also like to note that we are now demanding that a number of countries ratify 27 ILO and UN conventions and implement these in full.
Given that the deadline is approaching, I would like to ask the Commissioner, if he has this information available, which states have applied so far and whether we should grant preferential terms to some new states when we are preparing to change the required criteria.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, several questions have been asked on Sri Lanka and on Colombia, and on why, in one case, we decided to have an enquiry and take a decision and in the other case we did not.
In the case of Sri Lanka, the Commission's attention was drawn to publicly available reports and statements from the United Nations as well as to other relevant sources, including non-governmental organisations, indicating that Sri Lanka was not effectively implementing various human rights conventions, in particular, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, and the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
We were asked to have an impact assessment and will receive the 2009 GSP data only in July this year, which will be followed, of course, by consultation of Parliament.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 10 March 2010.
