Baroness Ashton was not able to remain with us today.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, thank you for this opportunity and I apologise on behalf of Catherine Ashton, who asked me to share with you what she intended to tell you.
I am pleased to have this opportunity to make a statement on the current situation in Ukraine.
I should like to make my remarks in the light of three important upcoming events: the EU-Ukraine Ministerial meeting which will take place in Luxembourg on 26 October, the local elections which will take place on 31 October, and the 14th EU-Ukraine Summit which will be held in Brussels on 22 November.
President Yanukovych's government has undertaken a number of important economic reforms in recent months, which should be commended.
The Ukrainian Government has also managed to achieve a level of stability which has eluded Ukraine's political establishment in recent years.
For the European Union and our Member States, respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law are fundamental principles that bind us together.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the people of Ukraine have come out impressively in favour of a European future for their country again and again.
That is why we are having this debate ahead of the municipal elections.
We will be able to discuss economic reforms in November in connection with the EU-Ukraine summit.
Those who hold power in Ukraine today should not be allowed to believe that they can escape just because the broad European public takes no notice or because the previous government admittedly did have failings in relation to good governance and combating corruption.
The power vertical has the objective of achieving control over regions that have previously been inclined to disagree with it.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, Ukraine is a very important country to us.
The real problem of this debate is a problem we have here.
Now we have a problem, since the pro-westerners are not in power, in recognising the pro-easterners' capacity to deliver and to help the country promote its European expectations.
This is the real problem with this debate today and we should understand that the real pro-Europeans are the pro-Ukrainians - those who are able to bring the rule of law, democracy and European modernisation to their country.
This is why I believe we should be pragmatic, recognise the realities on the ground, and find common items on our agendas to reach agreements.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that I share the concern about the intensification of the situation and the undemocratic developments in Ukraine.
The role of the secret police, too, gives real cause for concern.
Today, we should remember that the European Parliament did not play a role in Ukraine's internal politics, but acted as a guardian in two very important ways: on the one hand, by upholding and assisting Ukrainians' European aspirations and, on the other, by upholding democracy, human rights and all the values we regard as European values in Ukraine.
Foreign investors are said to fear the lawlessness that reigns in this country where, last week, no fewer than 3 000 buildings and companies were expropriated through fraud and violence.
Those who know the region say that a de facto presidential system was already in place before the pro forma court judgment.
The present ruling élite has been exercising power since the election of President Yanukovych and much of what has been done points in the direction of favouring the concentration of power.
I would like the members of the PPE to decide whether we should describe Ukraine using the language of Commissioner Füle, who says 'yes, but...', or in other words that some things are good, but there are a lot of things we do not like, or whether we should use negative language, whereby there is nothing we like, and everything is to be condemned.
Now she has lost, let us acknowledge what is really happening and let us keep the Ukrainian authorities under careful observation, but let us not throw out the baby with the bathwater. (PL) I am very grateful to Commissioner Füle for his constructive attitude.
It would be a serious political error on the part of the European Union and our Parliament if we listened to the voice of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and threw doubt on the fact that elections can be held successfully in one of very few countries in the East.
I would like to address the Ukrainian guests present in this House today: Ukraine's place is here, in this Chamber, and that is why we are subjecting you to the same standards that we apply to the countries of the European Union.
These reforms were carried out without democratic debate and without the agreement of the Venice Commission.
Nevertheless, membership of the European Union has, according to the decision of the Ukrainian Parliament, not become the first priority. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) (DE) Mr President, I would like to ask Mrs Vaidere: now that we have put down in black and white all the points concerning our consternation in relation to the misuse of power and the repression in Ukraine, what objection can there be to taking this text to Kiev in a fortnight's time in order to discuss it and then to decide how we proceed from there?
I would like to know the answer to this question, as, from the previous experience of our delegation, I think this is the best and most productive way to move forwards, especially if we want to gain democratic influence. (LV) Yes, I am happy to reply.
Personally, and yet I do not know why, Mrs Harms, nevertheless I am personally worried, even after our participation in the Ukraine summits, about these signals that we are currently receiving from our Ukrainian friends on the composition of the Central Electoral Commission, media freedom and the restrictions on non-governmental organisations.
These all exist, and it is precisely if we express our concerns about this that the regional elections could, in my opinion, take place in a much better atmosphere.
We did not need this debate and now is not the time to adopt resolutions on Ukraine, neither today nor tomorrow.
That is why I think we are doing a disservice to our parliamentary committee which is going to Ukraine in 10 days time; we are doing ourselves a disservice in undermining our own role by adopting such resolutions 10 days before the elections.
Ladies and gentlemen - and I address this in particular to Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) - there is no point in us defending one group or another in Ukraine on party-political grounds.
That is not our job, and I am appealing to your sense of fairness - something that you normally always demonstrate - and I beg you to remain fair in this case, too. (PL) Only those who have lived under the socialist system can fully understand the nations which experienced lack of personal freedom, lack of press and media freedom, or the difficult road these nations had to follow.
They are counting on the European Union, on our help in building democracy, and on our help in building a civil society.
It is very easy to criticise, but as a Polish woman, I remember that we were once helped. (The President cut off the speaker) (EL) Mr President, I, too, should like to add my voice to those who have argued that there is no reason for such a quick resolution, especially before the elections, before the visit and, more importantly, before the European Parliament is present in Ukraine.
A resolution would only make sense after the forthcoming elections in Ukraine. (ET) I had a question for my colleague, Mrs Vaidere, but I would like to speak about what is on my mind.
It is rare for such an interesting debate to be conducted in this Chamber, for which I would like to thank everybody.
It is interesting that whenever certain political forces feel that their allies in a country outside the European Union have not won, these forces abroad instantly express their concerns about the state of democracy in that country.
I recommend postponing the draft resolution and returning to a discussion on this topic after the delegation returns from Kiev. (SK) I believe that Ukraine is one of the closest potential partners of the European Union.
Let us have good discussions, then, but let us also play hard ball and let us, I beg, secure the energy supplies of our Member States. (BG) The European Parliament has always supported Ukraine on its journey towards democracy, based on the principles of the rule of law and sharing with us common values on European integration.
I welcome the Ukrainian authorities' decision to invite observers to the elections to be held on 31 October.
However, I agree with my colleagues who spoke here in the European Parliament; we must not immediately condemn Ukraine as a country and we should not stop it from becoming an equal partner and therefore, I repeat that we in the European Parliament really must cooperate as equal partners and help Ukraine move towards the European Union. (SL) Ukraine is a large and important partner of the European Union and a country which undoubtedly has a European future.
I think it is wrong for us to rely on the arguments of only one side and, above all, I would like to say that I am confident ... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, Ukraine is our major European democratic associative partner and I, too, hope that one day, it will become a member of the European Union.
Everyone knows that I have close relations with the opposition's leading figures, but I, too, think we should avoid too much interference in Ukrainian internal domestic and political affairs which may well backfire on this Parliament and we should give the ... (The President cut off the speaker) (PL) Exactly the same arguments were made before the presidential elections, when we were wondering in this Chamber what resolution to adopt, and what our position should be with regard to what was going on in Ukraine prior to the presidential elections.
More needs to be done in Ukraine in this field.
There are a number of issues, such as the procurement law and the possibility of going back on this law through various amendments which are now being debated in the Ukrainian Parliament.
Who am I to comment on the draft resolution before this House, but I think the very fact that this debate has happened has already given a valuable signal.
I think that another very valuable message in terms of what we should expect from the Ukrainians is that the forthcoming local elections on 31 October will reconfirm the democratic stance of their country.
It is true that, in our resolution, we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) did incorrectly quote the Venice Commission.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, 21 October 2010, at 12:00.
in writing. - I appreciate the debate on Ukraine, where opinions are expressed clearly.
And that is why, ceterum censeo, the French plan to sell Mistral warships to Russia must be stopped!
