EU framework for coordinating national Roma integration strategies (debate) The next item is the declaration by the Commission on the EU framework for coordinating national Roma integration strategies.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, I am presenting, together with my colleague, László Andor, the decision which the Commission has taken to present a new framework for national Roma integration strategies.
However it is very clear that the economic and social marginalisation of the Roma persists, and this is neither acceptable nor sustainable in the European Union of the 21st century.
We want the EU and the 27 Member States to commit themselves to closing the gaps and to concentrate on the common goals in those four areas with targeted actions and sufficient funds to deliver them.
Both documents make significant contributions to the wider debate on Roma, and will feed into the conclusions to be adopted at the next Council meeting of Employment and Social Affairs Ministers on 19 May, which will be exclusively devoted to the integration of Roma.
The Union has a moral and political obligation to support the Member States in their efforts with all the policies and instruments at its disposal.
The Europe 2020 Strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth is the right policy context for addressing the multifaceted problems facing Roma.
In particular, the Europe 2020 headline targets for employment, poverty reduction and education are key benchmarks for measuring progress in Roma integration policies.
President-in-Office of the Council. - The Hungarian Presidency welcomes the Commission communication on the EU framework for national Roma integration strategies.
The Hungarian Presidency intends to present and discuss the communication with the two Commissioners during the next Roma platform on 7 April in Budapest, to which I invite all who are interested.
Firstly, the April Justice and Home Affairs Council will discuss it on 12 April.
Then it will be the turn of the Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs Council on 9 May, with the adoption of Council conclusions.
The Education Council will also receive the document, on 20 May, before the Hungarian Presidency presents its report on the results of the discussions to the General Affairs Council on 23 May.
Moreover, we hope that the European Roma strategy can really get under way at the Summit of Heads of State or Government on 24 June.
I ask for the support of the European Parliament in this matter.
The solution to this problem can only lie in a combination of all these approaches and, actually, as part of a common political will.
As a result, the Roma issue in Europe must be actively explored and its progress professionally monitored.
The strategy on the Roma must take account of all the significant areas.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, despite being a Eurosceptic, I could be in favour of a plan, in view of the 2020 Strategy, to eliminate discrimination, difficulty and marginalisation if we were really being offered incisive action by the European Commission to control the behaviour of Member States.
In today's edition of the main newspaper in my country, Il Corriere della Sera, there is an article on a parent, who does not deserve to be called a parent, a traveller, who was arrested in Italy for selling her own little girl to traffickers who wanted to sell her into prostitution.
The creation of national contact points for Roma integration, simplification of funding procedures, the assessment of national plans by EU institutions and verification of progress on Roma integration in Member States are measures which will help improve the economic and social situation of the Roma population in Europe.
in writing. - The EU Framework for National Roma Integration Strategies provides an opportunity to join forces at all levels and with all stakeholders to put an end to the exclusion of the Roma.
The Member States should ensure that all Roma children have access to quality education and establish a concrete target for raising Roma employment rates within the context of Europe 2020, increasing the proportion of Roma households with access to water, sanitation and electricity, and promoting non-discriminatory access to housing, including social housing.
It is important that Member States should invest and should report back on their actions in areas such as employment, education, health and housing for Roma people, but also that the Commission should ensure that it is rigorously monitoring use of existing European programmes.
International Roma Day will be celebrated next Friday, 8 April.
I hope that on 8 April 2012 we will be able to celebrate the progress that has been made.
