It is strange to see that what is probably the most important element as far as Europeans are concerned is completely absent from this report, namely, the fact that illegal immigrants make enormous use of Libya as a transit country for entering Europe from all over Africa and from Asia, in other words, from large parts of the world.
It is good that we have initiated talks, but it is frustrating that the talks are not permitted to deal with what is important. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, anti-Semitic and anti-Islamic feeling still exists to one degree or another in many parts of the world today, as do hostility and ill feeling towards Christians.
The events that have taken place recently, including violent attacks against Christians living in Pakistan, Iraq, Egypt, Nigeria and Cyprus, must be condemned in the strongest terms.
People's fundamental freedoms must therefore be safeguarded, whether they are Christian or of other faiths.
At the same time, the European Union cannot and must not waste substantial resources on promoting other religions, particularly at this time of economic crisis.
The Commission has spent an incredible EUR 4 million on promoting Islam.
Religious freedom is the mother of all freedoms.
It is one of our fundamental, inalienable human rights and is included in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
These rights include freedom to change religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others, and in public or private, to manifest religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance.
However, the massacres of recent months that have claimed victims from among the Christian minorities are the culmination of an offensive that is being conducted against Christians in many parts of the world with a systematic and indiscriminate degree of violence.
What is most striking in this current climate is the fact that the institutions are saying nothing.
This is paragraph 7, which concerns the condemnation of the way in which the Turkish authorities are behaving in Northern Cyprus, which, according to all international rules, is unlawfully occupied by Turkey - by Turkish troops - and therefore by a country that is both formally and, in reality, negotiating its accession to the EU.
That is unacceptable, and the European Parliament should therefore act in a way that is consistent with paragraph 7 and recommend that the negotiations with Turkey be stopped, at least until there is order in Northern Cyprus. (PL) Mr President, in view of its roots, Europe has a particular obligation to protect all Christians throughout the world.
However, Europe is also under an obligation to take steps which will, in future, protect all Christians throughout the world and not allow similar tragedies to occur again. (PL) Mr President, recently, in several countries of the world, chiefly in countries where there is a very large Muslim majority, we have been seeing brutal acts of persecution of Christian minorities.
The issue of religious freedom, as well as other civil liberties, continues to be a priority of the European Parliament's work.
I appeal, too, to the European Union to take all available diplomatic steps in order to secure religious liberties for minorities, particularly in countries whose citizens violate these rights.
In the report on human rights in 2009 which was adopted recently, we emphasised the need for the Union to play an active role in efforts to improve human rights and democracy around the world.
Today's resolution is the perfect starting point for the next stage of our fight for these rights to be respected. (PL) Mr President, I would like to express my delight at the adoption of the resolution on the persecution of Christians, of which I was also co-author.
The situation of Christians around the world needs action from the European Union.
It is our duty.
This is what is happening in various parts of the world.
This is why any manifestation that denies other people's religious or cultural identity must be immediately and unfailingly condemned.
The international community and its institutions have a duty to safeguard respect for religious faith.
They have not always taken swift action when Christians have been the victims of massacres.
The Chaldeans in Iraq and the Copts in Egypt are in danger of disappearing from regions in which they have lived for centuries.
Once again, I would like to thank President Buzek for enthusiastically embracing the idea of a torchlight procession, a light for Christians in memory of all the victims of fundamentalism.
Religious freedom must become a banner of the human community, and my wish is for everyone to enjoy faith, hope and charity, but also justice and freedom. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, voted in favour of this resolution, because the issue of protecting religious minorities around the world is now more crucial than ever.
It is extremely worrying that in 2011, people are still being persecuted for their beliefs.
Article 10 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union leaves no room for interpretation.
The attacks against certain religious communities that have taken place over the last few weeks are yet another indication of the urgent need for all governments to adopt effective measures to protect religious minorities, whatever the difficulties or threats.
The European Union's aim must be to foster inter-faith dialogue through greater cooperation between countries in Europe, but especially in countries where religious freedom is unfortunately not yet guaranteed.
The right to religious freedom must be respected and guaranteed everywhere, without exception. (FI) Mr President, this is an historic, excellent resolution.
It is important for us to remember our roots, which are to be found in Judaeo-Christian values.
Perhaps what happened to the Coptic Christians in Egypt made us sit up and take note.
Christians need protection in different parts of the world, and not just in Egypt: similar things have taken place in Turkey and Assyria.
We Europeans should also take a particular interest in the fact that there are situations in the European Union in which we should intervene.
People are becoming victims of persecution because of their religion.
We should not act in this way; instead, we need dialogue and freedom of religion.
These values are a crucial part of our European identity. (NL) Mr President, I have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation of Christians in the context of freedom of religion and I am happy that it has been adopted, but I still have some reservations about the use of veiled language.
That may well be the case but, by saying that, we are putting occasional and isolated problems in Europe in the same category as structural discrimination of, and attacks against, Christians in Muslim countries.
The behaviour of the Turkish occupation forces in Cyprus is also a real scandal. (GA) Mr President, I attended the debate here yesterday.
It is important that the European Union play its part here, and I think we are doing so, to ensure freedom of expression and freedom of practice for religious groups not only within the Union but also in applicant countries.
That is a very important point around the world. (GA) I am delighted that this historic resolution was adopted today, and especially that it was adopted unanimously. (PL) Mr President, this resolution is very important, because it is first and because it comes at a particularly important moment.
We know what is happening in Egypt, and what has not happened there in recent years.
The regime in Belarus represents a system of government that this continent ought to have put behind itself 20 years ago.
In my opinion, the European Union should be particularly vigilant regarding the human rights violations that occur in its neighbouring regions.
I hope that young Europeans will not have to gag the European Parliament or keep us mute, but that we can courageously defend our values and democracy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament supports the resolution tabled.
In fact, the inauguration ceremony for the re-elected President Lukashenko scheduled for tomorrow will not stop the issues that have been raised about him, the legality of the elections and the way in which the results in these elections were recorded.
Up to now, the European Union has used various policies and mechanisms to influence Belarus and the Belarus leadership, with modest results.
Perhaps it is time to consider new options or whether we do not have a new situation in the region which will allow us to apply other mechanisms.
The European Parliament also has to make fullest use of the options that are there.
The Lukashenko regime should be isolated.
In particular, I would like the European Commission to support independent media such as TV Belsat, Radio Racyja and others.
They are important for spreading information so that it reaches the citizens of Belarus. (PL) Mr President, the events in Belarus associated with the presidential elections have once again shaken public opinion in Europe.
The brutal clash with the participants of a peaceful demonstration and the arrest of opposition leaders and opposition candidates in the elections is a clear violation of human rights and signifies the abandonment of measures intended to improve relations with the democratic countries of Europe.
I strongly condemn the dictatorial practices of President Lukashenko's regime.
I believe that pressure from European institutions will help ease the repression of Belarusian citizens.
If we look at the EU from Belarus's point of view, we may see many frightening similarities to the dictatorships that we are trying to fight against. (PL) Mr President, I endorsed the resolution, being aware of the fact that the situation in Belarus is a very specific one.
We need to fight, today, for civil liberties in Belarus, although we should do this while trying to avoid pushing Belarus into the arms of Russia, because this, too, is very important. (SK) Mr President, experience from a number of Member States shows that, six years after Council Regulation No 1/2003, there had still been no positive movement over the consistent application of competition rules.
When deciding on disputes, national courts are not making use of the possibility of requesting information or an opinion on a given case from the European Commission, nor are they making use of the right to turn to the European Court of Justice with a preliminary question, and nor is the Commission making use of the right to intervene as an amicus curiae.
Practice points to considerable problems with judicial application in this area, including major deviations from the settled case-law of the European courts.
This call has been written into the Report on Competition Policy, and I have supported the final text of the report. (DA) Mr President, there is no doubt that European competitiveness is under considerable pressure.
In reality, this probably speaks volumes about the false foundation on which the whole of this cooperation is based. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciated the flexibility the Commission showed in drawing up the temporary State aid measures, which were introduced as a response to the financial and economic crisis.
I also agree that it is a good idea to prepare a detailed evaluation of the decisions taken, in order to ensure equal conditions of competition within the Union.
I think it has to be said very clearly that the European Union deserves to have greater openness and greater competition.
It takes excellent account of the needs of the European Union's High North, and the sustainable development that is needed there.
The Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament believes that the report on the Black Sea strategy really is important and timely, because it provides an assessment of what has been achieved in the Black Sea region so far and gives a number of recommendations as to what the European Union can still do in this respect.
An example is the Baltic Sea strategy, which, at macro level, has been successful in developing regional cooperation.
First, at a practical level, within the framework of the neighbourhood policy review being done at the moment, we have to consider a greater coherence between the Black Sea Synergy and the Eastern Partnership, as almost all countries of the Eastern Partnership save Belarus are also part of the Black Sea Synergy.
The fact that Bulgaria and Romania are EU Member States, the Eastern Partnership - the special relations with the countries of the Eastern Partnership and with Russia - and the negotiations being carried on with other countries in the region on EU membership all justify the region's political significance for the European Union.
The Black Sea has become an important region for the transit of energy resources and for promising projects which are important for the Union, such as the Nabucco project, which is strategically important for the diversification of gas supply.
For this reason, I voted in favour of the report. (RO) Mr President, just as in the case of Belarus, I wanted to give my reason for the way I voted on the EU's Black Sea strategy.
I want to start by saying that the timing of the idea from my colleague, Traian Ungureanu, to draft an own-initiative report is extremely apt when the European Union is strengthening its regional policy by devising strategies for coastal regions such as the Baltic Sea, the High North and, in this instance, the Black Sea.
These amendments highlighted the need to create a network of NGOs in this region, encourage programmes promoting intercultural and inter-religious dialogue, as well as initiatives such as the Black Sea Universities Network.
In my view, all these measures are good examples of the way in which interaction between civil societies can generate positive synergy in the region.
Finally, I wanted to stress not only the need to strike a balance between economic development and environmental protection, but also the need to implement fully the Convention on the Protection of the Black Sea against Pollution.
Nevertheless, we cannot forget the dictatorial regime that rules this country, with a lack of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
In spite of the clear interest of many Member States in pursuing a framework agreement with Libya, the EU cannot forget the fundamental values it defends and subordinate itself to economic interests only.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution on the negotiations on the EU-Libya Framework Agreement.
The state institutions are not democratically accountable and state power is not anchored in the rule of law.
I welcome the commitments made under the framework agreement being negotiated at the moment, which covers a vast range of issues, from strengthening political dialogue to managing migration, from developing trade and economic relations to energy security and improved cooperation in a number of sectors.
I believe that the framework agreement could be an opportunity to strengthen the political dialogue between Libya and the EU.
The economic partnership between Europe and Libya is already a reality.
The opening of negotiations between the European Union and Libya constitutes an opportunity to guarantee better economic development conditions for both parties and, at the same time, promote a serious change in the Mediterranean region and in Africa with regard to respect for human rights, to their contribution to global peace and stability, and to combating climate change.
Libya has 6 million inhabitants, 2 million of whom are foreigners.
It has the largest proven oil reserves in Africa and is Europe's third most important supplier of energy, in the form of oil and gas.
The framework partnership agreement with the EU must be seen as an opportunity to demonstrate the advantages of human values and democracy in terms of sustained and diversified development.
As this report points out, this process cannot be dissociated from the fundamental values of the EU, such as combating the death penalty and discrimination against minorities, immigrants and refugees, such as promoting public health, and such as the need for political democratisation.
Implementing a framework agreement designed to promote cooperation in the fight against illegal immigration and aiming, at the same time, at political dialogue based on human rights, is one of the priorities for the Union's Mediterranean policy.
On the other hand, the potential, the rich natural resources and the cultural heritage of this region of Africa are values which can enable Libya to achieve economic development, an improvement in the quality of life of the people who live there and the opening up of the country to international markets.
The report adopted today contains proposals that the European Parliament considers indispensable in order to wind up the ongoing negotiations between the European Union and Libya aimed at the conclusion of a cooperation agreement.
At the same time, it would be a decisive step towards achieving the more general aim of improving relations between the Mediterranean area of the European Union and Africa.
At the same time, I have to emphasise the importance of strengthening cooperation between the EU and Libya, and by this I mean cooperation not just in economic matters, but also from the point of view of safeguarding human rights.
It is my hope that the European Union can play a leading role in the reception of migrants and in supporting the fight against trafficking in human beings.
This report is astonishing in its contradictions.
However, it also lists a whole series of violations of human rights and democracy by a regime it describes as authoritarian.
For today's European Union, the prerequisite for trade is not respect for human rights and democracy but rather the establishment of a market economy and free, distorted competition.
The role of Libya, as partner on many issues in the Mediterranean region and in Africa, has been found to have a major impact on the security and stability of the region, in particular, on migration, public health, development, trade and economic relations, climate change, energy and cultural heritage.
In this context, the framework agreement being negotiated at the moment is important, but we must not fail to respond to several fundamental issues, in particular: the progressive democratisation of the regime, respect for human rights, changes to the criminal justice system, with the abolition of the death penalty as a first priority, and signing up to the Geneva Convention.
Naturally, respect for human rights play an important role, which is why it also makes sense for Brussels to call on Libya to ratify the Geneva Convention on Refugees of 1951 or to urge a moratorium on the death penalty.
I voted in favour of the proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the negotiations on the EU-Libya Framework Agreement.
The current negotiations between the European Union and Libya to finalise a framework agreement designed to promote political and economic relations between the Member States and this Maghreb country are of crucial strategic importance to the Union's cross-border relations.
I therefore voted in favour of the European Parliament recommendation to the Council.
The agreement will seek to make up for Libya's shortcomings by providing greater protection of human and democratic rights and developing commercial cooperation, as well as by establishing strict joint controls over illegal immigration.
Our energy security, our commercial and economic interests, and our cooperation in managing migratory flows should never conceal the continual disregard shown by the Libyan authorities and Colonel Gaddafi for the most basic human rights.
Colonel Gaddafi is a dictator who has been in power for 41 years, and who said just a few days ago that he regrets the departure of his Tunisian counterpart, Mr Ben Ali.
Our resolution particularly stresses this point by recalling that any common migration policy must be conditional on more stringent safeguards for the protection of migrants and other fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - For over 40 years, Libya has been ruled by a dictatorial regime in which power is concentrated in one man, Colonel Gaddafi, the longest serving African and Arab leader.
This framework agreement must also be a substantive tool to promote the rule of law, respect for human rights, protection of migrants and refugees and sustainable development in Libya.
I voted in favour of this resolution because I believe that it can help the Libyan people to improve their living conditions, which are often conditioned by a lack of respect for human rights and the most basic freedoms.
The European Union must conclude the framework agreement as soon as possible.
Today's vote on the EU-Libya Framework Agreement is the result of some tough negotiations, particularly on the issue of migrants.
In Libya, the situation regarding human rights for refugees and asylum seekers is extremely dangerous.
I hope that their fundamental human rights will be safeguarded, along with their right to asylum.
Libya has not ratified the Geneva Convention of 28 July 1951 or the Protocol of 1967 relating to the Status of Refugees, and at the moment, does not intend to do so.
However, in 1981, it did ratify the 1969 Convention Governing the Specific Aspects of Refugee Problems in Africa.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this important resolution as we have to condemn in the strongest terms the recent attacks on Christian communities around the world - be it in Egypt, Pakistan, Iraq or any other country.
Christian communities have been living in various Muslim countries of the Middle East since the early days of Christianity.
It is therefore totally unacceptable that, after centuries of peaceful cohabitation, Christians should be forced to flee these countries or be closed up in ghettos.
This is yet another reason to continue our struggle against Islamic fundamentalists who distort reality and want to portray our global action against terrorism as an attack on the Muslim world.
We should therefore welcome vigorous public reactions in certain Muslim countries, such as Egypt for example, where the general public strongly condemned terrorist attacks against Christians and demanded action against those responsible.
Hence, we must all work towards ensuring respect for different religious beliefs, and I believe that this text is in keeping with that approach.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on the situation of Christians in the context of freedom of religion, which condemns the deadly attacks against Christians in the East.
The attacks against Christians in recent months are a tragedy for the many victims, particularly in Baghdad and Alexandria, but also for their co-religionists.
Christians have lived in the East for 2 000 years; they are inscribed in the history of their country.
The Near and Middle East regions have always been an area of diversity and cohabitation of religious minorities.
Christians in Iraq and Egypt may be feeling abandoned and betrayed.
Europe needs to do much more than it has done so far in terms of protecting Christians around the world.
It is no longer acceptable to see that countries where Christians are discriminated against and persecuted have signed important agreements with the EU that are fundamentally based on respect for human rights.
I therefore declare my vote in favour of the resolution.
Europe must not be overcautious and afraid to support the right of Christian communities in the Middle East and around the world to profess their faith and religion freely.
Dialogue and mutual respect are inalienable values for the European Union, and it is essential for the High Representative, Catherine Ashton, to become a spokesperson for this position, and to strongly uphold it in our bilateral relations with other countries.
I congratulate the European Union on having repeatedly demonstrated its commitment to religious freedom, freedom of conscience and freedom of thought.
Governments have a duty to guarantee these freedoms throughout the world, bearing in mind that the development of human rights, democracy and civil liberties is the common base on which the European Union builds its relations with other countries, and which is provided for in the clause relating to democracy inscribed in the agreements concluded between the EU and third countries.
in writing. - We have all witnessed the plight of Coptic Christians in Egypt in the last months.
I believe that this resolution was well balanced and I have thus voted in favour of the resolution.
I am pleased that the European Parliament has debated and adopted a resolution condemning the recent attacks on Christians.
Over the last 50 years, the globalisation process has brought distant civilisations into contact with each another.
The increase in attacks against Christians requires a common stance on how to protect them.
One of the most noble functions of the European Parliament, as regards external action, is the defence and promotion of the values in which we believe: in this case, we are specifically referring to freedom of thought, freedom of conscience, freedom of expression and freedom of religion.
These freedoms have clearly been called into question through the cowardly attacks of religious fanatics, who have murdered innocent people, sometimes on a massive scale, in a way that I consider both inhuman and incomprehensible.
I hope that this resolution, supported by all the parliamentary groups, will help to increase awareness among members of the public, and among senior government and public administration figures in the countries concerned of the importance of the full exercise of fundamental freedoms in their countries and of bringing murderers and agitators to justice.
These are important in order to promote both inter-religious and inter-cultural dialogue internally and between our societies, which, despite living on different continents, share quite a number of common values and visions.
Our condemnation of the attacks is fair and necessary, but insufficient: the principle of reciprocity does not appear in this resolution.
This worrying and deplorable fact has to be deeply regretted, particularly since Christianity preaches peace and understanding between men, regardless of whether they are Jews or Greeks, as St Paul would say.
Everyone has the right to freedom of religion, conscience and thought.
This right confers the freedom to practice your own religion or beliefs, individually or together with others, both in public and in private, through worship, rites, practices and teaching.
In addition, the Iranian Government has intensified its campaign against Christians in the Islamic Republic.
In addition to condemning these attacks and urging governments to guarantee freedom of religion, conscience and thought, the Council, Commission and also the High Representative of the EU for Foreign Affairs must dedicate greater attention to the issue of religious freedom and take specific, urgent measures, including measures against the countries that deliberately do not protect religious confessions.
The events in Egypt, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Philippines, Cyprus, Iran and Iraq are even more serious when you consider that religion is being exploited merely for the sake of wielding power.
The European Union, through its High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, should make freedom of religion and belief and the security of religious communities, including Christians, a priority in the Union's international relations.
As the resolution states, the promotion of democracy and respect for human rights must be considered to be among the most important aims of the European Union.
In recent months, we have witnessed an upsurge of violence against Christian minorities around the world, particularly in countries where Islam is the majority religion.
I support this resolution, in the hope that the European institutions will fight religious intolerance more firmly and use all the means at their disposal to ensure safety and freedom of worship for the millions of Christians scattered around the world.
The premise is that freedom of religion must apply to all religions.
It is time to put this right, for we know that in the last century, more Christians died because of their faith than in the previous 1 900 years.
Open Doors International has listed the 10 countries where Christians encounter most violence in the world.
Approximately 100 million Christians every day suffer violence because of their religion.
The European External Action Service must show determination and address these failings surrounding freedom of religion.
Our foreign policy agreements with third countries must include a clause on freedom of religion and reciprocity.
In recent years, 75% of terrorist attacks of a religious nature have been against Christians.
In the last few months in particular, there has been an increase in the number of attacks, including direct attacks on churches while services were being held.
It is unacceptable in the 21st century for religious communities to have to be afraid to practise their faith freely.
My Christian roots cannot but condemn any act of violence against Christians and other religious communities around the world.
Likewise, this condemnation extends to any kind of discrimination and intolerance based on religion and faith against practitioners of a religion.
I believe the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion is a fundamental human right, which we hope to protect by means of this resolution.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution, which strongly condemns all acts of violence against Christians and other religious communities, as well as all kinds of discrimination and intolerance based on religion and belief, against religious people, apostates and non-believers.
The resolution stresses that the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion is a fundamental human right, and it expresses concern about the exodus of Christians from various countries, especially Middle Eastern countries, in recent years.
I urge the authorities of states with alarmingly high levels of attacks against religious denominations to take responsibility for ensuring normal and public religious practices for all religious denominations; to step up their efforts to provide reliable and efficient protection for the religious denominations in their countries; and to ensure the personal safety and physical integrity of members of religious denominations there, thereby complying with the obligations to which they have already committed themselves in the international arena.
As socialists, we support human rights as one of our basic policies.
We must therefore protect people against the violence generated by these religions.
Despite its implicit references to the criminal theory of a 'clash of civilisations' and to the blind claims of the Catholic church, this text is a means of demanding religious freedom around the world and the protection of practising individuals against fanaticism.
We must vehemently condemn the various attacks against Christian communities throughout the world but, in particular, in Africa, Asia and the Middle East.
The authorities of the countries concerned have made every effort to identify the perpetrators of and those responsible for such attacks against Christian communities.
Those responsible for these attacks and other acts of violence against Christians must be brought to justice and duly judged.
All in all, it would seem as if the political elite in Brussels, which is indifferent to Europe's Christian roots, has also forgotten the fate of Christians in Islamic countries.
For example, development aid and other financial supports should be made conditional on allowing religious freedom for Christians.
It was with some determination that I voted today to condemn violence against Christian communities and religious minorities.
Respect for human rights and religious freedom must be a cornerstone of relations with other countries.
In occupied Cyprus, most of the churches have been destroyed, the statues of saints have been disfigured, and on Christmas Day, Turkish soldiers prevented the celebration of Mass in two Orthodox churches.
Religious intolerance is becoming an increasingly frequent phenomenon in various parts of the world, and the terrible attacks against Christians in Egypt and Iraq over the last few weeks are the latest dangerous challenge posed by fundamentalist terrorism.
Recent attacks against Christian communities in Egypt, Nigeria, Iraq and Pakistan have made European intervention necessary, and the EU has strongly condemned the persecutions and mobilised its High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the situation of Christians in the context of freedom of religion because I feel we are, unfortunately, faced with a worldwide attack on Christianity, in which religious violence is being used for political purposes to block growth and development, encourage social hatred and destabilise the system in the countries where these attacks take place.
I therefore believe it is important for Europe, the promoter of respect for human rights and civil and democratic freedoms, to strongly condemn these violent attacks, which are putting the world back centuries and cutting off any hope of intercultural dialogue, tolerance, growth and social wellbeing.
The joint resolution, following the attack against worshippers praying in a Coptic church in Alexandria in Egypt on 1 January 2011 condemns all forms of violence against citizens, regardless of the religious group to which they belong, and expresses its concern at the increasing number of cases of religious aggression.
in writing. - The European Union has repeatedly expressed its commitment to freedom of religion, freedom of conscience and freedom of thought, and has stressed that governments have a duty to guarantee these freedoms all over the world.
The development of human rights, democracy and civil liberties is the common base on which the European Union builds its relations with third countries, and it has been provided for by the democracy clause in the agreements between the EU and third countries.
Article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights declares that everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; and freedom of thought, conscience and religion applies not only to adherents of religions but also to atheists, agnostics and people without beliefs.
Thus, we condemn the recent attacks on Christian communities in various countries and expresses solidarity with the families of the victims; we express our deep concerns about the proliferation of episodes of intolerance and repression and violent events directed against Christian communities, particularly in the countries of Africa, Asia and the Middle East.
We are debating the persecution of Christians around the world, but while we are talking about the violence that has taken place in Iraq, Egypt, the Philippines, India and elsewhere, we continue to ignore what has happened closer to home.
Over the years, 520 Christian churches and monasteries have been systematically destroyed and replaced by minarets.
The artworks in these churches have been burnt, desecrated or plundered; the cemeteries have been destroyed and Christian bishops are prohibited from holding Mass.
However, the most incredible thing is that there are many Members of Parliament who defend Christians around the world, and yet they are in favour of Turkey joining the EU.
The statistics provided by international organisations are appalling - they say that around 150 000 Christians are murdered worldwide every year.
The European Union, as a guardian of fundamental democratic values and human rights, should maintain better monitoring of the situation in third countries, and in the Middle East in particular.
Our efforts should be unequivocal and more resolute.
By respecting these rights, we set an example to other countries, but we should be equally effective in exacting the same respect from others.
Human rights are universal and should be respected everywhere, and we should react decisively to any kind of expression of intolerance and, in particular, to religious intolerance.
The Union has suitable instruments at its disposal which permit us to force the governments of countries with which we maintain political or commercial relations to act properly and to respect civil liberties, including freedom of religion.
In Muslim countries, but also in countries such as China, India and Nepal, churches and chapels are burned with impunity, people are turned out onto the street, tortured or even killed and women are forced to undergo abortions.
Europe must not remain silent.
The EU must show solidarity with the victims and must support the authorities, which are committed to pursuing the perpetrators.
This demand must be at the heart of our relations with our partners, in the same way as the human rights clauses.
Tolerance and peace are intimately linked, and I shall, as always, support the European Union's actions to ensure respect for and the promotion of our values, freedoms and rights throughout the world.
In the European Union, religious freedom and freedom of expression are intrinsic to our European identity.
At the same time, Christianity is of key importance in this context, as well as a significant component in European culture.
In the EU, Article 10 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Article 9 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms govern religious freedom.
The European Union must use all the firmness required in its relations with Belarus, the last regime in Europe and an anachronistic example of political state violence, which is totally incompatible with minimal western standards of democracy and freedom.
In this resolution, Europe is once again adopting a position of firmly condemning the events that occurred during the recent elections, while also renewing its condemnation of what has been happening in Belarus for decades, with censorship of information, the arrest and imprisonment of dissidents, and everything else that a deplorable dictatorship like that of Minsk does every day to keep civil society in check.
Such behaviour represents a severe violation of basic democratic principles, such as freedom of assembly and freedom of expression, as well as of human rights.
Given the current situation in Belarus, I would urge the Commission to continue to provide financial aid to the European Humanities University (EHU) based in Vilnius, Lithuania, to increase the number of scholarships for Belarusian students, repressed for their civic activities and expelled from universities, and to contribute to assistance for the organisation 'Solidarity with Belarus'.
in writing. - The state of affairs in Belarus has deteriorated over recent months and is now of great concern.
The EU should do everything within its power to demonstrate that such events will not be taken lightly and possible measures should certainly include the consideration of economic sanctions against Belarus.
On the very same lines, action to block several major websites on the day of the elections is deplorable.
However, as well as expressing my regret about what is happening, which is well described in the resolution, I would like to emphasise the specific measures targeted by this resolution, which I think that both the Council and the Commission should put into practice immediately: the application of economic sanctions; the freezing of all financial aid granted through the International Monetary Fund and also through the European Investment Bank and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; support by all possible means for the efforts of Belarusian civil society with a view to achieving a society with greater freedom and democracy; restoring the ban on awarding visas to the main Belarusian leaders, extending it to top officials; suspension of the participation of Belarus in the activities of the Eastern Partnership at the Eastern Partnership summit to be held in Budapest; and, finally, intensification of the work relating to the directives for negotiating agreements for facilitating visas and readmission, with a view to strengthening contact between populations.
Belarus is the only country in the world where police are still operating under the name KGB.
This simple fact is symbolically illustrative of the type of regime in force there.
Based on the preliminary results and conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and of the OSCE/Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, the presidential elections on 19 December 2010 failed to satisfy the international standards for free, fair and transparent elections.
Therefore, new free and democratic elections must be held soon, in accordance with the OSCE standards.
In addition, the brutal use of force by the police and the State Security Agency of the Republic of Belarus against demonstrations on the day of the elections is unacceptable.
I must express my serious concerns about the attempts by the Belarusian authorities to place in state custody Danil Sannikov, the three-year-old son of Andrei Sannikov, presidential candidate, and of Irina Khalip, investigative journalist, both held since the elections on 19 December.
Irrespective of our analysis of what is happening in Belarus, we cannot be complicit in this blatant attack on the independence and national sovereignty of this country, encouraging direct interference in its internal affairs and manipulating events that only the Belarusians and the authorities of the country are entitled to resolve, in order to try and align the state and its authorities with the interests of the European Union.
This resolution is a parade of unacceptable actions, the objective of which is to install in Minsk a regime that is open to the interests of the EU.
Let us look at a couple of examples: it calls on the Commission to support, with all financial and political means, the efforts of Belarusian civil society, independent media (including TV Belsat, European Radio for Belarus, Radio Racja and others) and non-governmental organisations in Belarus to promote democracy and oppose the regime; it calls on the Commission to develop a mechanism of registration of NGOs that are denied registration in Belarus for political reasons, in order to enable them to benefit from EU programmes.
Therefore, we did not vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - (LV) The European Union must actively declare its position on events in Belarus.
That is why release of political prisoners is one of the preconditions for the resumption of dialogue between the European Union and Belarus.
Sanctions must be introduced against the Belarusian regime, but they must not impact on the Belarusian people to whom we must open a window to Europe.
European universities must accept those young people from Belarus who are excluded from universities there on account of their political activity and who will never again be able to obtain an education in a Belarus led by Lukashenko.
We must consolidate our collaboration with the representatives of civil society in Belarus, support their struggle and share experiences with them.
I am convinced that the people of Belarus deserve a democratic state where human rights are respected, where fair elections take place, and where freedom of speech prevails.
If the government of Belarus wants cooperation with us, then it will be obliged to respect these conditions.
I supported this resolution because I believe that the support of the Western allies is essential for the opposition to the authoritarian regime in Belarus.
At the same time, the European Union must introduce sanctions against the authoritarian government of Belarus and give both moral and financial support to the democracy movement in Belarus.
in writing. - I voted for the joint resolution on Belarus, being one of its initiators on behalf of the PPE Group.
The resolution addresses in a clear and unambiguous way the tragic situation in Belarus, created by its dictator, Lukashenko, since 19 December 2010.
Also, I see not holding the 2014 World Ice Hockey Championships in Minsk as being one of the most efficient levers in the proposal for exerting influence on the Belarus authorities to abandon their repressive politics.
The European Union has always considered humanitarian policy and the protection of fundamental human rights to be its priorities.
Its vocation, which today allows it to play a leading role on the world stage and export beyond its borders the principles of democracy, respect for human rights and legality, enables us to understand the reasons behind the proposal for a joint resolution aimed at calling on Belarus to respect all the efforts that have been made on matters of international law and human rights.
The events that occurred during the elections on 19 December are, sadly, well known.
They were characterised by the brutal repression of popular demonstrations complaining about a number of obvious cases of vote rigging, carried out by the police and secret service agents.
The countries of the former socialist bloc understand the political situation in Belarus very well - restrictions on personal freedom and on freedom of the press and the media, and an undemocratic system of government.
This is why I voted for the adoption of the resolution.
I join the call for the Commission to support with all financial and political means the efforts of the Belarusian civil society to promote democracy and oppose the regime.
The introduction of strict sanctions might, through its impact, create a barrier and isolate this country even more.
As far as effectiveness is concerned, it should involve establishing a different kind of dialogue, held in a different form and at different levels, including a balanced, rather than a one-sided, assessment.
The cornerstone, however, should be a careful assessment of experience to date in mutual communications between the EU and Belarus, on the basis of which the experience could be incorporated into a strategic plan clearly reflecting EU foreign policy on this country.
I would therefore argue that the 'critical dialogue' that the 27 Member States of the EU have already put in place should be maintained, in order to convince Belarus that it must strengthen its resolve to move towards European standards in terms of respect for democracy and protection of human rights.
What is happening in Belarus must be of concern to all those who believe in democracy and the rule of law.
The EU must support all efforts made leading to the democratisation of this regime and an improvement in the lives of its population.
The fact is that these efforts had failed before now, for example, at the time of the presidential elections and, if not sooner, they had certainly done so by the time the OSCE offices in Minsk were closed and accusations of attempted destabilisation were made against Germany and Poland.
The cancellation of the 2014 World Ice Hockey Championships would be a similar example of excessive megaphone diplomacy.
I believe that not just in the European Parliament and the Commission, but also at ministerial level and the level of Heads of State, constant attention needs to be paid to Belarus and the situation in it, because Belarus is a country that shares a border with the EU.
The appointment of EU coordinators for Belarusian affairs might ensure united action by the EU as regards this country.
The European Humanities University in Vilnius is one of the most successful long-term development cooperation projects as regards Belarus.
In my view, we need to address this issue quickly and practically in a coordinated approach that actively supports civil society and protects the opposition and their families.
My vote in favour is based on the need, which is now strongly felt in the EU, to convince Belarus that it must move towards European standards in terms of respect for democracy and protection of human rights.
I welcome this report, the Commission having reacted to the crisis and, at the same time, applied competition policy measures.
I advocate Parliament playing its role as colegislator as regards competition policy and, since this is not possible, I call on the Commission to inform Parliament in detail on the follow-up given to its recommendations and to justify any deviations from them.
It is regrettable that it has still not been possible to improve the competition framework within the single market to make it more favourable for small and medium-sized enterprises.
I voted in favour of this resolution on the Report on Competition Policy 2009.
I agree with the rapporteur's opinion that Parliament should have a more active role in the shaping of competition policy through the introduction of a colegislative role.
In order to achieve this objective, Parliament must be informed regularly of any initiatives in this field.
I have no doubt that Parliament's active role in the shaping of EU competition policy will be a significant contribution to the successful implementation of competition policy and the unrestricted functioning of the internal market, which are essential preconditions for sustainable economic growth in the European Union.
One of the principles of the Treaty on European Union stipulates that Member States must adopt an economic policy 'in accordance with the principles of the open market economy, based on fair competition'.
The purpose of the competition policy is to create genuine competition on the single market using measures relating to the market's structures and the behaviour of its actors.
The report covers both antitrust policies and State aid control policies.
I voted for this report as I regard competition policy as a key instrument enabling the European Union to have a dynamic, efficient and innovative internal market, to be globally competitive, as well as emerge from the financial crisis.
The year 2009 was marked by tough crisis conditions, which the European Commission had to take into account when supervising the practices of undertakings.
I voted in favour of Parliament's resolution because it appeals to the European Commission to ensure that MEPs are more involved in the decision-making process concerning this policy, that more consideration is given to services of general interest, and that its services pay more attention to the activities of undertakings in the financial sector.
Had there been an electronic vote on the Report on Competition Policy 2009, I would have abstained.
Indeed, there were some good things in this report (assessment of competition policy, consumer rights, innovation and a greater role for SMEs), but I deplore the general angle from which it was written: a kind of suspicion in relation to State aid - which is presumed to conflict a priori with competition policy - and a way of advocating the early liberalisation of certain sectors of the economy, particularly the rail sector, which seems to me inappropriate.
I voted in favour of this report on the Report on Competition Policy 2009.
The European Commission was quick to react to the economic and financial crisis, and competition policy measures were adapted effectively.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that Parliament should participate more actively in the shaping of competition policy through the introduction of a colegislative role.
Furthermore, Parliament must be informed regularly of any initiatives in this field.
An EU competition policy based on the principles of open markets and a level playing field in all sectors is a cornerstone of a successful internal market and a precondition for the creation of sustainable and knowledge-based jobs.
I would urge the Commission to focus more on ensuring fair competition within the internal market, and a level playing field with regard to exit conditions.
in writing. - It is crucial to note that due to the exceptional circumstances that have been witnessed because of the financial crisis, a degree of flexibility has necessarily had to be exercised in the context of EU competition policy.
These are essential conditions for a successful internal market.
Competition policy is a key instrument enabling the EU to have a dynamic, efficient and innovative internal market, which is globally competitive.
EU competition policy is not just a fundamental policy that truly underpins the European legal framework, but it also constitutes the basis of a successful internal market and a sustainable and competitive economy.
That is why I consider it important that the Commission informs Parliament on its development and application.
Therefore, I consider it essential to carry out an in-depth analysis on the impact that these measures have had on the economy and finances of the various states and to examine their effectiveness so that the necessary conclusions can be drawn.
This resolution is on 2009 competition policy and contains a global perspective of all state support of the transport sector within the EU, which is fundamental for the existence of a market without borders and for the free movement of people, goods and services.
The economic crisis of the last few years is reflected in the bankruptcy of many businesses and it is imperative to adopt regulatory measures that prevent the distortion of this activity, namely, by regulating support to the sector.
Moreover, the peripheral countries of the EU have seen increased costs in this field, when funds to minimise this situation have been necessary.
Therefore, I welcome the adoption of this resolution and welcome the creation of a set of market monitoring measures, the environmental concern about CO2 emissions, and the incentivisation of research into ways to improve competitiveness in Europe, namely, through the recommendation that the Commission and the Member States should provide 3% investment in this area.
It is unacceptable that, at a time when the financial and economic crisis is deepening, the European Parliament should approve a report on Competition Policy 2009 that defends competition and insists on new liberalisation measures, particularly in the railway sector, when it states that it is necessary to complete the single railway market by opening up national passenger transport markets.
The same occurs in connection with the pharmaceutical sector, when it asks the Commission to expedite the completion of the internal market in medicines, as well as in telecommunications, etc.
What we have, then, is a report that intends to expand liberalisation in basic sectors in order to improve people's living conditions, but without thinking about the effects on employment, prices and people's lives.
Therefore, we voted against the report.
Competition policy is an essential tool to enable the EU to have a dynamic, efficient and innovative internal market and to be competitive on the global stage, as well as to overcome the financial crisis.
Parliament's active role in the shaping of EU competition policy will be a significant contribution to the successful implementation of competition policy and the functioning of the internal market, which are essential preconditions and premises for sustainable economic growth in the European Union.
It is vital for the European single market that the Commission conduct an in-depth analysis of the consequences of the review of the state assistance mechanism carried out in response to the crisis, and with regard to healthy competition and ensuring a level playing field in the EU, financial reform and job creation.
I voted in favour of this report because, based on a positive evaluation of the action taken by the European Commission again this year, it strongly supports a more active role for Parliament in the shaping of competition policy.
We wish to emphasise that an EU competition policy based on the principles of open markets and a level playing field in all sectors is a cornerstone of a successful internal market and a precondition for the creation of sustainable jobs.
We therefore underline our call for greater consistency between all EU policies and the priorities set out in the EU 2020 strategy for growth and jobs.
It is necessary to draft clearer competition rules that encourage the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are a driver of growth in all our economies.
It is time to analyse the consequences of this aid for the internal market and interpret whether it has distorted free competition.
The financial and economic crisis that has rocked the financial markets has naturally also impacted on competition policy.
This impact is apparent in the growing budgetary deficits and increasing public debt in many Member States, slowing down economic recovery, and also in the state supports provided in response to the financial crisis.
European policy on competition should make the internal market competitive on a global level.
For this reason, I have voted against the report.
I voted in favour of Mr Eppink's report on competition policy 2009 because competition policy is an essential tool for tackling the effects of the economic crisis.
It is becoming increasingly obvious, including in the light of the Commission's 2009 Report on Competition Policy in Europe, that competition policy is an essential tool that will help the European Union to have a dynamic, efficient and innovative internal market and to be competitive on the global stage, as well as to overcome the financial crisis.
In this context, the European Parliament must have a more active role, starting by increasing its involvement in any of the Commission's initiatives in this field, as the Commission is the sole EU-wide competent competition authority.
The report points out that small and medium-sized enterprises are particularly important for the whole European economy, stresses the major innovation potential of small and medium-sized enterprises, and reiterates its previous request to the Commission to adopt new initiatives with a focus on fair and non-discriminatory competition conditions for such companies.
In particular, we must remember small and medium-sized enterprises, which not only provide jobs for most of our citizens, but also possess huge potential for innovation.
Therefore, it is very important to create fair and non-discriminatory conditions for them to operate, and to develop very clear and transparent rules of competition.
The Commission's effective use of the instruments of competition policy allowed stabilisation of the economy and moderation of the effects of the economic crisis on businesses and consumers.
The year 2009 was one in which help was essential in order to maintain the integrity and competitiveness of the single market.
The policy of State aid is a crucial element of competition policy, because it allows equal opportunities to be guaranteed to all businesspeople operating in the single market.
The analysis of the report on Competition Policy prepared by the European Commission relating to 2009 allows us to draw conclusions concerning the advantages of this European policy.
At present, the European Union is passing through one of the most serious periods of economic and financial crisis in its entire history and the activity of SMEs is vital for re-booting the economy.
However, I regret that there is still unfair competition in the energy market and I support the invitation made to the European Commission in the document put to the vote today to monitor closely the implementation by the Member States of the third energy liberalisation package.
in writing. - I fully support the calls in this resolution for stronger rules in the area of competition policy.
I am voting for this report, taking into account the fact that three EU Member States are members of the Arctic Council, while Iceland is in membership negotiations.
The EU plays an important role in this region and already has shared competences in a number of areas, as well as exclusive ones such as fisheries.
Their variety of resources and potential for alternative sources of energy can only be developed through an eco-systematic approach and with integrated management plans.
I voted in favour of this resolution on a sustainable EU policy for the High North.
The Arctic is a sensitive region where the effects of climate change are especially visible, having serious repercussions on other regions in the world.
Therefore, the best protection for the Arctic is a long-term and ambitious global climate agreement, but the rapid warming of the Arctic makes it necessary, in addition, to work on possible further short-term measures to limit Arctic warming.
This is particularly important given the increasing interest in the exploitation of resources.
We also must not forget the indigenous peoples whose economies rely, to a significant extent, on sustainable use of natural resources and therefore, the reduction of climate change and its effects and the right of the indigenous peoples to an unpolluted natural environment are also questions of human rights.
That is why I voted in favour of this resolution, which endorses a strategy for the High North.
The Union must play its role as a world power by asserting both its interests in the region and the need for good global governance of natural resources and of the environmental challenges that are certain to arise.
It is commonly agreed that the Arctic is a region that is affected earlier and more heavily by climate change and pollution originating in the industrialised or developing parts of the world.
The effects of climate change have a greater impact on the Arctic region than any other region.
Since the growth of new economies is resulting in an increasing need for resources, energy and minerals, the EU has a natural interest in ensuring the supply security of the resources and energy needed for the population and industries of Europe.
The EU can make a significant contribution to the sustainable development of the Arctic, a region which will be of major importance to a world adapting to climate change, facing a growing population and scarcity of resources.
In the present context of prioritising the fight against climate change, the defence and promotion of the Arctic region is of crucial importance, not only in environmental terms, but also in terms of economic development, and of global stability and security.
Its potential in terms of renewable energy supplies and fish is particularly important, meaning that the sustainable exploitation of the natural resources of this region is crucial.
I voted in favour of this resolution on a sustainable EU policy for the High North.
The Arctic region is attracting more and more attention, due to the effects of climate change, the main trigger of developments.
Europe does not only bear a certain responsibility, being one of the main contributors to pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, but also has a particular interest in the Arctic, since it will have to deal with the consequences of the changes taking place there, from environmental and climate change issues to the geopolitics of shipping routes and security of supply of resources.
It is essential to formulate EU policy as regards the Arctic region with very specific and comprehensive proposals: from the inclusion of local inhabitants in the dialogue and stability and security in the region to the environmental and climate change dimensions of future projects.
The region of the Arctic Ocean is assuming ever greater significance, not just for the continent of Europe, but for the whole world.
It is absolutely essential to concentrate efforts on scientific research and to develop a plan for tackling these changes.
In all these areas, the European Union can, and should, make a contribution, helping in the development of the region and setting new standards in striving to protect our planet's environment.
The High North is rich in resources and energy and will open up new sea routes that could be used by the European Union.
The indigenous peoples also need special protection and consideration.
The issue of the Arctic region now requires our constant attention more than ever, because of the worrying problems caused by the effects of climate change.
The fact that three EU Member States - Denmark, Finland and Sweden - are Arctic countries accounts for the Union's interest in ensuring that environmental factors are henceforth taken far more into account than they are at present.
The Union has always fought for the environment and has made great efforts to protect it through preventive measures.
in writing. - I welcome the suggestion of an EU policy for the High North, but any such policy must be conscious of the need to protect the fragile environment of the Arctic and underline the importance of overall stability and peace in the region.
It should stress that the EU should pursue policies that ensure that measures to address environmental concerns take into account the interests of the inhabitants of the Arctic region, including its indigenous peoples, in protecting and developing the region.
It should also stress the similarity in approach, analysis and priorities between the Commission Communication and policy documents in the Arctic States and the need to engage in policies that respect the interest in sustainable management and use of the land-based and marine, non-renewable and renewable natural resources of the Arctic region, which, in turn, provide important resources for Europe and are a major source of income to the inhabitants of the region.
The European Union's interests must reflect the indigenous peoples' interests to protect and develop the Arctic region.
This report advocates the sustainable exploitation of the Arctic but relieves the oil and gas companies of any responsibility in this regard.
The relationship that exists between the EU and the Arctic is beyond doubt, since Denmark, Finland and Sweden are arctic countries and both Finland and Sweden are partly located in the Arctic Circle.
The Arctic region is attracting more and more attention due to the effects of climate change, the main factor in its evolution.
The European Union contributes significantly to climate change and must therefore play a leading role in the fight against this phenomenon.
Due to the growing need for natural resources, particularly in the EU, the Arctic represents an important and varied opportunity in terms of energy supply (gas, renewables), raw materials and fish.
The EU must engage in policies that take into account the sustainable management and exploitation of natural resources in the region in terms of the environment, safety and organisation.
The European Union is responsible for striking the right balance between environmental concerns and the race to exploit natural resources, and for taking into account the interests of the people living in the Arctic region.
Inevitably, there is a feeling of unease that BP of all companies, having caused the oil catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico last year, is now to be allowed to extract resources in this sensitive natural environment, where conditions are far more extreme than in the Gulf.
In view of global warming and the expected consequences, this is a problem that cannot be overestimated.
The climate change that has affected the Arctic region in recent years highlights the responsibility that the European Union should accept for such an important and urgent situation.
I believe my vote in favour of a sustainable policy for the High North is of crucial importance, in that the region needs to be safeguarded and protected since it has had to face disastrous environmental impacts that do not depend directly on its own territory but on the more industrialised European countries.
The problem needs to be tackled at a global level, therefore, because its causes lie outside the Arctic but, in turn, have an effect on the whole planet.
In addition, the region has vast natural resources of energy sources and minerals, and the EU has an interest in ensuring the security of the supplies needed for Europe's people and industries.
in writing. - The Arctic region is attracting more and more attention, due to the effects of climate change, the main trigger of developments.
Thus, Europe does not only bear a certain responsibility, being one of the main contributors to pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, but also has a particular interest in the Arctic, since it will have to deal with the consequences of the changes taking place there from environmental and climate-change issues to the geopolitics of shipping routes and security of supply of resources.
I supported this agreement because climate change and pollution originating in the industrialised parts of the world have unfortunately also reached the Arctic for some time now.
In 1996, in an attempt to curb the phenomenon, the Arctic Council was established to protect the environment in this region.
I am voting for this report on an EU strategy for the Black Sea.
I also agree with the recommendations tabled in this report with a view to developing a stronger political framework, including an integrated approach to this region for the EU, which must be reinforced with the implementation of a specific action plan, and with adequate human and financial resources.
in writing. - (LT) I voted in favour of this resolution on an EU strategy for the Black Sea.
Three years after devising the Black Sea Synergy, an analysis of the current situation indicates, first of all, the lack of a clear, comprehensive and updated picture on the implementation results of the Black Sea Synergy.
Therefore, the EU strategy for the Black Sea should put in place a stronger policy framework and boost EU involvement in the Black Sea region.
I support the opinion that the main objectives of a Black Sea strategy should entail building a space of peace, stability and prosperity in the Black Sea region, while also ensuring EU energy security.
As a consequence, security, good governance, energy, transport, environment, socio-economic and human development should be considered as priority actions.
It is very important for a security dimension of the Black Sea to include resolute actions for strengthening democratic rule, good governance and State capacity building.
The Union must be sensitive to this situation and must give fresh impetus to its strategy for the Black Sea region.
This resolution provides such a response, and I therefore voted in favour of it.
It creates a new budget line, which will give priority to the financing of small-scale development projects and cross-border cooperation, and strengthens human resources.
The resolution draws attention, lastly, to the extended lease for Russia's Black Sea Fleet in Crimea and the concerns that it raises.
I voted in favour of the report on an EU strategy for the Black Sea.
The strategic importance of the Black Sea region for the EU was recognised in 2007, in the context of Romania's and Bulgaria's accession to the EU.
As developments in this region, strategically situated at the junction of Europe, the Middle East and Central Asia, started having a direct impact on EU internal affairs, the EU acknowledged the need to reflect upon its stronger involvement in the area.
The aim of the Black Sea Synergy is to develop regional cooperation between the EU and the region, as well as within the region.
However, much less was achieved in the field of implementation, while sectors such as stability, democracy and good governance seem to have witnessed less progress in a context of deterioration of the democratic rule in several Black Sea states and of the Russia-Georgia war in 2008.
In addition, the main objectives of a Black Sea strategy should entail building a space of peace, stability and prosperity in the Black Sea region, while also ensuring EU energy security.
As a consequence, security, good governance, energy, transport, environmental, socio-economic and human development should be considered as priority actions.
The key priority of the EU's Black Sea strategy should be to secure energy supplies to the EU, and related support for energy projects which are in the interests of the EU and which focus on diversifying gas supplies to the EU.
The establishment of the Euronest Parliamentary Assembly is also important and urgently required as regards the EU's energy security.
Among the projects which the Black Sea strategy should be helping to implement, I would include the Nabucco project, the South Stream project, the project to bring liquefied natural gas (LNG) to Europe and the development of LNG terminals in Black Sea harbours, and also the pan-European Constanta-Trieste oil pipeline.
The Commission should not delay and should conclude agreements by the end of 2011 with potential supplier countries for the Nabucco pipeline.
The package of measures for energy infrastructure, which the Commission intends to submit in the near future, should place particular emphasis on the previously mentioned energy projects in the Black Sea region.
Last but not least, it is necessary to emphasise the considerable potential of renewable energy sources in the Black Sea region, which may contribute significantly to the future energy security of the EU and the entire world.
Moreover, in spite of the 2007 Commission Communication entitled Black Sea Synergy - A new regional cooperation initiative, measures were taken soon after that time with a view to implementing an effective strategy for the future of the Black Sea.
Therefore, I welcome the initiative and adoption of this report, which I strongly support, in the hope that the recommendations just adopted by the European Parliament will be accepted by the Commission, the Council and our neighbours to the east with whom we share administration of the Black Sea, namely, those relating to frozen conflicts, to closed borders and/or ineffective borders controls, to the transportation of energy, and to security and defence.
Only if these issues are resolved will it be possible to achieve the two main objectives proposed by the report: 1) peace, democracy, stability and prosperity in the region; and 2) energy security for the EU.
Apparently, there is a consensus amongst some in this place that the best individual member of the Black Sea Synergy is the EU.
The Black Sea strategy must be based on the uniqueness of the area.
The conflict that embroiled Russia and Georgia demonstrates the potential instability affecting the Black Sea region, fully justifying the adoption by the European Union of a strategy to deal with the specific challenges presented by that particular part of the world.
Given their geographical situation, history and specific knowledge of the region, Romania, Bulgaria and Greece could make a valuable contribution to ensuring that the strategy to be devised is capable of achieving the objectives of promoting peace, security, democracy, good governance and economic, social and human development.
In a context that includes EU Member States - Bulgaria, Greece and Romania - together with Turkey and various states of the former Soviet bloc, including Russia, the Black Sea is crucial to energy supply and the diversification of gas distribution.
In this context, greater commitment from the EU is required, along with increased efficiency in formulating measures to assist the stabilisation and revitalisation of this region in a process that must involve all the countries concerned.
The strategies and objectives are the same as those that have formed the so-called external policy of the EU for a long time: controlling the natural resources of the region, in particular, oil and natural gas, on which the EU is dependent, securing their supply without problems, in addition to trying to guarantee access to its markets and the exploitation of workers.
The mechanisms for achieving these objectives are also the same: interference and recurrent attempts to limit the national sovereignty of these countries through international campaigns controlled by the major news agencies and non-governmental organisations financed by EU funds; the push towards militarism and the arms race, as in the case of the current re-arming of Georgia; and looking for people in these countries who, in exchange for benefits for themselves or the interests they serve, defend the interests of the EU and the United States, as well as their economic groups, by accepting NATO's eastward expansion and allowing the installation of US military bases in the region, which have been used as a platform for supplying NATO troops in Afghanistan.
The Union has many priorities and any new investments must be carefully weighed up, even if we are talking about areas of prime importance in the field of energy.
I therefore declare my vote against the abovementioned report.
While I acknowledge the significance of this project, I would like to underline the need to treat other projects in the Southern Corridor (ITGI, TAP and White Stream) as equally important.
I would also like to reaffirm the fundamental role of South Stream in helping to achieve the aim of diversification.
I voted in favour of this resolution on an EU strategy for the Black Sea.
The strategic importance of the Black Sea region for the EU was recognised in 2007, in the context of Romania's and Bulgaria's accession to the EU.
Developments in Europe, the Middle East and Central Asia started having a direct impact on EU internal affairs, and the EU acknowledged the need to reflect upon its stronger involvement in the area.
This resulted in the launch of a new EU policy approach towards the region, called the Black Sea Synergy.
The aim of the Black Sea Synergy is to develop regional cooperation between the EU and the region, as well as within the region.
I agree with the opinion that the main objectives of a Black Sea strategy should entail building a space of peace, stability and prosperity in the Black Sea region, as well as ensuring EU energy security.
As a consequence, security, good governance, energy, transport, environmental, socio-economic and human development should be considered as priority actions.
A security dimension of the Black Sea must include resolute actions for strengthening democratic rule, good governance and State capacity building.
Finally, economic, social and human development within the Black Sea region is an important premise for transforming the Black Sea into a stable and prosperous space.
The Black Sea region is a strategic area for Europe.
For these measures to be successful, they need to be consistent and to take into account the differences in conditions between particular countries.
The last issue is Turkey, and we should definitely remember Turkey, because in contrast to Europe, it is a country which is developing at a frantic pace.
As a strategic bridge connecting Europe with Central Asia and the Middle East, the Black Sea region is extremely important for the European Union.
If to these purely geographical considerations we add the fact that many countries in the region are also Member States of the Union, we will be in a better position to understand why Europe has, for many years, been working to strengthen relations with the countries in this area.
The Ungureanu report calls on both the Commission and the European External Action Service to establish a strategy for increasingly close relations of cooperation between the European Union and the Black Sea region.
Lastly, I should like to highlight the part of the report that calls on the Union to promote strategies to strengthen the institutions of the countries in the Black Sea area, because I believe that respect for democracy needs to underpin such relations.
I voted for this report because I consider it to be extremely important for the Black Sea region and the EU.
Discussions on the Black Sea Synergy began in 2007.
The Danube strategy will be finalised in the first half of this year.
The Danube region contributes to the development of the Black Sea.
The new energy sources from the Caspian Sea, as well as the new routes, can develop the Black Sea region and, by implication, the Danube region.
The most important project in this regard is the Nabucco pipeline.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which stresses that the main objective pursued by the EU and the Member States in the EU strategy for the Black Sea region should be to establish an area of peace, democracy, prosperity and stability, founded on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and providing for EU energy security, and considers that good governance, the rule of law, promotion of respect of human rights, migration management, energy, transport, the environment, and economic and social development should constitute priority actions.
The EU strategy for the Black Sea is entirely devoted to the development of the Nabucco pipeline and the creation of a free trade area guaranteeing its energy security and its hegemony over the region.
The fight against the current environmental disaster has faded into the background, as have the social and economic interests of the peoples of the region.
On the other hand, concerns about security and energy supply lead to the need for greater involvement between the European Union and the countries of this region.
Therefore, I agree with the main concerns expressed in the report: the guarantee of peace, democracy and stability in the Black Sea region, and looking after the European Union's energy security.
Furthering relations between the European Union and the Black Sea region will, without doubt, be important, as the parties can benefit from this and cooperate more effectively.
Turkey, Georgia and Ukraine have repeatedly expressed their appetite for EU membership.
The EU must continue in this direction.
The report on an EU strategy for the Black Sea is important and for this reason, it is rightly very comprehensive.
The further development of synergy in the Black Sea region is significant not just for energy strategy reasons.
It is particularly important that natural gas supplies for Europe should be secured.
Another reason why the report is important is because of its references to the Black Sea's importance as a natural resource and the environmental situation in this region.
The biggest polluters affecting the marine biodiversity are the Dnieper, Don, Dniester and Danube rivers (which spill 60 000 tonnes of phosphorous and 340 tonnes of inorganic nitrogen into the Black Sea every year).
A group of experts estimated that subaquatic life will completely disappear from the Black Sea in approximately 30 years due to hydrogen sulphide.
The aim is to develop regional cooperation between the EU and the region, as well as within the region.
The Black Sea region is intended to be developed into an area of stability, security, democracy and prosperity.
In addition, joint projects are being set up, such as the creation of a Black Sea Civil Society Forum, strengthening of the academic and students' networks and creation of an Institute for European Studies in the Black Sea region.
The objective of the strategy is also to ensure the EU's energy security.
In the context of shaping a strategy for the Black Sea macro-region, and then for the Danube region, the proposal put forward by the European Commission in 2007 entitled 'Black Sea Synergy - A New Regional Cooperation Initiative' (which recognised the region as strategic for the EU) is the best method of dealing with the abovementioned issues.
Therefore, as the rapporteur says, while building upon the merits of the Black Sea Synergy, the EU strategy for the Black Sea should put in place a stronger policy framework and boost EU involvement in the Black Sea region.
Just as with the EU strategy for the Baltic Sea region and the Danube region, success in implementation will depend on good dialogue at all levels of regional cooperation, because this dialogue will lead to proposals for appropriate and regular reporting, monitoring, evaluation and follow-up mechanisms.
In the context of development and greater integration between the Member States, by giving my assent, I encourage the growth and development of the Black Sea region by means of an action plan containing clear objectives and flagship initiatives.
in writing. - We call on the Commission and the European External Action Service (EEAS) to draw up a strategy for the Black Sea region in parallel with the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy, thus defining an integrated and comprehensive EU approach to addressing the challenges and opportunities of the region, with a detailed action plan, clear objectives, flagship initiatives and benchmarks.
As well as this, the EP reiterates its call on the Commission and the EEAS to carry out regular reviews of the implementation of the strategy by establishing concrete monitoring, evaluation, follow-up and reporting mechanisms, and urges that the relevant European Parliament committees be consulted at key stages of this process.
In the same year, a new European policy called Black Sea Synergy was created, which works to promote stability, security, democracy and prosperity in the region.
As early as 2008, the European Parliament expressed its support for the creation of the Synergy and also asked for the elaboration of a detailed Action Plan for the area with a number of concrete objectives to be reached.
The potential for economic and social growth in the Black Sea region must be developed, starting with areas such as lifelong learning and the adjustment of education to labour market requirements, as well as planning an inter-regional trade strategy capable of increasing the volume of international trade.
in writing. - The strategic importance of the Black Sea in terms of energy, trade and transport can sometimes mean that environmental concerns are sidelined.
In its 2007 communication on the Black Sea Synergy, the Commission stated that 'Community accession to the Convention on the Protection of the Black Sea against Pollution is a priority'.
In 2008, the Commission confirmed that it was 'examining the conditions for European Community accession'.
Apart from this, the challenges with regard to security and energy supplies require the European Union to achieve greater involvement and commitment in its relations with the countries of this region.
Therefore, I subscribe to the concerns expressed in the document voted on today, which fall into two categories: to guarantee peace, democracy and stability in the Black Sea region and to guarantee the security of the European Union's energy supply.
I believe that from a regional point of view, it is necessary to create synergies and develop greater cooperation by establishing a more effective partnership with regard to transport and energy, with a view to greater diversification of supply channels and sources.
The strengthening of the dialogue between the European Union and the Black Sea region will certainly be advantageous, since the different parties will be able to benefit from more effective cooperation.
I supported the report on EU strategy in the Black Sea region.
The EU needs to provide active support in order to influence the balance between economic development and environmental protection.
After all, Europe also has interests that it pursues in the Black Sea region.
