I believe that my city has much to offer to European society, and victory in this prestigious contest would contribute to an even greater level of prosperity. (RO) Madam President, the drought which we are currently facing throughout the whole of Europe, along with the forecast for the period ahead, is fuelling concerns not only about a new hike in food prices, but also about food safety.
Another boost will come following the wonderful achievement of Swansea City Football Club - and I say this for the benefit of my colleague Richard Howitt - who have just deservedly reached the Premier Football League after a fantastic season.
Such a programme would have a greater chance of success and we all need that success. (RO) Madam President, I would like to raise for discussion the recent events in the world of football and, in particular, the election of Sepp Blatter as head of FIFA.
I think that his re-election is deplorable at a time when serious corruption charges have been levelled at FIFA, especially concerning the holding of the World Cup in 2022 in Qatar.
Recently, Politehnica Timişoara, who finished runners-up in the Romanian league championship and were due to play in the Champions League, have been relegated to Romania's third division based on a completely random decision.
In exchange for a EUR 78 billion loan, a country where the minimum wage is not even EUR 500 will face cuts in wages and pensions, and the closure of public services, as well as being forced to give up national companies and resources.
That is why I am protesting against such measures here, and this protest will continue both in Portugal and in the EU. (ES) Madam President, first of all, may I express my condolences for all the deaths caused by E.
Obviously, I hope that the outcome of tomorrow's extraordinary meeting will be redress with no exclusions and a return to normality, so that products that are in perfect condition can circulate throughout the European Union and the world at large. (SK) Madam President, Friday's announcement by European Union representatives that the International Monetary Fund would release a further tranche of EUR 12 billion in credit to Greece was given an encouraging reception by the markets.
The European Central Bank already has EUR 360 billion in financial instruments on its books that are not freely tradable and holds a further EUR 480 billion in poorly secured securities.
If this continues, ladies and gentlemen, the euro area will soon have to rescue the European Central Bank, or simply fall apart. (DE) Madam President, I would like to make a few comments with regard to the European integration of Serbia, if I may.
We had an example of that in the past days as well, when we commemorated the Trianon Peace Treaty ending World War I on 4 June.
One recent example of this from Bulgaria are the events which took place on 20 May, when representatives of the nationalist party Attack became involved in clashes with Muslim worshippers outside the only mosque in Sofia.
I would like the relevant European bodies to take note of this situation, monitor it and take action to resolve it as soon as possible. (RO) Madam President, we talk every day in the European Parliament, from morning till night, about European integration, solidarity, a common culture and about everything which unites us and should continue to motivate us to build a common future for all 27 European Union Member States.
I fully support the Irish Nurses and Midwives Organisation and the International Council of Nurses, and indeed a number of Irish doctors, who are adding their voices in condemnation of these awful events.
A general strike will take place in Greece and a major demonstration is planned in Barcelona.
A one-day general strike across Europe would send a very powerful message of opposition to the European establishment. (EL) Madam President, a week ago, Presidents Buzek, Barroso and Van Rompuy met religious representatives to discuss democratic rights and civil liberties.
For example, in 2005, they returned a total of around USD 10 billion to the US Treasury through repayments.
During the current summer days, Romania is being engulfed in the drama involving a very popular football team, Politehnica Timişoara.
In specific terms, the mafia in charge of Romanian football has shaken hands with the mafia in charge of international football and decided to impose a drastic double penalty: to remove the team in question from the European cup competition and relegate it to a lower, amateur division.
The debate is closed.
