So I would urge the Commission that we should have a much tighter timeframe. (IT) Mr President, I am continuing the discussion on quality food.
In the last two weeks, Italy has suffered economic damage amounting to EUR 20 million because of unsold vegetables - particularly cucumbers - as a result of the EHEC bacterium.
In November last year, unemployment among young people reached 21% across the EU.
That is why it is so important to promote freedom of movement for workers within the Union.
Launched in Budapest on 29 April, Youth at Work will bring together small and medium-sized enterprises and young job seekers and will provide information and support to inspire young people to set up their own businesses.
I would love to think that youth mobility within Europe is the answer, but most of the countries in Europe, barring the three you mentioned, have unemployment problems.
I think that in some of the Member States, however, we need some financial assistance in terms of training people and keeping them at home, because I think that, rather than feeding the jobs market within the EU, they will be feeding the job markets of Australia and other countries further afield. (PL) Mr President, my question to the Commissioner is of a slightly different kind.
The Commissioner spoke about various measures which are intended to bring down unemployment, but did not say a single word about the fact that an important and more effective method could be for Member States to agree on the mutual recognition of qualifications gained in other Member States.
The Commission's main objective is to have a preventive approach.
It is important that the EU show concrete solidarity to the Member States most affected by large-scale inflows of migrants and persons in need of international protection.
We have a financial mechanism to improve the management of these flows at the European level and to strengthen the solidarity between Member States.
We can only try to improve the trust between Member States by having a more vigorous governance over Schengen; to make sure that we evaluate, not by the peer-review system we have today, but through an independent mechanism on a European communitarian basis with the involvement of the European Union in order to identify problems or weaknesses in the Schengen system very early on and also make sure that we have tools at our disposal to immediately assist Member States that are in difficulty.
There have been two assessment missions in Kosovo - in June last year and in December last year - to assess the state of play in Kosovo regarding the integration process.
Member of the Commission. - Mr Posselt, I fully share your ambition to do everything to prevent Kosovo from becoming an isolated little island in this region, in which we are trying remove visa barriers one by one.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I will take both questions at the same time because they are almost identical.
Ms Koppa also asked whether the Commission will propose a revision of the principle of exclusive responsibility of the state of first illegal entry.
The European Parliament expressed overwhelming support for this in its vote on the proposal in May 2009.
I have not heard of Rome and Paris receiving a letter of the kind that the President sent to Copenhagen. (EL) Thank you, Commissioner, for your clear reply on the question of Schengen and for referring to a previous question on the measure to redistribute immigrants in the Member States, based on demographic, economic and geographical criteria.
We look very seriously upon all reports of the suspension of Schengen.
We are assisting Greece in the important work it is doing to build up a system that is in line with European law.
Secondly, despite a slow start, changes to the implementing regulation in 2009 enabled the EGF to be used more effectively.
This year will be crucial for the Fund's future, because the Commission intends to make a proposal on the rules governing the fund and the way it will function in the next programming period.
On the basis of experience gained with the Fund in its present form and suggestions made during consultations, we have great hopes that our proposal will significantly improve the fund after 2013 and will, in particular, solve two problems with the current mechanism for financing.
Commission approval of applications to the Fund in 2011 had to be postponed for the first time because sufficient payment appropriations could not be found quickly.
The Commission has taken no decision yet on the best way of addressing these issues, but it intends to table a proposal in autumn on the Globalisation Adjustment Fund of the future, bearing European workers' best interests in mind.
We are also asking you to coordinate management of the EGF, in collaboration with your fellow commissioners, with other policies that have an impact in this area, for example, in the field of competition or industrial policy. (EL) Commissioner, at the beginning the year, when asked if Greece had filed a request for the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to be activated, you replied that it had not.
Article 28 of the Charter stipulates that, in line with EU and national laws and practices, workers or their organisations have the right to negotiate and conclude collective agreements at the appropriate levels, and, in cases of conflicts of interest, to take collective action to defend their interests, including strike action.
However, Article 51 of the Charter states that its provisions are addressed to the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the EU, with due regard for the principle of subsidiarity, and to the Member States only when they are implementing EU law.
much of the institutional arrangements including the wage setting arrangements in various Member States.
Subject: Review of Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68 on freedom of movement for workers within the Community The reference framework for the free movement of workers is laid down in Council Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68 on freedom of movement for workers within the Community and has been revised several times.
Parliament is currently drafting a report on promoting professional mobility in the EU.
As you know, 1 May 2011 was an important date for the EU.
The Commission hopes that the Member States which still apply transitional measures to workers from Romania and Bulgaria will liberalise their labour markets when the second phase expires on 31 December 2011.
The Commission is pleased with the own-initiative report on promoting worker mobility within the European Union and is following the debate in the parliamentary committees with great interest.
For instance, there has been an exodus from some European Union countries of qualified, well-trained workers, in which Member States had made a significant investment.
Moreover, there will certainly be investments in this connection, in collaboration with Mr Oettinger, in the field of infrastructure when it comes to trans-European networks in the field of energy provision.
