2012 draft budget trilogue (debate) The first item is the report by Mrs Balzani, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the mandate for the trialogue on the 2012 Draft Budget (2011/2019 (BUD)).
rapporteur. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the mandate for the trialogue the budget procedure entered its most concrete phase, the phase in which the budgetary authorities actually enter into discussions which may produce useful and significant results.
The Member States are currently implementing tough national budgetary consolidation policies, and these policies have to find an important balance between the need to tackle the crisis and the need to relaunch the economy and investment.
This Parliament has made the Europe 2020 strategy a central issue of the budgetary discussions right from the start.
The 2012 budget can and must be the first step in taking concrete measures towards this strategy, which is the tool that has been chosen precisely for the relaunch of our Union.
In this sense, giving a financial dimension to the Europe 2020 strategy brings into play and gives a central role to our consistency and credibility.
In this sense it is an issue requiring delicate handling not only with regard to the payments for the following year, but also with regard to implementation of the 2011 budget for the current year.
For next year that means mobilising additionally almost EUR 500 million for the southern Mediterranean and generally for that neighbourhood, consuming the margin of Heading 4, but that is also at the expense of flexibility instruments up to EUR 150-153 million.
Mr President, the Commission's suggestion that the 2012 budget should limit its increase to the absolute minimum necessary to meet the EU's legal commitments would mean freezing the European Union, and the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament cannot agree with that.
In its resolution on implementation of the guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States, the European Parliament asked the European Council 'not to make employment issues secondary concerns when examining the Commission's recommendation in the Annual Growth Survey to make rigorous fiscal consolidation the first priority for the 2011-2012 period'.
In view of the crisis and the difficulties certain Member States face with cofinancing, it is important that we speed up the implementation of this second pillar, which represents about 70%.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - (DE) Mr President, Mr Lewandowski, Mrs Balzani, firstly I would like to thank Mrs Balzani very much on behalf of my committee for her very hard work and her close cooperation.
Cuts are even being made in an important area of energy policy and this really does not make sense.
Secondly, we in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy want to make sure that the dramatic increase in costs for major projects such as the ITER nuclear fusion reactor and the GALILEO PAS global navigation system does not eat into the research budget any further.
In conclusion, therefore, I believe it is necessary that the 2012 budget is able to respond to the challenges Europe is facing in a more concrete manner.
Personally, I am in favour of the request that funds not spent should remain in the European Union budget, but from the next Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF), because at the moment there is no legal basis allowing the Union to retain these funds.
Basically, the 2012 budget can be considered the little brother of the legislative package on economic governance, because it, too, aims to establish the conditions for a balanced budget and economic growth, and to increase employment and competitiveness though appropriate means of economic and budgetary policy.
The 2012 budget should contribute to the achievement of our Europe 2020 strategy.
It is imperative that the 2012 draft budget and the Seventh Framework Programme for Research which must be implemented in 2013 serve this very purpose.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (SV) Mr President, firstly, I would like to thank our excellent rapporteur for her sterling work.
I, too, am pleased that the Europe 2020 strategy forms the basis for this work.
The mandate of the EP delegation for the trilogue should be much more modest, and at the same time more realistic, if Parliament wishes to remain relevant in the light of the huge challenges the EU faces for the future.
The EU budget has not taken us out of the crisis, and nor will it do so.
All of this will be in the 2012 budget and the next financial perspective.
It is therefore necessary for this mandate and trialogue to be successful, because the outcome of the budgetary agreement for 2012 will largely determine the success of the interinstitutional negotiations for the next financial perspective.
Thus, it would be divided by four, from 500 million this year to only 113 million next year.
The Union currently spends EUR 1 per capita and per year to defend the fundamental principle of these citizens' right to food, in a rationale of European solidarity.
She has a very difficult job to do in these circumstances where the ambitions are set out in the 2020 strategy, and there are few who would disagree with the need to finance a range of different projects.
Otherwise, like the cynic in Oscar Wilde's nice definition, we will reach a position where we know 'the price of everything and the value of nothing'. (DE) Mr President, in the draft budget for 2012, for the first time the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy are being carefully interlinked with the budget process.
We must do much more for young people.
I would ask the Commission to look at that in the future as well. (DA) Mr President, we can already see that it is the payments that are becoming a problem this time, and that in the Council there are a lot of countries that do not want to pay.
Secondly, the 2020 strategy is crucial to the future of the European Union.
The Commission itself acknowledges the low take-up of EU funds by these countries, but it insists on making cofinancing a requirement, so the so-called austerity measures which are imposed on them do not enable them to guarantee public investment, first and foremost because it is being cut to penury levels.
Budgetary policy plays a crucial role in this. (DE) Mr President, as we all know, the European Union is having to tighten its belt.
The Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament supports the establishment of ITER, but does not accept the transfer of EUR 100 million from the funds allocated to the Seventh Framework Programme for Research, since the Seventh Framework Programme is necessary for achieving the European goals.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - (RO) The budgetary trialogue has become a very important step in the budgetary procedure and is an opportunity not to be missed.
Member States are currently pursuing tough austerity policies which are having an adverse influence on economic recovery.
In this difficult climate, the EU budget has to play a key role in helping the European economy.
On the other hand, the 2012 budget is, in a sense, the 'little brother' of the European governance package, but it must provide economic support for the political package.
in writing. - (HU) I welcome the intention of the European Commission to provide more resources for strengthening freedom, security and law in the draft budget for next year.
It is appropriate for the Commission to provide more resources for the protection of external borders, but at the same time the European Refugee Fund and the financial assets serving integration should also be increased.
