EU response to the migration flows in North Africa and the Southern Mediterranean, in particular, in Lampedusa - Migration flows arising from instability: scope and role of EU foreign policy (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the Commission statement on the EU response to the migration flows in North Africa and the Southern Mediterranean, in particular, in Lampedusa, and the report by Fiorello Provera, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on migration flows arising from instability: scope and role of EU foreign policy:.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, some honourable Members may be getting tired of me but I think this joint debate on migration flows is very timely.
Let me start by outlining some elements of the EU response to the crisis in the Southern Mediterranean and then move to the more general role of EU foreign policy.
As you all know, we are faced with a situation in the Southern Mediterranean that has become very critical in recent weeks with regard to the migration flows involved.
More than 400 000 people have been displaced since the outbreak of the changes in Northern Africa and in Libya.
Most of these people are third-country nationals who have come to Tunisia or to Egypt.
A majority of them have been repatriated to their countries but a few thousand are still there and I will come back to them in a little while.
Around 20 000 migrants, mainly from Tunisia and, to a lesser extent, from other African countries, have managed to enter the European Union irregularly, reaching the shores of Lampedusa and Malta.
The European Union has already responded to these serious, but different, challenges in an effective and rapid manner, taking three concrete actions.
Firstly, the Commission has mobilised EUR 30 million to manage the humanitarian emergency generated by the sudden inflows of migrants and refugees in the countries neighbouring Libya.
With the assistance of funds provided on a bilateral basis by the Member States and other international donors, it has been possible to offer temporary shelter to migrants and refugees, to meet their basic needs, and to return them to their respective countries of origin.
Frontex, with the assistance of several Member States, launched Joint Operation Hermes, aimed at assisting Italy in controlling vessels that carry migrants and refugees.
Thirdly, the Commission has tried to ensure that, in the very short term, the Member States exposed to the growing flows of refugees and irregular migrants could cope with the financial consequences of this displacement.
I believe that this first response has been comprehensive; it is clear, however, that we need to do more.
We need to set up a more structured, sustainable plan able to cover the various dimensions of this phenomenon, based on solidarity between Member States and in full respect of the European Union's international obligations.
In the run-up to our June JHA Council, I intend to propose a package of proposals to the Commission in May that will address the EU approach in the area of migration, mobility and security with the Southern Mediterranean countries.
These people, a few thousand, cannot be returned to their countries of origin.
Under the thematic programme for cooperation with third countries, the Commission has plans to allocate EUR 3.6 million to support such a programme.
Finally, in the event of a massive influx of displaced persons and if the conditions foreseen in the directive are met, the Commission would be ready to consider making use of the mechanisms foreseen under the 2001 Temporary Protection Directive so as to provide immediate protection for these people on the territory of other EU Member States.
The intention would be to give breathing space to the national asylum systems and to promote voluntary solidarity measures between Member States.
With regard to the continuous inflows of irregular migrants coming from the Southern Mediterranean, which could increase, the Commission believes that Joint Operation Hermes, coordinated by Frontex, should receive additional resources from Member States.
The amended regulation establishing the Frontex agency should be adopted by the Council and the European Parliament as soon as possible.
However, we also need to implement long-term, sustainable programmes.
With my partners in Tunisia and Egypt, we discussed bringing in working arrangements on a variety of issues covered under the Mobility Partnership.
This could take the form of a new tailor-made EU approach, considering each country on its own merits, and taking into account the EU's overall foreign policy with a given country.
I am convinced that this coherent EU foreign policy approach will help to set up a long-term system to address migration flows and this brings me to Mr Provera's report.
This report is therefore very timely, as the EU currently has to deal with a crisis.
It will propose priorities, principles and concrete measures but will also look more closely at the link between migration and development and between migration and climate change, for instance.
I would like to conclude by stating that a European policy for the management of large migration flows should go hand in hand with acceptance of the concept of 'burden sharing', in line with the duty of State solidarity under Article 80 of the Treaty, because no country can face up to an emergency of enormous proportions by itself.
Finally, I thank Commissioner Malmström for her support for some or many points in this report, and I hope that Europe can actually work with Italy to address a phenomenon that has an international dimension and that affects every one of us.
Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the productive cooperation I received while drafting this report.
The view of the Committee on Development is that the priority must be to tackle the humanitarian situation and provide aid to the refugees.
However, we cannot accept the extremely populist solutions suggested whereby the citizens of Lampedusa were promised that immigrants would be got rid of within 60 hours.
But we also need a good policy on democracy and promoting human rights.
There are no grounds for integration of the Mediterranean, but there are grounds for a neighbourhood policy finally worthy of the name, for a European Mediterranean strategy finally worthy of the name.
I believe that what you said is along those lines.
I would like to request, on the subject of Directive 2001/55/EC, for example, that in addition to referring to it as you did, the Commission should come up with a real proposal to bring to the Council, that it should be voted in by the Council with a qualified majority, and that this should lead European countries to an unavoidable understanding that the problem of immigrants is a European problem and an understanding that the problem of protecting immigrants is a European problem that we can no longer evade.
Madam President, Commissioner, I also took part in the last debate in the Chamber on this very topic and I can only regret that, as only some of the proposals made in that debate have been taken into account, we have the numbers and the situations we are seeing today, specifically in Lampedusa.
Furthermore, I am struck by the fact that there has not yet been any call, or request for the activation of Article 5 of that directive to apply that solidarity clause in line with the Treaty.
It is inevitable that people will flee from instability and violence, particularly from the current situation in Libya.
Hitherto, however, the migration flows have been more horizontal than vertical and primarily concern Tunisia and Egypt, but thousands of people have also arrived on the small Italian island of Lampedusa and this is really putting the solidarity between our Member States to the test.
Worryingly enough, the EU Member States have so far not passed this solidarity test and do not seem to be willing to stand by one another in difficult times.
Every Member State must now respect and apply the directive that aims to harmonise the protection of people who are fleeing and, before 2012, develop a sustainable European asylum system.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, I am very pleased that the Commissioner reminded us that the overwhelming amount of movement in the region has been in North Africa itself.
The UNHCR estimates that over 400 000 people have already left Libya.
We very much welcome the support given to the UNHCR and other bodies in assisting those displaced.
Madam President, Commissioner, refugees have been received in Lampedusa under appalling conditions, without food or toilet facilities: under conditions that are really inhumane.
The Italian Refugee Council is requesting that temporary protection orders be granted for these refugees, under the terms of Directive 2001/55/EC, and you approved this application, Commissioner.
As a rapporteur, I can say that Parliament is ready to look at any idea that the Council brings to the table.
It is this hypocrisy by the Member States that allowed Colonel Gaddafi to sweep refugees and immigrants under the carpet for years while they were selling him arms.
In 2009 alone, European Union countries earned EUR 343 million from arms sales to Colonel Gaddafi, while the initial amount they made available for receiving refugees from the Arab revolutions was EUR 3 million: one hundred times less.
The illegal immigrants who have arrived in recent months must be sent home; there is no alternative.
Europe should instead assist Italy in the repatriation of illegal immigrants and must also support the efforts of the Italian Government to prevent thousands and thousands of people from continuing to leave, mainly from Tunisia.
The Libyan refugees are a different matter: Europe should support Italy in the identification and logistics management operations, but, above all, must work to ensure that refugees are hosted in all Member States.
The illegal immigrants should be sent back home, while all Member States must now commit themselves to receiving the Libyan refugees. (NL) Madam President, what we are now witnessing in Lampedusa was described and predicted as early as in 1973 by the French writer, Jean Raspail, in his prophetic novel The Camp of the Saints.
It is absurd to first applaud regime change in Tunisia and Egypt and to then immediately accept migrants en masse, or, more precisely, so-called refugees, from those countries.
Those boats should be escorted back to the places they are coming from and genuine refugees should, as far as possible, be accepted in their own region instead of in Europe.
The European Union has the necessary solidarity to meet the requirements of this emergency in real time. (PT) Madam President, the Provera report could not have come at a more challenging time.
Tunisia and Egypt, countries with enormous economic problems, have already opened their doors to more than 400 000 refugees from Libya.
Despite this, European governments have chosen to whistle in the wind and ignore the 20 000 people amassing in Lampedusa in sub-human conditions.
The revolutions in North Africa have made it even more pressing for European Union Member States to fulfil their humanitarian obligations to take in refugees, and to set out a new migration policy based on solidarity, and on the other fundamental values and principles of the European Union.
The current emergency requires the adoption of a common asylum system, with shared responsibilities including a temporary protection mechanism and much more resettlement on offer.
Lampedusa, Italy and Southern Italy are paying for these mistakes, but the main ones to pay are the refugees who are received in such an inhumane manner.
Yet, like it or not, it is the responsibility of the EU and the 27 Member States to take action, bearing in mind the overriding priority of international solidarity and the protection of human rights.
For this reason, I hope that the European Commission proposes the introduction of the emergency procedure laid down in Directive 2001/55/EC on temporary protection as soon as possible, and that this proposal is adopted by the Council in the near future, because otherwise it will be in vain.
It is high time the European Union implemented a migration policy that is consistent with our values, that recognises that we live in a world in which people are mobile, a world in which human beings move around.
To continue to talk about migration flows is absurd and goes against our humanist values.
Strengthening border controls must no longer be our main motivation in implementing cooperation agreements, as it was in the case of Libya.
Our actions are still characterised by a security-driven approach to mobility, which goes against our values and the requirement we have to protect populations.
The European Union cannot accommodate all the destitute people in the world, but it should make a contribution that is in proportion to its wealth, its needs and the damage that it has caused and that is still being caused today by some of its companies, which are plundering those countries' resources.
In the space of a few days, the Tunisians have accommodated more than 100 000 Libyan refugees in exemplary conditions.
It will only fuel the xenophobic policies of certain Member States, and I regret that. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to thank Commissioner Malmström for her hard work week after week in dealing with this epic disaster - because that is what it is.
I believe that our government, and especially our people, have really come out of this well in terms of international public opinion.
Therefore, I say put a stop to people trafficking and I say yes to a Marshall Plan for these countries. (DE) Madam President, Mrs Malmström, it is well known that people from over-populated, under-developed countries risk their lives every day because the EU, with its pseudo-humanitarian ideas, has not made it clear that the rules that apply to migrants are not the same as those that apply to refugees.
However, this definition does not apply to the vast majority of people who flood into Europe on a daily basis.
Regardless of the situation in their home country, they just want to go somewhere in the EU - to the land that, in their mind, is flowing with milk and honey - in order to try their luck here and usually only in order to be included in our social systems.
These people must develop their own countries.
Therefore, all economic migrants should, in my view, be sent back even before they reach Europe.
They should not even be allowed to arrive in Lampedusa, and the EU agency Frontex should be given the appropriate powers by us to ensure that they do not. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a series of measures and initiatives that are certainly reassuring and also along the lines requested by the Italian delegation in the meeting that we had last week together with the head of the delegation with President Barroso: more solidarity, more means, more specifics and more incisive action for Lampedusa, Malta and all the States that are exposed to exceptional migratory pressures that can only be tackled through European governance.
These reassuring statements are naturally consistent with our thoughts on the application of Article 5 of Directive 2001/55/EC.
For this reason, we must act very firmly through a strong and decisive European policy and we trust that you and President Barroso can develop that strategy through a comprehensive migration plan.
In many cases, we are talking about whether we agree or disagree, but one thing that we should be in agreement about is that this tragedy, which is on our doorstep - a few hundred kilometres from the European Union's southern frontier - is taking place right now, and will continue to grow.
The European Union has to decide whether it wants to act or react.
I believe in solidarity.
I think we should stop putting pressure on the Tunisian Government, which has many other matters to attend to: its own refugees - as has been said - and overseeing its democratic transition process.
Baroness Ludford is right - that is what is definitely lacking the most within the European Union.
We should also grant exceptional permission to reside to Tunisians who have already arrived in France and Italy, guarantee access to Europe to people seeking protection, and refrain from taking any steps or concluding any agreements that might get in the way of that protection, apply the provisions - as has been said - of the 2001 directive to all those eligible to take advantage of them, and accommodate refugees present at the border between Tunisia and Libya as part of the resettlement process.
Next, I believe that we must think about forging cooperative links with these future fully democratic countries, so that Tunisians can come and work, study and travel perfectly legally, so as to create real channels of mobility between the two shores of the Mediterranean. (Applause) (ES) Madam President, I believe that Lampedusa has become a symbol of the inhumanity of the European Union's immigration policy.
So Baroness Catherine Ashton will have the opportunity to wage her first war and put her name up there with the greats of military history such as Rommel, Montgomery and Eisenhower.
The priorities of the West, and the European countries in particular, should be to encourage moderate regimes in North Africa by all diplomatic means, and to protect our own borders from further mass migration flows.
The European Union is not responsible for these fortune seekers.
Let those countries take responsibility, not us and not now. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask my fellow MEP who spoke just now if it can really be considered appropriate to apply the terms 'freeloaders' and 'fortune seekers' to people who are fleeing from a situation of great political distress - and all the political groups agree on this - such as the one in North Africa.
I find it very serious that this has been said in this House and I hope that European citizens can read this extremely harsh utterance, which only serves to reveal the total political inadequacy of the person who said it. (NL) Madam President, Mrs Costa, you are right, I am using harsh words, but those words are very clear.
We must act firmly against this and we need to ensure that, as Members of the European Parliament, we stand up for the citizens of the European Union.
Well, that time has come, because the mass movement has now hit the European Union.
And for solidarity to be concrete, it must mean that all Member States shoulder responsibility for the displaced people who are fleeing Libya towards Europe.
Firstly, it gives temporary protection to all displaced people who reach the EU.
The mechanism is triggered by a Council decision stating that the mass influx exists.
More than 400 000 people have fled Libya, mostly to Tunisia and Egypt, but also now to EU countries.
Proportionally speaking, this has the same impact as 120 000 arriving in France in just one day.
So it is not the numbers in absolute terms that we need to look at, but the numbers in relative terms - their relative impact on the country of arrival.
We call on the Council in particular - but also on you, Commissioner - to show that political leadership, and to apply Council Directive 2001/55/EC.
However, we have a situation right now affecting the Southern countries and we need to implement Council Directive 2001/55/EC. (DE) Madam President, I would like to address three points.
I therefore also welcome the fact that the Commission wishes to activate Directive 2001/55/EC for giving temporary protection and I would, at the same time, call for all Member States to actually utilise this, not only Italy, but also France and Germany - above all, the countries that are actually in a position to invest.
Genuine partnerships with third countries, like Mrs Malmström mentioned, are probably not comparable with Italy's idea of buying the readiness to take back refugees with EUR 150 million.
Instead of showing solidarity in respect of the prevention of refugees, we should be showing practical solidarity with North African States like Tunisia, to which 150 000 people have fled.
The ability of the European Union to organise itself and to handle the situation by working together and as one is therefore really what I am asking for.
We must increase its human, material and financial resources, and we must ensure that it can provide greater support to Operation Hermes and Operation Poseidon.
That will be the financial expression of our solidarity.
Yes, we need to strengthen those instruments in a spirit of responsibility, in a spirit of solidarity, but also in a spirit of real, specific action. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you must have realised that this House enjoys plenty of solidarity, but this is not enough.
Parliament will reaffirm this tomorrow, saying no to the refoulements, yes to the implementation of Directive 2001/55/EC and yes to the implementation of Article 25 of that directive.
Your work is naturally central to this effort, because without the governments, Europe will be weaker. (PT) Madam President, Commissioner Malmström, ladies and gentlemen, we have all been saying how we are faced with an increase in migratory flows, in terms of both scale and complexity.
Chronic conflict situations in Afghanistan, Somalia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo are now being joined by an alarming increase in new cases, such as Egypt, Tunisia and Libya, which have led to a dramatic worsening of the situation.
Member States which, for geographical reasons, have been more affected by these migratory pressures, have also seen their ability to respond considerably reduced.
The chaotic situation on the island of Lampedusa, which several speakers have already mentioned, is one example, with the number of refugees exceeding the number of residents.
It is a poor country showing solidarity, while wealthy Europe is unable to accommodate 5 000 migrants.
Europe should instead show its solidarity to these wonderful kids who have sparked the Jasmine Revolution originating in Sidi Bouzid that is changing North Africa and the world. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, your words are in line with what we wanted to hear.
The question I ask myself, and that I also address to my fellow MEPs, is as follows: 'Can we speak of humanitarian emergency and stop at that point, or should we ask two types of questions, one about the emergency and thus about the immediate issues, and another about strategy?' The problem of Africa and the Middle East is a problem that must, by definition, lie outside Europe, and the question that arises is whether there can be development without democracy.
Let us remember that the revolt in these countries of the Middle East and the Mediterranean has not been about ideology but about bread, a revolt for democracy in order to survive.
It is all very well, Commissioner, to address the problem of Directive 2001/55/EC and everything that Frontex is doing, but Europe must ask itself what it wants to do about the Mediterranean and the whole of Africa.
Therefore, my second question is: can we expect concrete action at the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 11 and 12 April? (RO) Madam President, I believe that today's debate on the Provera report is welcome in view of recent events in the Mediterranean region and North Africa.
I wish to begin by emphasising the need for an EU-level approach to managing the migration flows triggered by the wave of revolution in the Arab world, in the spirit of solidarity required by Article 80 of the Treaty of Lisbon.
In the wake of the post-election conflict in Côte d'Ivoire, for example, hundreds of thousands of Ivorians sought refuge in neighbouring countries, including 94 000 of them in Liberia alone, a country itself threatened by instability.
Efforts must also be stepped up in supporting development projects in the countries of origin and transit, which improve living conditions and these countries' ability to manage migration flows. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, everything is uncertain as regards the situation in North Africa.
We do not know the immediate outcome of the civil war in Libya, we do not know whether the new political order in the Maghreb countries and Egypt will be conducive to democracy, or whether even worse conditions will arise with regard to democracy and relations with Europe.
As for the arrival of an unstoppable stream of fugitives from the shores of Africa onto European shores and those of Lampedusa in particular, it is difficult, even in this case, to distinguish those who are fleeing from violence and fear of death, those who have, for example, escaped from prison, and those who are looking for a future that holds better things than the hunger in their country.
Firstly, human dignity must be respected in all human beings.
Secondly, the European approach is to offer hospitality to all refugees.
Fifthly, the instruments for coping with emergencies such as the current one are already in place, in the form of Directive 2001/55/EC, Frontex and the European Asylum Support Office (EASO).
Commissioner, I greatly enjoyed your speech, but I think we should move from words to deeds.
We managed, in previous years, to limit migration flows from North Africa to southern Europe, to Italy, Spain, Portugal, Malta and Greece, through bilateral agreements between these countries and the corresponding countries in North Africa, and we really did achieve significant results.
That is why there is now more pressure on Greece via Turkey, because Europe and Greece have been unable to apply similar agreements with Turkey, despite the fact that such bilateral agreements exist.
The package of measures you announced is very good and we must help these countries.
It is our duty to help all our fellow men; however, this must be linked with an obligation on the part of these countries to take back everyone who has arrived in Lampedusa and everyone who arrives in the immediate or more distant future in other European countries, because the greater the pressure, the more people will arrive in other countries.
The lesson we are learning today from the revolutionary events in North Africa tells us that aid provided only via official channels and distributed by the departments of dictator-led governments does not solve the social problems of people living in countries covered by EU aid policy.
Secondly, in view of the demographic challenges facing Europe, it is becoming clear that the European Union will not cope with the problems already appearing on the horizon for the labour market without a coherent and genuinely rational immigration policy.
The only thing that can prevent the influx into Europe of the least educated and most needy migrants looking for their place in the world is a well thought-out and coherent migration policy, as previous speakers have mentioned, such as those operated by Canada and New Zealand. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the Mediterranean basin, and the current and foreseeable migratory flows, require the adoption of a medium- and long-term strategy different from the one announced by Commissioner Malmström.
I therefore believe we need a special plan in the short term - some have defined it as a Marshall Plan - to stimulate and implement a process of development in the countries of North Africa.
I would also like to underline the need for compensatory measures in the areas involved.
Tour operators have not received any bookings for months but only cancellations.
Lampedusa is also Europe and this applies in all fields and in all policies.
We are bound to offer our full support when you speak of solidarity between Member States and when you emphasise that the Commission will call on Member States to be fully accountable to asylum seekers.
Through our vote tomorrow, we wish to give strength to your actions, give strength to your words, giving you a full mandate to ensure that what has been lacking will now come to pass.
Unfortunately, not all European governments are adopting the same approach.
Despite the recent transfers, Lampedusa remains in a situation of absolute emergency and people are still streaming into the tent city of Manduria.
We need the European Union, we need assistance and we need the political role of Europe to plan a new neighbourhood policy and a more efficient strategy on migration, starting from the failure of the Dublin system and the observation that Lampedusa is not only the border of Italy but also that of Europe. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as an elected representative from Southern Italy, I join the chorus of fellow MEPs who have preceded me in calling for appropriate action to address the critical situation faced by citizens and migrants in Lampedusa.
I appeal to the sense of responsibility of the Italian Government to ensure it adopts all measures available to it, and call on the European Commission to implement the measures provided for in the EU Directive on temporary protection for immigrants.
The next European Council of Ministers of the Interior, scheduled for 11 April, must take appropriate measures to ensure that neither the migrants nor the citizens of Lampedusa are left in a desperate condition.
I would like, Commissioner, to draw particular attention to the situation of immigrant women.
There is a need to guarantee such women the right to their own passport and residency permit, which is also important for combating human trafficking, in particular, that of women and children; support for the resettlement of refugees also needs to be linked to this.
Finally, I challenge the Commission to review the Return Directive as soon as possible: a directive that is against immigrants fleeing war, hunger and misery, whose only wish is to be happy with their families, and who deserve our solidarity. (EL) Madam President, Mr Provera has done an excellent job and I congratulate him.
We must not forget that there are 7 million unemployed in Europe today, 3 million of whom are 19 to 24 years old. (RO) Madam President, in his memoirs entitled 'How Stalinism was born', Stalin's former assistant, Boris Bazhanov, recounts a scene which occurred in the Kremlin in December 1923.
It is the same story in Romania where absolutely every election is rigged.
What a disgrace! (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at this point of the debate, practically everything has been said, and perhaps that is exactly the point.
We continue to talk and, as we speak, the landings are continuing and people are dying at sea and crowding in inhumane conditions on the Italian and Maltese shores, which are not the shores of Italy and Malta, but the border of Europe, gateway to our European Union, through which any of our 27 Member States can be reached.
It is time to act, Commissioner.
I call on you; we call on you to take the lead as early as tomorrow, after our vote, and to send a request to the Council for the implementation of Directive 2001/55/EC and jointly establish a true strategy for the future of the Mediterranean, because at stake is not only Europe's credibility but also its immediate fate. (RO) Madam President, this debate is taking place at a critical time for the future of the European Neighbourhood Policy.
The reason I asked for the floor was that I was very struck by the numbers used by my colleague, Simon Busuttil, of 800 people arriving into Malta being the equivalent of 120 000 arriving into France on one single day.
The problems of Malta and of Lampedusa are European Union problems.
This is a challenge for which we should provide our support.
In the long term, we need to develop a more global approach to this, very much in line with Mr Provera's report, the input of which will be taken into account.
There is a challenging facing Lampedusa and Malta.
Some of that money has not yet been used for Italy, and we have been working with the Italian authorities on an almost daily basis to see how programme financing can be reallocated so that it can be used to address the situation in Lampedusa.
We have the Frontex Hermes operation, but I would like to remind you that Frontex depends on the contribution of the Member States, and that will be running out in a very short time.
We are engaged in talks with Tunisia to seek a solution on an organised, dignified, voluntary return of those people who are not in need of international protection.
Most of the refugees are in Tunisia and Egypt.
As I said, more than 400 000 people have left Libya.
We are also seeing refugees coming to Europe now - to Lampedusa and to Malta.
Thank you very much, Madam President, for a very important debate. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like some clarification from Commissioner Malmström.
The Commissioner said activation of Directive 2001/55/EC will be discussed within Council.
Of course, the situation in North Africa is the main point on the agenda.
I wanted to inform them that 12 000 people arrived in Lampedusa within the space of three nights.
Lampedusa is a small island with 6 000 inhabitants and 12 000 people arrived suddenly in three nights, increasing the population to 20 000.
I think it is very difficult for any country to accept such a large number of people arriving in such a short space of time on a small island which has no facilities for such a great number of arrivals.
There are currently 1 400 migrants on Lampedusa.
They made a fundamental contribution, in absolute transparency, in the same spirit that inspired us all at the beginning.
I also thank Commissioner Malmström for the enthusiasm she has shown for the concept of burden sharing, which should influence her work within the Commission and thus within Council.
Insofar as a summing up is possible, I would like to say that any policy will be ineffective and incomplete as long as huge differences persist between the levels of development in the North and South of the world, as long as huge differences persist in the quality of democratic institutions, and as long as there are vast differences in respect for human rights.
We must take action as part of a major policy of strategic cooperation and aid that will have an impact on the structural causes that led to these huge inequalities between North and South.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 5 April 2011.
Italy can no longer accept Libyans, Tunisians and Egyptians until France, Germany and Austria cease rejecting anyone who comes from North Africa through their territory.
The report on migration has a solution for preventing migration flows.
The rapporteur believes that we should prevent migration by investing in the countries that are the source of migration flows.
If these differences were erased, and third world citizens no longer had any reason to migrate to the EU, it would be because we had contributed to a decline in standards in EU countries.
The policy on preventing migration must be combined with a policy on the prevention of migration at the EU's external borders.
The events in North Africa have resulted in a new migration flow on Europe's southern border.
The democratisation of North Africa, a respect for human rights, and the emerging economic growth associated with these are the best way to stem the human tide on Europe's southern border.
For weeks now, thousands of migrants have been landing on the shores of the Mediterranean and, in particular, in Malta and Lampedusa, fleeing the situation in their country, where unprecedented political instability reigns.
Frontex has rightly launched Operation Hermes to help the Italian authorities cope with this mass influx of migrants to their shores.
The management of this humanitarian crisis must not be left to the Italian authorities alone.
As this report describes, armed conflicts, especially when they involve human rights abuses, give rise to huge increases in migratory flows to neighbouring countries.
This should be based on the solidarity clause contained in Article 80 of the TFEU.
I think that we have paid too little attention in Parliament thus far to the social and professional development of women in rural areas.
I am sure that the Members of the European Parliament can also do a great deal to ensure that rural areas catch up with the benefits of civilisation.
We are, after all, able to organise various kinds of training or workshops, during which we can provide real help in accessing EU funds earmarked for the development of rural areas.
