Enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection (debate) Τhe next item is the recommendation by Mr Klaus-Heiner Lehne, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the proposal for a Council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection [05538/2011 - C7-0044/2011 - 2010/0384(NLE)].
A few months ago, we decided on enhanced cooperation for the first time under the Treaty of Lisbon in relation to the field of family law.
There is quite simply a diametric contrast between the principle that the European Union has 23 official languages that are supposed to be equal and the fact that a patent can give rise to enormous costs, specifically through translation.
Against this background, there is also always the problem that, if we have a patent translated into all the languages, this patent is of no use to small and medium-sized enterprises as it is much too expensive, irrespective of the risk of the legal disputes that may exist in the various Member States.
The Belgian Presidency asked the Commission to bring forward a specific proposal for the enhanced cooperation process.
The Council has formally asked us for our assent.
It is therefore also of critical importance for us that these ideas are also protected.
That is why I am backing this proposal for enhanced cooperation and why I am calling on you all to support it.
Subject to your consent, the Competitiveness Council on 10 March is expected to give its authorisation.
It has been clear from the outset that one of the key elements in fulfilling this objective would be the creation of an EU patent, which has been delayed for more than 30 years.
There is currently no internal market in terms of patent protection.
The applicant is obliged to work with 27 separate national legal systems.
Our clear preference has always been the creation of a truly EU-wide patent that would cover the territory of all 27 Member States.
Let me turn now to address the distinguished Spanish and Italian members of this House in their mother tongue. (ES) Firstly, I would like to address the honourable Members from our partner, Spain.
We are confident that, through enhanced cooperation, with the creation of the unitary patent protection system, we are taking a significant step towards an ideal situation in which the unitary patent protection system covers all the Member States and the whole of the European Union. (IT) I turn now to our Italian friends.
That is why, at my hearing before you on 13 January 2010, and on many occasions since then, I made a commitment - a vow of sorts, really - that I would move this dossier forward so as to ensure that I am the last EU Commissioner to raise this issue.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission wants as many Member States as possible to be involved in this enhanced cooperation, and I personally hope that all the Member States will ultimately be able to support this proposal, which, I shall say it again, is politically acceptable to all the Member States, and financially necessary for all businesses.
That means, ladies and gentlemen, that unitary patent protection - as Mrs Győri explained very well in Italian and Spanish - will be accessible to all businesses in the EU, no matter which Member State they are based in.
To conclude, the Commission, which regrets that an agreement among the 27 has not yet been possible, will do its utmost to establish this enhanced cooperation quickly - as soon as the Council of Ministers has given its opinion in March - by presenting the draft regulations necessary to establish it, so that we can very quickly bring this real added value to European businesses.
Thank you for your attention, and thank you, in advance, for your support for this proposal.
The accepted justification for this is that the discussion on a European patent has been on the agenda for many years.
We should therefore do well to specify that the draft regulation on the translation regime was not adopted by the Commission until 30 June 2010 and that the Council took note of the lack of unanimity and the difficulty of reaching a unanimous decision in the near future in November 2010.
We are therefore creating a precedent that could be used in all areas of the internal market.
At present, it is difficult for an individual inventor or a small company to get patent protection across the whole of Europe.
An American patent currently costs around EUR 1 800, whereas a European patent costs more than EUR 20 000 - 11 times as much, which is clearly unreasonable.
The recommendations and proposals of the European Commission also point in this direction.
However, notice should be taken of certain controversial proposals which are the subject of discussion in this matter - this has already been mentioned in the House today - namely, the questions related to translations of patents made by the European Patent Office and the proposal that these translations be made into only three languages.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, the European Commission has already tried to create an EU patent law, but failed in June when this was rejected by the Council, which failed to achieve a unanimous vote.
It is being driven forward by 12 countries that include the United Kingdom.
Firstly, I would like to commend the work and perseverance of Mr Lehne in this undertaking, and to thank him for the attention he had paid to our Spanish and Italian colleagues.
The European Commission proposal of 1 July 2010 is based on the language regime of the European Patent Office, which has proved its effectiveness.
Today is about enabling those 25 Member States that wish to make progress by establishing enhanced cooperation to actually do so.
However, let us stop stalling and let us instead move forward by giving our support to Mr Lehne's recommendation on this long, long road towards the European patent. (CS) Mr President, US President Obama, in his annual State of the Union Address, called for the US to be strengthened in the area of innovation.
He referred to innovation as 'our generation's Sputnik moment'.
I am pleased that the EU is sending a clear signal through the 'Union of Innovation' programme regarding the importance of innovation for maintaining the economic position of Europe in global competition.
I therefore feel very frustrated that the creation of such a key instrument for the development of innovation in the EU is being held up by some countries over secondary issues such as the protection of language.
In our view, enhanced cooperation, on which we will vote tomorrow, is contrary to Articles 118 and 326 of the Treaty.
The procedure is loaded with uncertainties that are concerning the large technological companies of Digital Europe, such as Blackberry, IBM, Nokia, Philips, and Siemens, the manifesto for which I hope will reach everyone, despite the regrettable attempt by a European Commission Head of Unit to block it.
However, the dispute over the language used in EU patents has been going on for more than 30 years.
I was very sorry to hear that the Belgian Presidency could not finish the Patent Directive as planned, but I hope that the Hungarian Presidency will be committed to doing its best in the coming months to get to the next phase, which is enhanced cooperation.
Being Hungarian, we will lose the Hungarian language, but that is a small price to pay compared to the advantages we will all benefit from. (NL) Mr President, I would like to thank Commissioner Barnier for being so brave as to raise this issue in this way, because he promised during his hearing to tackle the European patent during this term, so thank you for that.
Because, in practice, the system which is now being proposed has been used by all Member States for 35 years, and I think that we can be a little more prudent economically about the way in which this is being proposed.
I regret that the debate is getting bogged down to some extent in the conflict about languages and I hope - and this is also what Parliament has expressly requested - that the Member States that are perhaps not involved at this stage will be able to join up at any time.
This continent - the European Union - needs to be more inventive.
I hope our Spanish and Italian colleagues will come into it, but we cannot leave this waiting any longer, because the whole world is after the innovation market. (PT) Mr President, this process is very revealing, both in form and content, of the new conditions under which the directory of powers of the European Union is attempting to assert and defend its interests in a wider cross-section of areas.
If these intentions are put into practice, it will be another - not the only - dimension of the attack on multilingualism in the European Union, which insidiously continues making its way through the door of cost containment. (SK) Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union has been pushing since 2000 for enhanced Member State cooperation in the area of patent protection.
The final round of negotiations, however, which took place in December last year, confirmed that many Member States have serious reservations over the proposed translation arrangements for EU patents, which are based on the current language regime of the European Patent Office.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that the European Parliament will not be an obstacle to enhanced cooperation between those Member States that wish to cooperate. (DE) Mr President, we have heard a lot of good arguments today.
The question at issue here is not which European language is spoken by how many people worldwide or which is the most aesthetically beautiful, but rather a procedural decision that the Council is anxious to take.
However, we are not faced with the desire of a subgroup within the European Council of Ministers to establish a language regime, but rather the wishes of 25 out of 27 Member States.
I think the cheapest form, which would not need to be translated into other languages, would be a European e-patent. (CS) Mr President, I have long supported the single European patent, as it will make it more attractive to invest in innovation, enable companies to better protect their know-how, speed up the transfer of knowledge from research into practice and perhaps better protect us against the influx of counterfeits onto the internal market.
It is important for patents to be as inexpensive as they are in the US, and I therefore hope that the Council will carry out further simplifications.
If a Bulgarian, Slovak, Latvian or Portuguese company wishes to apply for a patent in its own language, it can do so under the proposal we are discussing, and the cost of the translation will be refunded.
If there is a dispute, the company will receive a manual translation in its own language.
English, for example, can be used if so desired, as can Portuguese, Latvian or Dutch, with a translation in one of the three languages.
In other words, if a Spanish company applies for a European patent, it will be able to use it without being discriminated against if Spain does not participate in enhanced cooperation straight away.
Mrs Herczog made the very good point - as did Mr Harbour and others too, such as Mr Schwab - that this issue is important from an economic point of view.
Finally, Mr President, I should like to respond to a comment made by Mr López-Istúriz White, to whom I listened carefully, and by Mrs Lichtenberger.
Allow me now to speak in my mother tongue, which is likewise not the language of the European patent as things stand at present, and is a language that is spoken by a total of only 15 million people worldwide, 10 million of them in Hungary.
Allow me also to make a brief digression on behalf of a Member State which, in a sense, I represented until six weeks ago - because now I do not represent a Member State - but until six weeks ago, I represented a Member State that held a different opinion on the issue of the patent.
As regards the factor that caused the Hungarian Government to change its mind, this was the very serious dialogue held with the 'business community', with the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises, and they unambiguously asked the government to change its earlier reluctant, or rather negative, stance in order to enable Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises to benefit from the unitary European patent and to make savings thanks to a functioning linguistic regime.
Moreover, as Commissioner Barnier has also pointed out, I believe that both Italian and Spanish companies will also benefit from the creation of the unitary European patent system.
We only need to recall that even during the autumn, more and more new proposals were tabled with the intention of establishing this system in all 27 countries of the single market.
Unfortunately, in spite of all the efforts, eventually, 12 Member States asked in December for closer cooperation to begin and, as has already been mentioned, their number has now increased to 25.
However, let me point out that we already discussed the fact that one language is more cost-effective than three in relation to the Palacio report.
However, as has already been indicated, we are dealing with the European Patent Convention (EPC) here.
If we cannot reach an agreement between the 27 Member States of the EU, how can we hope to find common ground between the 39 countries in the EPC?
In other words, if I wish to pursue a package of patents in these countries, then I must have these translated.
If any Member State considers its language so important that it should be used for every patent applicable in Europe, then it needs to take a consistent line and have a legally binding translation of these patents produced in the relevant language.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 15 February 2011.
I value the fact that the European Parliament is engaged on this matter, and I am very happy to be able to take part in the vote on this issue.
in writing. - I am delighted that the Council has agreed that 12 Member States will use the enhanced cooperation mechanism to push ahead the creation of a unitary EU patent.
This project has been on the table for more than 10 years and has regrettably been plagued by divisions among the Member State governments.
Currently, it costs 10 times more to obtain a European patent that is valid in just half of the Member States than it does in the USA.
In this situation, the Treaty of Lisbon gives Member States the right to set in motion an enhanced cooperation procedure.
This is only the beginning of work on the structure of the EU patent and the linguistic regime which is causing so much controversy.
