At the same time, for political reasons, the famous 'not in my back yard' policy, the Member States are not participating as effectively as they should in the efforts being made.
The European Union is demanding respect for democracy in countries such as Tunisia and Egypt, but this must be strictly observed in Member States. (BG) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the unresolved problems for tobacco growers in Bulgaria led to an escalation of tension in certain regions of the country and to protests which saw more than 10 000 participants.
It provides for aid to be granted to Bulgarian tobacco growers amounting to EUR 76 million, the payment of which is currently being delayed.
The Commission ordered a report on European policies on the Roma in 18 countries in July 2008 and the report has been in its possession since June.
It is already February 2011 and the report has still not been published.
I should very much like to know why. (PL) Madam President, I have expressed my opinion many times during debates in the European Parliament on EU policy in the field of limiting greenhouse gas emissions, a policy which is very strongly supported by the European Parliament and the European Commission.
These developments require tangible action by the Commission, which continues to lack perspective and vision. (PT) Madam President, as promised in the Citizens' Agora that the European Parliament organised last week, I should like to relay here the cries of indignation brought to us by the various social organisations that joined us in debates on the economic and financial crisis and its serious consequences of increased unemployment, social inequalities and poverty, despite the fact that 2010 was declared European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
And, as the ECB funnels EUR 132 billion in the front door of Irish banks, EUR 110 billion has fled out the back door of those same banks in 2010; EUR 40 billion in December 2010.
This means that 19 000 people live on a daily basis with the fear of a recurring seizure.
On 14 February we must raise awareness of epilepsy.
On 15 February there will be a number of events in Parliament and I encourage colleagues to take part.
I would also like to take the opportunity to welcome Joanne Hill, a specialist nurse in epilepsy, and Fiona Nicholson, the service manager of a Scottish epilepsy centre. (HU) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to dedicate the time allotted to me to the case of the Székely people.
This is not a question of the goodwill of Traian Băsescu; the Székely people do have the right to autonomy.
Otherwise, we can not make progress. (RO) Madam President, the recurring abuse of power by those governing Romania at the moment has plunged the country into the darkest period of its history since 1989.
In Romania innocent people are also thrown into jail for 30 days, after which they have to stand trial.
I asked Mr Buzek for an official position and I received a reply via a press release from the PD-L party and Traian Băsescu.
However, it appears that the Latvian government has no intention of implementing the resolution of 11 March 2004.
It comes down to this - either pigs will start to fly or we must collectively put an end to discrimination against 335 000 people living in Latvia.
