The Council has not answered the questions I put to it on 15 August, or Mrs van Bladel's questions.
I believe there are a large number of Members who will not be in favour, and as things stand, a vote on an important report will take place with only a limited number of Members present.
Mr Rosado Fernandes, we have already had a debate on this subject.
On Amendment No 2 Madam President, I would like to propose an oral amendment that takes the debate and the observations made into account.
I think the fight against cross-border crime is an important area which deserves greater attention in the European Union.
Crime, in all its forms, is becoming internationalized.
They should be put into effect in the context of effective judicial cooperation between Member States of the European Union.
In addition we must reduce or cancel European aid for those countries who refuse to reduce military spending and continue to spend more than 1 % of their annual income on arms and armies.
However, it was decided last December extend the pilot project by one year, until 31 December 1998.
We are therefore in favour of the proposal.
Madam President, the Common Fisheries Policy is without doubt the most important instrument for making sure that we have sustainable fish stocks throughout European Union waters.
These annual reports to Parliament - this is the second one - are an excellent idea.
We would find out how well the controls were working not only across the Union as a whole but between Member States.
However, although this report goes through all the problems we know but does not quantify them, I hope it represents the start of a new chapter.
Madam President, I would like to talk about the Teverson report.
However, the Commission will not be able to avoid giving serious consideration to harmonizing sanctions, because only deterrence provides protection against infringement, and only uniformity of sanctions can help to make the monitoring activities credible to the fishermen of the various Member States.
In view of the disagreements between the EU and Canada, which at their climax in March 1995 resulted in an infringement of international law, the present decision by NAFO must be particularly welcome.
The Committee on Fisheries therefore supports Amendment No 1, because creating uniform monitoring systems in the NAFO area is a further step towards a conflict-free future.
Likewise, the Commission's report on monitoring carried out in that area should finally enable us all to draw conclusions.
Parliament and the Commission are therefore asked to act accordingly.
Madam President, the Commission's report on the monitoring of the Common Fisheries Policy in 1995 does not make for very pleasant reading.
As I found out when I was rapporteur on the report for the same subject for 1994, the level of surveillance and control of EU vessels varies widely from one country to another, but nowhere at all is it satisfactory.
Madam President, the credibility of the Common Fisheries Policy stands or falls with an effective monitoring policy on the part of all Member States.
The Commission's annual report on monitoring activities in the Member States therefore fulfils a useful function.
The report for 1995 offers no more than offering an interesting survey of the various inspection activities in the Member States.
The monitoring systems vary too much and the way the results are presented in the Commission report is too restricted.
Some Member States do not issue any information on fishery offences at all, whilst others only mention the number of offences, without giving any indication as to the nature of the offence.
At the end of 1996 the BBC reported that in the United Kingdom a quarter of all fish reaches the shore illegally.
But systematic controls when the fish is landed, combined with a reporting obligation, are needed in many other countries.
In other words, this report is from 1995 and we are now in March 1998.
I would like to know if, for 1999, the Commission could join together 1996, 1997 and 1998 in a single report so that we could consider the situation as quickly as possible.
Secondly, Madam Commissioner, the report has not, in fact, given us that much information since what the Commission has done, or the Commission's services have done - as can be seen on pages 10 to 59 - is to collect the national information, put it in a file and bring it along.
We could have made it into something useful for the European Union.
They claim these fish are being landed in Las Palmas and that there is no policing or control.
I believe all fishermen have a share of the guilt.
Madam President, I also wish to congratulate the rapporteurs on their reports.
As has been said, we must ensure that all the measures in those agreements are being carried out if fish stocks are to remain at a sustainable level.
The fact that we are discussing the 1995 Commission report on monitoring the CFP in March 1998 is indicative of the slowness with which action is seen to be taken on enforcement.
Indeed, I hope that it will not just remain a pilot project which will come to an end at the end of this year, but will be the basis of a comprehensive system of satellite tracking, applied eventually over a much wider area, including the Mediterranean, where Community vessels are subject to quotas and controls.
The truth is that the monitoring of fisheries, as we all agree, is inadequate in several respects, and this is highlighted in the report.
Some measures in this respect are highlighted in the report, and I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on that.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted with these two reports, not only because they provide very specific answers to various questions, but also because they provide an opportunity for a very important debate on control measures and the sharing of responsibilities.
As you know, I am very pro-European, and several of the speeches I have heard today have made me feel very optimistic, because most of the Members, even including those who have expressed reservations about the monitoring of fisheries, would like the Commission to have greater powers.
I am delighted because that is one of the reasons why the situation on the monitoring of fisheries or any other area is unsatisfactory.
This applies not only to the contracting parties, but also to third parties.
Then, Mr Medina, the Commission does not just string a few words together, it has to organize bilateral debates on the interim reports, because the Member States have a perfect right to further discussions with the Commission's departments before publishing anything, and answering all the questions.
It is therefore difficult, Mr Medina, even to know how many inspectors we have available.
That is a difficult task, Mr Teverson, and I will end with this point; you asked the Commission to "be brave, do not be shy, name the Member States ' .
The debate is closed.
The result achieved by MGP III, which we are currently analysing, was to reduce the fleet's capacity by 15 % measured in terms of tonnage and by 9.25 % in terms of power.
In other cases, however, the objectives were not met and some Member States even increased their capacity over and above its previous level.
However, the Commission report conveys the still more serious impression that some national governments are reluctant to furnish the Commission with reliable data on the condition of their fleets, and appear to have little interest in adopting appropriate measures for reducing capacity in compliance with the objectives established in the MGPs.
It is worrying that the objectives enshrined in the MGPs should in practice be dependent on the good will of Member States.
In the light of this situation, and of the fact that a balanced conversion of national fleets is essential in guaranteeing the conservation of resources, and in ensuring that Community fishing remains profitable and competitive in future, it is essential that the Council and, by extension, Member States, should recognize their responsibilities and accordingly draw up enforcement measures with real teeth, in the event that the objectives laid down in the multiannual programmes are not met.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, multiannual guidance programmes I, II and III from 1983 to the end of 1996 did not succeed in eliminating the mismatch between the over-sized fishing fleets of the European Union and the critical state of its fish stocks.
As Mr Cunha stated in recital C of his report, achievement of the MGP objectives is necessary to ensure sustainable development in this sector.
Good morning, Madam President.
The rapporteur emphasizes that only a system of effective sanctions will compel national bodies to comply with the objectives set.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the Commission's annual report on the final results of MGP III helps enormously to clarify the way the Community fleet has developed and the role that national governments have played in that development.
I must say that I find it very hard to understand this "good boy' attitude since, at the same time, other Member States were cynically - I can safely say - increasing the capacity of their own fleets in terms of tonnage and/or power.
Only four countries out of fifteen have met all their objectives under the MAGP-3.
The four countries that have met the objectives are Spain, Portugal, Denmark and Finland.
Thank you, Mr Macartney.
This instrument encourages Member States, after all, to adjust their fleet capacity to the available quota.
In the Netherlands, for example, the overall length of the trawl has been reduced from 14 to 12 metres.
The Community has begun to introduce sanctions as regards competition and, more recently, as regards convergence.
We should not let ourselves be deceived about the shortcomings of other countries in this area just because total capacity has been balanced out by particularly conscientious countries.
We cannot allow the countries which comply to become resigned as a result.
Thank you, Mrs Langenhagen.
The Commission officials are therefore analysing the possibility of bringing legal actions against Member States that have failed to apply the provisions in these areas.
I would therefore ask Parliament to reconsider a reduction in quotas as a sanction because of these possible implications.
The debate is closed.
This is an important report on an important area for the conservation of fishery resources.
Conservation of fishery resources must also take account of the actual fishing capacity of national fishing fleets, the need for serious action concerning the threat to stocks of certain species, and the effectiveness of agreements with third countries, that is agreements which the EU signs with countries outside the Community.
Mr President, I take great pleasure in introducing this report on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries on conservation in the Mediterranean.
Because drift nets are used in the Mediterranean - as many as 8 000 whales and dolphins are killed annually by the activities of fishermen from various nations in the Mediterranean area.
I am sorry to tell the House that only 42 have availed themselves of the offer of selling their licences and moving into other activities.
It is obvious that the current policy of setting a limit of 2.5 kilometres for drift nets is not working.
The problem is that we are going to exhaust all the world's resources.
But, as a Parliament, must adopt this as our general principle for the future.
I would suggest to the rapporteur that Amendment No 1 is trying to be congratulatory of one government in the Council when we should be looking at the Council's overall position rather than an individual government.
Mr President, tuna in the Mediterranean is protected by special bans and regulations.
The problem in the Mediterranean is tuna.
The EU should be tackling the fishing problems of the northern regions as well as those in the Mediterranean.
The Norwegians breed salmon in the estuaries of rivers where there are stocks of natural salmon.
Mr President, just adopting the ICCAT recommendations on the management of red tuna in the Mediterranean, as proposed by the Commission, is not enough.
In just three years, catches have doubled, from 20 000 tonnes in 1992 to 40 000 in 1995, and we all know that these official figures are far lower than the true level.
In addition, as you are aware, ICCAT has also recommended a similar embargo on vessels displaying a Panamanian flag, as from 1 January 1998.
The Commission is a member of ICCAT, and the Member States of the European Union wish to fulfill all the recommendations set out by this body.
The Commission, however, intends bring forward a Council regulation on the control of unloading and transfers: this proposal is already being prepared and the Commission believes it should provide a more appropriate framework.
I can say the same about Amendments Nos 3 and 5.
On 30 January, the Commission transmitted to the Council a proposal relating to an embargo on imports of tuna from Belize and Honduras.
So the Commission made this proposal for an embargo back on 30 January, and the proposal is now on the Council's table.
Finally, two very brief comments on the amendments relating to drift nets.
However, as already mentioned, the Council will discuss the issue of drift nets on 24 March, on the basis of a compromise proposed by the presidency.
Thank you very much, Mrs Bonino.
The debate is closed.
Thank you, Mrs Berger.
So, I hope you have a good journey if you have to leave us before the vote.
In practice, in 1992 the Advisory Committee stated clearly that courses should ideally last five years, plus two years' practical experience.
As we are aware, this has been discussed for over 18 years.
Training is very important to us, particularly when the main participants are the professions that enable us to play a role in the rest of the world.
Ladies and gentlemen, Maria Berger has given a comprehensive report on experience with the 1985 architects' directive, and has said everything that needs to be said about it.
Act I of the tragedy of failure: it took eighteen years until the directive was finally adopted in June 1985.
I therefore ask this House to accept the very carefully worked out compromise proposal from our Italian colleagues, because it at least preserves something of the cultural and social ideals of architecture.
Through my work in the Committee on Petitions, I repeatedly see petitions from EU citizens demanding recognition of their qualifications.
I do not want to go any further into that, but I would just like to say that Amendment No 1 with the proposal to introduce means of compensating for different periods of study is dubious and should therefore be rejected, please.
Thank you very much, Mrs Bonino.
The debate is closed.
We shall now proceed to the vote. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, I rejected Paragraph 8 because for I believe that the quality of education has absolute priority.
The trouble is that the Friday mornings are the one section of our work as a plenary session which is not televised either to our rooms or for the archives.
Thank you very much, Mr Hallam.
Mr Ford, I must tell you that the Members here do take Friday mornings seriously.
It is a fact that the discussions on Friday morning mostly do not concern the whole European population, but a certain target group.
We voted yesterday on the Fontaine report, by roll-call vote en bloc on ten proposals from the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
Thank you, Mr Wieland.
