Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 28 March 1996.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of the sitting of Thursday, 28 March 1996 have been distributed.
Mr President, on behalf of my fellow-members from the Committee on Agriculture I should like to ask you to change a few things in the voting about the BSE resolution.
You yourself know best how difficult and complicated the legal situation is between Parliament and the firms contracted to build the hemicycle.
Mr President, I should like to deal very briefly with two matters.
These indiscriminate and unfair bombardments not only infringe human rights but may also pose a threat to the independence and integrity of the State of Lebanon, which is guaranteed by international law and by Resolution 245 of the United Nations Security Council.
Mr President, I should like to ask a question.
I think that in view of present events in the Middle East, we ought to ask whether the Council can make a statement on Wednesday afternoon about the way things are going.
I think that as a matter of courtesy we should naturally ask the Council whether it is ready to make a statement.
But I think it is equally important that we discuss Chernobyl this week.
We must not turn it into a competition between Chernobyl and the proposal to ask the Council to report on the situation in the Middle East this week and to debate on it, and then put Chernobyl in second place!
Mr President, like previous colleagues, I believe it to be absolutely essential that the Council make a statement on Wednesday about the Middle East situation, particularly in southern Lebanon.
The only other options would be to reduce the duration of our debates quite drastically, either at the cost of Chernobyl, which a large number of Members does not want, or at the cost of the Oostlander report and the Council and Commission statement on the Turin European Council.
Mr President, the SAVE II Commission proposal on energy efficiency in the European Union which is to run for five years is a continuation of the SAVE I programme.
The legislative level has been disregarded entirely, although the evaluation of SAVE I showed that 80 % of the successes of that programme were achieved by means of legislative measures.
The Commission and the Council have constantly declared how vital it is to reduce CO2 and to save energy.
The situation is too serious to allow for any further delay.
It would have been more sensible for Parliament always to apply the co-decision procedure.
It is being evaluated, fortunately, before we move on to SAVE II.
They have no vested interest in energy efficiency and that is clear from their stance.
The Commission's proposal to treble the resources for the SAVE II programme, as compared with the SAVE I programme, is certainly encouraging.
SAVE II endeavours to strengthening pilot actions that were undertaken in the first programme and also makes provision for new actions.
The renewal of the SAVE programme may be timely as the European Commission reports that the carbon dioxide target is being exceeded by 5 %.
Indeed, according to estimates, carbon dioxide accounts for 50 % of the greenhouse gases now present in the atmosphere.
It is important in this context that the SAVE initiatives should be coordinated with other European Union energy initiatives such as THERMIE and SYNERGY.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased first of all to compliment the rapporteur on the excellent report on SAVE II.
This report makes a contribution to the difficult but important battle for a sustainable environment and a sustainable development of our economy.
In Recital 15 the committee states as its point of departure that by the year 2000 between 80 and 200 million tonnes of CO2 emissions could be avoided by a 5 % improvement in energy efficiency compared with conventional expectations.
A shift, ladies and gentlemen, in the use of energy sources, in particular in the direction of renewable energy sources, could make these figures considerably more attractive.
That is good for the environment and good for the economy and benefits both the Union and third countries.
We do not have very much time left before the year 2000 to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves.
Mr President, almost three years ago today I stood in this spot and delivered the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the SAVE I programme.
SAVE I, which Parliament criticized for having insufficient finance and ambition, detailed 13 legal actions and standards that would be undertaken.
In order to meet the EU's Rio commitments people have already said that a 2.5 % per annum improvement in energy efficiency is needed.
Unfortunately, despite its increased budget and inclusion of targets, the Commission's proposal gives little cause for optimism: ECU 150 million over five years is really derisory in the face of the problem we are facing.
As you know, the Commission is able to propose new legislation whenever it thinks it necessary, and I am absolutely sure that given the European Parliament's support we shall have the opportunity to discuss new legislative measures here in this House in the coming months.
In my opinion the budget of 150 m ECU that we have set for SAVE II is very modest in relation to the political and economic benefits which will flow from this programme.
We have a duty to give them the opportunity to participate in SAVE II.
The costs involved in opening SAVE II to non-member countries will be covered by contributions from those countries themselves and from existing Community resources, and not from the SAVE II budget which covers the Community countries only.
I therefore request you to look upon SAVE II as a complementary action which is thus not intended as a substitute for actions taken by the Member States themselves.
The Commission does also have the power, and intends in the future, to propose a legislative measure aimed at improving energy efficiency in the Union, after, however, as I said at the beginning, exhausting the existing possibilities such as the self-binding agreements for industry.
Hence Amendments Nos 5, 10 and 16, which seek to commit the Commission to legislative initiatives, cannot be accepted at this point.
Amendments Nos 17, 18, 20, 21, 23, 24 and 25 relate to new actions of low interest, and, of course, to the funding of them.
These actions are either already encompassed, at least in part, by the Commission's text or are well outside its framework, or, in fact, are covered by other initiatives.
The Commission supports complementarity between SAVE II and the corresponding national programmes and therefore cannot accept the blurring of this concept contained in Amendment No 31.
We believe that despite its shortcomings SAVE I has contributed to energy efficiency in the Community, and therefore we cannot accept Amendment No 4.
Lastly, Amendment No 9 is not directly related to the potential for intervention built into the proposal in question and therefore it cannot be included.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like you to tell me when you will be presenting the legislative proposals.
That is precisely what we need in SAVE II.
However, the difference between SAVE I and SAVE II is that with SAVE II, at this juncture, we are putting the main emphasis on studies to explore and prepare the ground for the institution of legislative measures rather than on legislation as such.
In this latter respect, as you well know, the Commission has pursued a very constant line on the carbon dioxide tax and in general on the policy for reducing carbon dioxide emissions, and has certainly exerted pressure in every way possible, either through its own initiatives or via specific communications to the Member States, aimed at guiding the Member States towards a stabilization of carbon dioxide emissions at 1990 levels by the year 2000.
The debate is closed.
Synergy programme The next item is the report (A4-0065/96) by Mr Soulier, on behalf of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, on the proposal for a Council regulation (COM(95)0197 - C4-0432/95-95/0126(CNS)) adopting a multiannual programme to promote international cooperation in the energy sector - Synergy programme.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are invited under the consultation procedure, to reach a decision on a proposal for a Council Regulation on the SYNERGY programme for assistance to and cooperation with non-member countries with the aim of helping them to develop and implement energy policies.
This proposal for a regulation is a response not only to a request from nonmember countries but also to the need for worldwide cooperation in the energy sector.
Energy demand in these countries is growing by something like 5 to 6 % a year, as against only 1 % a year in the OECD countries.
And the energy dependency of the European Union, already of the order of 48 %, could reach 70 % by the year 2020.
The proposal for a regulation presented to us thus introduces a multiannual programme running from 1996 to the year 2000 with an indicative budget allocation of ECU 50 million spread over the five years.
The aims of SYNERGY are simple: it takes up for non-member countries the aims set by the European Union for its own energy policy.
We know that many of them, such as the PHARE, TACIS, MEDA programmes or SAVE and ALTENER, are concerned with international energy policies.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it could possibly be disputed that the energy matter in all its aspects is now an important element in the Union's foreign policy and external relations.
In the light of that, the REX Committee, in tabling its amendments, has sought, on the one hand, to emphasize the inseparable link between the European Union's energy policy and its economic and trade relations, and, on the other, to point out that precisely because of that the Union's proposals for international cooperation on energy issues must form an integral part of its foreign policy.
Mr President, let me by way of introduction remind you again of the position of the Committee on Budgets, namely that no important measures should be financed from the general budget without an appropriate legal base.
Secondly, I believe that in view of the global problems this ECU 50 million will of course be nowhere near enough.
Cheaper energy and strengthening the global position of the energy industry are not urgent objectives of SYNERGY either.
The SYNERGY programme may make a contribution here.
The Liberal Group is in favour of a phased introduction of an energy tax with a dual purpose: first, limiting the use of energy, and secondly reducing CO2 emissions.
Mr President, I believe that the objectives of this programme are excellent.
I thank the rapporteur for his detailed proposals.
As you know, the actions for international cooperation in the energy sector began in 1988 with budgetary entries at the disposal of the European Parliament.
However, the absence of a legal base was an obstacle to the development of medium-term strategies and to the monitoring of individual projects, and it also made it difficult to blend the actions in with actions that were to be undertaken in the framework of other Community instruments.
The rapporteur has also requested that the function of the programme with regard to the coordination of structural actions on matters of international cooperation in the energy sector be clearly set out.
The Commission believes that all of the improvements proposed by the experts must be incorporated in the amended proposal which will include Parliament's own proposals.
In the same context, the Commission, as well as informing Parliament and the Council annually about the implementation of the SYNERGY programme, will also provide them with information about the entire range of the actions that it undertakes on matters of international cooperation in the energy sector.
I turn now to the amendments.
Given that view, the Commission is unable to accept Amendments Nos 22 and 23.
The directive on the interoperability of the trans-European high- speed rail system and its history and content still do not bring that dawn.
However, it is of vital importance not only to this Parliament but also to the future development of a prosperous, efficient and environmentally-sustainable Europe.
In this debate we must also remind the Council of its commitments which it freely entered into at Maastricht when it committed itself not merely to a trans-European rail network but to an interoperable trans-European rail network.
The proposal is particularly welcome as its purpose is to promote the interlinking and interoperability of this highspeed rail link and the creation of conditions for the development of an open and competition-orientated market in the high-speed rail sector.
A number of Committee on Transport and Tourism amendments adopted and put to the House today aim to bring the common position closer to the original Commission proposal.
Mr President, it is vitally important for our future that we should change our transport system.
The Commission's proposal on interoperability of the European network for highspeed trains has been drastically altered by the Council.
Instead of striving for a European network of high-speed trains the accent is now placed more on preservation of the existing national high-speed networks, which have been made interoperable only where necessary or where desired.
Today's speeds of some 27 to 37 kilometres an hour must certainly be tripled.
That is why the Council moved away from the original Commission proposal and, in some respects, Parliament's amendments.
Seen from another angle it is possible to ask to what extent the problems of interoperability obey fundamental causes and are an inexcusable point of departure, or alternatively to what extent they are an instrument applied more or less deliberately in order to restrict freedom of movement with other policies or other interests in mind.
Only by looking at it in that way is it possible to understand the lack of interoperability in the various high-speed railway networks which have developed in most recent years and which are still being developed at the present time.
If this second hypothesis is correct, the problem would have to be solved the other way round, starting by requiring freedom of movement in order to see how the obstacles to interoperability would then lose their instrumental role and fade away of their own accord, but only to the extent and at the cost appropriate to the actual requirements of freedom of movement.
The development of a trans-frontier high-speed rail system creates huge costs, which will be largely borne by the Member States' railway companies since the Community budget will make hardly any contribution.
Will the SNCF be in a position to make new investments for the development of an open and competitive market in the high-speed railway sector?
These two companies had entered into commitments for 12 years, but the Commission finally decided on 13 December 1994 to allocate 25 % of the available timetable slots reserved for them to their competitors, thus threatening the economic balance of the agreement.
Mr President, this proposal has the very commendable objective of harmonizing safety principles within Member States as regards the transportation of dangerous goods.
While we as a group can support the position adopted by the rapporteur and the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we have some reservations about the number of derogations introduced by the Council, particularly in Article 5.
In conclusion, my group will support the report put forward by the Committee on Transport and Tourism but I should like to emphasize the reservations we have about the Council's position, particularly as regards Article 5.
In Article 7 of the common position the Council has accepted the amendment tabled on first reading by Parliament to allow Member States the right to undertake rail transport operations with states of the former Soviet Union which are not contracting parties to the COTIF, and that is something we welcome.
This and other derogations set out in the common position are restricted in scope to have only local effect and are not likely to hinder the achievement of a single market in rail transport.
We commend these amendments and the common position to the House.
The proposal is intended to remove existing obstacles to free movement of goods between Member States.
The Council increased the flexibility provided for in our original proposal.
The debate is closed.
