The programme has not changed.
It is unfortunate, perhaps, that in certain circumstances the president of a delegation has to change the dates of the delegation to suit himself rather than the delegation as a whole, when there are vice-presidents and the Bureau who could have stood in for the 24 hours that was necessary. (Parliament approved the Minutes.) Votes Mr President, I am sorry to interrupt the debate, but twice now the voting has been changed by just one vote.
Mr President, the development of the information society services promises profound changes socially, culturally and economically in Europe.
A new economic sector comes into being and there is a powerful driving force to handle the development of information networks and technologies within the European Union.
The frontier-free area of the internal market is critical to the success of these services.
That is why the Committee on Legal Affairs calls upon the Commission to consider the advisability of extending the rules, and hence also extending the procedure whereby the Member States inform and notify the European Union - the co-operation procedure - with a view to eliminating any obstacles to the freedom of the internal market, in a field as difficult as information technology and the advent of a whole new society, like the Internet, with the primary objective of safeguarding the central importance of the human individual.
One of the features of this proposal is that it relates not only to services provided electronically and at a distance but also to consumer interactivity.
We know that Community law is strongly rooted in precedent, and I therefore feel it is important for this amendment to be adopted.
Mr President, procedures for the provision of information in the field of technical standards and regulations have an enormous impact on the competitiveness of European industry.
The rapid adoption of this proposal for a directive is, in the Commission's view, one of the basic prerequisites for guaranteeing the balanced development of information society services in Europe.
The proposal for a directive defining a transparency mechanism for the information society services is specifically intended to eliminate this risk by establishing a preventive legislative information procedure and a system of administrative co-operation between the national and Community authorities.
Such a mechanism will enable us to prevent the formation of new barriers to freedom of movement and, at the same time, to study and agree upon appropriate ways of providing more effective protection, at European level, for those fundamental interests that deserve to be safeguarded, such as the protection of consumers and minors, or the objectives of cultural policy in Europe.
The Commission particularly welcomes the fact that the parliamentary debate that has taken place so far has fully recognized the importance of this proposal for a directive and given unambiguous support to what it contains.
I refer to Amendments Nos 2, subject to rewording, 3, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 in the Italian version, 14 in part, 15, 17, 19 and 20.
For these reasons, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 4, 5, 7, 8, 16 and 18.
Finally, Mr President, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 21, believing as it does that transparency must be applicable to all the services provided on the information highway, without exception.
The debate is closed.
Mr Cars, you are undoubtedly right.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the implementation of EU regional policies in the three new member countries of Austria, Sweden and Finland is largely uncontroversial.
The others can learn from these two countries.
Lessons for the Member States - the old just as much as the new ones -are also observable in relation to the concept of partnership and the 'bottom-up' principle.
I should also like to congratulate him on this inventory of structural policy in the three new Member States.
This inventory will undoubtedly be of importance to the three new Member States, since they will shortly be sitting round the table for the first time at discussions on the reform of structural policy.
That is why it is also very important for the Union to allow precisely these fresh experiences, these unspent experiences, if you like, of the new Member States to play a significant part in its deliberations on the reform of structural policy.
I therefore believe that such a report is a very important means of encouraging a realistic debate on the potential of the structural-policy regime and structural funds of the Union.
That means we shall have to begin with very detailed discussions in each Member State, including the new ones, on where the real priorities should lie.
Finland is Europe's most rural country, in which stresses the need for a rural policy which supports the wide variety of businesses.
In my opinion the experience obtained so far in the objective programmes shows very clearly that the responsibility for putting the programmes into practice should be transferred to the Member States and their local authorities, to the regions themselves.
In applying regional policy stress has been placed on the participation of regional and local authorities and interest groups in the planning and realization of regional policy.
In future the Commission should ensure that regional and local authorities are given full decision-making power in the adoption and implementation of programmes.
Both are largely in agreement with the conclusions which the Regional Committee came to at their meeting on 15 January 1997.
The extensive administration and bureaucracy both in the EU and nationally and the lack of standardised rules have actively contributed to making implementation of regional policy difficult.
So I urge Parliament to vote against amendment proposal no 4 in favour of the original text.
Burgenland has been granted Objective 1 status and is to receive a total of 160m ECU from 1995 to 1999.
This money is to lead to the creation of 7, 300 new jobs.
This company has used the money to create only 120 jobs, which are already under threat because the parent group is reporting nine-figure losses.
I believe it is essential to prevent any such effects in future.
In the Objective 6 area account is taken of the distinctive features typical of the Nordic countries such as low population density and long distances.
In shaping the EU's regional policy in future these factors must be included either by continuing with the Objective 6 programme or by including these features typical of the Nordic countries in other programmes.
The problem with the present Objective 6 programme is however that the regional development funds include support for agriculture.
It gives an accurate picture of the implementation of regional policy in Austria, Finland and Sweden.
This inefficiency has also been reflected in the treatment of the new Member States' development programmes.
The rapporteur quite rightly refers to the delays in adopting the Community initiatives, but at the same time he could also have referred to the slowness in dealing with the objective programmes.
Objective 6 was constructed along the lines of Objective 1, and thus also contains Less Favoured Area support for agriculture.
Another problem is that only a small part of the aid has been paid; in Sweden less than 10 percent of funds have been paid out and actually used.
An active regional policy which allows the whole of Sweden to prosper is therefore an important component of Swedish domestic policy, for which Objective 6 is absolutely crucial and must naturally be maintained.
Sweden pays 20 billion kronor per year in Membership dues to the EU.
Out of this 5 billion goes back into agriculture, 4 billion to regional politics.
In order to use this 4 billion we must also contribute the same amount of money ourselves from the Swedish purse.
Mr President, fewer Objectives, fewer funds and community initiatives, better co-ordination between the EU's regional policy and that of the Member State's, increased regional and local influence in decision making, planning, implementation and supervision of EU projects, putting all our efforts into doing something about the high unemployment in Northern Sweden and in Northern Finland along with some proposals for a better environment and a border region co-operation are some of the proposals which could further improve regional policy both for the Member States and for the EU.
First, a relatively advanced level of national economic development does not exclude the existence of specific regional development problems and disparities which call for intervention by the Structural Funds.
The Leader II programme has already achieved good results in this area.
I see this as another outstanding example of collaboration between our institutions.
The debate is closed.
Cross-border and inter-regional co-operation The next item is the report (A4-0161/97) by Mrs Myller, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, on cross-border and inter-regional co-operation.
Mr President, cross-border and inter-regional cooperation is a fundamental part of the work of the European Union.
Local authorities in border areas may also save substantial amounts of the taxpayers' money by setting up joint services and common infrastructure in border areas.
However, there are very few problems with regard to cooperation at the internal borders if one compares the situation with that between EU Member States and third countries.
The Interreg II C programme was developed to promote regional cooperation.
However, in the north of the Union - in the Baltic and Barents Sea regions - regional cooperation is also developing.
Environmental concerns and efforts to increase regional stability are, in particular, key issues which should be stressed in cooperation between the EU and third countries, whether in the south, east or north.
A third important aspect of cross-border and inter-regional cooperation is the development of effective and practical cooperation between associated countries and EU Member States.
A particular problem lies in the fact that cooperation programmes between EU Member States and third countries are based on separate, differing legislation.
Programmes in the Member States are administered by the Directorate-General responsible for regional policy, while programmes in third countries are administered by that responsible for external relations.
In my opinion a possible solution to these differences in the length of programmes and in how they are regulated might be to set up a single common fund for cross-border cooperation with third countries, which could be used to fund and administer joint projects.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by congratulating my colleague Riitta Myller on a truly outstanding report.
My colleague Riitta Myller stated that very clearly.
The third aspect, which we introduced in the past within the INTERREG framework and which I regard as very important, is that Europe should be seen from the perspective of regional planning in the wider sense.
They merit greater attention, because these projects highlight the obstacles and difficulties that hinder cooperation, problems of which people become more keenly aware in this context.
Secondly, interregional and cross-border cooperation must be better coordinated with the other structural funds and the other forms of structural assistance.
If we want individual citizens or even citizens' initiatives to become involved in this domain, we cannot confront them with time-consuming and cumbersome administrative procedures that result in their having to wait up to a year and a half before receiving a definitive response to their applications.
Moreover, these programmes are a means of taking account of the specific nature of the individual regions of Europe.
Paragraph 6 of the motion mentions the role of the regions situated on the internal borders, and this is where my main interest lies, since other Members have concerned themselves with the new borders.
The main objective - as also stated in paragraph 11 of the motion for a resolution - is to enhance economic and social development.
I refer specifically to them not just because they represent an internal policy problem but because we are talking about forms of Community financing - and this is the recommendation I would like to put to this House - which in my opinion should also be a matter of interest to the European Commission.
We have agreed that the Greens will withdraw their amendment, because point 4 is an adequate means of presenting this request to the Commission.
The Commission acts and implements these things.
The 1994 Schroedter report gives it scope to do that, and I hope the Commission will respond very rapidly.
Mr President, there are some exciting new developments in the whole idea of cross-border and interregional cooperation, in particular for people like myself who live in a coastal community in Scotland.
On the one hand there is cross-border cooperation between the countries of the European Union and on the other cross-border cooperation with countries outside the European Union.
The first type of cooperation, principally effected through Interreg-IIA, is showing very positive results.
The resolution does indeed, in points 5 and 20, stress the importance of multi-lingualism, but for the moment that remains essentially a vain hope.
That is why I want to say here that Franco-German cooperation as well as trilateral cooperation between Switzerland, Germany and France around Basel also need funding and must not be sacrificed on the altar of these new priorities.
Despite all these omissions which I am sorry to note in this report, which places great emphasis on the outermost regions but rather neglects inter-regional cooperation at the very heart of the continent, I shall of course be voting for the report, since we support the general principles and inter-regional cross-border cooperation is still an altogether positive principle.
As you have seen, Greece now plays a positive part in solving the problems, in the effective implementation of a policy of interregional and cross-border cooperation, and in the peaceful settlement of any differences in that difficult area of south-eastern Europe, which is nevertheless very important for European integration.
We must take the European area as a joint horizon for various peoples to live together without internal frontiers but with respect for our respective identities, our self determination and diversity.
The effort which the Union is making in this matter will be the best catalyst for a process of political union, a union of citizens and peoples.
Madam President, there is no doubt that cross-border and interregional co-operation is a very important aspect of the European Union's policies, since it can contribute significantly to European integration and to a real approach between the populations and regions of Europe.
This creates difficulties both for the coordination and the progress of the work, and I think that the issue will have to be solved in due course.
Secondly, interregional co-operation could prove particularly useful for the Union's coastal and island areas, especially for improved communications between the islands, but also to improve their contacts with national and Community centres.
Thirdly, it goes without saying that an initiative of this kind must involve increased participation by local and regional authorities, and by the social partners, both in the planning and in the implementation of the related programmes.
The key objectives of economic development, employment promotion, social and cultural cooperation, environmental protection and greater democracy are central elements of this cooperation.
It is my hope and wish that the development of cooperation in the border regions of Member States and third countries will be successfully expedited - irrespective of whether the countries in question want to become EU members one day - for the benefit of the people living in those regions.
The subjects covered will undoubtedly give us food for thought during the coming months as we endeavour, if possible by the end of the year, to produce a Commission communication on regional policy and cross-border and interregional co-operation - a communication which will summarize what has already been achieved in an endeavour to interpret the future.
The Commission attaches great importance to these two forms of co-operation.
With regard to the internal borders, the INTERREG programmes implemented on some borders demonstrate that the Structural Funds are capable of promoting in-depth co-operation, with a single programme on both sides of the border, a steering committee and working groups that mobilize a wide-ranging partnership, and a single common fund for the financing of the projects.
Unfortunately, the situation is not so advantageous on all the internal borders because, even if the Community resources originate from a single fund, it only needs the procedures for administering the appropriations to be different on the two sides of the border to make it difficult to finance common projects in both border regions.
The Commission will of course review all the ideas and proposals put forward, and will reach a decision on every one of them.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The motion for a resolution before us deals with cross-border cooperation in the Union.
Cooperation at internal borders must enable people to go about their everyday business without any problems.
The Myller report deals with many detailed issues.
There are many positive features in this report, but also some areas where we should proceed with caution.
I know very well the difficulties created by isolation, first and foremost among which is the dependence of the island and its dwellers for their economic development, social survival and medical care, on often uncertain and usually inadequate sea and air transport.
I know very well the problems of survival faced by island businesses, by far the majority of them SMEs or small companies, in their everyday efforts to compete successfully against similar businesses in mainland areas.
Notwithstanding their respective particular features, they face in common a range of very important problems that stem precisely from their insular character and which result in their economic and social downgrading.
In the view of our Committee, Parliament's Committee on Regional Policy, this constitutes good reason for the adoption of an integrated special policy for islands within the scope of the Union's regional and other policies, aiming precisely to help them overcome their inherent difficulties by giving them equal opportunities for development with those of the Union's mainland areas.
Mainly, however, Commissioner, how does the Commission react to the idea of including in the revised treaty that will emerge from the Intergovernmental Conference, an order recognizing the particular nature of island regions, and the problems they face in common, which could in the future constitute the legal base for the implementation of an integrated Community policy that is essential if islands are to escape isolation, overcome their structural difficulties and claim a better future within the framework of United Europe.
In the hope of a positive reply from the Commission to all these questions by our Committee, which are at the same time called for by Europe's island regions, I thank you for your attention.
Madam President, the Commission recalls that in 1994 it published a document on the island regions which made it possible, simultaneously, to uncover the wealth represented by the diversity of the islands within the Community and to gain a better understanding of their socio-economic situation.
That document sets out, for each Member State, a complete list of islands, with maps and statistics, a description of the level NAZ 2 and NAZ 3 island regions, and a brief analysis of the territory and of the economic situation of all the other islands.
The Cohesion Fund can also cofinance transport infrastructures in the islands of the eligible Member States.
The Commission agrees about the need to combat the excessive burden placed on natural resources by certain forms of tourism, in the island regions and elsewhere.
The proposal for a decision on a first multi-annual programme in favour of European tourism - PHILOXENIA - takes the promotion of sustainable tourism and of alternative forms of tourism as one of its primary themes.
On the other hand, tourism is also referred to in the fifth programme for the environment, 1992-2000, as one of the five key sectors not only at the regulatory level but also in terms of self-regulation by the public, operators and public authorities, by means of instruments to encourage sustainable tourism.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to express my satisfaction at the Commissioner's statement that he understands the particular nature of island regions and supports the inclusion in the new Treaty of a statement which will constitute the correct legal basis for the establishment and implementation of a special policy of support and development in island regions.
As one who comes from Greece, a country comprising 42 % of the total number of inhabited islands in the European Union - 167 inhabited islands among a total of 400 in the Union - I am in a position to know how urgent it is that measures should be adopted to curb the negative trends created by the isolation of island regions and their abandonment by the Union.
Madam President, Commissioner, I am an elected representative of the two largest islands in the Union which are not home to a European capital city - Sicily and Sardinia - and I must therefore express my continuing regret at the lamentable absence of any integrated Community policy or specific instruments for the European island regions, confronted as they are by an extremely wide range of problems which continue to act as a permanent obstacle to their development.
I therefore repeat once again, in this House today, my hope that in future, and starting with the forthcoming Amsterdam summit, the Council will turn over a new leaf and consider the specific problems of the Union's islands from a new standpoint, a more considered and specific standpoint, as indeed I understand the Commission also wishes to do when considering the matter of the reform of the Structural Funds.
What is needed, therefore, is a global Community policy for the islands, taking into account all the aspects of island status.
The objective of a European policy for the islands should be both to establish a general framework of compensation for the adverse effects that Community policy often has on the island regions, and secondly, more generally, to establish a new way of thinking that recognizes the right of islands and island groups to diversity.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one of the principal objectives of Community policy and in particular of regional policy is economic and social cohesion within the European Community.
These regions are well and truly an integral part of the European Union.
They represent approximately 14 million European citizens, that is a population greater than that of certain Member States.
It would be fitting to set up a truly integrated policy for the island regions with the collaboration of the Member States and the regional authorities on the principle of partnership.
Most interesting I find Mr Monti's statement that it would be appropriate to include, provided the Commission were in favour, a statement by the Intergovernmental Conference on the subject of the islands in general.
The Commissioner will realise that some of the poorest regions in the Union, such as Corsica or the Azores are indeed island regions.
The only island region among the relatively rich regions is the Balearic Islands, Spain, which come close to the Community average with 98 % of the average income, but there are not in fact any island regions which are highly developed.
I am not of course referring to large islands such as the United Kingdom or Ireland, but in general to the rest of the island regions and Mr Commissioner Monti will actually agree with me that Sardinia and Sicily in his country are the poorest regions precisely because they are islands and without that continental continuity there is a whole range of structural elements standing in the way of definitive integration in the common market.
That is, the continental concept of the common market as a continuous territory which is a prerequisite for example for banning transport aid in order to put everyone on an equal footing, means that unless islands receive some kind of transport aid they are placed at a disadvantage from the point of view of competition.
I think that the Intergovernmental Conference should face the European Union and the Community institutions with a debate on the role of the islands.
I know that Mr Monti is concerned about one matter and I should like to quote it as an example, since I think it is the best example of what might happen - we are moving towards Economic and Monetary Union, internal frontiers are disappearing, from 1999 there will be no barriers to prevent a French citizen or a German citizen from putting his savings in a Luxembourg bank where there is no tax on savings.
That brings me, Mr Commissioner, on to one last aspect; I think that within the context of treatment for the islands, although basically the islands have aspects in common, they are different one from another.
I mentioned earlier the example of the Balearic Islands, currently the richest region in Spain and an island region.
Whereas the Balearic Islands have developed to a considerable extent, the Canary Islands have rather lagged behind, because there is one additional aspect: in the European Union there are, in addition to what might be termed the nearby islands which form part of the immediate environment, the unusual aspect of some very distant island regions - the French overseas departments and territories, the Portuguese archipelagos of the Azores and Madeira, the Canary Islands and the Island of La Réunion, which are so remote from the Community umbrella that unless they are given quite different legal treatment there can be no possibility of economic development.
As regards these outermost regions, Madam President, Mr Commissioner, it is not enough for the IGC merely to make a statement as it did for the last Maastricht Conference.
I think a highly specialized regime is called for and it is currently being drawn up thanks on the one hand to the POSEI programmes, to Protocol No 2 annexed to the Treaty of Accession to the European Union of Spain and Portugal and to a whole series of Community legal standards which have considered this special situation of the outermost regions.
I think that the European Union should now consider for these island regions with additional difficulties a legal system which is not based on secondary legislation of simple regulations or directives which are then open to challenge before the Court of Justice, but on constitutional treatment in the Treaty establishing the Union.
Although Spain and Portugal joined later and could not therefore include the point in the original Treaty, the Act of Accession of Spain and Portugal did envisage this specific point in a document which we might regard as constitutional from our point of view - and that is Protocol No 2 and other articles in the Act of Accession of spain and Portugal to the European Union.
I therefore hope, Madam President, Mr Commissioner, that today's debate will serve on the one hand to establish the need to consider the subject of the islands in its global perspective and on the other and in a very special way, to stress the effort needed in this final stage of the Intergovernmental Conference, so that the outermost regions of the European Union receive different legal treatment so that they may be regarded as a special case.
But as regards what Mr Monti said in his speech, I should like to mention two matters: On the one hand I am glad to hear that the Commission is supporting a statement in favour of the islands and, on the other hand, I should like to point out that, despite its statements about the Cohesion Fund as an instrument for helping the islands, the Cohesion Fund is not being implemented; there is practically zero implementation in the 22 island regions of the Union.
But the islands cannot benefit on an equal footing from the advantages of the great internal market nor take part in most of the projects in the great trans-European networks.
I should therefore like first to register the strongest protest against the Netherlands Presidency's proposal (made within the IGC) on the outermost regions, since it does not provide guarantees for the special situation of these exceptional European regions in its clear attempt to exclude the French overseas dominions and territories; secondly to insist that the IGC should follow the European Parliament's position on the IGC based on the Weggen report, in particular the twelfth paragraph of point 3 in which Parliament demands that the Treaty should expressly include a provision conceding special and specific treatment for outermost regions; thirdly to ask for the recognition and effective support for problems arising out of island status which are felt particularly in the autonomous regions of Madeira and the Azores which are outermost regions.
Madam President, the text of the resolution makes it clear that the insular regions of Europe, be they in north or south, are facing great environmental and economic challenges, and that is why the European Union must do more to ensure that these areas are not left alone to deal with their problems.
The adoption of a European regional planning strategy in Noordwijk in June 1997 will constitute a major step in this direction.
We shall then see whether the responsible parties in the Commission, and above all in the national governments, are capable of incorporating the reality of island life into this European planning strategy.
Maritime borders have hitherto played a minor role in the promotion of cross-border cooperation.
Interregional cooperation programmes such as Recite are also very important to the islands.
Nevertheless, despite the great diversity which exists between the 22 European island regions, they all have features in common because they are surrounded by the sea and they will be particularly affected by globalization and the process of European integration.
They therefore need special attention to enable them to become integrated not so much homogeneously as in a balanced way.
Finally, with reference to the comment that has been made on the fact that very little use is made of the Cohesion Funds to benefit the island regions, I must remind the House that this is one of those instances in which the attitude of the Member States is of crucial importance, so that, as regards many aspects of the problem, we are in their hands in this respect.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
Joint motion for a resolution on an integrated policy adapted to the special situation of island regions in the European Union.
The Committee for Regional Policy will very shortly be developing in earnest a report on the development problems of islands.
Specifically I think that both the proposal for a Council decision and the proposal for a Council regulation on the Community system for trademarks and, to be more specific, getting involved with the system for international marks, is of considerable legal interest.
Whatever may be in the Coca Cola bottle, the mere mark Coca Cola has inestimable economic value.
Trademark law has been developing very slowly, since marks were not regarded as a very worthy subject for detailed study, although with the development of industrial society it became more important as the mark itself gained importance.
At the moment, ever since the 1980s, there has been a kind of competition between the European Community and International Law in general.
To be specific, the European Community in its first Community directive on the approximation of trademark law - Directive No 89104 of 21 December 1988 - paved the way for the setting up of Community trademark law and was complemented by Regulation 4094 of 20 December 1993 setting up the Community mark.
That is to say that had the Madrid Agreement not been amended by the 1995 Madrid Protocol, anyone holding a Community mark would have had to go to the national system and then to the international system, but as a result of the Madrid Protocol, international coverage can be obtained for the mark by going through the Community office rather than on some peregrination.
At the present time all the Member States of the European Community are party to the Madrid Protocol and are of course governed by the Rule of Community Law and they are not the only ones; in addition many more countries who are hoping to join the European Union or who form part of the European economic area have also acceded to the Madrid Protocol.
This produces very positive results which will be exceptionally helpful to the development of the Community mark.
The approval mechanism might appear a little complicated since on the one hand we have the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation 4094 to make it possible to interlink the two systems - the Community system and the international system - and on the other hand the Council decision approving Community accession.
That is accession of the Council and of the European Community to the Madrid Protocol and subsequently, as a result of this accession to the Madrid Protocol, Community law in force will be amended by a regulation in order to resolve the whole matter.
There is one small problem from the point of view of languages, since more languages are used in the Office for Harmonization of the Internal Market in Alicante than in the Madrid Agreement.
It is a subject which will probably require subsequent legal adjustment since experience tells us that all these legal matters, especially those with such important economic consequences, always prove to have different aspects and difficulties which have to be put right.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these proposals will mean that enterprises, by submitting a single application, will obtain protection for their trademark as a Community trademark, not only in the Community but in all States which are party to the Madrid Protocol.
The Commission has no doubt that, unless such a link with the Madrid protocol can be established, the Community trade mark, adopted in December 1993 and operational - as the rapporteur recalled - since April 1996, would become less attractive both to European enterprises and to those in third countries.
Thank you, Mr Hallam.
