Madam President, the work which we have carried out this week could not have been done without the help of interpreters.
It has come to my knowledge that we have 300 freelance interpreters whom the Commission has not paid properly since October.
We have 245 pages of roll-call votes, and it seems that the smaller the group the more roll-call votes it wants.
I defy anybody to tell me whether there is one citizen anywhere in the European Union who wants to know how David Hallam voted on the second part of Amendment 20 of the Florenz Report.
It is a ridiculous situation and a waste of money, and should be brought to an end.
Ladies and gentlemen, I can understand your agitation, but the Rules of Procedure provide for this to happen.
The fact that the summit is scheduled for 24 and 25 March in Berlin is no reason to bring the part-session forward and make us decide our position at all costs in advance of that summit.
Now, Mr Fabre-Aubrespy is saying that he opposed this in the Conference of Presidents.
Let me repeat: if any Member feels that the Rules of Procedure need to be changed - and incidentally there will be a debate on this subject in March - then they should simply take the necessary measures.
That is why I insist that this report by the wise men be dealt with in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Applause Thank you, Mrs Theato.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it was essential to find another date for the mini-session, because otherwise the Commission would have had to be in two places at once - with us in Brussels to hear Parliament's assessment of the report of the committee of wise men, and in Berlin discussing Agenda 2000 with the Council.
So if the House thinks it would be better done through the Committee on Budgetary Control - as I do - we should plan to hold a vote on it, and we can easily do that at the March part-session here in Strasbourg, because that will be coming up first.
That was for a number of good reasons.
The Committee of Experts was established, as you will see if you read the terms of reference and the original vote in this House, under the auspices of Parliament not one of its committees.
The House set up a group which reports to the House and we have a general political debate.
But within the House there is a committee responsible for incorporating the substantive work.
Nothing was done at the Conference of Presidents to undermine, diminish or set to one side the substantive or procedural work of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am disinclined to contribute to this debate.
I did not, however, vote for Amendments Nos 5 and 12 to the van Bladel report.
EAGGF: recovery of claims The next item is the report (A4-0009/99) by Mr Bardong, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive amending Council Directive 76/308/EEC on mutual assistance for the recovery of claims resulting from operations forming part of the system of financing the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund, and of agricultural levies and customs duties and in respect of value-added tax and certain excise duties (COM(98)0364 - C4-0392/98-98/0206(COD)).
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the directive we are debating today and on which we shall be voting relates to mutual assistance between Member States in the recovery of tax debts.
This enforced payment of tax debts always becomes particularly difficult for both parties when the debtors have deposited all or part of their assets in another Member State to protect them from seizure.
The result is that only 3 % to 5 % of such debts are actually recovered.
Directives which were adopted back in 1976 and 1977 contained provisions designed to deal with this problem, not only for agricultural levies but also for customs duties, and subsequently for VAT and excise duty too.
In Article 2 of the amended directive, however, it is explicitly stated.
For that reason, the Committee on Budgetary Control is proposing a number of further amendments.
Madam President, on a point of order.
Madam President, on a point of order.
The title of the directive on which we have to take a decision today could hardly sound more technical, but for all that, I believe Mr Bardong's report manages to pack a powerful political punch.
Since 1976, there has been a directive which provides for mutual assistance between Member States, but the main purpose of the directive was originally to collect customs duties or levies in the framework of the common agricultural policy.
As far as the rapporteur's amendments are concerned, he has our full support for all of them.
Secondly, when a case of enforced recovery relates to both Community claims and claims in favour of a national budget, the Community claims should be accorded priority.
Indeed, the introduction of the two latter regimes in 1993 has led to a considerable rise in claims to be recovered, and many Member States are already demanding their rights.
Thus only 3 to 5 % of requests for recovery in the EU have been successful.
The amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgetary Control are good too.
I should like now to put a very specific question to Commissioner Bangemann.
One scenario envisaged by the Commission as part of Agenda 2000 is that Member States should cofinance the CAP.
The report, which has been criticised in some points, such as the inconsistency between its title and its content, shows quite precisely the real sort of jungle in which we find ourselves.
I should like to say a few words on that.
Madam President, on a point of order.
At any rate, in the light of this debate we shall reformulate the title to make it a more accurate reflection of the content, which should eliminate that problem.
We shall, of course, be able to debate these legal reservations with the Member States too in the course of the legislative process, but in Amendments Nos 2 and 7, which specify that priority is to be accorded to Community claims in the event of competing claims payable to the Community budget and national claims, this legal problem is plain for all to see.
If the proposal is based on Article 100a, as I have said it is, the question arises as to whether these amendments are consistent with the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 7a of the EC Treaty.
With regard to Amendments Nos 4, 8 and 9, according to which the arrangement whereby the requested state is to be recompensed by receiving a percentage of the amount recovered would be replaced by reimbursement of the actual cost incurred, reimbursement would only be paid in cases where recovery poses specific problems.
The debate is closed.
The new approach for the field of technical harmonisation was introduced in 1985 and is based on four principles.
Lastly, and we attach great importance to this, it can take the Member States to task when it comes to transposing the European standards into national standards if they record a poor performance on the internal market scoreboard.
In effect, they cannot export their products to all the Member States.
But there is not just a problem at European level; consumers are involved, for example, in only seven Member States.
We want the new approach, and specifically in the area of standards we have seen that it is necessary to reflect together on how we can secure better procedures.
We had 142 pages of proposals, and Parliament managed to trim this proposal down to three pages.
Madam President, when my group told me that I had 1 1/2 minutes to speak on normalisation and standardisation this morning, I was worried that it was part of a New Labour process to apply standardisation to candidates across Europe.
Madam President, like the rapporteur, I think the Commission's report on European standardisation under the new approach is broadly satisfactory.
There is no reason, for example, why these internal European standards should make it easier for American imports to come in, unless there are reciprocal arrangements over the setting of standards in the USA, product for product.
CEN, CENELEC and ETSI work very closely with the standards organisations of these countries.
We fund this work under PHARE and other accession-oriented financing programmes.
If everyone manufactured their plugs to this standard, this would then mean not only that future plugs and sockets would look like that, but also of course that all existing plugs and sockets would then have to be converted, and you can imagine how much all that would cost.
If we complete UMTS, the third generation, successfully - and work is still ongoing because there are a few problems with intellectual property rights - if we succeed in this, and American and Japanese firms have also been involved with the work right from the start, we shall probably capture a bigger share of the world market than we did with GSM.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report is a follow-up to the Barcelona Conference on Euro-Mediterranean Cooperation.
I hope that the Forum on Transport in the Mediterranean, which will meet on 24 and 25 March in Malta, will turn to good account the green light which I am sure the European Parliament will give today, and that the Council will draw up a list of priorities relating to the implementation of the plan to develop modes of transport in the Mediterranean region.
We are constantly talking in Parliament - and not just here, but in international organisations in general - about globalisation.
The major challenge of the Barcelona Conference was greater mutual understanding and a closer relationship between the North and the South.
This means that the European Union does not have to concern itself with promoting particular transport services in the Mediterranean countries.
We shall also - and this is the other matter arising from the debate - support and prepare the first meeting of the forum to be held in Malta on 23 and 24 March.
The European Parliament will be fully briefed on this.
We in any case will do everything necessary to ensure a successful outcome.
The debate is closed.
In 1995, the Barcelona conference came up with an answer, launching the MEDA programme which built a new partnership on three pillars - political, economic and human.
The communication placed before Parliament outlines a general strategy for transport.
It started off in Glen Nevis in a fish farm in the Highlands.
Indeed in the Shetland Islands, 50 % of the salmon industry is owned by Norway so it is extremely important that the Commission does not stand in the way and responds, as the Commissioner very generously promised, extremely rapidly to the moves and to any approaches from the Scottish office.
I will be contacting Callum McDonald and John Sewell immediately after this meeting urging them to put in a quick request to the Commission.
The Tenojoki is Europe's longest salmon river.
A whole host of problems surround aquaculture and salmon farming in general.
It is an industry that is well organised and well managed, but it is in crisis due to infectious salmon anaemia.
My constituency is called Itchen, Test and Avon, and these are three rivers famous for their salmon.
But, as always, in our fisheries policy there may be funds available immediately.
Thank you very much, Mr Bangemann.
The debate is closed.
Applause Mr Bangemann, I think there should be a double entry for that, firstly because it was the shortest speech, and secondly because it was made by you and your answers are usually very comprehensive, which is much appreciated.
