Obviously there is a good deal of interest in this Parliament on the British position on this subject.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President Santer, I believe that the subject we are debating today really is the central, fateful subject facing the European Union.
If the European Union can succeed in making it clear to its citizens that it can overcome the scourge of mass unemployment and that it can make a major contribution to solving the problem, then the European Union has a promising future.
The document deals only with extending the scope of application for coordination of social schemes, in respect of the right to free movement of workers, to cover in the scope the beneficiaries of pre-retirement benefits, as the European Parliament had already asked last year (Oomen-Ruijten report).
Therefore the European Union must profoundly commit itself to a global strategy to fight unemployment, involving everyone, states and citizens alike.
Ladies and gentlemen, in 25 days' time, in Dublin, we will be asking the Heads of State and Government, in their turn, to make the broad outlines of this pact a reality.
The first encouraging fact we should note is the Europe-wide recognition of the importance of the local level.
With these territorial pacts for employment we are specifically applying another essential aspect of the pact: putting European structural policies in the service of employment.
In the single report on employment, the Ecofin Council and the Social Affairs Council are going to present a joint report in Dublin, for the second time.
This is another step towards a consistent, common approach as recommended in your report.
As regards the five priority areas identified at Essen, significant advances have been achieved in the multi-annual programmes presented by the Member States.
The results obtained in this context in 1996 are encouraging, but they need to go deeper.
Much emphasis has been placed on the endeavours of some Member States to encourage greater flexibility.
And that same flexibility must also enable us to take advantage of the employment potential offered by the services sector.
The Commission welcomes the common contribution which the social partners will present to the Heads of State and Government in Dublin.
This demonstrates what I have always believed - and what has been my experience, too: that when it comes to the issues of the future, employers and unions can put their heads together and come up with a common line of advance. 1996 was also a year of progress on the macroeconomic front.
The pact restates the need for a stable macroeconomic framework which is favourable to employment.
The recent report on the single market certainly had an encouraging message: nearly a million jobs created.
Two further steps have been taken in this direction: the adoption of the multi-annual programme for smalland medium-sized enterprises, with a budget appropriation of ECU 127 million, and the presentation to the European Council of the report on the services markets.
The Council must take its responsibilities seriously here.
That will be a positive, encouraging signal, and there is nothing to prevent us repeating it, or even extending it, in 1998.
The pact is designed to create the conditions for new mobilization and a return of confidence.
The Pact of Confidence for employment has already generated progress.
I know that he is as disappointed as I am that the Social Affairs Committee did not see fit to include in its resolution for example the view of the Economic Committee that the Annual Report from the Commission on Employment in Europe should in future be referred to as the Annual Report on Unemployment in Europe.
My final point is that we specifically identified ageism - discrimination against the over-40s in the workforce - in paragraph 15 of our resolution and we particularly ask the institutions of the European Community to set a good example in that respect.
I therefore welcome today's debate and I welcome the positive contribution we are trying to make in combating unemployment.
The Commission's first cohesion report outlines and highlights the problem of continuing regional disparities in unemployment.
Therefore I welcome the initiatives from the discussion of structural funds and employment opportunities at the Madrid informal Council in December 1995 to the final communication in March 1996.
I welcome President Santer's initiative on territorial, regional and local employment pacts.
I welcome the commitment and enthusiasm that the Irish presidency has brought to this debate and the personal commitment of the Irish Finance Minister, Mr Quinn.
In a word, combatting unemployment and curing the ills of the labour market cannot be seen as separate objectives - quite the opposite.
My impression is that the Wolf report concentrates solely on public measures and ignores very important other areas, particularly of the report 'Employment in Europe in 1996' , of which I shall speak to three.
An increase in the European Union of 18 million jobs and in the USA of 22 million jobs from 1980 to 1993 is an acceptable comparison.
With reference to the Wolf report, we too must praise all the Commission's action to coordinate and encourage the Member States' employment policies in order to define new measures and activities for stepping up the fight against this plague, not easy to solve, in the short or medium term.
The social Europe must be given other financial supports in order to take a definite path.
The second question is that of reductions in working time.
For both these reasons my group will be voting against this report if it stays as it is.
We must create jobs and urgently so, in all Member States and in all sectors.
But we must also do everything we can to maintain those in existence which means that employment maintenance is also extremely important.
I would invite Mr Wolf to move in our direction on that point.
The policies being pursued cause greater regional imbalances, increasing structural unemployment, increased unemployment among poorly educated women, a continuing increase in the number of disabled people without work.
Mr President, the situation is catastrophic.
Mr President, this report by Friedrich Otto Wolf on the Commission's report on employment in Europe in 1996 should perhaps, as Mr Cassidy suggested, really be called unemployment in Europe.
In this connection, when we discuss what we can do to reduce unemployment we must also realise that there is a paradox involved, because the Union itself is also creating unemployment and exclusion through the tight schedule for monetary union and through the convergence criteria which compel the Member States to tighten their budgets and force cuts in social welfare.
The Wolf report contains a whole series of practical and excellent proposals, for example, reducing indirect labour costs below the wage scale, highlighting small and medium-sized firms, part-time work, or even shortening working time and re-distributing labour.
One cannot simply ignore this subject.
Well, growth is a process of divergence, as is life itself, and the objective of monetary convergence implies a brake on growth.
This joint Council must also fulfil the serious undertaking to support employment being incorporated into the revised Treaty, the right to employment being recognized in constitutional terms in the Treaty on Union, and the 'cohesion' concept being upheld as one which shapes and inspires the entire Treaty on European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, employment policy and social security go hand in hand.
It is thus logical for us to hold a joint debate on the 1996 employment report and on the amendment to the European Union's most important social insurance legislation - Regulation 1408.
High levels of unemployment jeopardize our social systems.
There is no shortcut to combatting unemployment - the only way is by the countless short steps proposed in the White Paper on employment and in many other European Union documents on the confidence pact, for example flexible work organization, positive flexibility of working hours and part-time working.
The Ribeiro report provides a very good description of the problems that have arisen as a result of this and as a result of the increasing number of systems, especially if the employee's job and place of residence are in different countries, as with frontier workers, or if the worker moves his place of residence to another Member State, as when he returns to his home country.
The intention of the Commission's draft to extend the scope of Regulation 1408 to pre-retirement benefits is obligatory, and collectively agreed arrangements are also to be included.
I therefore feel that the territorial employment pacts are a very positive move in terms of what they signify, namely cooperation between the governments of Member States, social agents, regional and local authorities and the European Union.
Another important topic, I believe, is progressive harmonization of legislation in the labour and socialsecurity field, to enable the European Union to create jobs in any State in the Union and to prevent borders creating an obstacle to finding work on the other side.
I also feel it is important for the European Union to advocate greater flexibility when contracting for labour.
However, because, as is particularly emphasized in this report, action on employment always seems more effective when it involves the economic and social actors and the local authorities, we would like the Commission to think about the possibility of at least partially regionalizing, in future, the appropriations which are at present allocated within the framework of the Structural Funds, Objectives 3 and 4.
There is one aspect on which this Parliament and the European institutions in general seem to be in agreement: the fact that things are not working, and the results - when there are any results - are extremely disappointing.
So it is wrong, as I see it, if indeed there should be a chapter on employment in the Treaty, that - as Mr Lage writes in his report - the Treaty should make it obligatory to coordinate Community policy for the creation of jobs; but if there is a chapter on employment in the Treaty, then at the most it should create an obligation to coordinate the national employment policies.
Male unemployment in the Union is currently running at 9.5 %, whilst female unemployment is 12.4 %.
In some countries, such as Spain, the figures are 18 % for men and 30 % for women.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the high level of unemployment is a continuing major challenge to the European Union.
This means that one side must abandon thinking solely in terms of shareholder value, while the other must negotiate not only in the employees' interests but also in those of the unemployed.
The appeal must be made not just to governments, Mr Wolf, but also to the solidarity of the social partners for the common good in Europe, and beyond the boundaries of the European Union.
It is not true that there has been a lack of analysis, proposals or declarations - we have had more than enough of those since I arrived here in Parliament.
They have come from the Council, the Commission and from this Parliament.
The economic policies which the Member States have pursued individually have been similar but at the same time a disaster.
We must therefore find a balance quickly.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, given the situation of structural unemployment that we are facing, it is vital to ensure that stable jobs are created.
It is the old dichotomy between 'places prosperity' and 'peoples prosperity' .
If this is not the case, if we were to confuse social policy with structural policy, we would reach a conclusion which I wish to avoid in future debates and in debates on forthcoming financial developments, and it is this: that appraisals of unemployment concentrating on major towns and cities, on major towns and cities in prosperous countries, are capable of attracting the greater part of investment in Structural Funds.
LEONARDO and SOCRATES, ADAPT and NOW and more effective use of the structural funds are a reality, not an illusion.
The necessary chapter on employment must not arouse any false hopes.
The only way to acquire them lies in our economy's capability to offer our consumers and consumers in third countries goods and services which are competitive on international markets.
We are therefore calling for innovative criteria and greater flexibility in the application of the Structural Funds.
Mr President, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the debate and say a special word of thanks to Mr Wolf for his excellent report.
Mr Wolf has put forward a careful and thorough analysis of the Commission's Employment in Europe Report and I am particularly pleased that we agree on so many aspects of the strategy that we are pursuing.
I welcome both and I believe they form a basis for us to carry our strategy further in the future.
The Employment in Europe Report has become a major event in the Commission's annual calendar and it has changed in recent times both in structure and in presentation.
In particular it deals with the following: to present a succinct description of the main analytical messages of the report, to give a flavour of the main stance of policy in Member States and in the different policy areas and finally, and most importantly, to present the Commission's views of the main policy conclusions which we have called 'The Need for Action' .
Member States have now integrated the strategy in their multi-annual programmes and we are committed to action on employment.
The Lage report must bring us to the point that the employment problem is not just about macro-economic aspects only, the Lage report takes us into other structural aspects of the strategy.
Mr Lage stresses also that this is a policy for the long term and he particularly highlights the need to develop local development and for the creation of small business.
The Commission intends to make progress on this question through the Interdepartmental Working Party on assessment and through the Means Programme.
In this report Mr Ribeiro proposed to make it a priority task of the administrative commission on social security for migrant workers to deal with problems of frontier workers.
The debate is closed.
The second part of the sentence then reads: ' ...
This insertion ' seriously studying new models of taxation capable of counteracting this tendency' replaces the disputed wording contained in the original text; it is capable of producing a consensus, and it would satisfy me too.
The agreement secures a great many direct jobs and even more indirect jobs in Europe and Mauretania.
The rush caused by the Council also means that we are having to decide today on this important agreement without a debate.
But the Council has changed the Commission's chosen legal basis to a simple consultation procedure.
At the recommendation of our Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the Committee on Fisheries gave its opinion on the basis of the assent procedure.
Bellerè report (A4-0333/96) First, we should thank the European Commission for having stood by its commitment and provided us, as an annex to its proposal, with a report on the application of summer time in the European Union.
Christodoulou report (A4-0371/96) Mr President, I would simply like to place on the record the political view of the Liberal Group.
As we believe that Economic and Monetary Union should not happen we have chosen to abstain in the vote on this report.
Certainly the report qualifies the Commission's statements on stability programmes for the Member States but we believe that a 'stability pact' will so harm the economy that we cannot support any proposal, qualified or not, which is based on such a pact.
We are against a pact of adhesion and recession.
It is both socially and economically inconceivable to conduct, simultaneously, an excessively strict monetary and foreign exchange policy and excessively strict budgetary policies.
The workers must not be used as an adjustable variable, whether in the form of excessive wage restraint or in the form of unemployment.
Furthermore, while stigmatizing the national authorities, the stability pact will give the European Central Bank (ECB) an alibi for penalizing, by raising the European interest rate, an accidental drift by one or more Member States.
This will increase the overvaluation of our currencies against the dollar, which is already of the order of 40 % in terms of parity of purchasing power.
Furthermore, imposing financial penalties on a State in deficit may be illogical or even dangerous: rather than a financial penalty which will make that deficit even worse and denounce it to the international financial community, the 'delinquent' State needs assistance programmes.
We are in favour of a pact of solidarity and growth, sustained by a policy in favour of employment, progress and social cohesion.
It is essential, then, to make it clear in the second recital that national budgetary policies must also be defined in a manner such as to permit sufficient public investment to help sustain growth and employment.
Such a definition must take account of the fundamental constitutional obligations upon the Member States in the context of schemes designed to confront situations of rising unemployment or to safeguard their territorial integrity.
Finally, it pays greater attention to the situation of the Member States which are not participating in the EMU but will eventually do so.
The stability pact which we are being asked to approve, in the form of two Council proposals for Regulations, would serve to guarantee that the budgetary convergence of the euro States will be sustainable even after the single currency has come into force.
This procedure, in our view, raises serious problems of both substance and form.
And the reason it was not envisaged is that the Maastricht draft was drawn up in total ignorance of the real conditions in which a single currency would be introduced.
In France, in particular, the Constitutional Council ruled in 1992 that the single currency might cast doubt on the essential conditions for the exercise of national sovereignty, so that it was necessary to change the constitution in order to introduce the new monetary provisions.
Herman report (A4-0375/96) As we consider that Sweden should not participate in Economic and Monetary Union we are refraining from taking part in the vote on the technical aspects of the euro.
The report's sixth amendment is worded as if the entire EMU project had already been decided on and finalised by the EU's Member States and citizens.
The first comprising using Article 235 - a scandalous provision, allowing the Council to take action even when the Treaty has made no provision for it - as the legal basis for one of the two Regulations, instead of Article 109l(4), dealing with the entry into force of Stage three, as would have been natural.
The second kind of manipulation is the attempt to change the name of the single currency from ECU to euro - which is legally equivalent to amending the Treaty - once again through the device of Article 235.
However, the Court of Justice of the Communities, in its opinion of 28 March 1996, clearly specified that this article could not be used to bring about 'an amendment to the Treaty outside the procedure laid down for that purpose by the Treaty' .
To combat this trickery, I myself, as a French citizen, brought an action for annulment, registered by the Court of Justice on 4 November last year, opposing the change of name of the European currency.
The undersigned Members have chosen to abstain from voting because we are against monetary union and the introduction of the euro as a common currency.
On the pretext of approving the recommendation of the Council, which must find that, at the end of 1996, there is still not a majority of Member States complying with the necessary conditions for adopting the single currency, the Metten report provides the European Parliament with an opportunity to pass on another and much more political message: the Council should not confine itself to a 'pure arithmetical application' of the convergence criteria but should, rather, ' make full use' of the assessment margins contained in the Treaty.
The stated objective of Parliament, then, is to enable a 'majority of Member States' to become members of the third stage of EMU from 1 January 1999.
Nowhere is it written, either in the Treaty or in the accompanying Protocol, that there is any requirement of formal participation in the EMS.
But I suppose the answer to that will be that there is not enough time left between now and January 1998, at which point the Council will have to select the Member States which will be participating in Stage three from 1 January 1999 onwards.
This assertion seems incorrect.
We therefore call upon the Dublin Council to show clear-headedness, in the interests of the Union, and to refrain from confirming the date of 1 January 1999, as was incautiously done by the Florence and Madrid Councils.
Then we would have time to put the real problems before the national parliaments.
Harrison report (A4-0374/96) We welcome the initiative in the report to the effect that monetary policy should also be linked to the level of unemployment and not only to price stability.
The report considers that a common monetary policy should be followed by increasingly close coordination of the Member States' economic policies.
By means of this explanation of vote we should like to point out that this must not involve a common financial policy at European level or the harmonisation of tax policies.
Metten report (A4-0379/96), Christodoulou report (A4-0371/96), Herman report (A4-0375/96), Hoppenstedt report (A4-0352/96), Harrison report (A4-0374/96) I have voted against the five reports on EMU.
In many Member States and in the EU as a whole unemployment has increased and now totals between 18 and 20 million.
One of the fundamental mistakes with EMU, however, is that fifteen countries in Europe are making cuts in their budgets and thus in the public sector and in employment.
This is being done irrespective of the economic situation and irrespective of the economic policies being pursued or which have been pursued in the respective countries.
Wijsenbeek report (A4-0289/96) As a whole this is a very good report.
Such coordination and common efforts to promote employment, solidarity and social cohesion should not, on the other hand, lead in the long term to a common labour market policy or harmonisation of social policies.
Moderate inflation of between five and seven percent does not harm the way in which the economy functions.- Lage report (A4-0358/96) I have voted for the report, which contains a number of good proposals, such as that on shorter working hours.
To this end, the primary objective of Community structural policy must clearly not be direct or indirect job creation, since this is a long-term policy, but rather the consolidation of competitive economies through the improvement of infrastructures, the environment, research, etc.
Wolf report (A4-0369/96), Lage report (A4-0358/96), Ribeiro report (A4-0278/96) Although we are highly sceptical about the possibility of a common labour market policy we are voting for these reports, which include proposals to improve today's disastrous unemployment.
