Ladies and gentlemen, it is also my sad duty to remind you that our colleague Sir James Goldsmith died on 19 July, following a long illness most bravely borne.
Sir James Goldsmith was elected a Member of the European Parliament in June 1994 from the L'autre Europe list.
As you know, this House has followed very closely the peace negotiations in Northern Ireland.
This Parliament has always steadfastly and consistently supported the peace process in Northern Ireland, so what you have just said describes the policy this House has always followed .
The Committee on Regional Affairs is meeting tonight and that makes it particularly difficult if we move the Azzolini report to the end of the agenda.
This question will be included in a joint debate with the question by the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party on the same subject.
The oral question from the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media is about respecting press freedom and yet guaranteeing the right of privacy as far as possible.
In March, there was the problem of newspaper distribution monopoly in the United Kingdom and other Member States of the Union.
Mr President, you will recollect in the Conference of Presidents the almost overwhelming agreement and view of the group leaders that this was a particularly sensitive, particularly complex and particularly delicate issue at this point in time.
Mr President, everything we do here in this House is important and the evening sittings are important too.
We should maintain the agenda as far as possible.
We are keen to learn what the Commission is going to do and what the Commission's reaction is going to be.
It is very difficult to take a clear and unbiassed view without knowing that, and I think that the Secretariat could tell us before the debate continues.
Sittings of 1 and 2 October in Brussels (No change) (The order of business was adopted as amended) Calendar of Part-Sessions 1998 At its meeting today, the Conference of Presidents agreed to propose the following calendar for the 1998 part-sessions: 12 to 16 January 28 to 29 January 16 to 20 February 9 to 13 March 25 to 26 March 14 to 17 April 29 to 30 April 11 to 15 May 15 to 19 June 1 to 2 July 13 to 17 July 14 to 18 September 5 to 9 October 19 to 23 October 4 to 5 November 16 to 20 November 2 to 3 December 14 to 18 December The deadline for tabling amendments to these dates is 12.00 noon tomorrow, Tuesday 16 September.
So initially the maximum time-limit is 12 noon on Tuesday.
This could be extended to 3 p.m.
I have just three very simple points to make in support of the position the rapporteur has taken.
Advertising which makes a real comparison between real qualities in an objective way serves the interests of the consumer, and it should be seen as such.
The rapporteur has already referred to the second point, which my Group would like to stress: the way in which the directive has ultimately succeeded in drawing the line at advertisements which mislead by the use of remarkably similar names.
The use of a similar name to ride on the back of another product, which may have been established on the market for 20 or 30 years, is an unfair business practice, and outlawing it in the way that the amended directive has done is an eminently sensible thing to do.
It took two years after the first reading before the Commission had amended a proposal and another two years before the Council had established a common position.
I must say that when the final conciliation procedure eventually took place on 25 June this year, we also attempted to mess things up three times because the date was cancelled.
I expect the Commission will now make a proposal on time.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, the Conciliation Committee between the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers has reached an agreement over the RAPHAEL programme for the conservation of Europe's cultural heritage.
The European Parliament proposed a sum of ECU 86 million for the four years from 1997 to 2000, while the Council reduced the figure to ECU 30 million for the same period, with a limit of ECU 10 million for each of the first two years, and subsequent revision.
The agreed solution proposes a grant of ECU 30 million between 1997 and 2000.
This is a very interesting approach and will allow the European Union to use a single organization to cover cultural activities, which are currently split up.
The Commission will consult widely with the parties and institutions concerned, and in particular with the European Parliament to determine their proposal for the framework programme.
Based on what I have just said, I think that the Plenary should vote in favour of the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee, but we must analyse the problems which arose during the approval procedure for the Raphael programme, which took more than two years.
The codecision procedure with unanimity in the Council is very inefficient.
The fact that any country can block the procedure makes agreement difficult, and it can be a long process.
I believe that the problem is more serious.
This Parliament should once again take the initiative in order to demonstrate that the cultural values which are common to all Europeans are perfectly compatible with the cultural diversity of our citizens, and that to preserve and make known our common European heritage is a necessary part of integration at this point in the building of Europe.
I wish to congratulate our rapporteur, Javier Sanz Fernández, for his fortitude and perseverance.
I find myself in an unusual position, given that it is Commissioner Bangemann who is here with us this evening, of wholeheartedly congratulating the Commission on its fortitude and perseverance.
The Commission proposed a programme in which Europeans would join together to protect and enhance our cultural heritage: the heritage that is visible, that gives us pride in our towns and cities, that is the very physical backbone of our European civilization.
The length of the procedure (two years), the apparent ability of one Member State to stop all real progress in the cultural field, comes about because Article 128 is beset and dogged by the codecision procedure with unanimity in the Council of Ministers.
Through their actions some ministers undervalue the critical part the cultural industries play in the whole of our economy and the enormous potential they have for job creation.
Quite simply, as a former culture minister, Michael D.
Books or buildings are not the same as buckets, films are not fish.
I welcome the final adoption of this programme.
It was wrong of the Council of Ministers to think that in this case we are dealing with what I always call a spending department, in which you must be economical.
It is great that I can now disagree with Commissioner Bangemann, because he naturally has a great deal of understanding about culture but also about economics and the two come together here.
I think that the fact that we are prepared to declare the protection and the preservation of our cultural heritage as priority number one can also be a political instrument for further European integration.
As chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and he Media, there are really two reasons why I have been able to agree with the conciliation.
Mr President, I would also like to congratulate rapporteur Sanz Fernández for the excellent work he has provided us with and, above all, for his proven qualities as a negotiator in bringing the Raphael programme to a successful conclusion.
According to the accounts of my colleagues, the conciliation procedure between the Council and Parliament has been very difficult.
Whilst Parliament considered a budget of ECU 86 million to be necessary, the Council stuck strictly to the budget of ECU 30 million that they had always proposed.
We finally accepted this budget of 30 million divided over four years, but without an annual breakdown.
And it is unfortunately not the Treaty of Amsterdam which is going to advance this unhappy situation, on the grounds of article 128, as Carole Tongue has clearly said.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, the European Union programmes for culture have been problematic and slow to start.
The margin for negotiation between the ECU 30 million over four years approved by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media in the common position and the ECU 86 million requested by the European Parliament at the time of the vote on the second reading seems substantial.
The demands of the European Parliament collided, as usual, with the principle of unanimity which is current in the Council with regard to cultural policy.
The Treaty of Amsterdam has maintained the status quo and we can already expect admissions of powerlessness from Parliament in the sphere of cultural policy.
Also figuring in the ranks of small satisfactions are the clause regarding revision after two years and the commitment of the Commission Executive to present a global cultural programme in 1998.
Mr President, almost two years after first dealing with it in this Parliament, the Raphael action programme for cultural heritage is soon going to start up.
For these two reasons, I shall not approve this report, although I wish to state explicitly once more that that does not mean that I am not in agreement with the intended aims of the programme.
Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and Parliament's delegation which brought the difficult conciliation on the Raphael programme to a conclusion.
Mr President, I believe that nearly everything has been said on the remarkable interest of the Raphael programme at the time of its first reading in October 1995, its second reading in October 1996 and here today.
I was just wondering, what Parliament would do if this discussion were taking place before an election.
Say, for instance, you had to take 150 million away from the agricultural policy and add it to this programme.
In my view it would be very short-sighted to define culture as only existing in one region or one nation, and unable to develop a European form of expression as well.
That is much more important than a direct means of creating jobs.
Today, culture is a direct economic factor.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Bangemann.
The debate is closed.
Mr Vecchi, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media Mr President, I want to thank the Committee on Regional Policy for assigning this report to me and I must say I have found it very absorbing because I have always maintained that culture is a great instrument with vast potential for regional development.
In the recent past there has been, and unfortunately there still is, a serious dysfunction, a serious gap in structural funds spending capacity in certain objective 1 areas, especially in our country, alas.
That is why I maintain, and I say so in this report, the fundamental importance of making culture a basic link in this development, this commitment, and this expenditure.
It is also necessary to have the capacity to re-examine the cultural process on our continent.
We have objective 1 areas with latent potential which has not been properly exploited, and they could experience a time of recovery through appropriate use of the structural funds, precisely in a cultural key.
I have accepted almost all the amendments including Amendment No 5, as long as it is incorporated into paragraph 25, otherwise I will have to reject it as too specific.
But it is urgent to do so and overcome all resistance, transcend all indifference.
And we are talking about employment, about cultural activities as generators of jobs, which can and must create the indispensable harmony between the past to be preserved and the future to be built, not denying that past but valuing it.
On first assessment, the Commission estimates such finance at about ECU 400 million.
It seems clear, from the Commission's communication, from the Council's various recent meetings, and, above all, from what has been put forward by the European Parliament for years, that support for cultural activities is not an unproductive luxury but a condition of development, progress and job-creation for the whole European Union.
In our opinion, drafted on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, we have essentially emphasized three points: the first relates to what can already be done using the existing funds and regulations.
Intervention in the cultural sector and, above all, the integration of culture at all levels of socioeconomic development are, by their nature, valuable in both social and civic terms and economic and employment terms.
The second point relates to the definition of the future structural policies of the Union.
It is clear that the objectives and regulations of the structural funds, after 1999, must provide for and permit better integration of culture into the Community's policies for economic and social cohesion and development.
We suggest that the existing cultural programmes should be grouped together under a single framework programme with new actions and programmes, the promotion of cultural industries, high level training in the sector, and so on.
Mr President, I very much welcome the Commission communication which followed a request from the Committee on Regional Policy for further discussion and debate on the role that culture can play in achieving economic and social cohesion.
I believe that we have a lot of potential in promoting cultural industries where there is very good value for money.
I do not know whether you have heard of the Spice Girls, Commissioner, or indeed if you have one of their records, but there are very many famous British pop bands such as Oasis and the Spice Girls.
I hope, Commissioner, that you will take away some of these ideas and that you will push for the cultural industries to be put on the agenda at the forthcoming employment summit.
If culture and the individual traditions of European countries are to be truly respected, I believe it is fundamental to distinguish between culture to be protected and culture to be sold, while keeping to the line proposed by the Commission whereby culture as a whole, in all its many aspects, should be regarded as an instrument for employment.
Culture and cohesion policy as a new source of employment: here I want to stress the need to avoid creating new forms of seasonal, casual employment, which happens all too often in tourism.
The Commission ought to confront these issues starting from the recognition that only 3 per cent of structural funds appropriations going to fund projects relating to cultural heritage - the current position - is too little.
During the public hearing last November, when culture and cohesion policy were discussed, the interesting suggestion emerged of an objective 7 devoted to culture, a horizontal objective.
This is money well spent and we in the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group support both the communication and the report wholeheartedly.
Cultural projects have a great potential in our Community framework - a potential not yet realised, unfortunately.
I should also like to welcome in particular paragraph 37 of the report in which there is a proposal to mobilize local and regional authorities, together with the close participation of Community and women's groups who are active in promoting heritage and culture at grass-roots level.
In this context, I welcome the importance the rapporteur has given to culture in peaceful conflict resolution.
The support project for Northern Ireland for peace and reconciliation is a model of grass-roots activism and could be a model for this particular proposal here in listening closely to the grass roots and giving them support.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in its communication the Commission identifies culture as being a sector with strong employment potential and analyses the link existing between culture and regional development.
Culture is an important source of employment, for example, in tourism: this sector alone accounts for 7 % of jobs in the Union.
In his excellent report, Mr Azzolini demonstrates the importance of structural funds and, particularly in objective 5 regions, for the financing of cultural projects in the European Union.
We note that rural policy is virtually absent from the Santer package, since objective 5a and 5b regions are grouped together under objective 2.
The reform of the structural funds after 1999 presents a first class opportunity to bind the cultural dimension, generating economic growth through quality tourism, much more closely to aid policy.
Yesterday the Greek Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs reminded us of what our dear departed Melina Merkouri often said - and Melina Merkouri cannot be left out of a debate on culture - that culture must be the heavy artillery of Greek society.
Unfortunately, up to the present time, culture has been the poor relation of regional development, since only 3 % of the total allocation of Structural Funds has been made available for programmes of a cultural nature.
The role of culture as a factor in the development and economic cohesion of the European Union needs to be taken into serious consideration during the revision of the regulations concerning the Structural Funds, and also needs to be given priority in the new programming period.
According to current regulations culture can only then be considered when it is part of the regional or local development plans for the creation of permanent jobs.
According to the programme support of the structural funds, it is the role of the Member States and regions to give due weight to the enhancement of culture within the framework of over-all support.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate we are considering culture from an unusual angle, from an economic viewpoint; its contribution to economic development, its great potential for the creation of employment and the impulse it gives to regional and local development - in a word - its contribution to European economic and social cohesion.
Ever since this debate opened in Venice in May 1996, various Community documents have stressed the economic potential of culture in the creation of skilled and lasting employment, both directly and indirectly, as well as its potential contribution to regional or local development.
Pragmatic, but very apposite.
With the review of the structural funds and Agenda 2000, we now have a great opportunity to put culture at the centre of the European project.
It is important that this is done by the whole of Parliament, not just the Committee on Culture, on the floor of the House especially, but also through the intergroups which have been set up here in the wake of the unsatisfactory results of Amsterdam.
After all, in the long run this communication between Commission and Parliament is only possible on such occasions, at least for the main part.
I think we shall then see somewhat more clearly how to incorporate this important factor in the future.
The title in itself should take up about three minutes' speaking time.
The second reading of the postal directive sees us approaching the end of what has been a long-running saga.
Honourable Members of this House will be aware of the positions taken by the House, not only on the first reading but on the original Green Paper and various oral questions.
Therefore, as rapporteur, it is my belief that for the second reading Parliament should keep its amendments to a bare minimum, thus facilitating a common agreement in this sector.
First of all, the definition of a universal service provider in article 2(13) should read: ' the public or private entity providing a universal postal service or parts thereof within a Member State, the identity of which has been notified to the Commission in accordance with article 4' .
I believe that should Parliament accept the amendments of the Transport Committee, and only those amendments, at second reading, then together we will have succeeded in ensuring that the goals I set out earlier are achieved and the common position with the Council realised.
No doubt, both the Commission and Parliament will return to this problem at a later date.
However, I believe that introducing this issue at this stage could seriously undermine our ability to reach an agreement with the Council, which is why I cannot support amendments on this subject.
In conclusion, I would ask Parliament to support the Transport Committee on this second reading and, in so doing, to strike a blow not only for the universal public service but also for Parliament itself.
I ask the Commission, therefore, to present a separate guideline proposal on the final payments, and for this to be December 2000 at the very latest when it reports on the new postal services guidelines and their implementation.
My group, the Group of the European People's Party will not puss for a compromise procedure, as we must at long last come to the point where things start moving in the member states.
We in the Group of the European People's Party feel that we must achieve a common market, with competition even in the postal services, but that this competition should not grant one nation advantages over another.
You have it in your power to do something tomorrow for your comrades!
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I would like to congratulate Mr Simpson for his excellent draft recommendations on the harmonization of postal services.
In fact, these will play a decisive role in the organization of this sector in Europe since they pick up once again the position taken by the European Parliament at the time of the first reading and that of the Franco-German agreement, an initiative of Jacques Chiral, which is the implementation of a universal service along with the clear definition of a reserved service for businesses which will be allocated by each Member State in respect of the principle of subsidiarity.
Similarly, citizens and businesses expect from the European Union the guarantee of a quality public service at an affordable price.
For all these reasons, my group wishes to see rapid adoption of the directive, if possible during the Telecommunications Council on 1 December.
It is typical that all the previous speakers drew attention to the workers in the postal services and that nobody said a word on behalf of the consumer who is entitled to a good service.
At first reading, my group, not just me, Mr Simpson, voted against.
Very recently Agence Europe reported that only 80 % of letters were delivered on time.
The common position of the Council, which has incorporated most of the European Parliament's amendments rejected by the Commission, certainly limits the liberalization of the postal sector, but nevertheless opens the door to it.
Clearly, a sharp brake has been put on the achievement of the ultra-liberal objectives pursued by the Commission and of certain Member States governments.
On the other hand, the fact that certain States may introduce more liberal measures which will create a risk of unfair competition and which may compromise equitable cooperation between European Union postal services.
The Swedish example is edifying in this regard: with liberalization, 25 % of jobs were lost, 30 % of offices closed and prices, for the private individual, rose 42 % in four years.
Then there can be either public or private providers.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive formulated by the Commission is an important step towards the setting up of a single market for postal services in the European Union.
Mr President, postal services fulfil a crucial function in society.
Just like this Parliament at first reading, the Council chose by a majority the short term interests of the inefficient postal services, particularly in the large Member States of the Union.
All this time the subject has remained on the political agenda and, what is much more serious, the postal sector in the European Union has clearly been denied clarity on the subject.
Mr President, as I have said often before in this Parliament, I am a former postal worker and remain strongly linked to the postal workers' unions as well of course as primarily representing here more than half a million postal consumers in my constituency.
I want to congratulate Brian Simpson, the rapporteur, on the way he has steered the European postal services debate and directive over the past few years.
It is in the interests of the people of Europe that we have an efficient and affordable postal service that reflects the fact that postal communications are an essential public service.
Mr President, postal services are social services and, as such, both their profitability and the level of quality of the services provided are matters that should be addressed.
I have only accepted this solution because two important amendments were adopted by the Council: the principle of liberalization will be accepted, and a timetable will be constructed that I shall most carefully adhere to.
The debate is closed.
