This brutal aggression not only precipitated millions of Europeans into tragedy and oppression, but also confirmed the division of Europe into two blocs.
In 1956, Europe seemed condemned to remain a divided continent.
Since 1989, the establishment of a new and larger European Union has become the challenge of our generation.
The events in Hungary in 1956 coincided with the initiatives of Jean Monnet and others, aimed at giving new impetus to the process of European integration.
For several decades, no one dared dream that Europe could really regain unity without another world war.
The events of 1989 and the peaceful revolutions which took place in Hungary and in other countries have enabled us to realize this dream, without war.
All our work towards cooperation with our sister countries in Central and Eastern Europe is therefore not simply another element in Parliament's heavy work programme.
My comment relates to Point 16 of yesterday's Minutes: food additives, the Riis-Jørgensen report and the vote on it.
Meantime I see from Page 21 of the Minutes that seven Members claim they had intended to vote in favour of the amendment in question but did not do so due to a misunderstanding over the way in which the amendment was shown on our own electronic display.
Madam President, with the distinguished guest that we have, it is appropriate that I rise on page 18 of yesterday's Minutes which records that this Parliament adopted a very strong resolution on the situation in Burma.
I know that you and President Hänsch both have a very strong personal commitment to freedom and democracy in Burma, as does this whole House.
Yesterday morning and this morning too, France 2, the national television channel, presented reports on our system of allowances.
These incidents are seriously damaging to our Parliament's image.
Unfortunately, a recent decision by the Bureau highlights the transit list nature of this list.
I feel that there is not a moment to be lost and that the Bureau should take this matter in hand immediately, as it is very important for our Parliament's image.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, as you know well, my answer is that the Bureau has not waited for you in order to study these problems for which reasonable solutions must be found.
Madam President, I wish to point out that when we vote on the structural fund aspects of the greening block, in fact, our amendments and the comments on this line contravene the structural fund regulations.
We should always look at things in a reasonable way but we should not now disrupt the vote on this particular matter.
Draft amendments and proposed modification relating to the appropriations in Section III (Commission) of the draft general budget of the European Communities for 1997 Draft amendments to Sections I, II, IV, V and VI of the draft general budget of the European Communities for the financial year 1997 relating to the European Parliament, the Council, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Regarding block 2: Madam President, before we come to the vote on the next block, i.e., agricultural expenditure, I would like to make it quite clear once again on behalf of my group that we are not entirely satisfied with the legal interpretation in regard to the decision on the ad hoc procedure.
I will, therefore, not be voting on this resolution.
Even though we are now at 1.16 %, instead of the 1.24 % opened by the Edinburgh agreement, we want to go further in the future.
While so doing, Parliament rejected an amendment concerning reimbursement of expenses to Members of Parliament which, although it received 85 votes, went in the direction of the economies desired by citizens of the Member States of the European Union.
It is a missed opportunity, regretted by our group.
Mr President, I wish to make an oral explanation of vote in order to formally protest against Amendment No 1005 to the budget, which has just been voted and which provides for the creation of a new budget item entitled 'Contributions to European political parties' - obviously to be understood as financial.
This heading provides for a Community public financing of certain parties, which are called European.
This initiative appears totally inopportune in a context of budget austerity.
Even if in 1997 no credit would yet be paid, the definitive adoption of this principle would be serious for the future as it would generate expenses not quantified in advance.
Moreover, political parties in several countries - including France - already receive public financing for all their activities, both national and European.
But the inter-institutional agreement, if it entails discipline on the part of Parliament in the exercise of its budget powers, involves in return the commitment of the Council to finance the policies formulated by mutual agreement.
In refusing to execute its part of the contract, the Council is in breach of the obligation of cooperation laid down by Article 5 of the Treaty, and obliges Parliament to fall back on Article 203 of the Treaty, which it is perfectly entitled to do.
I voted for the 1997 budget at the first reading with mixed feelings, because there is no viable alternative.
The signal given by setting aside ECU 300 million for TENs and research is not enough.
The first vote concerns the MEDA programme.
It is, however, a matter of very great regret to me that the rapporteur did not intend agreeing to my amendment on ECHO, approved by a slight majority.
As at 30 September, ECHO has a spending capacity, a rate of spending implementation of 120 %.
Mr President, I think this budget once again demonstrates what we saw last year too, namely that international solidarity is being abandoned in favour of the implementation of a new Community foreign policy.
Year after year we see major development policy budget headings, cooperation with the NGOs, support for the peace process in southern Africa, new budget headings for the clearing of mines, being cut again and again.
If I am right in my view, we are facing a real cut of 3 % in development resources.
I would therefore call on Members to consider how we want to frame this policy in the next financial year, whether we want to close up the borders of these fifteen Member States, the borders of this Community even more tightly, whether we want to pursue a military policy that encourages this foreign policy based on the idea of further future conflict, or whether we want to pursue a preventive, civil foreign policy.
A development policy aimed at independent regional development offers the chance and the condition for peaceful coexistence within the south/north framework, which is why we must not cut these scarce resources even more in future.
Moreover, this confirms a position taken two years ago.
Our farming budget is below the bar of 50 %.
Mr President, we have voted for budget heading B3-4100 on family aid involving ECU 2.5m, but it must be said that this is manifestly inadequate and a disgrace to the House, which is making a wrong decision in not offering the necessary support to the development of the family.
In fact, the fundamental problem of our societies, of our nations, is an age pyramid which is becoming increasingly top heavy.
Mr President, like last year I am forced yet again to vote against the report drawn up by our Committee on Budgets.
Mr President, I would like to thank this House for supporting and voting for the extra ECU 100m for Northern Ireland here today.
I would like to put on record that at no time during the last two weeks have any of the three Members from Northern Ireland ever believed that anything other than what happened in the vote today would take place.
I hope that what happened over the last two weeks will not in any way be held against us or held against the people of Northern Ireland.
Our basic attitude towards the EU budget is largely the same as that of the Green Group but in certain respects our main concerns are different and this has caused us to vote differently as well.
We are definitely against a development which will push up the membership contribution even more, according to certain calculations to 25 billion Swedish kronor in the next budget year.
We consider that the EU must concentrate its activities rather than encroaching on new areas and trying to be involved in everything under the sun, especially when in many cases there are other international organisations which are already dealing with such matters, such as the UN, OSCE, the Council of Europe and so on.
If the EU does not succeed in winning popular support it must realise that this is because its activities are going in the wrong direction; far too little effort is devoted to solving genuine and natural cross-border problems, such as in the environmental sphere, and far too much to theatrical PR campaigns aimed at creating a 'superpower' .
This should be done in the first instance in the major categories of expenditure: agriculture, the Structural Funds and administration.
The figure for 1997 may be as much as 25 billion kronor (22 billion is reserved as the EU membership contribution).
I have voted against increases in agriculture which are of a non-compulsory nature.
Cuts in the Structural Funds must also be made largely in line with the proposals from the Budget Committee, with the exception of objective 1 (high unemployment), objective 5b (archipelagos) and objective 6 (Norrland support).
I have largely supported projects for the Third World, despite the fact that in principle I am against the EU being involved in activities in these areas.
The Committee on Budgets is threatening to freeze money for the Commission's some 300 committees if there is not greater openness in the committee system.
The allowances systems should not be based on the highest possible level of costs as they are now.
Our capitals are quicker at investing in the economic and monetary aspects of the European Union than in social cohesion and the - shall we say - qualitative aspects.
I also regret the reductions in appropriations for sectors we consider to be a priority, such as employment, support to European regions in difficulty and solidarity with developing countries.
In limiting emergency food aid to developing countries, the victims of serious crises, the Council is shouldering a heavy responsibility.
This is why our Parliament, by its votes, has been bent on re-entering appropriations which do correspond to its priorities, including the research sector, as it wished to re-enter an appropriation of ECU 100m to support the peace process in Northern Ireland.
Of course I am taking into account the fact that 46 % of the ECU 89 thousand million of this budget involves supporting agriculture, which historically remains the first major common policy of Europe, but the so-called mad cow disease crisis is forcing us to take a new look at what must be the agriculture of tomorrow.
I also wish to emphasize with pleasure that the European Parliament has wished to reinforce actions which directly involve my region, such as support for non-industrial fishing, strengthening of sea control and the promotion of minority languages and cultures, initiatives of our institution tolerated by the Council.
The Member States of the EU are hard hit by cuts in the social sector, the care sector and in public services resulting from the implementation of the convergence programme.
At the same time it looks as if an overall unemployment figure of around 20 million has become a permanent feature of the 15 Member States.
Iivari recommendation Mr President, no one more than we, who have done everything to help the people of the former Yugoslavia break free from the Communist federal yoke, rejoices in the peace and independence found by the Slovenian and Croatian nations.
That is a very serious matter, including because it goes on to put its own construction on the events leading to the signing of the association agreement.
I hope this has been done, but the very fact that this report was able to be tabled certainly shows negligence, so to speak, on the part of the rapporteur who should not, in an economic report, have dwelt on what is, I repeat, a misleading and wildly inaccurate reconstruction of what happened in the region.
Theonas report Unemployment in Europe remains the main scourge that we must fight.
The unemployment rate remains particularly high, with an average of 10.7 % in the middle of 1996.
The proposal for a Council decision concerning the setting up of a committee on employment policy and the labour market is a step in the right direction.
A real tool to assist the decision, this committee should make it possible to remedy the absence of a stable employment structure.
One of the challenges we face is to put in place instruments intended to promote a European employment strategy, coordinating the policies of Member States in their battle against unemployment.
In its amendments, the European Parliament has tried to reinforce not only transparency, but also coordination between European institutions, the committee on employment policy and the labour market and all employers and labour.
The budget reduction in funds allocated to transEuropean networks and structural funds is not a step in the direction of the fight against unemployment.
The proposed employment and labour market policy committee can help increase exchanges of experience between the Member States, draw up reports, elaborate ideas and recommend measures.
The EU should not have police supervision or other ways of exercising control in the Member States.
At this moment, there are 18 million people out of work in the 15 Member States, and the situation is especially difficult for women and young people -one in five cannot find a job.
The tourism industry offers European citizens the best opportunities to create new jobs.
Tourism as an economic, social and cultural phenomenon affects the majority of European citizens, either as users or providers of services geared to satisfying the multiple needs of the tourist.
The definition of a tourism policy at the European level has been one of the objectives of the Community since 1980 and the debate has highlighted a great variety of views on how to introduce tourism into the treaty.
The whole European Union is conscious that tourism is the number one world economic activity.
It is also necessary to promote alternative forms of tourism, like rural tourism, cultural tourism, social tourism, conference tourism, sports-based tourism and so many others.
The Philoxenia programme is exclusively devoted to tourism and largely targeted at managers and authorities in the sector, with the aim of organizing it and achieving the necessary complementarity with other programmes which also have incidence on tourism.
Given that the majority of tourism businesses are SMEs, we call for Philoxenia and its business aspects to be linked to the Third Multiannual Programme for SMEs, geared to supporting small and medium-sized European enterprises, which represent 99.9 % of all firms, 66 % of total employment and 65 % of turnover in the Union.
Tourism covers a complex system of activities involving thousands of SMEs and many small family businesses.
We call for a small 'Euro-counter' specializing in tourism to help promote measures for tourist SMEs, direct contacts between cooperation and collaboration programmes, entry into new markets and internationalization of European tourist SMEs.
Mr President, once again we have to express disappointment at the fact that, even within this House, tourism has not been acknowledged as having the crucial role that most of us have been hoping to see attributed to it for many years.
Viewing tourism as a strategic industry for employment, development, growth, competitiveness, economic and social cohesion and as a contribution to the spread of the different national cultures and the strengthening of the European identity, should be the basis of every policy, whatever the decision-taking level within the European Union.
If we are to contribute to the sustainable development of tourism in Europe and of the sectors closely linked with it, we have, in my view, to give it institutional legitimacy both at a European and at a national and regional level.
It is thus necessary, as an essential prerequisite, that a specific chapter on tourism be inserted into the treaty as part of the revision process, creating that added value that will ensure the sustainability of the sector and its ability to continue to create permanent jobs in an increasingly open and competitive market, in which Europe's share is in constant decline.
Starting with the completion of the single market, we ought, in other words, to promote all of those initiatives which make it possible to guarantee the quality and competitiveness of the Community tourist industry, as well as to promote Europe as a tourist destination.
The added value - be it historical, architectural, cultural or landscape-based - of Europe, as a tourist destination, can no longer be neglected.
Finally, it is my belief that tourism opens up great future prospects for third countries and that it is therefore our duty to encourage it.
Its job-generating powers are well known, it is also an industry which is well represented by SMEs, a target group for development, as mentioned yet again by President Santer this week in the 1997 Commission programme.
Secondly, the industry thus encouraged can help less-favoured, rural and peripheral areas of the Union, areas often suffering job losses.
Thirdly, the Parodi 94 report shows tourism growing worldwide, whilst Europe's share has shrunk.
The determination to complete the single market is the best and fastest route for helping Europe's industries as a whole and the tourism industry in particular.
My conviction is that not only can we then create the conditions for a successful European tourism industry; not only give enormous benefit to Europe's citizens when they take their annual holidays; not only motivate and encourage the workers and entrepreneurs who are the 'meat and veg' of this vast industry; not only and importantly promote the general European ideal of creating a dynamic European Union celebrating the diversity of its cultures, traditions and citizens but also make a reality of a Europe that is free, open and democratic for all its 370 million citizens.
Mr President, I turn to my own report.
Such numbers are a tidal wave on which we should surf in search of decent jobs for our 20 million jobless citizens.
The 93/95 programme was certainly problematic as was exemplified by the probing consultant's report divining its entrails.
The Harrison report goes on to make other recommendations which need to be absorbed.
In order to implement this comprehensive policy and monitor funds, we need to strengthen the tourism unit in DG XXIII.
Despite the trials and tribulations of DG XXIII in the past, we must now ask them to take on the vital role of coordinating EU policy as it affects tourism across all the Directorates General of the Commission.
Finally, we should appreciate that tourism is an activity of the single European market.
Europe has major assets in this sector, provided it can become more competitive in the face of international competition.
This is why a European strategy to relaunch tourism now appears to be of the greatest importance.
Firstly, emphasis should be given to the decisive role that tourism could play in favour of economic and social cohesion and especially employment in late-developing regions, namely the ultra-peripheral and insular regions, whose assets are indisputable.
On the other hand, well thought-out quality tourism can contribute to protecting the environment and reinforce the cultural identity of these regions.
This is why it is essential, before anything else, to begin by strengthening the tourism component of existing regional development Community initiative programmes, whether it be tourism in border regions, INTERREG II, rural tourism LEADER, the renovation of declining industrial zones RECHAR, RESIDER, CONVER, urban zones in difficulty URBAN, or others.
Moreover, such a policy of relaunching tourism in the Union has no real chance of success unless better representation of the regional authorities is assured in the competent higher authorities and a proper partnership culture is established at all levels.
It seems unavoidable that we will have to set up large European transport networks that are so delayed, and generally improve the quality of all the modes of transport, a sine qua non condition of the development of tourism in all the regions concerned, especially the most remote.
The relaunch must also be able to depend on appropriate economic measures, including increased support for small- and medium-sized companies, which are very numerous in this sector and are often very interested in proposing innovative forms of tourism.
Finally, a boom in tourism is inextricably linked to a sustained policy of protection of the environment.
Bearing in mind these observations, which have received the unanimous support of the Committee on Regional Policy, the proposal for the first multiannual programme in favour of European tourism is very encouraging and deserves our support, although the amount of the appropriations is still insufficient.
In my country, Catalonia, tourism represents 15 % of gross domestic product and every year we welcome 17 million tourists.
European tourism must be competitive tourism and must develop a new dimension of tourism which is in demand amongst tourists: the cultural dimension.
A cultural dimension which can strengthen mutual understanding between the different nations and peoples of Europe, improve our knowledge of other peoples, their languages, cultures and traditions and also of their heritage of culture and history.
All this can contribute to the strengthening of the European dimension that the citizens of Europe need.
I think it is also important to establish efficient cooperation with regional and local authorities with responsibilities relating to tourism.
Finally, I believe the Commission should strengthen cooperation with UNESCO and the Council of Europe as regards cultural tourism.
It recently had occasion to demonstrate this during the vote on the budget.
Tourism also involves human relations in a network comprising reciprocity between peoples, and the European Union must take on board that aspect and bring forward specific measures.
We cannot set a European and a national concept of tourist activity against each other.
We have rather to ensure that Europe perfects its programming objective and guides tourist activity increasingly in the direction of uniformity, particularly in two crucial sectors: consumer protection and protection of the environment.
We must provide a solution to those conflicts and, of course, common management and a uniform steer at a European level can only help that objective.
Tourism creates jobs but there is also the underpaid labour, the workers who are exploited in many areas of tourist activity, often representing a further competitive element in the international supply market.
We must prevent the kinds of social dumping which may also affect tourist supply, protecting workers therefore with specific guarantees and ensuring that fundamental rights, particularly the fiscal and social rights of workers in the tourist industry, are safeguarded.
The attempt to increase economic activity may undermine environmental protection.
In those circumstances therefore, the ability to fund European programmes and, of course, programmes requiring the resources of the European Union, should be determined on the basis of environmental impact assessments, that is to say when it has been shown that the projects to be implemented do not pose a threat to a fundamental resource such as the environment.
From that point of view, I believe that our action may come at the right time if the PHILOXENIA programme is made subject to proper checks.
But we realize that the PHILOXENIA programme is an important programme which also breaks with the principle of experimentation supported by the Commission.
Mr President, first I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs for the excellent work done on their respective reports.
My second point - and it is a familiar one but one that must be heard by those in the gallery - is this: which countries will, in essence, be hit by this policy that the Council and the Committee on Budgets are pursuing?
Mr President, despite all the good intentions of the committee and rapporteurs this is a typical case of high expectations and meagre results.
Mr President, first I want to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent reports which considerably improve the Commission's proposal.
The third relates to the environment and a proposal for sustainable development because the current model, with its logic of irreversible economic growth, is endangering environments of great tourist attraction for the whole of Europe.
And the final contradiction is cultural and social in the sense of fighting xenophobia, which is increasing in Europe, and account should therefore be taken of these considerations.
I do not think we can say on the one hand that tourism must be sustainably developed and that we must above all seek ways of promoting 'gentle tourism' whilst saying on the other hand that we must encourage more tourism from third countries to Europe, that the peripheral and remote regions must be opened up to tourism, because that simply means more airports, more flights and the price paid for all this remains too low.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are constantly repeating how important tourism is to the European economy in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, but that really does not seem enough.
We must point out, for example, that in some island or coastal regions of Spain, like the Community of Valencia, tourism accounts for as much as 70 % of gross domestic product.
Nor does it seem enough to emphasize that tourism is a growth industry which can contribute even more to both the economy and employment.
It is not a question of appropriating the prerogatives of Member States, but of improving cooperation between them, the regional and local authorities, and the tourist industry itself.
To conclude I would like to recall the philosophy of Philoxenia, which means hospitality and respect for foreigners.
I end, Mr President, by congratulating the rapporteurs and expressing our moderate support for the amendment approved today to allocate ECU four million to this programme.
We do not think it is enough and we must hope that perhaps the text of our treaty will recognize the paramount importance of this sector.
It should also condemn all violations of human rights committed by the Talibans in the name of the Sharia.
Finally, the European Union must come to the aid of the civilian population, again hit by fundamentalist madness.
In the provinces, 20 out of the 29 under Taliban control, all normal forms of justice ceased from the moment the President and his brother were summarily executed.
This is a situation which calls for the international community but one to which the international community has yet to give a real response.
Madam President, on behalf of my Group I must first express my horror at events in Afghanistan, where the Taliban regime sees fit to stamp on human rights in a truly appalling way by carrying out summary executions and to strip women of every right imaginable.
I think we need to form a clear picture of what the European Union can do in seeking to save what can be saved, or rather to try to help work towards an acceptable peace in the future.
In that context, there have been many appeals to and requests for help from the various women's associations in the world.
It is in fact the women of Kabul themselves who have denounced to the whole world the scandalous and precarious conditions in which hospitals which, clearly, no longer have nurses or female doctors, now find themselves.
It is vital at this point that we establish diplomatic relations and therefore a dialogue with the current Kabul authorities, supporting all political and diplomatic initiatives designed to find a peaceful solution to the various problems of the region, against the background of respect for human rights, seeking to defeat Islamic fundamentalism and paying particular attention to the still very fluid situation which is likely to jeopardize the return of the kind of strong individuals who could accelerate the peace process.
Finally, the European Union must continue to give its own support and assistance to the civilian population seeking refuge in other parts of the country and continue with all diplomatic efforts to bring an end to this dreadful conflict.
Madam President, the tragic situation in Afghanistan absolutely must come to an end, and we must take determined action to achieve a ceasefire as a basis for establishing democracy and full respect for the human rights of the men and women of that country.
On the contrary, it is the ultimate product of a situation which began with the defeated Soviet invasion of 1980 and continued with an American political adventure in the region, resulting in total chaos and very serious destabilizing consequences.
The United States and Pakistan have openly supported the Taliban and therefore bear a large share of responsibility for the current situation.
Full respect for human rights and an end to armed confrontation must be demanded.
Madam President, in the last month the world has been bombarded with bloody images from Afghanistan.
It has been ravished by war since December 1979 and today we are witnessing a new and terrifying violence as the Taliban militia attempt to implement a fundamentalist Islamic regime.
As a woman, a socialist and a Member of this Parliament, I believe we in the European Parliament must show our utter condemnation of these atrocities and make it clear that the international community will not tolerate these atrocities, that action must be taken and that women's rights are human rights.
This must involve a coherent political approach to Afghanistan by the European Council and the Member States.
Madam President, these men who call themselves the Taliban, these men whom we noted a year ago in the southern provinces of Afghanistan as they imposed their self-righteous insolence in the name of religious freedom and gloried in their power, these men who totally disregard the unique and essential presence of women in life, who go so far as to stop women caring for children in orphanages and to restrict the activities of female doctors, these men who ban women from teaching and stop them working outside the home, who deny girls the right to education and prevent them developing their minds, these men - men like them - will come to the fore elsewhere in the future unless we do something to stop them.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I think that what is now happening in Afghanistan is not something that concerns only Central Asia which is to some extent generally affected by the rumblings of war.
The issue of Afghanistan emerged long since without anyone intervening.
Madam President, the after-effects of the Monroe doctrine are coming inexorably to the fore in Afghanistan.
Madam President, throughout the world more and more voices are being raised against what is happening in Afghanistan.
The taking of Kabul by the Taliban has resulted in a wave of dreadful crimes against the whole population and the imposition of barbarian and medieval rules of conduct as a result of a fanatical and extremist interpretation of Islamic law.
Just yesterday, in the city of Mazar-i Sharif, thousands of women protested against the Taliban, calling for support from the international community.
That is the point of what we are doing here today.
The European Parliament is today expressing its full support for the Afghan women and all of those who wish, finally, to build a democratic and secular Afghan state.
We need first of all to guarantee effective humanitarian aid to the thousands of refugees who have fled the country in recent weeks and, where possible, to the very many refugees living in Afghanistan itself.
It is also vital that the United States and Pakistan should put an end to all political and material support for the Taliban, without which the Taliban would not have acquired the strength we today deplore.
The Group of the European Socialist Party wishes therefore to reaffirm its own commitment to a positive solution to the Afghan conflict and particularly to support the struggle of millions of Afghan men and women against the fanatical fundamentalism of the Taliban.
The Commission immediately reacted to the human rights violations perpetrated by the Talibans after the taking of Kabul.
The European Commission also made public, on 9 October, a statement deploring the violations of human rights, and especially the rights of women, in the regions in the hands of the Taliban.
The Commission considers that the attitude of the new masters of Kabul, with regard to the basic principles of international law, is highly condemnable, whether it be the invasion of the UN building in Kabul, or the hanging of the former President Nadjibullah.
In May 1996, the European Union, in a statement on Afghanistan, already expressed its concern.
More recently, the United Nations' Security Council adopted, on 22 October last, a resolution demanding an immediate cease-fire, demanding the opening of negotiations under the auspices of the United Nations, in order to reach a lasting political solution, and demanding the cessation of all foreign intervention and the interruption of supplies of arms and weapons to all parties in the conflict.
On the subject of such aid, the Commission intends to continue its action in order to better meet the requirements of a very vulnerable population.
Aid will be supplied fairly, without discrimination between men and women, giving help first to those who need it most.
We are not sparing any effort to define a common position to all donors, which can only facilitate the work of the NGOs in their contacts with local authorities.
Finally, the Commission is still very concerned by the increase in the production of narcotics on Afghan territory, whose main destination, as you may imagine, is Europe.
The Commission is also giving its support to the activities carried out as part of the United Nations' programme of international drug control in Afghanistan.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Colombia is deteriorating fast.
There are of course wide-scale human rights abuses, both by the government troops, the paramilitaries and the guerilla fighters.
I deplore the part which European firms appear to be playing in human rights violations and damage to the environment.
European firms are after all the visible face of Europe in third countries.
Madam President, I wish to begin by joining colleagues in condemning all human rights violations in Colombia, in expressing solidarity with the peasant farmers and indigenous peoples denied access to making a living off the land and to repeat the call we made in Colombia for justice for the 120 families forcibly evicted from their land at Bellacruz.
Everyone in Colombia agrees that the military is guilty of massive human rights violations, while, in the interests of securing their own profits, the European oil companies are said to acquiesce.
In Colombia I was told that BP's two-year-old social agreement with the local community remains unfulfilled and that Ramón Marino is one of a number of ex- and current BP employees now working in the government to smooth the agreement of environmental permits.
BP denies those allegations, it blames local people for inflicting environmental damage - so did Shell in Nigeria.
Madam President, we support the great majority of the paragraphs in this joint motion for a resolution on Colombia because that country is going through a difficult situation characterized by widespread crimes against human rights.
This Parliament cannot set itself up as supreme judge, condemning a government as an assassin, without a process of careful investigation of the facts to discover the truth without a shadow of a doubt.
But two days after we left, another two farmers were murdered.
But Bellacruz has achieved a sad notoriety because the hacienda is owned by the Marulanda family.
Only ten days ago Josué Giraldo, Chairman of the Human Rights Committee of Meta, was murdered.
In March last year he was our guest speaker at a human rights conference in Brussels supported by the EP.
I expect all the parties in Parliament to take a resolute stand on this.
Nor must the EU cease supporting the democratic forces of civilian society in Colombia, which without doubt exist at every level, even in the government.
Madam President, Commissioner, over the last few months groups in this Parliament have been trying to move resolutions on what is going on in Colombia and unfortunately no progress could be made because they were minority groups.
Two farm workers on the Bellacruz Estate, Eliseo and Eder Narváez, were also assassinated.
And we have said so on many occasions here in the plenary of this Parliament.
I do not know if Parliament's resolutions can prevent more deaths, but I think they should have been passed and I am delighted that such a resolution is going to be passed here today, because 316 people have disappeared since the Samper government took over and just as many have been assassinated.
It takes up isolated cases but in no way describes the highly complex situation in that country.
I also regret the fact that after its return the delegation did not have any time at all to summarize its experiences and draw on them in order to draft a resolution, and not just on Colombia but on all three of the countries we visited which, apart from Colombia, were also Venezuela and Peru.
My second comment is this: fortunately you mention in recital D that the guerillas also violate human rights, but you should also refer to that in recital M and paragraph 7, where you do not mention that people have been murdered by the guerillas too.
People who make such statements should make rather more effort to look at the overall situation and also to say that there is simply not enough political will in the Colombian Parliament.
Corruption and a lack of willingness to tackle these things at their roots are to be found there too.
If it really is true - so many deaths have been mentioned - that there is constant deterioration and violation of human rights, if paramilitary groups are indeed perpetrating violent acts, if deliberate and arbitrary murders are being committed, if campaigns are being waged through the drug traffic and if, finally, there is a risk of civil war, that calls for a major effort from us as the democratically elected forum of all the Europeans.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission fully shares Parliament's concern about the worrying deterioration in the human rights situation in Colombia.
However, the Commission emphasizes that this matter is being followed up closely in Bogota by its delegation, in collaboration with the ambassadors of the Member States.
But, more generally and, I would say more fundamentally, the weakening of State law in Colombia is linked to the size of the drug traffic in the country and the financial resources that this traffic generates.
The Commission is fully committed to this fight.
Moreover, the European Union has just granted, with the new Generalized Preferences System, the GPS, increased ease of access to the European market for Andean countries engaged in the fight against drugs, in order to encourage them to continue their efforts.
We are willing to finance this action, but it has to be said - and for my part regrettably so - that discussions between the United Nations and Colombia are not yet formalized, despite several months of discussion.
Thank you, Commissioner.
All of this is part of a specific strategy of the occupation regime in northern Cyprus and the government in Ankara which, in reality, pulls the strings.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are officially debating Cyprus, but the real issue is once again the illiberal conduct of the Turkish Government, both in Turkey and in Cyprus.
The situation is all the more serious in that officials from the United Nations peace-keeping force were prevented from visiting the scene of the killing.
Finally, I call upon the states and the European Institutions to speed up the accession of Cyprus to the European Union, as this is a crucial step in moving towards a real solution to the Cyprus problem.
Mr President, on behalf of the PSE Group I condemn in the strongest possible terms the killing of yet another individual at the demarcation line in Cyprus.
That is a cruel, scandalous and, in my view, unsuccessful strategy.
A flagrant violation of international law remains a flagrant violation of international law - even after 22 years.
We have made it clear here in the European Parliament this morning that Turkey will not receive any more financial support.
Turkey knows now that we are no longer prepared to accept the daily infringements of human rights in Turkey and in Cyprus.
And we in the European Parliament also expect the Commission and especially the Member States to put greater pressure on Turkey to withdraw its occupying forces, support the demilitarization proposal and make it possible to find a just and peaceful solution in Cyprus.
Other results are human rights violations such as massacres, torture and enslavement.
The EU may only resume its development activities when the government of Sudan observes the EU and ACP resolutions and the resolutions of the UN Security Council, of which we have been reminding them for years.
Our own European Parliament, in joint assembly with the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries, has condemned the situation in Sudan.
The European Union and its Member States are not very good at applying sanctions.
We have to say to the Sudanese that this will continue to be the situation of the European Union collectively and severally through its Member States as long as that regime does not respect democracy, civil rights and the right to self-determination.
In conclusion, I feel that in the longer or even the medium-run we should be optimistic, but meantime, in the present, we have to be very vigilant and very consistent.
Mr President, the human rights situation in Sudan has been very serious for a long time now and is clearly getting even worse.
The dismal upshot of this civil war is millions of refugees and total deaths estimated at over a million.
It is probably the neighbouring countries of Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya and Uganda which are best placed to find a solution to the troublesome situation in Sudan.
The infiltrations of Sudanese Islamic extremists into Eritrea and the attempt to undermine the Addis Abeba and Asmara governments reveal the antidemocratic nature of the Khartoum government, demonstrated also by the very serious violations of human rights and democratic freedoms already condemned by other honourable Members.
Resolution after resolution, we must clearly acknowledge that the situation in Sudan is one of these.
I believe nevertheless that we should pursue our efforts in two directions.
We provide the largest support for non-government organizations which operate in southern Sudan from the countries which have been mentioned.
And then there is a second direction in which the European Union must continue its efforts: the political direction.
Everything has been said about this government which spreads terror and terrorism in neighbouring countries.
Finally, we must not forget the people, because if we understand rightly, there have been two successive wars.
I think that is the only way to stop the civil war which has been going on since 1965 from claiming more than two and a half million lives.
It has been in readiness for years but it did not happen.
Anyone who tries to Islamicize Hagia Sophia in Istanbul is committing a cardinal falsification of European history and anyone who commits or countenances violence against the Ecumenical Patriarchate should know that all the Christians in the world regard that as an attack on their freedom of worship and of conscience!
The European Parliament has a duty to make this either/or situation categorically clear.
Mr President, I think that it should be the Turkish Government itself, as much as the European Parliament, which ought to be showing interest in preserving and promoting the rich heritage handed down from the depths of history in Constantinople by the various cultures and religions.
In this specific case, I feel, however, that the joint resolution goes beyond what is necessary.
Thus, although motions for resolutions made in the name of the PPE Group and the Green Group specifically state a condemnation in due and proper form, by the Turkish authorities, of the attack on St George's cathedral, the joint resolution nevertheless deplores the absence of such condemnation.
Mrs Kalpana Chakma has always fought for the recognition of fundamental rights of the Chakma population and also other ethnic groups present in the Chittagong Hill Tracts.
We strongly request that a solution be sought for the conflict which is raging between all the parties involved in the Chittagong Hill Tracts and call upon responsible politicians to do everything possible to halt the colonization and militarization of this region.
We insist that humanitarian aid be provided without impediment.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group in support of the joint motion for a resolution on human rights in Bangladesh.
It is yet another difficult human rights situation in the world.
Over recent years the devastation caused has been immense, particularly in Venezuela.
According to the FAO, between 1981 and 1990 deforestation there reached an average of 600, 000 hectares a year - an area larger than Costa Rica or Switzerland - double the rate of the 1970s.
The rate in the 1980s was treble that of Peru and double that of Brazil and of all the tropical countries in South America taken together.
Extreme poverty has increased from 25 % to nearly 50 % in the last 15 years and the external debt absorbs 20 to 30 % of all foreign earnings.
The European Parliament must speak out strongly on this issue.
Mr President, the issue here is human rights and protection of the natural environment.
The EU must support alternatives in Venezuela as in all the other Amazonas states.
I am convinced that if the ecological problems are not resolved or become exacerbated, the social problems will also become exacerbated, and if the social problems are not resolved, that will exacerbate the ecological problems.
Bulgaria Mr President, Bulgaria, which is one of six countries in eastern and central Europe with an association agreement with the European Union, is facing an economic and social crisis of great complexity.
Mr President, unfavourable weather conditions can certainly explain the poor harvest in Bulgaria.
A severe shortage of cereals, with an economic crisis in the background: this is what can aggravate a social situation which is already sufficiently explosive.
As for the impact of the urgent measures recommended in the resolution, we realize that they are well-founded, but they are also transitory.
Zaire Mr President, the situation in Zaire has hotted up somewhat due to the violent confrontation between the Zairean army and the Banyamulenge militias.
I would ask the European Commission to do everything in its power to ensure that the Zairean Government meets its obligations towards the refugees and that those refugees receive help.
If we could accept this as an oral amendment we could vote on it.
The violent clashes of last September between the Rwandan and Zairean armies, the clashes between the Tutsi Banyamulenge militias of Zairean origin and the Zairean army itself and the heightened tension that exists in Rwanda and Burundi leave me greatly concerned for the future.
The some 250, 000 refugees who have taken refuge in eastern Zaire, and more precisely in the region of Ulvira, have been left totally isolated because the staff of the international humanitarian relief organizations have left the zone for safety reasons and the voluntary repatriation programmes have collapsed because of the tensions that still exist in the region and mean that the people cannot have confidence in the local authorities or in the sudden re-establishment of a civilian status quo that respects human rights and democracy.
I agree completely with Mr Tindemans when he said that we need to make every effort to bring into effect preventive diplomacy so that we finally achieve a peace process which we all hope will safeguard fundamental freedoms and human rights.
Mr President, it has been said, that for some days an explosive situation has prevailed in north Kivu.
The ethnic battles that have steeped this region in blood have thrown a human tide of 250, 000 refugees onto the roads.
In less than one week, the twelve refugee camps of Uvira have been emptied.
The few humanitarian NGOs still on site have recorded 78 civilians killed in the confrontations between the Zairean army and the Banyamulenge, who are Tutsis of Rwandan origin, established for generations in Zaire.
Time is pressing, as the battles have extended to all the border provinces of Rwanda, Burundi and Uganda.
Mr President, I want to speak along the same lines as Mr Tindemans.
There is no doubt that the crisis that has broken in Kivu in the last few days - or rather the worsening of the crisis - will only be finally solved if the United Nations, with the support of the European Union, for example, can find an overall solution for the Great Lakes region in the context of an international conference and that has not yet been set up.
Obviously the European Commission must keep trying.
But I also want to say that it is impossible to forget who is governing Zaire during this crisis: General Mobuto, who is not exactly a democrat and who is trying to use the worsening of this crisis to cover himself with glory again in his own country and keep himself in power for many years to come.
And we obviously cannot forget that certain European countries, particularly France, are giving diplomatic support to keep General Mobuto in power in Zaire.
In this respect I naturally want to support the initiatives that have already been taken.
This fundamental principle appears not to apply in Croatia.
The Council of Europe should at least have waited until the country had satisfied the requirements which the Council itself had set earlier this year.
Because the situation in Croatia is far from democratic.
By its actions, Croatia is also undermining the peace process in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Mr President, concerning the resolution of the Liberal Group I should say that it contains a number of points which reflect the views of our Group too.
Another point is Paragraph 4 of the resolution which says we had not expected the Council of Europe to admit Croatia.
The Council of Europe really fell into bad ways a long time ago and we feel that if you admit a big country for very dubious reasons and exclude a small country whose sins are less heinous, then your arguments are no longer really tenable.
This at least proves one thing, and I think it is distressing, that human rights violations are not the prerogative or privilege of a region, country, regime or even handful of generals or dictators, but unfortunately the problem increasingly concerns countries.
The Commission has expressed an opinion on the state of its relations in its report on the application of the customs union and the human rights situation in this country, and it has taken note of your decision of this morning.
The European Union has condemned this new outburst of violence in a statement made in its name, on 17 October last, by the Irish presidency.
The European Union encourages the efforts taken with a view to rapidly re-opening dialogue between the two communities, in order to find a global political solution to the Cyprus question under the aegis of the United Nations.
Finally, I remind you that the strategy of Cyprus' pre-membership of the European Union is being continued.
The European Commission, anxious to contribute to efforts of dialogue between the two communities on the island, will keep the Turkish Cypriot community regularly informed of the progress made by Cyprus in its membership of the Union.
Secondly, Sudan.
The Commission can only denounce the situation prevailing in Sudan and, of course, it supports the resolution submitted for your approval.
I remind you that the Commission suspended its cooperation for development under the Lomé IV Convention with Sudan in March 1990.
This decision has not affected projects in progress relating to the Lomé II and Lomé III Conventions, which have continued for their full term.
Furthermore the Commission confirms that humanitarian aid routed through ECHO has been continuing since 1993, as has food aid.
IGADD is trying to promote negotiations between the parties in conflict in south Sudan.
The Commission has financially supported one of these meetings, although it was not very successful.
Third, the attack against the Ecumenical Patriarchate in Istanbul.
The Commission deplores the attack against the Ecumenical Patriarchate which took place in the night of 28 and 29 September last.
The most recent major incident is the massacre of 30 Bengali-speaking settlers.
Among the many cases of human rights violations perpetrated against the tribal population, several have been attributed to the Bangladeshi security force during the last twenty years.
Following these dealings, a large number of tribal populations have sought refuge in the nearby Indian state of Tripura.
India still has 50, 000 persons living in refugee camps.
The international community has asked the Bangladeshi government several times to pursue the peace process and prolong the cease-fire.
In addition, it decided on the 30th September 1996 to form a national committee responsible for finding a political settlement to the situation in the Chittagong hills.
The European Commission, through its delegation in Dhaka, is closely watching the development of the situation in the Chittagong hills.
The Commission shares the concern of the European Parliament.
This biosphere reserve was created in June 1991.
It covers an area of 84, 000 km2 in the Amazon state and comprises, in addition to the national parks, indigenous areas and natural monuments.
But the Ministry of Natural Resources opposes it; in particular mention should be made of the existence of the biosphere reserve in the Alto Orinoco.
An inter-ministerial meeting will be held today, 24th October, in Venezuela on this matter in the presence of the President of the Republic.
The problem has been accentuated by a very serious general macroeconomic crisis and by the unfavourable weather conditions of last winter and spring.
The President, Santer, recently recalled that the Bulgarian government first had to made decisive progress in the implementation of the programme of macroeconomic and structural reforms.
To support Bulgaria's efforts in this direction, the Commission has now and henceforth agreed to relax the agricultural conditions permitted under the PHARE programme - ECU 7m - in order to increase sowing for the 1997 harvest.
Mr Ajello is responsible in particular for strengthening his contacts with Zaire and Rwanda.
The European Commission shares the concern of the honourable Members I have heard, regarding the safety of Croatian Serbs in the old north and south Krajina sectors and also the possibility of Croatian Serb refugees returning to their place of origin.
The amnesty law recently adopted is an important step forward in this respect.
It must assure them safety in Croatia and total respect for human rights and the rights of minorities.
The European Union and Council of Europe are closely monitoring political developments in Croatia, and are giving particular attention to the refugee situation.
If there is no satisfactory solution to this question, it will be difficult for durable peace to be possible between the States in the region.
The granting of economic aid and also the establishment of closer links between the European Union and Croatia clearly depend on three factors of which I will remind you: firstly, total respect by Croatia of its obligations under the Dayton and Paris peace agreements.
Secondly, respect for the principles of democracy, human rights and rights of minorities.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a joint motion for a resolution which, I believe, reflects our concern about the political and social situation in Belarus in a most comprehensible form.
We know that nearly all the forces in Belarus are in favour of the partnership and cooperation agreement and of the interim agreement with the European Union, with a view to obtaining a stable contractual framework for their economic activity and their general relations with the European Union.
But it must at last formulate a direct and open policy and it must make it clear what it wants.
There are indications that it is doing so, but as I keep having to repeat, they are only indications and they are not clear enough.
At present there are indications that the referendum will be held on 24 November and we know that there were some conflicts beforehand.
We are very pleased to see these indications, but of course as they stand they are not sufficient and we would like to wait for the referendum in order to see clearer indications, simply so that the European Parliament can take a more definite decision, so that we can support the interim agreement and, at a later date, also the partnership and cooperation agreement.
We are very alarmed by the serious constitutional crisis in Belarus, Mr President.
We ought also to ensure that the circumstances in which referendum is held on 24 November are as democratic as possible.
But at the moment this state, in which there are certainly also democrats who are trying to set up a free democracy there, is indeed suffering under the Lukashenko government, under an authoritarian and truly repressive form of government, as stated in the resolution.
I agree with my colleagues: we would like to have the cooperation agreement but we also have to be consistent now about the policy we in this Parliament keep reminding the Council and the Commission to pursue.
And unfortunately we must also do so in this case, which is why my group will support the conclusion set out in this resolution, namely that at the moment we will not take any further steps and will wait and see whether the Belarus authorities decide on a change of course.
In fact that reflects the dramatic worsening of the situation in this country.
Nobody wants civil war in Belarus, but the country's problems cannot be resolved by a presidential dictatorship either.
I would like to send out greetings from here to all the people in Belarus who are fighting selflessly for democratic reforms and once again to express our feelings of solidarity.
Mr President, our group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, is immensely concerned about the development of the political situation in Belarus.
We are aware that the western world shares overall responsibility for the worsening of the crisis that many of these countries are suffering.
However, we think the European Union can and must pursue a firm policy towards these countries and specifically towards Belarus.
This European policy must be based on three principles: first, demanding full recognition of democratic rights - namely, referendums, elections and freedom to join a trade union; secondly, economic and social aid and strategic collaboration in the solution of inherited problems; thirdly, stepping up the mechanism of association with the European Union, linked to the democratic freedoms, as a positive stake on a Europe of freedom and democracy in the 21st Century.
Although we appreciate that Parliament has in the past approved agreements between the Union and countries in which the rule of law functioned only imperfectly, we think that the various agreements between the Union and Belarus ought not to be ratified for the time being.
Mr President, the Commission fully shares the concern of Parliament on the situation in Belarus where violations of human rights, the legal State and democracy have multiplied.
If these new developments are confirmed, the situation in Belarus could improve.
The European Commission is making sure to monitor the daily situation in Belarus and, naturally, it will inform the appropriate committees of the European Parliament of any new developments in the situation.
The joint debate is closed.
Two weeks ago a strategy conference was held in Ottawa at the instigation and invitation of the Canadian Government.
Mr President, the European Parliament and the Group of the European People's Party are committed to achieving a legally binding international agreement to ban anti-personnel mines.
Regrettably that has been demonstrated in Angola, Cambodia and Mozambique.
The PPE Group wants the European Union and the Member States to make a significant increase in their efforts to clear the mines and help the victims.
The PPE Group is pleased that on 1 October the European Union was able to decide on joint action committing the Union and its Member States to work together for the conclusion of the desired international agreement.
In this context I want to express our willingness to support any initiative by the Union and its Member States with a view to banning such manufacture unilaterally.
Mr President, despite what the honourable Member has said, the Ottawa Conference on anti-personnel mines has been a failure.
On the basis of that joint action, we are awaiting a robust initiative from the European Union to secure the banning of mines.
If it proves not to be possible to obtain the necessary agreement at international level to secure a total ban on the manufacture and use of mines, then the Union should make this issue a precondition in its economic and commercial relations with third countries.
Mr President, anti-personnel mines are one of the worst scourges afflicting many regions of the world.
But they are a terrible weapon when it comes to striking at the civilian population, making entire regions uninhabitable and unusable, causing death or disability even decades after they have been laid.
We have said that it is Russia and China, but other countries too, that are responsible for this situation.
It is therefore necessary that the European Union should launch a political and diplomatic offensive, including on the basis of the 'joint action' adopted on 1 October of this year, designed to secure a total ban on the manufacture, stockpiling, trade in and use of all anti-personnel mines.
But if our strategy is to be credible, we must start by setting a good example and thus proceeding unilaterally, as countries of the European Union, to dismantle the arsenals of mines that exist in Europe and stopping the manufacture of mines, including those not intended for export.
Mr President, the Commission considers that the result of the Ottawa conference is promising.
In fact, the final declaration of this conference invites participants 'to cooperate with a view to concluding, as soon as possible, a legally binding international agreement banning anti-personnel acts' .
It is a very ambitious objective, which will be pursued during the next few months with the active participation of the European Union.
This joint action also reinforces the moratorium on exports.
The Commission is grateful to the European Parliament for making, for the first time, in its 1996 budget, a specific heading of ECU 10m allotted to demining.
The joint debate is closed.
On Venezuela: Mr President, you are aware of the terrible tragedy that occurred yesterday in Venezuela with the death of dozens of inmates of a prison.
Thank you, Mr Carnero.
The Commissioner who is with us today has just told us that yesterday the European Commission set up a unit on Central Africa.
Well, this text could be the first document to be seriously addressed by this European Commission unit.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as is clear from all the reports, tourism is indisputably not only one of the most important economic branches of the European Union but also offers a great potential for the creation of new jobs.
Of course the principle of subsidiarity is not disputed in this particular case.
It would be tedious to repeat what other colleagues have already said, although I do want to mention that I find it difficult to fathom the European Commission's failure to include in its original text Parliament's request, twice approved by a majority, in the December 1994 and February 1996 plenaries, to promote the creation of a European Tourist Agency - necessary from every point of view.
As there is a democratic difficulty about justifying such a deaf ear to the repeated request of this Parliament, the Commission is offering a tourism research and documentation centre in exchange and admits in the seventh amendment the importance of a European tourism policy which does not give rise to more bureaucracy, regulations, and so on, thus subliminally contributing to wrecking said agency.
This has led us - myself and other colleagues from various groups across the parliamentary spectrum, as I said just now - to present Amendment No 28, resubmitting to this Parliament the development and implementation of that agency.
It is this individualism and the regional differences and special features that we must strongly support.
Europe's great power of attraction resides in its cultural, geographical, historical and ethnic variety.
Tourism of European interest must be given greater support by the European Union and win all of the enthusiasm of Community countries, given the positive effect which it produces, especially on jobs and by disseminating the very social and cultural values which Europe wishes to promulgate.
Everything must therefore be done to promote more tourists in Europe, whether from within the Community or third countries, and we should therefore add to our knowledge in the area of tourism, improve legislative and financial frameworks and raise the quality of tourism, making sure that respect for the environment prevails and tourists' security is considered.
Of those actions we should emphasise those which are of trans-national or trans-regional character, which call for cooperation between Member States or regions, which above all require a significant improvement in quality, regularity and transport costs.
Examples of this cooperation, Mr President, are joint projects between Portugal and Spain, aimed at giving better publicity to large numbers of cultural events which take place in the Iberian Peninsula, or between Madeira, the Azores and the Canary Islands, to increase knowledge of the natural and cultural heritage resources of the biogeographical region of Macaronesia.
From this point of view, we are also pleased that it should have been pointed out with great emphasis in the Bennasar Tous report that tourism is of growing importance for the less developed and the ultra-peripheral island regions, enabling them to receive special or priority treatment, even the adoption of proper economic and taxation measures designed to help the tourist sector.
Mr President, coming from a tourist area myself, one of the things I want to emphasize is that although tourism can be of great importance to the local economy, particularly to small and medium-sized enterprises, it has to be carried out in the right way.
But a particular thing I want to come back to this afternoon is a point that I was very interested to read about in the Commission's report on Community measures affecting tourism and that is the health and physical safety of tourists.
Mr President, in addition to being an important engine for economic growth, tourism, by virtue of the cultural exchange and solidarity between peoples that it engenders, is a very important social and cultural activity.
Mr President, the European Parliament has always worked for the creation of specific policies for tourism.
Back in the 1993 Green Paper, on the issue of the role of the Union in the tourist sector, the Commission invited Parliament to provide for the inclusion into the draft Treaty of a specific chapter on tourism, furnishing it with a legal basis which, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity also makes it possible for the Commission to take supplementary measures.
An industry which worldwide, in the year 2006, in other words in ten years' time, will account for 385 million direct and indirect jobs and already today provides more than 250 million direct and indirect jobs.
Speaking of tourism means in particular sustainable development, respect for the environment, the cultural heritage and wildlife of the European regions; it also means integrating a policy of consumer protection into trade.
The stance taken by the European Parliament is a position which calls for our support.
Re-orientating the tourist industry towards a perspective of sustainability, linking tourism, environment and consumers, and integrating small and medium-sized undertakings, are all positive steps in the right direction which all deserve emphasis.
Mr President, I think the Commissioner probably recognizes the fact that across the floor of this House there is a great deal of support for the development of tourism at European level.
It is our hope and our desire.
Since this industry must be a sector on its own, with its own common policy, we must improve the legislative and financial framework and strengthen the vital interlinks with other programmes, initiatives and policies which the Community might contribute to developing tourism.
Competitive and quality tourism must certainly contribute to the achievement of the Community's objectives, in particular creating jobs, strengthening economic and social cohesion and promoting the European identity.
The report agrees with and accepts basically the fundamental material in the Commission programme, but many of the amendments proposed in it will add to and enrich it.
I would like to emphasise the amendment which will make the ultra-peripheral and island regions the main beneficiaries of measures aimed at growth and economic and social cohesion in this multiannual programme.
The Bennasar Tous report as a whole deserves our appreciation and our agreement.
Thirdly, I do not need to convince anyone here of the great importance of tourism.
In this report we once again see precisely the kind of over-ambitious objectives which Price Waterhouse criticizes.
The same is really true of the Bennasar Tous and Parodi reports.
I am thinking in particular of Parliament's insistence on the need for institutional recognition of a Community tourism policy, and on this matter I agree completely with the points expressed today by Mr Apolinário.
The burden of the past must be exposed to exhaustive scrutiny by Parliament, and to assist that purpose we are setting up a special group, a special small service within the Commission in order to be able in 6 or 7 or 8 months - I do not know exactly how long it will be, but it will not be more than 8 months - to present Parliament and the Court of Auditors with a detailed report so as to bring the matter to a close.
The Philoxenia programme will provide all interested parties with a regular flow of up-to-date and easily understandable information.
For that reason, the Philoxenia programme has been drawn up with a view to promoting a limited number of very carefully selected actions: actions which experience has shown can be carried out better at the Community level and which will complement the other Community actions affecting tourism.
The Philoxenia programme will promote coordination.
In this category I place Amendments Nos 6, 11, 12, 15, 17, 18, 19, 22, 27, 29, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 and 40.
As regards Amendments Nos 16, 21 and 23, which state the need for coordination of aspects of the Philoxenia programme relating to tourism enterprises with the provisions of the third multi-annual programme for SMEs, we accept their overall gist since this is already embraced in the approach that the Commission is proposing for the management of the programme.
As far as Amendments Nos 24 and 14, relating to the comitology, are concerned, the Commission does not consider that they need to be incorporated in the decision.
We sympathize with the reference in Amendment No 13 to the European Year against Racism and with the proposal for mutually beneficial joint action in the first year of the programme's implementation.
The first part of Amendment No 20 which mentions the Council resolution of 13 May 1996 on Euro-Mediterranean cooperation in the tourist sector.
In addition, that part of Amendment No 26 which makes explicit reference to the Council directive on tourism statistics and the dissemination of statistical information to users.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you again for your continuing support for the efforts that we are making to ensure that tourism is accorded the position that it merits in the framework of the Community's policies.
Approval of the Philoxenia programme by the European Parliament will take us some considerable way down that road, and I thank you for the great support that you showed this morning and also from the first reading of the budget.
Thank you very much, Mr Papoutsis.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the proposal to amend Directive 91/440/EEC, which the Commission decided in July 1995.
To make matters clearer: the four vital elements of Directive 91/440 are the independent management of the railways, a separate accounting system for railways infrastructure and rail transport services, redressing the financial situation of the former public railway undertakings and rights of access for railway undertakings in cross-frontier combined transport.
Well, a bare majority of the committee agreed with the Commission proposal that freedom to provide services should be granted within 18 months.
Secondly, the dividing line between national and cross-frontier passenger transport is fluid.
We have just seen in the United Kingdom what happens when several railway undertakings have to set up an integrated passenger transport system.
I will continue this transport policy in the Austrian Parliament and I am very proud that Austrian ideas have been incorporated in the Commission's work and also that of Parliament.
I also think that it is sad that the rapporteur is leaving the European Parliament but I hope that we will be able to work together in the future too, just as we have to date, and that we will remain in touch.
Madam President, railways must play an important part in any sustainable transport system.
Madam President, by adopting the Commission's draft amendment of directive 91/440 CEE, the Committee on Transport and Tourism has given the go-ahead to the pursuit of liberalization of rail transport, without dealing with the social and economic consequences.
This Commission draft amendment in fact provides for a considerable increase in rights of access, resulting in fiercer competition.
Our group is truly opposed to these ultra-liberal orientations of the Commission.
Our group is determined, in liaison with the trade union organizations and user associations, to thwart these orientations.
It wishes to work with everyone in order to attain real measures of revitalization of rail transport, so that the latter can fully assure its mission of providing a public service, in other words responding to the interests of staff and users, contributing to a harmonious arrangement of the territory and encouraging cooperation within the European Union.
Unfortunately the slowness of some Member States in translating this directive into their national legislation meant that there was very little improvement, but the liberalization process has to be progressively carried through.
The Farthofer report rightly urges Member States to get on with clearing the railways' debts.
The Commission's power to legislate on an issue as complicated as the railways is not in dispute but we have also to bear in mind the impact that liberalization will have on the social structure of individual countries.
It is difficult for the railway system to compete with other forms of transport and, as far as we are concerned, we must promote it; the proposal on the calculation of external costs is a positive one.
I also believe it to be very useful to think in terms of specialization of railway systems, in the form of both combined and intermodal transport, as this will make it possible to distinguish between railways of national and those of international interest, and also regional railways which are able to involve local government in company structures involved in railway management.
viewed in that way, the directive appears to meet a number of objectives, but in terms of the substance, the debate seems to me still to be open, and a number of contradictions pointed out by Mrs Ainardi are still there.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's proposal is an important element of our strategy on the restructuring of the Community's railways.
In the White paper of last July we emphasized the importance of introducing market forces in a way which would take account of the special character of rail transport.
The proposal for expansion of access rights is precisely the next step towards the introduction of those market forces.
Our objective is to see access to the rail infrastructure opened up in all goods transport services, internal and international, and in the international passenger transport services.
The Commission is working busily in all of those areas.
As I explained earlier, these go beyond the scope of the present proposal and therefore cannot be accepted.
Amendment No 6 stresses the special contribution made by regional rail transport to the internal cohesion of the national economies.
The Commission agrees that serious account must be taken of this factor in the formulation of the policies relating to market access and therefore accepts the amendment.
We are unable to accept Amendment No 7, which is composed of several parts.
The first part states that indebtedness must be significantly reduced by the time the directive is transposed into national law.
Amendment No 8 refers to indirect taxation and interoperability.
As regards the new amendment, No 9, the Commission is happy to accept it.
I too would like to thank you warmly on behalf of Parliament and wish you all the best for your work in your national parliament.
The debate is closed.
