Programme of the Austrian presidency The next item is the statement by the Presidency-in-Office of the Council on the programme of activities of the Austrian presidency.
The Union is in the process of implementing two projects that will have a decisive impact on the face of our continent in the 21st century.
Let us briefly recall what has happened since it was founded: the Community of Six in 1958 had a population of 160 million, now it has 370 million, and with the candidate countries it has 500 million people.
Today's EU has a gross domestic product which in real terms is nearly six times as great as that of the European Community in 1958.
But at the same time it is the world's greatest donor: 60 % of development cooperation and 80 % of the aid flowing to the countries of the former Soviet Union come from the European Union.
In the coming months, under the Austrian presidency, attempts will be made to achieve stronger economic policy coordination and preparations will be made for the final setting of exchange rates.
There is no doubt that one of the most important tasks for the Austrian presidency is to help get the euro off to a good start on 1 January 1999.
Since 1945 there have been over 200 armed conflicts around the world, excluding lesser conflicts.
According to international statistics, there has never been a four-week period during which there has not been a major military engagement somewhere in the world, but the territory of the present European Union has been spared such conflicts.
At this point I would like to quote Baron Friedrich von Gentz, Prince Metternich's Secretary, who was, as it were, the notetaker of the Congress of Vienna.
He believed that any political system that could give Europe a hope of avoiding just three or four wars in a century would deserve the very greatest respect.
If we want to ensure lasting peace, stability and economic prosperity in Europe, then it is my deeply held conviction that in the long term there can be no better way than to integrate our neighbouring countries into the European Union.
In the resolution it adopted last December, the European Parliament rightly recognized that the next round of enlargement would represent a completely new stage in the European integration process, requiring an in-depth examination of all the institutional, political, economic and social consequences for the Union and for the applicant countries.
You do not need me to tell you that Austria shares almost half its borders with four candidate countries.
I would particularly like to thank the European Parliament for the understanding and sensitivity it showed in its resolution of 18 July on Agenda 2000, which took account of the particular impact on regions with borders adjoining applicant countries, and which addressed the need to give them support, in particular under the Interreg programme.
However, I should like to add that precisely because of our special position - which was formerly on the periphery and is now at the core - we in Austria have an almost unique interest in the success of enlargement.
It is a twofold Marshall Plan, an investment in our own future and in the future of the candidate countries for the 21st century.
The decisions taken at the Luxembourg European Council have laid the ground for the enlargement process, an inclusive process with 11 candidates.
They are, of course, affected by all the decisions that we have to make, be it on Agenda 2000, institutional reform or the enlargement strategy, or on other important foreign policy issues.
We want to initiate substantial negotiations on individual chapters during our presidency.
I will say quite openly here that it is very important to support the reform process in the applicant countries as well.
It is our job to help and be a source of strength to those people who advocate moving closer to the European Union in a meaningful way and who are arguing for a bold but sometimes also painful process of preparation for accession. (Applause) Enlargement will not just demand great efforts on the part of our future partners; the Union itself is not yet in a fit shape for these accessions.
But I believe that the Commission's proposals nevertheless provide a good basis for the political discussions due to start this autumn.
If we genuinely want to have a package ready by March under the German presidency - and that is also important because we should, if it all possible, have discussed it and reached decisions before the European Parliament elections -, it will really require an incredible effort to get away from nonspecific rhetoric and prepared speeches about principles, and to get really stuck into the grinding work of tough and difficult decisions.
If you consider how difficult it can often be in nation states to secure an overall programme just for one legislature, then you will see that this is no easy task.
However, we agreed upon a very ambitious and precise timetable at the General Affairs Council on Monday.
The inclusion of the European Parliament in the legislative decision-making process was one of the hallmarks of the British presidency.
I think it is excellent that over the coming months Parliament will be working intensively on all aspects of Agenda 2000 so as to help ensure completion on time.
I would like to thank you for your willingness to do this and I wish to stress that we in the Council need to be aware that we cannot manage without the support of both our national members of parliament and the directly elected Members of the European Parliament.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Amsterdam Treaty will help to make Europe fit to face the future.
Despite its well-known shortcomings, this new legal framework for the Union will nevertheless result in genuine improvements.
It is true that its role in the codecision procedure was reinforced.
Work has already begun in this House on a common voting procedure for the European Parliament and on a uniform statute for Members.
I am pleased that some of these subjects are on the agenda of the first part-session during the Austrian presidency.
Seldom in the history of European integration has the European Union faced so many challenges, and for most of them we need our citizens' support.
I therefore welcome the fact that a special meeting of the Heads of State or Government on this subject is to be organized under the Austrian presidency.
Subsidiarity is an interesting subject - and we provided for and prepared a very good protocol on it in the Amsterdam Treaty - as it can clear the decks for true European work.
Without Europe, there is no way of solving the major issues of the future that really interest our citizens: environmental protection, employment policy, respect for human rights and global security.
In those areas we need more Europe and not more nation state or even lower levels, with these clichés about subsidiarity. (Applause) The best way of firing European citizens with enthusiasm for Europe is to listen to what is important for them, and to put those priorities at the top of our agenda.
It is very interesting that these priorities are pretty much the same in every country in Europe, with employment at the top of the list, followed by concern about a clean environment and a safe home.
It is a priority for us now, it was a priority during the Intergovernmental Conference, and its concrete implementation will be a priority.
Sir Karl Popper once said that the essence of developed humanity was this: ' Our advantage is that we can let our ideas die in our stead' .
Europe could also do more for employment in very specific areas: on the world stage, in negotiations with the World Trade Organization - which is extremely important - and as regards research and development.
I will say this quite openly, because I know that some Members would have liked this point to have been officially addressed already; we do not intend to misinterpret this as a bilateral issue.
It should not prevent anyone from joining the European Union.
We do, however, want newer nuclear power stations that can be rehabilitated to meet the highest Western standards, and we want old power stations that can no longer be rehabilitated - like Bohunice, a few kilometres from Vienna - to be closed as quickly as possible, whatever it takes, in the interests of the people there and in the interests of our own citizens. (Applause) A study has been published today on safety standards at Mochovce.
I do not have a copy myself yet, but I undertake to ensure, either this afternoon or tomorrow, that this safety study is forwarded straight away to the groups in this Parliament, because it will probably be of great interest to the European Parliament.
Internal security will therefore be a real priority for our presidency, in other words, combating organized crime and traffic in human beings.
We are, by the way, preparing an international convention on land and sea at UN level, with all 15 Member States.
These are the external borders of the 11 candidate countries, not borders with the Union, not with our neighbouring countries, where we know exactly what problems exist.
It is so important for us to help these countries as regards the environment, trans-European networks and building up institutions, that we should consider - and these countries are calling for this as a matter or urgency - if we could not do more to help them secure their borders, so that we export security and do not end up importing instability. (Applause) The launching of Europol in the second half of 1998 should, of course, provide a major impetus in this area.
I have followed the action plan proposed by the Commission and approved by the European Parliament with great satisfaction.
Respect for human rights, in theory and in practice, is particularly important this year, in which we are celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The Budget Council is on Friday.
Foreign policy is naturally a very significant challenge for every Council President.
Compared with other major nations, the European Union is certainly the most important world power after America, in terms of potential.
The EU is far more than a regional power.
It is strategically responsible for its own 500 million members, for 250 million people in the Mediterranean area and for 250 million who live in the territory of the former Soviet Union.
Werner Weidenfeld says that Europe's weakness lies in the current gap between its potential and its political infrastructure, and this combination of potential and weakness make Europe look like a world power in waiting.
We also believe that the economic and social situation in the Palestinian territories demands the greatest attention and concern.
On Cyprus, we intend to offer the United Nations every assistance in resuming the peace process, which must in any case remain open to the Turkish-Cypriot linguistic community.
We must continue to seek their participation, because I believe that joint negotiations would give both ethnic groups an enormous impetus for the peace process.
I wish to take this opportunity to thank the British presidency, and also the forthcoming Germany presidency, with which we also wish to encourage intensive and harmonious cooperation, so that we can make as much progress as possible in all these important issues.
My friend Jacques Poos calmly told me that he had lived through four presidencies and that he would be glad to offer me advice.
The Congress danced, but it did not achieve anything.
That is our task.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, I would like to begin by congratulating you very warmly, Mr President-in-Office, on the statement you have just made on behalf of Austria, and to support you.
If you believe that you can achieve and adhere to everything that you have promised us here, then you will certainly have my group's support as well.
You quite rightly said that we find ourselves in an exceptionally difficult situation.
I also hope that you can ensure that negotiations with our neighbouring countries will start.
I also wish to give my clear support to your comments on this subject.
We need a common foreign and security policy, and that can only be a European foreign and security policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, we welcome your presidency.
Your first task consists of implementing the Amsterdam Treaty.
Your second urgent priority concerns Agenda 2000.
The common agricultural policy was discussed in Cardiff, but the funding for the years 2000-2006 proved an obstacle.
The acquis communautaire has proved in any case that it is possible to spend a little less and to spend more carefully by acting in unison.
Your third urgent task is enlargement.
Insufficient progress has been made in the crucial field of integration, due to bureaucratic suspicion on the part of national governments and surpassed misery concerning state sovereignty.
If we do not have a clear comprehensive vision of the main institutional balances, of the ambitions and the role of the Union in the world, with 25 Member States, then we are feeling our way ahead in a fog and we risk colliding with a wall.
No society can develop in a positive fashion without a vision.
Your commitment and that of your government, along with your ambition strengthen our conviction that a smaller country can be a good President.
In most cases, you can count on the support of the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party in this House.
The first is enlargement.
I believe that there should be only one criterion for the admission of these applicant countries: as soon as these countries have implemented their democratic and human rights reforms, and as soon as they have made their economy capable of competing in the internal market, then they should have the right to accession.
They should not be denied this right until the Western Member States, who have a great lead, decide that their own economy is fit to face competition from the economic systems of our eastern neighbours, which have been weakened by decades of planned economy, when they decide that they are willing to be exposed to this competition.
I expect the Austrian presidency to make it perfectly clear that these countries have the right of accession as soon as the requirements are met, and not just when it suits us!
The most powerful Heads of State or Government in the European Union probably intend to cut back the powers of the Commission and, in particular, the Commissioner responsible for competition, who takes his job very seriously.
Small countries have only legal stability and the Treaty on their side.
This, Mr President-in-Office, is the first point that you will be able to tackle: a citizens' Europe is created through the democratic control of the decisions taken, not through a technocratic Europe.
Too often we have heard in this Parliament that Europe needs to be represented in the world with one strong, uniform voice that carries.
Well, what kind of image has Europe been projecting these past few months, these past years?
Europe is a dream of freedom and democracy for these countries that are asking to join what for them has been for so long precisely only a dream of freedom and democracy.
Mr President-in-Office, there is too much rhetoric here, but the figures on unemployment in Europe show that Europe is on the wrong road, with a welfare state that is too cumbersome, too rigid, too excessive and unjust; one that takes resources away from investments.
Madam President, our group wishes the Austrian presidency success in its first term at the head of the European Union, but that success will depend on achieving results in the management of the affairs which have been declared priorities: employment, enlargement and the environment.
In the field of enlargement, the presidency will have to work quickly to study the compatibility between the candidate countries' legislations and that of the EU, so as to be able to initiate discussions during this term of office on some of the 26 chapters of the negotiations, in the knowledge that transition periods will have to be established to avoid causing shocks in such sensitive sectors as agriculture or the free movement of workers.
We value Austria's role as a bridge between the EU and the countries of central and eastern Europe, but we also want to remind the presidency of the importance of negotiations with the legitimate government of Cyprus, which should include, if possible, a representation from the Turkish Cypriot community, without any interference or blackmail from the Turkish government.
There would be no sense in talking about public opinion and public participation if, at the same time, at the most important moment of commitment between the citizens and their representatives, we were unable to inform public opinion of the proposals of the Council and the European institutions as regards institutional reform.
We could talk about the North-South solidarity of the countries of the EU.
Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we hope the Austrian presidency will ensure the presence of the EU for a fair solution to the Kosovo problem.
We also hope it plays an active role in ensuring that the self-determination referendum takes place in Western Sahara, under the auspices of the United Nations, not just because it is important to allow the Saharan people to express their will, after 20 years of war, but also because it guarantees European security from the southern shore of the Mediterranean.
I am afraid that today Mr Schüssel has only served us with a delicate outer case.
The people of Europe will thank you, because they will finally remember why they are supposed to want Europe in the first place.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Austria is taking on the presidency of the Council of Ministers of the Union for the first time and this raises a great deal of interest and also some very pleasing images.
More than anyone else, you know why it is essential that central Europe joins us and more than anyone else you also feel anxious in the face of an enlargement which risks both disrupting employment in your country through an excessive influx of workers and competing strongly with your agriculture, to mention but two issues.
But Austria is also well placed to be a link, a bridge between central Europe and countries such as my own, which are not adjoining the CEECs and which, when all is said and done, know very little about them; yet without them enlargement would be a failure.
Whatever the difficulties in our relations with that great country, there are gestures which need to be made in order to iron out regrettable mistakes.
I hope the statements by Austria and the Foreign Minister on the principle of subsidiarity will turn out to be more than lip service.
Subsidiarity now means that 20 Commissioners in Brussels have sole rights to propose whether a decision should be made by themselves or by the citizens and their elected legislators.
One single special interest on the part of one country can prevent power from being handed back to Member States, national and regional parliaments and elected representatives.
The proposal would make us the representatives of Brussels in the Member States.
In its present form, the proposed rule would distance us further from the electorate and it would not conform to the principle of subsidiarity.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Austria, Sweden and Finland joined the European Union just over three years ago.
So I am all the more delighted that you have promised today to take on this subject, Mr Schüssel, in contrast to your previous statements.
In their initiative at Cardiff, Jacques Chirac and Chancellor Kohl reminded us of the importance of bringing Europe closer to the citizen.
We, the European Parliament, will be doing everything we can to ensure that Agenda 2000 is adopted by the end of this legislature.
You said that the German presidency would table the decision in March.
You should have been able to get all that done in Amsterdam! (Applause) But you did not get it done.
Thirdly, I will mention subsidiarity.
Subsidiarity does not mean less Europe; it means more Europe, with Europe really achieving something.
But it is not only Bonn that is balking at that, but others too.
Nevertheless, I wish that governments would stop talking about what Europe cannot do - especially at the extraordinary summit - and instead talk about what Europe should do!
Finally, Mr President-in-Office, it is not so much a question of uniting Europe to avoid history repeating itself, but rather a question of making it clear to our citizens and to ourselves that we must unite Europe so that Europe can assert itself in the world of the future! (Applause) Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office, people's expectations of any new presidency are great, especially when a young member of the EU is taking on the job for the first time.
The scope for action is dictated in advance.
This is a mammoth political task and you have had a taste here in Parliament of the immense differences of interest within the European Union.
You in particular were influential in calling for the employment title to be included in the Amsterdam Treaty, as a commitment to concern about jobs.
The economic boost expected from the euro must be reflected in fresh growth and new jobs, especially for young people.
This, too, will strengthen the credibility of the European Union, and you will have to play an important part in achieving this.
I agree with the sentiments of promoting efficiency in the Union and implementing subsidiarity, but a number of concrete measures relating to efficiency are missing.
I would welcome clear and concrete measures by the Austrian presidency.
As far as stability is concerned, enlargement does play an important role, but would the Austrian President not only keep the states in central Europe in mind but also support the Mediterranean policy.
The country which was the first to throw itself into the peace process in the Middle East now risks not participating in the Mediterranean agreements before the end of the mandate of this Parliament.
They are deprived of all legal support and, unfortunately, sometimes of diplomatic support also.
Please take the initiative and start a fund to offer appropriate legal support to these citizens; then they, too, will regain confidence in Europe.
Turkey is calling into question the right of Cyprus - an independent country - to have its own defence.
Parliament and the European public will pass judgement come December.
I am convinced that at the end of the year Parliament's palate will be sufficiently discerning to decide whether the delicate outer case that you have served up today contains a substantial filling or just hot air.
We already know what people in Europe expect and we must say it today - jobs, democracy and a fair distribution of wealth.
You have not addressed the urgent questions relating to democratic reform in your programme today.
These questions remain unresolved, as do questions about the future of codecision by Parliament, its budgetary sovereignty, common electoral law, a catalogue of fundamental rights, and so on.
I hope that these gaps can still be filled, so that we are talking about a real filling.
Madam President, Prime Minister Blair concluded at the end of the British presidency that his presidency had been successful, because relations between the European Union and Great Britain had improved, amongst other things.
The presidency of the European Union is not to be used to build better relations with the other Member States this time.
The next mini-summit in Vienna will deal with institutional reforms.
The presidency has also announced its priorities with regard to the environment.
Then you would really steal the show in Buenos Aires.
Madam President, one of the main tasks the Austrian presidency faces is the formulation of the employment guidelines.
I am also more than happy about the fact that they are organizing a so-called jumbo-meeting and I hope this will be the impulse for better coordination of these two forms of employment policy in future.
I would next like to say something about social dialogue.
I call on the presidency to develop concrete proposals for this and if it cannot do this, to adopt the proposals by the European Parliament.
We will have to assign an extremely important role to NGOs as these, in fact, are the cement between what we do and the confidence which must be created for this amongst the citizens.
I am referring, in particular, to social exclusion projects.
I cannot imagine why, on the one hand, projects such as the Schengen secretariat are started because this has already been provided for in the Treaty and at the same time social exclusion projects, explicitly permitted in the Treaty, are put on ice.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, at the beginning of your speech you quite rightly said that we need a means of preventing wars and that the enlargement of the European Union was an important component of this, as was a common foreign and security policy.
It is precisely in the area of common foreign and security policy that there is great potential in implementing the Amsterdam Treaty.
We shall have to see whether the potential of the new troika, the planning and strategy unit, whether the decision-making potential will really lead to a higher level of European added value or whether it will just be a continuation of the classic intergovernmental approach of 'old policies in new bottles' .
We as a Parliament will watch very closely whether national bureaucrats negotiate to keep more elements of Schengen in the third pillar than necessary, instead of transferring them to the first pillar as envisaged in the Amsterdam Treaty.
There may well be a big row over this, if my information about the present state of negotiations in COREPER and in other bodies is correct.
I am sure it is evident that the European Parliament must have the last word on the ratification of the enlargement treaties.
This means that one of the two parties to the codecision procedure, namely the European Parliament, needs to have a similar view of subsidiarity to that of the summit.
If the summit interprets it differently from the European Parliament, you can forget the summit!
That is why it is also important to involve the European Parliament in the preparations for the summit.
Lastly, I have to say - and Klaus Hänsch has already referred to this - that the method adopted up to now by the Council in legislating on general matters is one of the biggest jokes in the European Union!
That is your homework! (Applause) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, shaping Economic and Monetary Union is not a job that can be left until 1 January; it has to start now.
That means that the form of economic policy cooperation will have to be the central theme of the Austrian presidency because - for the first time - there will be several Euro-11 Councils during this Austrian presidency.
We in the European Parliament cannot emphasize enough how important it is that, on the one hand, the reconciliation process between the countries in the euro area should work, and that, on the other hand, links with the Economic and Financial Affairs Council should be maintained.
After all, we are all affected by the decisions taken here in these vital areas affecting the economy, growth and employment.
This is a fatal weakness in the European Union, and the stability programmes are accordingly very important.
We need Parliament, the Council and the Commission to act as partners, and it would be good if the Austrian presidency could finally tackle this issue in the interest of democratizing the European Union's decision-making processes.
Despite the experience of the Congress of Vienna, Austria is required to arrange the celebration of the happy event on 31 December, on New Year's Eve, to mark the birth of that beautiful baby, the euro, to the proud parents.
I believe that the euro must be ushered in such a way that everyone in the European Union, and above all its citizens, will know it is welcome.
Madam President, I should first like to congratulate the Austrian presidency on its ambitious programme, and wish it luck and good results.
You are right, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when you say that six months is not long enough for this presidency or any other to be able to resolve each and every one of the problems currently faced by the EU.
To this end, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am glad you have not succumbed to the biased, demagogic, manipulative use of this principle which some people use to try to achieve an emergency stop or a change of direction in the project of political union.
There are three questions which interest me particularly in this respect.
The Austrian presidency has mentioned the importance of the principle of subsidiarity.
I would like to know how that presidency stands as regards the debate on the financial perspectives and, specifically, the recent debate on Community own resources.
The second question is whether the Austrian presidency plans a prompt follow-up to the agreements reached in May with the United States on extra-territorial legislation.
As you said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, time is the measure of all things, and I hope that in six months' time, when we meet here again to take stock of the achievements of the Austrian presidency, the results are as good as the ambitions and objectives of the programme you have presented to us here this morning.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, I have listened to you carefully, and Mr Hänsch and Mr Brok have already said something about your interpretation of subsidiarity.
I must admit that I had to smile when you said that the extraordinary summit of Heads of State or Government also needed to help to fire our citizens with enthusiasm for Europe, and that this could not be done half-heartedly.
I would like you to tell me, given that you are convinced that the European Union should become more effective and closer to the people, a point on which we all agree, what role you intend to play in achieving this as President-in-Office of the Council, as one of the Austrian presidency's priorities is environment policy, as it always has been in Austria.
You quite rightly stated that the European Union needs to be efficient.
I believe that this presidency would be a presidency remembered in my country if we could find a solution in this second half of the year to the problem of railway transport through the Brenner pass which in a way is blocking the connection of all of central Europe with the Mediterranean.
In addition to this, there is the problem of breaking the deadlock on the Malpensa 2000 airport which concerns the entire Mediterranean economy and that is, therefore, not just a national problem.
We cannot have new countries join a Europe that is paralysed, that is unable to decide.
Your country being a small one, Mr President-in-Office, it can allow itself to ask the larger countries these two questions that we are all aware of but do not dare raise.
But I can assure you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that on Friday, 17 July the finance ministers must be convinced, because they will be the ones in charge, and we will meet face to face on 17 July.
You are also aware that the European Parliament cannot renounce its political priorities.
Furthermore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, both Parliament and myself would have liked to have had a budgetary procedure consisting of just one reading this year.
I wish you a fruitful presidency and we in Parliament offer you our cooperation.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, I wish to thank you for mentioning a policy for children, because our children are the future of Europe.
Yesterday, the great spirit of Europe blew through this country: liberty, equality and fraternity.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, a subject that was not originally planned for this presidency, institutional reform, has now taken on a new topicality and momentum.
The Commission's refusal to approve the Bertelsmann/Kirch television project hit a particularly close friend and political supporter of Helmut Kohl.
It seems to be a quirk of history that the very same German government that worked to achieve a European competition law in the 1980s is no longer prepared to accept EU decisions in the 1990s.
Everyone knows that all the necessary Treaty arrangements have been put in place regarding subsidiarity and that no major action is needed.
Action is needed, however, where the Community is deficient in institutional terms: weighted voting in the Council, extension of the qualified majority and the composition of the Commission.
As we all know, all these points remained unresolved after the last Intergovernmental Conference.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the number one question for this autumn is how to create jobs.
At present we have given this programme 0.1 % of the Community budget.
We should not worry so much about tax rates, because what we need here is a market, not a finance ministers' cartel, but a reasonably priced service for our citizens.
A social dialogue!
Madam President, on 30 September negotiations between the European Union and ACP countries will formally open with a view to defining the characteristics of the new partnership agreement that will replace the fourth Lomé Convention.
Already these past few months, during the debate held in the Council on what this agreement should look like, certain governments unfortunately expressed some reservations on essential aspects of future cooperation.
We must be convinced of the fact that in the new Convention a great part of our international protection is at stake.
The Austrian presidency will also have to tackle the particularly urgent problem of adopting adequate legal bases for all the budget lines on international cooperation that risk being blocked because of the new legal situation that arose a few weeks ago.
In the case of Non-Governmental Organizations and human rights actions in particular, we really have to move quickly to produce adequate legislation, otherwise the Council will have to assume the heavy responsibility of the end of a substantial part of our development cooperation.
A last remark: other measures that are at a standstill in the Council have to be adopted, beginning with the regulation on ACP countries which are traditional producers of bananas, and we insist on this so that the amendments adopted by Parliament are also adopted by the Council.
Madam President, I would first like to wish the Austrian presidency all the best for this period.
The first aspect is the institutional reforms and improvements of the Amsterdam Treaty, with which the Austrian presidency wishes to start via an informal summit.
As ex-rapporteur, I can only emphasize that the democratization of the European Union is not yet complete.
Even though we are called the victors of the Amsterdam Treaty, there are still things to be done and I would ask you to finalize the fulfilment of the democratic content of the European Union.
My second appeal relates to human rights.
The situation in both countries has escalated during the past two months.
That means we need to know what is available to us before the decision on the budget.
And that puts both you and us - because we have to work together on this - under pressure for time.
And so it goes on!
I also need this support because the President of the Council - and you as long-serving professionals will know this better than one doing it for the first time - cannot force others to do anything in a dictatorial manner, but has the very difficult task, where possible, of mediating, cooperating, merging and combining often very contradictory individual interests.
May I say quite frankly - as was decided in Cardiff - that the institutional reform will be tackled as soon as the Amsterdam Treaty has been ratified.
Moreover, I believe that the question of institutional reform cannot be reduced to the weighting of votes, to the question of the composition of the Commission, although I detect a certain flexibility in this respect, more so today than I did even in Amsterdam.
I believe that with a greater number of majority votes a way out can in any case be found which goes in the direction of a more efficient Union.
Economic growth will of course help us, but it also has something to do with the fact that we have coordinated our economic policy better than before, and that coherence and convergence are already beginning to bear fruit.
Then a discussion will begin within the Union and the Member States.
But I am sure - and I say this quite openly - that these difficult negotiations can ultimately be resolved as everything can that stands between people who have a certain talent for reason, even if they are pursuing different interests.
On the question of enlargement, I have said we want to start the negotiations.
The main point of the discussion is whether we wait until every word has been checked through by the Commission, or whether we start a parallel process as soon as individual chapters have been proof-read.
That is a subject that, in my opinion, can also be discussed at the extraordinary summit, at the informal Council in Gymnich in Salzburg, but perhaps also by the Heads of State or Government.
Under the Austrian presidency we began the first Joint Council with Mexico yesterday.
It was quite exceptional that we should have created this Joint Council before this interim agreement had even been in force for two weeks.
Together, with the Germans of course, we want to do everything to ensure that this summit next year in Rio de Janeiro functions.
I have a few words to say on the environment: Europe led the way in reaching the Kyoto Agreement.
The 8 % reduction is, in reality, extremely ambitious.
I also find it very positive that the subject of environmental protection has been addressed by many parliamentarians.
I do not deny that there is a right to self defence.
In the question of stationing missiles, I hope that we can find another solution that does not threaten the security of Cyprus.
Situation in Kosovo The next item is a statement by the President-in-Office of the Council on the situation in Kosovo.
Madam President, may I welcome Commissioner Hans van den Broek with whom we discussed this subject in great depth on Monday in the General Affairs Council.
First, I will look at the facts: at the moment there are between 80 000 and 90 000 refugees, the majority still in Kosovo but accommodated elsewhere due to the destruction of villages in their homeland: about 15 000 to 20 000 of them are in Northern Albania.
Klaus Kinkel was there in person.
In small rooms there may be 15 people lying on the floor, on nothing more than hard-packed earth.
But I believe that even individual countries must do more at a bilateral level.
I myself was in Belgrade and spoke with Milosevic.
The freezing of privatization schemes is, of course, drying up the financial sources for Milosevic.
In my view, Milosevic can no longer really win this conflict in military terms, unless with an incredible military effort.
When my General Secretary was in Malicevo - an eerie experience, incidentally, almost like something from the days of Che Guevara; no names were mentioned, people just said 'I am Commandant No 7' , and the like -, he stated that the real enemy in Malicevo were the politicians in Pristina, above all, Rugova.
We particularly want to concentrate on the question of enhanced status, as we always call it in our complicated Eurospeak.
Some think it is essentially a bit more than the status quo, while the Kosovo Albanians say that, apart from separation, in other words, an independent state, nothing would be considered.
We are working in parallel in the United Nations Security Council on a type of two-stage resolution, which should de facto safeguard the unlimited freedom to take further action.
If a mission, a real presence in the region is desired, then this appears to me to be the only practicable idea, the only reasonable incentive by which the Yugoslavs can be included.
I would also say quite openly that we could hardly expect that the Albanians would be satisfied with any kind of concessions to autonomy, unless at the same time a drive toward full democratization and pluralistic development were undertaken in Yugoslavia.
The delegation is visiting us on the occasion of the fourth interparliamentary meeting with the relevant European Parliament delegation.
May I add that relations between Algeria and the European Union will soon be based on the principle of a EuroMediterranean partnership and that the contacts we have made at a parliamentary level have demonstrated a common desire to cooperate in a large number of vital sectors.
That is not your fault personally, but Mrs Pack and many others here have often spoken - and the Commissioner, whom I would particularly like to welcome here, knows this - of the fact that the European Union must do more to support the peace-loving forces.
I am very glad, on behalf of my group too, that at last - in accordance with the wishes of this Parliament - we are more strongly represented as Europeans and I am also glad that this is happening under the Austrian presidency.
My second point concerns the political objective, because there are already different opinions on this in this house.
But I will say quite openly in my total solidarity or identification with the aims of the United Nations, that the Albanian population must know that Europe must never tolerate the slaughter of this people, the withdrawal of their basis for life.
If we are in favour of a common foreign and security policy, then we must prove now that we are capable of carrying it out to the end.
For eight years Rugova tried to motivate people to non-violent resistance, which is what the Albanians (Skipetars) have done.
Now we have the situation in which Western foreign policy - which has always reacted on an ad hoc basis and had no medium or long-term objectives in this region, as we saw in Bosnia - only reacts when the television shows people in the rest of Europe that the blood is flowing down there.
The political solution in Kosovo can no longer be the autonomy that was crushed by Milosevic in 1989.
Everyone must know this.
But ask people about it: even this solution no longer appears possible today, especially as Yugoslavia is anything but democratic.
For this reason, we must discharge our duties more thoroughly and attempt to solve this problem.
My inner hope is that those who are now fighting against oppression and for freedom in Kosovo should be driven by the desire not to set group against group, Orthodox against Muslim, Serb against Albanian, that their goal should be to anchor Kosovo into a European community characterized by democracy and respect for every single person.
We had already imagined that sooner or later Milosevic the dictator would turn on the Albanians in his own back yard, taking advantage of the methods he already used during the war and for ethnic cleansing in Bosnia.
Mr President-in-Office, in my opinion, the essential point is the last one you mentioned: until there is democracy in Yugoslavia, it will be impossible for us to solve even the problem of Kosovo.
Madam President, the so-called Kosovo Liberation Army has declared that whosoever desires peace in the Balkans must support the independence of Kosovo.
The President-in-Office of the Council has told us that they control 40 % of Kosovo and that their stance is one of "independence' .
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has pointed out the tragedy of Kosovo so many times.
We awarded Demaçi the Sakharov prize, but the Council remained in deadlock all this time, because no concerted policies were agreed on, not even a policy relating to Kosovo.
I have much confidence in the Austrian presidency, but I would ask it to propose that the Council awards it a realistic diplomatic charter, such as my country has recently done for the Palestinians.
Secondly, by claiming the territories of the Krajina region of Croatia as Serbian, on the pretext that these border regions were largely populated by Serbs, they similarly exposed themselves to one day seeing their province of Kosovo contested, historic cradle of the Serb nation but with a population consisting of 90 % Albanian Muslims.
Now they make up no more than 10 % of the population, for two reasons: the collapse of their birth rate and continuing immigration on the part of Albanians which has strengthened the Muslim minority already present.
Remember that at this time the Serbian Bolshevik regime in Belgrade was supported here by Jacques Delors.
Madam President, I thank the President-in-Office for his statement.
It is by far the most positive statement we have heard about Kosovo in the last few months and it is a clear indication that many months of very patient diplomacy are beginning to pay off.
For the Serbs as a whole we must make it clear that, as soon as there is a solution to the problem of Kosovo, we will want to lift sanctions.
While we pursue diplomatic solutions, we must not lower our guard but continue the military preparations that are necessary through NATO as well as our pursuit of a UN resolution that will give a legal basis for military action.
Mr President of the Council, first and foremost I would like to thank you for the specific and clear speech you have given on a subject in which the real point has so often been missed.
The peace-loving groups have not been supported there.
In this context, I wish you every success in your task.
Naturally, I believe that the Council will have the support of all or most of the political forces of this Parliament for the actions that it has announced and that it has undertaken and that are headed in the right direction.
In a way, what a lot of the Members here have been saying, that Europe and the international community can be in favour of autonomy but never independence, actually means that Milosevic knows that his actions to crush Kosovo will be met with a very weak reply from the international community.
In these conditions, it is very difficult, Mr President-in-Office, to force Yugoslavia to make that little extra effort that is still possible so that the situation in Kosovo does not explode.
It frees the Serbs and the Montenegrins who are opposed to the policies of the establishment in Belgrade to continue the fight for more freedom and democracy in Yugoslavia and for more autonomy in Kosovo.
But, above all, I would like to remind colleagues, and the hawks whose voices were heard in this House, of the no , the no not only of the European Union but also of this Parliament to the secessionist movements of the Serbs in Eastern Slavonia and Krajina.
If the Yugoslav Federation could indeed be transformed into a democratic constitutional state, than autonomy is, of course, also completely acceptable, but nothing more than autonomy.
I would ask the President-in-Office, as well as the Commission, as they are involved in the democratization policy, if this policy can actually be implemented by the Council and the Commission, so that we can indeed take our responsibilities seriously as we should.
The debate is closed.
Amendment No 46 was originally drafted in Italian.
We will make the necessary amendments, Mr Macartney.
For this reason I ask for a vote to be taken again on Amendment No 8.
But I will consult the rapporteur so that he can enlighten us with his wisdom.
Before the final vote Mr President, I would like to propose that this report be referred back to committee, pursuant to Rule 129.
In fact, the report seems to me to be incomplete.
The report speaks of common principles, of a European electoral system, but it is far from being complete.
A number of aspects are not touched upon, in particular those which the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights had mentioned in its opinion.
For example, you can be elected at the age of 18, or at 25, depending on the Member State.
The report is also full of contradictions.
I believe it would not be to the advantage of French sovereignty, only a few days after Sunday, 12 July and after the country's national holiday, if the report's only practical consequence was to be in contradiction with the wishes of the French authorities.
The Anastassopoulos report brings us a step nearer this goal, the goal of the founders of the European Union.
But it is also one of the most difficult reports to be debated by us, due to the large differences between our countries and due to the value which we all put on national traditions.
In my opinion, the rapporteur has succeeded superbly in tabling a realistic proposal which is moderate and takes account of the sensitivities in our countries.
The European Parliament has accomplished a concrete task, laid down by the Treaty of Rome.
I will consult the House to see if it accepts this oral amendment or if there are 12 Members opposed to it. (The President noted that there was no objection to the oral amendment) -On paragraph 27 The amendment concerns a phrase in the text in paragraph 27 where it says 'tax on carbon dioxide emissions and energy' .
Mr Olsson, I imagine that your proposal applies both to the initial text and to the two amendments which I am going to put to the vote, Amendment No 9 tabled by the Group of the European People's Party and Amendment No 2 tabled by the Green Group.
All these people are working to improve the situation of the members of the organization in question and others who are sympathetic to their cause.
We distance ourselves from this type of EU propaganda among young people and the rest of the population, for that matter.
I fully support the report by our colleague and first Vice-President, Nicole Fontaine.
Unanimity is required with regard to its objectives: encouraging solidarity through the promotion of a voluntary service for young people aged 18 to 25, -encouraging the participation of young people in the construction of Europe through youth exchanges and, finally, -encouraging a spirit of enterprise and creativity amongst young people.This being so, as a member of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, it is my duty to highlight the deplorable attitude of the Council of Ministers who, once more, are completely out of line with their discourse.
I will therefore vote for this report, but with this reservation.
Whilst everyone is now in agreement in recognizing that the training and education of young people in the world today are the fundamental axes of development in our societies, here we are confronted by a joint text which goes right to the heart of these issues, and yet which is extremely disappointing.
The many young workers or young unemployed who are no longer studying, and for whom European voluntary service is specifically targeted, want and deserve much more if they are to be supported in their projects for mobility and apprenticeship throughout Europe.
Dybkjær report (A4-0275/98) Sustainable development nowadays enjoys a broad consensus in our countries.
The interinstitutional negotiations on the fifth environmental action programme are exemplary in this regard.
Having said this, the European Parliament can congratulate itself on the results achieved thanks to the implementation of the codecision procedure which can now be applied in this matter.
That the Council has already recognized that some will have to be "still more ambitious' makes this acceptance all the more positive.
Another reason for satisfaction in my eyes is the Council's agreement on the possibility of legislative initiatives with regard to the use of fiscal instruments in the environmental field in order to encourage employment, competitiveness and growth.
Whilst awaiting the White Paper announced by the Commission, I therefore give my unreserved support to the results of conciliation as proposed.
Not even the proposals from the European Parliament's first reading remain to any great extent.
All these proposals have been negotiated away in the compromise proposal which is now to be adopted.
The Members of the European Parliament on the Conciliation Committee have not succeeded in defending the demands which the majority of the European Parliament adopted at second reading.
Secondly, why raise environmental standards in Europe if, at the same time, we are not prepared to look critically on what we accept from third countries?
Indeed, can Member States engage in a policy of sustainable development within a context of world trade under the dictatorship of the WTO, which strives to prohibit states from having a say in the quality of imported products?
The rapporteur rightly emphasized making as many as possible of the actions in the programme binding on the Community rather than considering them to be priority political objectives.
We believe it is superfluous to create a permanent network at Community level under the wing of the Commission.
Based on the above considerations, we are voting against this report.
Breyer recommendation (A4-0242/98) The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations supported both the report and the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
With regard to the use of nisin (an antibiotic) in the production of pasteurized eggs, the Commission proposes withdrawal of its use, whilst permitting it, however, in the manufacture of mascarpone.
Yet again, our group does not understand the Commission's position which we denounce as illogical, unless its proposals are in response to some interest or other wishing to destabilize European animal production.
The purpose of amending Directive 95/2/EC is to adjust its annex to accommodate the major technological development that has taken place over the last few years, and to enable Member States that have joined the EU since the directive was adopted to continue to use traditional additives.
It is very gratifying that the Commission's monitoring of the trend in the additives market has resulted in a proposal so quickly, thus always keeping EU legislation up to date in this important area.
The Danish government has expressed concern in the Council in the matter of certain substances permitted under the directive.
However, I hope it will be possible to reach a compromise that is acceptable to all Member States.
Anastassopoulos report (A4-0212/98) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Anastassopoulos report, as voted for this morning, does Parliament no credit.
Furthermore, the amendments we had tabled, namely Amendments Nos 35, 29 and 26 have been rejected even though we said that the aspects not touched upon came within the competence of the Member States.
Basically they will be looking at what is the best kind of system to enable them to make more gains in the next election.
Also, it ignores the fact that in certain Member States there are very fair electoral systems.
For example, Ireland has one of the fairest electoral systems in the whole of the European Community.
Harmonising electoral systems for the European election could actually be detrimental to the very fair and equitable system that we have in Ireland, and most people in this Parliament are probably totally unaware of that.
Furthermore, the idea of setting aside a certain percentage of seats for the European Parliament to be elected on a Europe-wide basis assumes that there is a sort of Europe-wide political identity.
That is why I voted against the report: it is a really bad idea.
Instead I will concentrate on the question of whether this report has any basis in fact.
The only country in the European Union which has a smaller percentage of spoilt ballot papers is the United Kingdom, in its tried and tested first-past-the-post system.
Therefore I am in favour of the electorate having the last say as to who they actually send to the European Parliament - or any parliament, for that matter.
That is why I voted against this report.
The Gucht report offered the concept of proportional representation and Parliament declared itself in favour of this.
The Anastassopoulos report offered us the concept that large constituencies, in the largest most populated countries, should be divided into a number of constituencies, described as territorial constituencies.
The very fact of having this declaration for small States means that the constituencies to which the first sentence of Article 2 relates are infra-national, territorial constituencies.
The spirit of the Anastassopoulos report is indeed the obligation for large states to divide the national constituency into a number of smaller ones.
On the basis of the Amsterdam Treaty, the report gives expression to the European Parliament's vision of an electoral system with common principles for the Members of the European Parliament.
I supported and voted in favour of the central objective of this report: the definition of common electoral principles for the European elections based on the principle of proportionality, which is the best way of securing a democratic system.
It involves selecting major pro-European political figures as candidates for the European Parliament, with real input and influence in the political systems from which they come.
The European Parliament has just adopted the Anastassopoulos report which provides - although in a slightly more obscure manner than the initial document - for an obligation to regionalise the European elections in all the Member States where the population is greater than 20 million.
My group has fought, and will continue to fight, this proposal, which is only at the beginning of its legislative course since it will be necessary, in accordance with Article 138 of the Treaty, for the Council to adopt a recommendation unanimously - admittedly under pressure from the European Parliament - and, above all, then be approved by each Member State according to its own constitutional regulations.
It seems to us to contradict the principle of subsidiarity, which should leave to each Member State the choice of number and size of its constituencies.
It is also very dangerous for large states, who would quite quickly risk finding themselves divided into a number of territorial entities, each one with a weight equal to that of a small state.
In reality, it is clear that a debilitating action would be at work, and you can count on the Commission to nurture this with all possible means.
I find it enlightening to remember that arguments in favour of the regionalisation of the electoral system were developed in France in a report dated June 1996, prepared under the auspices of the "European Movement - France' , which, as everyone knows or should know, is heavily subsidized by the Commission, and it obligingly relays the Commission's not entirely worthy ideas.
This model of indirect influence is frequently used by the Commission through numerous other intermediary associations, sometimes receives 100 % funding and which should one day be studied to understand better the wheels of the spread of federalism.
There was what the report calls an "initial contract' between these members and the governing authorities of the European Movement which stated, in particular, that "the essential objective of the new electoral law should be to bring the electorate closer to the elected (an extraordinary slip, incidentally) by breaking up the framework of the single national constituency' (page 13).
Given this "initial contract' it is not surprising to finally learn on page 16 that "the members of the committee were unanimous in recommending a reform of the existing system and, in this perspective, the continuation of proportional representation and the division of the electorate into a number of territorial constituencies' .
With regard to the European Parliament representatives, who should all be elected, for both theoretical and practical reasons, within the framework of a single national constituency, they might find themselves better controlled by the electorate if they were to apply the proposals contained in the different documents of the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations.
Amongst others, Members of the European Parliament should be managed at national level and not by Brussels, their work should be better linked to the work of preparatory reflection on national laws when they are common subjects, and citizens must be enabled to draw up a true balance sheet of the positions taken by their representatives in Brussels, by their different speeches being published in a specific section of the French government gazette.
I support the report by Georgios Anastassopoulos.
It is, however, regrettable to have to wait until 2009 to be able to elect 10 % of our Members within the single frontier of the Member States; 60 Members elected by Europeans as a whole would have been a strong symbol of the construction of Europe if it had been applied from 2004.
I would once more like to congratulate Georgios Anastassopoulos, whilst hoping that his recommendations will be understood by national members of parliament, beyond any strategy of politicking.
In Article 7 of his "draft act' , the rapporteur has had the good sense and the courage to introduce a proposal for transnational lists covering 10 % of the total seats available in the European Parliament.
Some will perhaps consider that alongside the other proposals in this text - a list system of proportional representation, minimum thresholds, preferential voting, territorial constituencies in states with more than 20 million inhabitants -, that of transnational lists is of secondary concern.
And it is furthermore based on this precedent, which goes beyond the boundaries of the framework of the State, that the European Parliament's Legal Service has given an opinion on this proposal which, in its opinion, is not alien to the principles of the Treaty, since elements of transnationality already exist in terms of the European elections.
As a Socialist who is a member of the a Party of European Socialists (PES) alongside the parliamentary Group of the Party of European Socialists (PSE), I should add that it would give an extremely specific content to the establishment of true European parties as distinct from traditional political groups.
It may be interesting to add an element of dramatization to the European elections by dissociating them from national elections and removing the risk of confusion between the two levels.
Thanks to the transnational lists, minority groups spread throughout the Member States may find a way of increasing their standing and even of being represented within the European Parliament.
In the current state of the construction of Europe, it appears that the priority is for all of the Union's citizens to feel fully and truly represented within the European Parliament.
To the rapporteur, transnational, that is, European, lists appear to mean that 10 % of the Members of the European Parliament will be elected not nationally, but on a Europe-wide basis.
In addition, it is not clear how such lists would be created, nor in particular how countries with very few Members, such as Luxembourg, would be served by this.
The more I think about it, the more this transnational list appears to me to be a type of 'political gadget' , that stands in direct contrast to the objective that I myself am pursuing in European politics, in other words, keeping European politicians in touch with the citizens, participation of the citizens in the political discussion in Europe and the 'visibility' of the European politics for the citizens.
The creation of a uniform electoral law for elections to the European Parliament is one of the most difficult aspects of the process of European integration.
That is shown by the fact that the task of producing such a law featured back in the Treaty of Rome, but almost 50 years later we have still not been able to approve it.
I am glad to be able to explain my vote in favour of the Anastassopoulos report on the production of a draft electoral procedure based on common principles for the election of Members of the European Parliament .
The report and draft act, drawn up in accordance with Article 138(3) of the Treaty establishing the European Community - Article 190(4) of the consolidated Amsterdam Treaty -, fill a gap in the fulfilment of the Treaty of Rome, which envisaged a uniform electoral system throughout what is now the European Union.
In the much-needed deepening of the democratic aspects of the EU, which is still today suffering from a democratic deficit in some areas, fulfilling the aforementioned mandate will constitute one more very important step in the representation of the citizens of the EU in the European Parliament, which has been repeatedly pointing out the need for this.
It is worth remembering, in this respect, the excellent earlier draft produced by my former Liberal colleague, the Flemish Member Karel De Gucht.
Unfortunately, the lack of will and agreement between the governments of the EU Member States has prevented Parliament's successive proposals from being put into practice.
I hope and desire that on this occasion the draft produced by our Vice-President, Georgios Anastassopoulos, will become reality.
I am glad that one of those elements envisages territorial constituencies in Member States with a population of more than 20 million.
Respecting such identities when electing their representatives in the European Parliament will certainly be a big help in improving the degree of representation and the relationship between the people and their Parliamentary representatives.
Once again the European Parliament is acting as the guarantor of progress and democracy in the construction of a united Europe.
Let us hope that this time the governments of the Member States are conscious of their obligations and do not stand in the way of complying with the wishes expressed in the Anastassopoulos report and the plan it contains.
Within the development of the institutional context, marked, in particular, by the establishment of direct universal suffrage for the election of Members of the European Parliament and the granting of the codecision procedure through the Maastricht Treaty and more recently through the Amsterdam Treaty, we must congratulate Georgios Anastassopoulos on the work he has carried out.
I fully share his legitimate ambition to bring European representatives closer to the citizens in general and the electorate in particular.
But I question the choice of method he advocates.
Indeed, the electoral method which truly enables this proximity to be established in practice is the method of voting for a single Member whereby the number of constituencies would correspond with the number of Members to be elected.
Furthermore, a large majority of the national political class denounced the fact that this proposal for reform was based on a method which did not enable the desired objective to be attained at the grass roots..
This failure on the part of the Jospin government, which finally withdrew its proposal, demonstrates that a reform of the voting method used for the European elections must, of necessity, take into consideration: the real expectations of our citizens and representatives, the existing geographical and administrative realities and the change in the number of Members of the European Parliament for each Member State, following enlargement.
As the amendments which would have contributed to moving the text in this direction have unfortunately not all been adopted, Mr President, I have voted against the final text.
I regret that I must vote against the report by our honourable Vice-President, Mr Anastassopoulos, but it raises questions concerning elements of principle in our politics.
The history of parliamentarianism shows us conclusively that an extremist party has never yet legally gained power in a country in which a system of voting for one member was used.
The proportional list system leads us to the kind of 'partitocracy' in which most Members are no longer representatives of the people, but instruments of the party functionaries.
The growing number of people who do not vote should be a serious warning to us.
According to the new Article 190 in the Amsterdam Treaty, a set of common election regulations for the European Parliament is to be drawn up.
The Danish Social Democrats believe the rapporteur has gone too far, since Article 190 does not require harmonization.
The procedures applicable to European Parliament elections - for example, proportional representation and thresholds - would, in fact, even out the differences between the larger and smaller nations, thus giving small countries proportionately more influence.
Lindqvist (ELDR), Eriksson, Seppänen and Sjöstedt (GUE/NGL), Holm and Schörling (V), Bonde and Lis Jensen (IEDN), in writing. (SV) The undersigned have voted against the report.
But Amendment No 49 goes further, by extending this to recognised historic nationalities in more than one state.
The particular beneficiary of this approach would be the Sámi people, who inhabit the northern part of two Member States (Sweden and Finland), as well as of the former applicant country Norway.
There is a strong moral case for giving the Sámi people a seat in this Parliament.
But a European Parliament without a Sámi seat is an incomplete Parliament and I appeal to colleagues to eliminate this deficit along with all the others this report seeks to address.
Today (15/7) the European Parliament votes on the Anastassopoulos report proposing an EU-wide common electoral system, based on proportional representation, for future European elections.
We cannot support the idea of some MEPs being elected in a single panEuropean constituency, something the report proposes from 2009.
We welcome the fact that the Gaullist RPR in France recently proposed that the single national constituency in that country should be replaced by eighty-seven individual constituencies on the British model.
Mr Anastassopoulos' personal support for open lists is most welcome.
Party members will be excluded from the key decisions on who gets elected.
The electoral procedure for the election of Members of the European Parliament is essential, mainly for those Member States where there is a decentralized system of government, such as Spain which has 17 autonomous communities, the administrative organization of which is closer to the people.
In that sense, I support the Anastassopoulos report.
I voted against the report, as I cannot accept that, as from the year 2009, 10 % of European Parliamentary seats should be filled by representatives from a pan-EU constituency.
Furthermore, this system could produce unexpected results, to which we may perhaps not have given enough thought.
I shall give an example: with the current Spanish method, which treats the whole national territory as a single constituency, there are six Spanish Members from the Spanish Basque Country in this legislature.
If the proportional system were applied to the territory and population of that region, it would only have two Members in a future Parliament elected by such a system.
What I have just said does not mean I do not admire the report by our colleague Georgios Anastassopoulos, which is good and worthy of admiration.
The Anastassopoulos report is the perfect illustration of the anti-national method and ideology which drive the current federalist majority in this Parliament.
It is an own-initiative report founded on a legal basis which figures in a Treaty which has not been ratified by Member States and which is therefore not in force.
Under pretext of bringing Members of the European Parliament closer to their electorate, the Anastassopoulos report proposes a maximum fragmentation of the electorate by doing away with both the notion of a single national constituency and the Members' status of national representatives elected in the different Member States.
At the same time, the report recommends the establishment of transnational lists, which would have exactly the opposite effect to the previously stated objective.
At the same time the electoral proposal respects the principle of subsidiarity and avoids regulating electoral procedures in too much detail, for example, election expenses, voting age etcetera.
Firstly, it was unfortunate that the majority of the House considered that constituencies should be compulsory in Member States with more than 20 million inhabitants.
In spite of the above flaws, I considered it important that the work on common provisions could now continue in the Council of Ministers and therefore voted for the report in the final vote.
I would like to thank our colleague Georgios Anastassopoulos for the work he has carried out.
Nevertheless, although I fully share in the ambition, a completely legitimate one, to bring European Members of Parliament closer to their citizens, I am not in agreement with the method advocated.
Indeed, only the method of voting for one Member, with a number of constituencies corresponding to the number of Members to be elected, enables this objective to be attained.
In France, the failure of the Jospin government as regards its recent proposal for reform aimed at regionalising the method of voting in the European elections is largely linked to the discrepancy between the means and the objective.
It would have been desirable for this House to draw lessons from this national experience.
Mr President, I voted in favour of a large number of amendments which would considerably improve the proposal, taking particular account of the principle of subsidiarity.
Olsson report (A4-0200/98) Mr President, in order to achieve sustainable and lasting development, our society must take up a double challenge: to encourage individuals and businesses to pollute less and to correct the distortions in competition which penalize manufacturers who have invested in the fight against pollution, whilst generally applying the principle of "the polluter pays' .
Admittedly, it is essential that the environmental dimension, as well as the social dimension, be integrated into fiscal instruments, but the Olsson report is based on the concept of an ecotax, that is, a supplementary tax to be added to an already excessive tax burden.
That can only have a harmful influence on the economy.
However, what is actually needed is a tax system adapted to the demands of sustainable development.
But this means a real tax revolution, not greater taxation but different taxation, not so heavy but better calculated, encouraging employment rather than more unemployment, in favour of the environment and not the polluter, in favour of health and no longer the sickness of living.
The Olsson report does not allow us to achieve these objectives.
Mr President, the 20th century dawned with red taxes: taxes on income, inheritance and capital, both in Europe and the West.
The 20th century must now come to a close with green taxes and we are presented with a new version of fiscal interventionism: taxes on CO2 and against pollution.
It is ineffective in principle and dangerous to the system.
And nor will it work in respect of the environment, because of the system, because it will first of all be necessary to fix the price of, and take into account, different hypotheses, different pollution, different sources of pollution emissions.
This will bring about a new legislative complexity and a prescriptive pollution.
And if the aim is to encourage employment, then let us have widespread tax reform, with a European ceiling for tax and social security deductions, and let us finally reflect on the stupidity of maintaining a tax on the creation of wealth, that is, a tax on income.
I am happy with this initiative on the part of the European Commission which, for the first time, examines Member States' use of environmental charges and draws up an inventory of the possibilities and obligations linked to this.
Indeed, a critical and comparative study of the effectiveness and profitability, both environmental and economic, of these taxes would have been particularly interesting and useful.
For this fundamental reason, I voted against the proposed resolution.
At the same time, the Olsson report also refers to a number of environmental obligations that the respective participating countries entered into at the meetings in Rio and Kyoto.
However, what makes the Olsson report unacceptable to us is, for example, that it recommends EU environmental taxes and charges and the harmonization of national economic policies at EU level.
At the same time, we wholeheartedly support all positive local, national, regional and international actions that may help reduce any kind of pollution.
However, we oppose the far-reaching proposal in the Olsson report that would spell sweeping EU harmonization of vital aspects of economic policy.
The Danish Social Democrats support initiatives on environmental taxes and charges at EU level.
We support the report in challenging the Commission to come up with common proposals that would at least promote the use of environmental taxes and charges.
Environmental taxes and charges in individual Member States could conflict with the rules of the single market and, therefore, environmental taxes and charges should be based on the need to solve environmental problems.
In summary, my aim is to call on the European Parliament and the Commission to be mindful of the social consequences of environmental taxes or charges.
For the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations, protection of the environment is unquestionably a priority area of common interest, where a high degree of harmonization can and must be sought between the maximum number of Member States.
On the other hand, it is unacceptable that questions of pollution should be used as a pretext to enable the Community to have own resources at its disposal, circumventing any control on the part of Member States, which is what the Commission ceaselessly and untiringly strives for.
We must seek to preserve the environment, the single market and the fiscal sovereignty of Member States.
With regard to VAT and excise duties, for example, administrative procedures have been put in place which respect the fiscal independence of Member States, whilst preserving the principle of the single market.
In Germany, for example, the dual system enables operators as a whole to participate in the ecotax, whatever the origin, be it a third country or another Member State.
However, in Belgium, the ecotax system in place which obliges operators from another Member State to include the accreditation reference of each of their distributors, is a heavy system, which causes a certain level of protectionism.
In fact, contrary to what has been done in Belgium, the administrative system for the collection of taxes must be simple, fair, effective and must not hinder intra-Community trade.
Indeed, the European Union budget must remain a budget exclusively financed by Member States and by customs duties on products imported from third countries.
The creation of a European tax would be one more step towards the creation of a European super-state, which is something our people do not want.
Now, however, the issue raises its head again with greater intensity, with a series of proposals such as, notably, the proposal for a directive to levy a CO2 energy tax and increased VAT on energy, the proposal for the taxation of energy products, and the Green Paper on pricing in transport, in the context of a more general attempt to broaden the European Union's powers of taxation.
We believe that the environmental element must constitute a fundamental parameter of all policies and activities, that sustainable and far-reaching development must go hand in hand with the protection of the environment, that environmental policy must be based on prevention, on the imputation of responsibilities to those who are involved in its destruction, and on the taking of measures to repair the damage caused.
The proposal for environmental levies does not even guarantee that revenues will be used to finance environmental protection actions, to promote activities relating to sustainable production models, and to boost the use and production of environmentally friendly technologies.
The environmental sector could bring about the creation of new jobs and thereby contribute to increased employment.
This would lead to the further shrinking of the State social security system and to the support of private insurance.
Moreover, the current reality shows that a reduction in employers' contributions does not lead to an appreciable increase in employment, but rather to an increase in profits.
For these reasons we cannot vote for the report.
It is an irony of history that the last time I appeared before this Parliament it was to present the annual report of an institution in liquidation, namely the annual report of the Committee of Governors of the European Central Bank.
Since the start of 1994 the EMI, in close collaboration with the national central banks of the European Union, has undertaken the necessary technical preparations to establish the European System of Central Banks, conduct the single monetary policy and create the single currency.
These tasks will be completed by its successor, the ECB.
The EMI published a report on monetary policy strategy in February 1997 identifying two potential strategies for Stage Three: intermediate monetary targeting and direct inflation targeting.
However, the report also stressed that, irrespective of the final decision, the objective of price stability needed to be clearly defined and specific targets used to measure the performance of the ESCB.
The theoretical preparations relating to monetary policy instruments and procedures were concluded at the end of 1996.
The 'framework report' published in January 1997 set out the single monetary policy in Stage Three and the operational framework.
In the area of foreign exchange policy, the European Council meeting in Amsterdam in June last year approved a resolution relating to the new exchange rate mechanism to be introduced in Stage 3, ERM2.
The EMI finalised a draft agreement between the ECB and future non-euro area NCBs setting out the operating procedure to be submitted to the ECB for endorsement.
It continued work on the technical infrastructure to enable the system to operate from 1 January 1999.
Work has also been undertaken with a view to transferring foreign reserve assets to the ECB at the start of Stage Three.
For example, in 1997 the EMI published a provisional list - later revised - of constituent bodies of monetary and financial institutions.
In the field of payment systems, in September 1997 the EMI issued a second progress report on TARGET, which is currently being tested and implemented to enable it to be fully operational by late December.
In 1997 final designs were developed based on the draft designs chosen by the EMI Council in December 1996.
To enable euro banknote production to proceed smoothly prototypes were manufactured by eight different paper mills and ten different printing works in 1997.
This project revealed that all the participating printing works should be able to produce all the euro banknote denominations, achieving uniform standard of quality and appearance.
Mass production of euro banknotes will start early in 1999.
Finally, in 1997 the EMI was actively involved with other aspects of the changeover to the euro.
To cite just a few examples, the EMI met with representatives of European Union-wide banking and financial associations to discuss issues such as the replacement of contract prices that may become meaningless after the start of Stage Three and inter-bank rates.
The initial composition of the euro area from 1 January 1999 onwards was decided, as you know, in early May.
I began today by recalling that the establishment of the ECB and the European System of Central Banks took place barely six weeks' ago, on 1 June 1998.
Both the General Council and the Governing Council have met - the Governing Council has already met twice.
In its meeting so far the European Central Bank has been concerned with many organisational issues, such as the allocation by the Executive Board of responsibilities amongst its members and the establishment of a new structure which suits the tasks of the ECB.
In terms of the preparatory work, at its first meeting the Governing Council agreed on the method to be applied for determining the NCBs' percentage shares in the key for the ECB's capital and the measures necessary for paying-up the ECB capital.
As a result, the European Central Bank was endowed with an initial capital of slightly under 4 billion euros at the start of July.
The Governing Council also agreed on the framework for the organisation of the overall testing of ESCB-wide systems and procedures, which will be conducted in the remaining six months before 1 January.
It also dealt with two specific issues relating to preparation for Stage Three: TARGET and euro banknotes.
On TARGET, a pricing policy was agreed.
On banknotes, it has been agreed that the initial supply of banknotes for the euro area should be produced largely following a decentralised approach, that is each of the 11 participating national central banks will be able to organise the production of the euro banknotes needed to replace their national banknotes, either by producing the relevant banknotes themselves or by entering into bilateral pooling arrangements.
The second meeting of the Governing Council took place on Tuesday last week.
With this in mind, it decided that the minimum reserve holdings would be remunerated at a level corresponding to the rate of its main refinancing operations.
The exact specification of the minimum reserve system, including the reserve ratio, which is currently defined within a range of 1.5 to 2.5 %, will be decided by November 1998 at the latest.
The conditions for the participation of non-euro area European Union central banks and credit institutions in the TARGET system were also decided, taking into account the risk to the conduct of monetary policy that giving unlimited access to intraday credit to credit institutions outside the euro area could bring.
Therefore, non-euro area European Union central banks will be able to provide collateralised intra-day credit in euros to their credit institutions but subject to a ceiling both at the level of the non-euro area European Union central banks and at that of non-euro area credit institutions.
Finally, the Governing Council has adopted a number of ECB recommendations for European Union Council regulations concerning the collection of statistical information by the ECB, the application of minimum reserves and the powers of the ECB to impose sanctions.
These requirements have already been discussed over a considerable period of time, but a legal instrument will provide the necessary certainty for those who must meet them.
There will be an opportunity for the Ecofin Council to adopt the relevant text at its meeting in October, and this means that we would much appreciate it if the European Parliament could deliver an opinion as required in the course of September.
To conclude, in my view, the thorough technical preparation carried out by the EMI during 1997 and in earlier years enables us to look forward with confidence to the introduction of the single currency at the beginning of next year.
However, Member States' fiscal policies now need to be geared towards achieving the medium-term requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact as soon as possible.
I believe I reflect the majority of this House when I state that you have filled your role as President of the EMI competently, efficiently and in a spirit of dialogue, as did your predecessor, Mr Lamfalussy.
To come to the EMI report, which serves as the basis for our discussions today, I will first of all say that it constitutes an excellent source of information on the state of convergence of the different Member States and no less an excellent synthesis of the institutional and technical characteristics relating to the establishment of the future monetary policy of the euro area.
With regard to the economic situation of the Union, as Parliament's rapporteur, I would like to congratulate, as indeed you do in the report, the progress which has been achieved by the vast majority of Member States with regard to economic convergence in general, and the reduction of budget deficits in particular.
In spite of the improvement in the economic situation I, like you, remain somewhat sceptical with regard to the low level of investment and the still unacceptably high level of unemployment in many Member States.
All these measures are essential if we wish to ensure lasting growth, with a high and sustainable level of employment.
I think there is wide agreement on these points.
We know that, according to the Treaty, the main objective must be price stability but we also know that, still according to the Treaty, the Central Bank must support the overall economic policies of the Community.
Mr President, when are you going to give an opinion on these issues which, as you know, are of extreme importance both for the monetary control of the ECB and for the markets, as well as for the economic policies of Member States and for economic operators as a whole?
And, if I may add, this is important to enable our Parliament to correctly exercise its democratic responsibility in the area of monetary policy.
Personally, I hope that you expand on this a little later today and, in conclusion, I would like to acknowledge once more the excellent work achieved by the EMI and its management team during the short but intense years of its existence.
In this respect, I would also like to thank the rapporteur, whose position is supported by the PSE group, for his comments on the report by the European Monetary Institute.
At the same time, however, it must be possible to develop an information and communications strategy that meets the need of the people who are entering this age of the euro with uncertainty, fear and scepticism.
For that reason, this European Parliament's question concerns what is being done or what should be done beyond the monetary dialogue with this Parliament on the basis of the quarterly report and on the basis of the annual report from the European Central Bank, in order to give concrete shape to democratic accountability and the establishment of European openness for its decisions.
Money supply and inflation targets are in competition, as the rapporteur indicated.
We in the European Parliament considered a double and mixed strategy at a very early stage and are of the opinion that money supply and inflation targets must be linked because we want to avoid any risk, especially in the age of electronic money.
My first concern relates to the external representation of monetary union.
It seems that many countries, having achieved the required performance in terms of respecting the convergence criteria have now let themselves go a little and there is a natural tendency to relax efforts which must, however, be continued.
The third worry concerns the impact of the Asian crisis in conjunction with the Russian crisis, not so much on an economic level - we have been given more or less reassuring statistics in this respect -, but concerning the direct commitment of the European and international banking system in the affected countries.
That lack of a Community dimension can also be seen in, for example, the presence of the European Central Bank itself and the representation of monetary union in the international fora and international bodies relating to monetary matters, from the International Monetary Fund to the groups composed of representatives of the large industrialized economies.
Mr President, Commissioner and President of the European Central Bank, at the outset I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the President of the Central Bank on his appointment and wish him well during his term of office.
The summary with regard to the countries of central and eastern Europe is far too brief from the point of view of future enlargement.
It is also useful to recall that the monetary policy of the euro zone is inseparable from the introduction of a Union economic policy based on coordination of the economic policies of the Member States.
The European Central Bank will play a key role in creating an economic atmosphere conducive to investment and will therefore play an important role in job creation.
While the emphasis since 1994 has been on preparing the management framework for the European Central Bank, decisions still have to be made.
It follows that the Central Bank, given a precise objective, must examine a whole range of criteria in order to take decisions.
The European Central Bank Council must disclose its strategy on this matter in September.
In conclusion I would like to say to the President of the Central Bank how much we appreciate his offer to appear regularly before Parliament's subcommittee.
I assume that Mr Duisenberg will deny press reports that his salary is being treated as a State secret.
I further assume that we will have a great many more discussions about which monetary policy is really suited to guaranteeing the necessary future investments in Europe and the development of employment that we urgently need.
Monetary policy must play its part here too.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must recognize that the European Monetary Institute's final annual report represents an efficient and substantial piece of work.
Firstly, what are the conditions for good coordination between the monetary policy which will from now on be conducted by the European Central Bank, under Parliament's supervision, and the economic policies of the different Member States?
Secondly, what are the conditions for the best possible coordination, both budgetary and fiscal?
The Institute's report remains far too general and imprecise on these three points.
So what I would like to ask the President of the ECB today is that he set out for us very clearly, in simple terms, the way in which the European Central Bank is going to disclose information to the public.
Mr President, on 30 June we celebrated the baptism, or shall I say the official creation of the European Central Bank in Frankfurt, the common house for the single currency.
Indeed, the euro's arrival modifies the existence of the European Monetary Institute whose annual report we are examining today.
However, in the future and in the medium term, the ECB will have to fully assume all the functions provided for in the Treaties.
The French government's capitulation a few weeks ago at the height of the Air France pilots' strike is a perfect example of what should not be done.
The ECU 200 million lost by the airline during the conflict is a great deal of money which will burden the French taxpayer's purse and, consequently, will prevent a reduction in the national budget deficit.
Naturally, our group will support Mr Fourçans' report.
But how satisfied can we feel with the level of unemployment in the European Union and the level of investment, which is inadequate to fundamentally combat unemployment?
Secondly, is it possible for us to go ahead with a policy to support the single currency in the context of a fiscal policy like the one that is currently in force?
The 1997 EMI report fails to reflect the interesting and enlightening exchanges Parliament had with the other ECB candidates on 7 and 8 May about the choice of direct inflation targets, with margin or monetary supply objectives - or a combination of both - as a preferred measure of price stability.
Indeed, the President's then indicative bracket of 0 % to 2 % as a reasonable inflation target seems to have been replaced by a yearning and a yen for monetary supply targets, if recent reports and pronouncements from Mr Duisenberg are to be believed.
Mr President, this report in some way constitutes an account of the activity of the EMI in relation to the completion of its mission.
I fear that now we are going through a crisis of excessive confidence because the euro was established much more easily than we expected.
We may, therefore, have forgotten that many of the structural problems still exist.
I hope that efforts will now be made to solve the problem of ERM II for those states that are outside the system of Economic and Monetary Union, so that, finally, EMU can be a unifying factor, as had been planned, and so that it can fulfil its objective and contribute to the progress of all the Member States of the European Union.
Mr President, the main principle of the European Central bank is neo-liberalist ideology.
In its name, Europe has seen it lead to both deflation and inflation at the same time: deflation in the labour market, and inflation in the capital market.
These countries have both Europe's worst unemployment rates and left-wing led governments in power.
In any case, from this point of view he can count on Parliament to be very demanding of him.
I too would like to ask you, Mr Duisenberg, about your concept of the role of the increase in public and private investment in relation to economic growth.
Between 2 % and 0 %, there is a margin of vagueness, a margin of interpretation for which we are awaiting clarification.
It seems to me that future developments might be threatened if the Member States are not capable of reducing deficits when the economic situation is favourable.
My second question concerns the external representation of the Community.
The Monetary Committee will be succeeded by the Economic and Financial Committee, which comprises 15 national bankers, in addition to two European Central Bank representatives.
This is the moment to congratulate ourselves on the European Monetary Institute's contribution to achieving the objective of Economic and Monetary Union.
The Europe of the 11 is in a phase of upward growth, with a level of price stability which we can consider practically absolute.
In this situation, monetary union offers opportunities to consolidate growth, to increase the level of investment and to make progress in reducing unemployment, but on the condition that the Union is not limited to monetary aspects, but is also a Union which harbours a fiscal policy on a European scale which can face up to all these problems.
Mr President, I would like to thank honourable Members for the attention they have paid to the annual report and to many other issues still surrounding the fledgling ECB.
Some questions have been repeated or have overlapped and I will try to bunch them together as much as I can.
Many questioners have urged me to explain the monetary strategy, the instruments to be used, the question of stability of prices, its definition and the aggregates to be monitored.
I refer to the decisions on TARGET and access to TARGET by the 'Outs' ; decisions on the minimum reserve requirement which were made public last week and which, I must emphasize, were the final decisions on the monetary instruments that would be used.
There will be two standing facilities plus the minimum reserve requirements which will be used as the main three instruments for monetary policy.
The monetary strategy analysis is available.
Basically, it says that the monetary strategy to be pursued boils down to the choice between direct inflation targeting or money supply targeting as an intermediate target.
In reply to another question, I hope the relevant decisions will be taken in September - and I am sure by October.
It is possible that we could reach the decisions in September.
The linkage between policies of the ECB and the NCBs provides no problem.
Monetary policy will be decided by the Governing Council of the European System of Central Banks.
I always say that regional monetary policy does not exist and that when there are regionally differentiated economic developments this places a heavier burden on other policy instruments like fiscal policy, wage policy and economic financial policies other than monetary policy.
Various questions were asked about democratic accountability and credibility.
It means that, as far as we are concerned, there will be an intensive and open dialogue with the European Parliament.
At any rate it will be as extensive as possible.
The markets believe it, as can be seen from the fact that the liquidity crises elsewhere in the world have had no impact whatsoever on the internal exchange rate relationships in Europe.
I had a few questions on banknotes.
Some questions have been asked about that.
In general, although the figures are not references, the system is such that the salary of a member of the Executive Board of the ECB is about 10 % higher than the highest Director-General's salary at the European Commission.
The salary of the Vice-President is 20 % higher.
My salary as President is 40 % higher than the salary of an Executive Director.
In addition, contrary to what some in Europe seem to believe, we pay European tax on it, which makes my marginal tax rate - if you want to know the details - 45 %.
I am taxed like all other European officials.
To centralise printing would have been more efficient but it would not have been such a wise decision.
As I indicated in my introductory statement, some central banks might voluntarily enter into pooling arrangements whereby each bank would take a share of the work.
The debate is closed.
These countries were promised they could keep to their strict environmental standards for the duration of a transitional period that would be four years in length.
During this time, the EU intended to do all it could to raise its own environmental standards to the same level the newest Member States enjoyed.
This report on cadmium might sound pretty trivial but it has very far-reaching political significance.
Now it is important that this research and development work be speeded up on both sides.
My conclusion is that the Commission and the Member States have wasted these four years of transition time in dilly-dallying over the production of a risk assessment study which is needed to come to any conclusion on whether regulations should be introduced at Union level on the cadmium content of fertilizers.
It in fact proposes that a new transition period of three years be granted to Finland, Sweden and Austria, so the time for the EU level risk assessment study can be extended accordingly.
However, I am of the opinion that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has accepted the view that the Commission and the Member States should be rather more determined in their purpose.
A derogation being allowed to exist indefinitely in this way is out of the question, and environmental and health factors, on the one hand, and an unhampered single market, on the other, demand that there should be an agreement now that any possible or necessary amendments to legislation be approved during this new three-year term.
Cadmium must in future be classified as a harmful substance, and its limit values must be specified precisely in a new directive.
That is in the interest of producer countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when Austria, Sweden and Finland joined in 1995, the European Union committed itself to a more careful consideration of ecological aspects than before.
At the same time, a monitoring process was established at Union level.
The objective was to adapt environmental standards, if necessary, to the higher national standards.
These agreements were and still are considered a great environmental policy success both for the new Member States and for the environmental situation in the European Union.
If this should be proven, the limit value situation in the European Union is clear.
The Commission's proposal is to extend the right of Finland, Sweden and Austria, to be exempt from the requirements of the directive on cadmium in accordance with their Acts of Accession.
The Commission has promised to decide on a risk assessment study for the whole of the EU area.
In fact, through the Commission we finally committed ourselves to an upward harmonization of standards.
However, public health and environmental protection are not subsidiary questions; I think that current affairs ensure we are reminded of this every day.
The derogation, the principle of derogation, must not be perpetuated for ever.
Mr President, those who participated in the discussion have already described the starting position adequately.
At the same time, however, we cannot accept what Mrs Hautala proposes, because if we now - before the expert opinion, so to speak - wanted to introduce common standards, then we would completely undermine this scientific process.
There is no point in commissioning a scientific study in order to obtain grounds for standards, and at the same time saying that we are going to adopt this standard anyway.
We cannot accept the other part - as I have already said - as we cannot commission a scientific study while stating in advance that we will do what we think is right now, regardless of the findings.
That is our situation and that is why I ask Parliament to play its part so that we can extend these derogations, so that we at least have today's legal status.
As you yourself say, you will have a decision on this risk assessment study by the year 2000, which is absolutely right.
Thank you, Mrs Hautala.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive that we are now debating, is a certification system for vehicles to be used for the transportation of certain animals.
Under this directive it will become possible for the manufacturers of vehicles to choose a certified system in the internal market for the whole of the Union, one that will fulfil certain technical requirements.
Because of that, it is very important for Parliament now to use this opportunity to the best advantage.
That is precisely why it is very important that technical factors that improve the protection of animals are taken into full consideration when manufacturing these vehicles in the future.
All the proposals contained in the report are fully capable of being achieved with modern materials and technology, and that goes for gentler sloping ramps too.
The Commission suggests that their angle of inclination should be 25 degrees, but animal welfare studies show that it ought not to be more than 20 degrees.
It is very important that Parliament does not now waste this opportunity to improve future vehicle models for the transportation of animals, to take account of animal welfare.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group welcomes positively the objectives and provisions in this draft directive which is a considerable improvement on the existing measures.
Admittedly, you could transport all animals in air-conditioned buses with couchettes; it is technically feasible.
It is a question of assessing the relationship between welfare and cost, and in this respect, the rapporteur goes too far.
Mr President, my first reaction to Mrs Hautala's report is to ask why the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy was given the task of dealing with a subject that belongs more appropriately, in my opinion, to the Committee on Agriculture and to the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
How the subject of the welfare of animals during transport can be seen as more relevant to economic and monetary policy than to agricultural policy or transport policy is beyond me.
Regarding the subject of the report - the safe and humane transport of animals - we all accept without hesitation that this is a fundamental requirement.
The modes of transportation are likewise, in my opinion, of the highest quality and standards.
In the agricultural industry, as in any other, farmers and livestock dealers have very large vested interests in presenting their product in prime condition in order to command the best possible price.
Generally speaking, already on 2 October 1997, the European Parliament defined the conditions in which live animals should be transported, emphasizing, in particular, that they should not travel more than eight hours and stating in more general terms that the transport should be limited to the closest place possible for slaughtering.
My area has 90 islands, and one can imagine some of the stress involved in getting the animals from the islands to the mainland, and thence on further long journeys.
There is the eight-hour rule and the recommendation mentioned by the last speaker that animals be slaughtered as close as possible to their place of origin.
I would really like to seize this opportunity to ask the Commissioner whether he feels that there is too much laxity about monitoring.
The field of animal production as a whole has every interest in respecting animals during their transportation, for everyone knows that the market value of an animal is greatly reduced if its transportation conditions are poor.
Finally, farmers themselves also use specific vehicles for transporting their animals, either to take them to market within a very limited radius or simply to take them to grass elsewhere.
The 1995 directive and the 1998 regulation both indicate that there is a need to establish requirements for the methods of transport used for animals.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Hautala report addresses the technical fittings of vehicles for animal transportation.
For large numbers of animals, we must demand loading ramps that exactly match the height of the lorries.
Let me emphasize the following once again: we must improve the implementation and monitoring of animal welfare provisions in Member States.
In Austria, there is a high level of awareness of the importance of how animals are treated, whether we are talking about utility animals, breeding stock or animals for slaughter.
The Austrian presidency will be taking a greater interest in this topic with a view to improving conditions of transportation of animals throughout Europe.
That does not quite fit in with what Mrs Hautala is proposing here.
I always find it somewhat amusing that people who are so interested in animals focus their energies on transport, but the minute an animal is slaughtered, their interest dwindles.
We are able to accept nine of these: Amendments Nos 3, 4, 6, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21.
There is no sense in the existing directives using different heights from those found in the directive on type-approval.
We calculated that if the gradient were reduced to 20º, that would mean the loading ramp would have to be too large to allow us to keep the total height of 4 metres.
Mrs Hautala, it is all very well to disagree on a lot of things, but it is very difficult to disagree about mathematics because all it takes is a simple calculation.
As I said, I cannot go into all these amendments one after another.
I hope - and I have to be a little cautious after what the members of the PPE Group have said - that we will be able to agree on a common position which will now mean that we can adopt one of the last regulations on type-approval.
The debate is closed.
Question No 1 by Freddy Blak (H-0607/98) Subject: The Staff Regulations and discrimination against homosexuals As they stand, the Communities' Staff Regulations discriminate against homosexuals and their registered partners.
The Council has an opportunity to end this blatant discrimination when the Staff Regulations are revised.
Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, I invite you to reply to Mr Blak's question.
The presidency will ensure that any new proposal is examined as soon as it is submitted to the Council by the Commission.
Perhaps I could just mention briefly once again that the Commission had already tabled a proposal for a regulation to the Council in March 1993, to amend the Staff Regulations of Officials and Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities in respect of equal treatment of men and women.
One objective of this amendment was to have the general principle of equality of men and women written into the texts in question, while a second objective was to include provisions which would enable the bodies in question to eliminate the very real inequalities which adversely affect the opportunities available to women in the areas covered by the regulation.
After extensive consultation, the Commission presented an amended proposal on 3 March 1996, which was again brought before Parliament for a reading.
The new position of the House reflects the concept that the European Community should take account of the fact that - as you have said - increasing numbers of predominantly young people are now living together without marrying, and that consequently, following the example of the European Monetary Institute, a corresponding change should be made to public service legislation in the Communities.
Even if, in reality, we know that registered partnerships exist in several of the EU's Member States, it means that the Council intends to continue to discriminate against employees who come from these countries.
I would like to have a reply to this.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, first I should like to congratulate you, as a representative of Austria, on being the first of the new Member States to hold the presidency.
Regarding the matter of homosexual and lesbian discrimination, Article 13 in the Amsterdam Treaty prohibits discrimination in respect of sexual orientation, and in this connection it is important also, in accordance with Article 13, to review the Staff Regulations.
That corresponds exactly to the wording of the Amsterdam Treaty, and consequently, as I have already said, the Commission was asked to carry out studies into the recognition of registered non-marital life partnerships and to table its proposals to the Council.
Mr President, Mr Camisón Asensio, on 30 January 1998, the Commission tabled a proposal to the Council for a Council Regulation(EC) amending Regulation (EEC) 295/91 establishing common rules for a denied-boarding compensation system in scheduled air transport.
This regulation came into effect in April 1991, and since that time the Commission has been gathering information on its application.
Considering the most recent developments in the air traffic sector, the amendments proposed by the Commission are aimed, in particular, at increasing the number of instances where passengers are entitled to compensation, as well as adjusting the minimum level of compensation upwards to help keep the practice of over-booking within more reasonable limits.
In the meantime, on 18 June this year, the Council concluded that it was necessary to review the present regulation with the objective of raising the minimum payment levels; the Council asked the Commission to examine how air passengers could become better informed of their rights.
The Council bodies will continue to examine the Commission's proposals with a view to reaching agreement in the near future.
Mr President, Mr Camisón Asensio, please allow me just to state the following and then to give my response to this question.
The Council actually reached its conclusions, based on the proposal I have just outlined, on 18 June 1998.
The practice of overbooking is openly admitted - they say to passengers like me that all air transport companies do it - and, as has been said, people do not know their rights.
Will the Austrian presidency, in matters of foreign policy, seek the agreement of all 15 Member States, in accordance not only with the Amsterdam Treaty, which will soon be in force, but also with the articles of the previous Treaty, and not the agreement of 13 or 14 Member States?
Obviously, we are well aware that these are difficult political questions and that we will probably only be able to take a few small steps at a time.
Perhaps a small-scale presidency from a small-scale state will be able to make more happen - because in reality all interests are focused on working for the European Union.
At any rate, we certainly hope to make a little progress with Greece, Turkey and Cyprus on these very difficult political issues.
Mr President, Mr Marset Campos, I would like to mention the following in connection with your question.
I would refer you to the answers to questions Nos H-0135/98 and E-1115 on the situation on the Island of Bioko.
On 24 February 1998, the Council expressed its deep concern to the Ambassador of Equatorial Guinea regarding infringements of human rights following the alleged attack on the town of Luba by the MAIB on 21 January.
The Ambassador gave further assurances to the effect that those responsible for the attack on 21 January had been identified and would be tried; all other persons arrested had been released.
At a meeting between the heads of the EU-accredited mission to Equatorial Guinea and President Obiang, which took place in Cameroon in May 1998, the mission heads expressed the concerns of the European Union with regard to the human rights situation in Equatorial Guinea.
Despite this, on 1 June, a military court passed the death sentence on 15 of the 100 or so accused.
The Council will continue to observe developments in Equatorial Guinea very closely and will take every opportunity to underline the importance it attaches to upholding human rights and democratic principles in that country.
The Commission made it clear that a gradual resumption of aid would be dependent upon progress in human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law.
So the European Union must act firmly with all the available means so that human rights are respected once again in this part of the world and, moreover, so that forces from outside Africa are not allowed to intervene.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too have just received the news that the leader of the Movimiento de Autodeterminación de la Isla de Bioko has died in prison, probably as the result of torture inflicted on him.
Let me now say again that the Council will be observing developments in Equatorial Guinea all the more closely and will take every opportunity to point out the high value that must be attached to human rights and democratic principles in that country.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I too thank you for your kindness, but unfortunately I have to say that you have not by any means satisfied the expectations of this House or the democratic opposition in Equatorial Guinea as regards the situation we are dealing with.
I understand, of course, that your country, Austria, no doubt views the terrible human rights situation in Equatorial Guinea as remote, but I would suggest for example that you request information from the Spanish government, because they were also the ones who, last autumn, urged President Santer to receive the dictator Teodoro Obiang, who subsequently set up a council of war, which was certainly followed by death sentences and the death, probably from torture, of the Equatorial Guinean leader, Martín Puye.
So, as well as monitoring the situation closely, I would like you to tell me clearly whether you do not think the Council needs to adopt a common position to apply Article 5 of the Lomé Convention to Equatorial Guinea and stop that country participating in that agreement until, of course, it respects minimum democratic principles and human rights.
Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, I invite you to reply to Mr Macartney's question.
I also welcome the Austrian President-in-Office of the Council.
The Austrian presidency has got off to a very good start.
We appreciate your directness in dealing with our questions.
I take it from what the President-in-Office says now that the Council already has this in hand and, in a sense, has taken over the responsibility, in which case I am delighted.
We are awaiting such a document from the Commission, but what we have asked the Commission to clarify is exactly what instruments Member States have at their disposal to help absorb the impact of these measures.
Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, this question of compensatory measures on the abolition of duty-free sales is of great interest to this House, which means I have received requests for four supplementary questions.
My concern now is that we must know the facts ahead of any action that the Commission and the Council might take in abandoning the tax-free policy.
The Council therefore eagerly anticipates the results of this study which, as I already mentioned, the Commission will be preparing in the form of a working document on the instruments available to Member States to assist them in dealing with this situation.
On this subject let me repeat that as far as compensatory measures are concerned, I am sure you are aware, Mr Lindqvist, that the Council made this decision unanimously - as I have already explained - and therefore cannot become involved in this matter again.
You can ask to speak by raising your hand or by pressing the button.
Mr Watts, do you wish to make a point of order?
So I am going to use the authority granted me by the Rules of Procedure in that way, and I hope you will understand.
Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, this question is on the same subject.
Are you happy with that or would you prefer to speak first?
You have the floor, Mr Crowley.
I want to have an answer from the President-in-Office before I ask my supplementary.
I would like to congratulate the President-in-Office on her first session here in Parliament and thank her for her honesty.
Mr President, Mr Crowley, thank you for your kind welcome.
To my mind, it is extremely important for us to enter into the revision process under the auspices of the Vienna European Council and use this to learn from one another.
Just as Austria, for example, can learn about mobility, flexibility and many other specific programmes from other Member States, by the same token, other Member States can learn from us, and here I am thinking of our excellent apprenticeship training scheme, which allows young people of 14 or 15 to start training with a firm or workshop while at the same time continuing to receive school education.
President-in-Office, let me also join with my colleagues in wishing you and your colleagues a very successful presidency, bearing in mind that this is an historic moment: your country's first presidency since joining the European Union.
Firstly, you talk about a working document.
Secondly, when you talk about instruments and compensation measures, can I have the assurance of the Austrian presidency that compensation measures will be forthcoming if, unfortunately, this decision does go ahead; that these compensation measures will be additional to money in existing or future Community support frameworks; and that countries will not be forced to poach money from other parts of their Community support framework.
Mr President, I am doubly grateful to you this evening, for exercising your discretion in this way.
Can I extend a very warm welcome to the Austrian President-in-Office, I am delighted to see her here this evening.
It was generally understood that any ferry travelling through international waters outside the 12-mile limit and any airline travelling in international airspace would continue to benefit from and be able to continue with duty-free sales after 1 July 1999.
The second point is that the President-in-Office has mentioned compensatory measures in reply to a number of questions this evening.
Mr President, on a point of order.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Member is no doubt aware that the UNESCO recommendation of 1982 initially states that the Elgin marbles should be returned; it went on to specify that they should be returned to Greece so that they could once again be put on display at the Parthenon.
This issue must be resolved solely between the governments of the United Kingdom and Greece.
The Parthenon Marbles are a priceless cultural commodity which concerns not only Greece and Britain but the whole of humanity.
The Council has no jurisdiction in this matter.
Question No 9 by John McCartin (H-0619/98) Subject: Crisis in Sudan Following the meeting of the Development Council, has the Council addressed the issue of the war and famine in the Sudan and can the Minister make a statement on the current situation there?
Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, I invite you to reply to Mr McCartin's question.
Following the debate which took place at the meeting of the Development Council on 18 May, which the Member referred to, the Foreign Ministers of the European Union discussed the situation in Sudan on 25 May and 29 June.
The Council refers to the statement by the presidency on 1 May and confirms that only a lasting political solution will allow the Sudanese people to return to a state of normality.
The Council affirms its support for the intergovernmental development authority, IGAD, in its efforts to find a way to negotiate a lasting peace.
In this context, the Council welcomes the proposal whereby the IGAD Partner Forum (IPF) would despatch a ministerial-level mission to Khartoum and Nairobi to investigate the possibilities of bringing about a cease-fire in the areas hardest hit by famine in order to allow humanitarian aid to get through.
The Sudanese rebel organization, the SPLA, has called a unilateral cease-fire in certain areas of the country in order to allow more than a million starving people to receive aid.
The cease-fire in the Federal State of Baralgasal and in parts of the Upper Nile came into effect late on Tuesday evening, according to the SPLA spokesman in Nairobi on Wednesday.
The people here are suffering primarily as a result of the drought, but also, of course, from the consequences of 15 years of brutal civil war.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask whether the Council is also concerned with religious freedom in Sudan, as well as taking an interest in Southern Sudan and the humanitarian issues.
You are aware, for example, that pressure was brought to bear on the Bishop of Khartoum and that he was threatened that if he resisted this pressure, church development aid projects would be blocked.
Mr President, Mr Posselt, I can tell you in general terms that all aspects of the question of the crisis in Sudan are under our constant scrutiny.
As the author is not present, Question No 13 lapses.
Question No 11 by Joan Vallvé (H-0631/98) Subject: Action programme for minority languages It was only at the beginning of 1994 that the Commission submitted a communication on minority languages in the EU, in the form of an activity report (1989-1993).
What must be stressed, above all, in connection with these issues is that the protection of basic personal freedom and the affirmation of democratic principles constitute two of the fundamental pillars of the European Community.
Moreover, it goes without saying that all citizens of the European Union must be able to enjoy the same rights and freedoms.
Nevertheless, the Council can assure the Members that it will give its full attention to any such proposals that may be presented to it and that such proposals would be more effective at Community level than corresponding measures at national level.
I believe that today is the first time in 80 years that an elected representative of part of the former crown land, principality and earldom of Tyrol has been able to stand before a representative of the government of the Republic of Austria, to take part in parliamentary exchanges and to participate in the parliamentary system.
Mr President, Mr Ebner, I too am delighted to see a representative of an Austrian minority standing before me in my capacity as representative of the presidency.
Let me repeat that the Council can only act on the initiative of the Commission.
Mr President, Mr Vallvé, first of all, thank you for using German, my mother tongue.
However, I have to say quite openly that the Commission sent us to you.
We in the Council can only become involved on the basis of proposals submitted by the Commission.
However, in general terms, let me say that when it comes to minority rights, particularly in central and eastern European states, the conventions of the Council of Europe naturally have a major role to play, and I believe it is also very important to state that the work of the Council of Europe should not be duplicated.
In my additional capacity as representative of the Council of Europe, I personally think that it is very important to let the Council of Europe get on with its work and to leave the Council to act on initiatives tabled by the Commission.
Thank you very much, Madam President-in-Office of the Council.
As I said, Mr Imaz San Miguel is not here, which deprives us of the chance also to hear the opinion of a nationality with such a strong and complex identity as the Basques.
Mr President, Mr Habsburg-Lothringen, I too am delighted to be here today giving concise answers to your questions.
As you know, according to the rules of the Union, this would also require an initiative from the Commission.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I still have three further supplementary questions on this issue, which will bring us to the end of Question Time.
However, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, as you will see, when we give the floor to the Habsburgs in this House, we do so in chronological order, that is, to the eldest first and then the youngest.
The European Union's efforts to support this minority language are immensely appreciated.
Mr President, Mr McCartin, allow me to repeat that the European Union naturally seeks to protect all particularist and minority groups and takes an interest in all the various languages.
As I have already pointed out, the starting point is the aforesaid Article 128 of the Treaty, which states quite clearly that the Community shall contribute to the flowering of the cultures of the Member States while respecting their national and regional diversity and at the same time bringing the common cultural heritage to the fore.
I believe that is the correct intention and that is how we shall be proceeding in future.
Of course, it is possible to approach the Commission informally, but the basic formal right to take the initiative lies with the Commission.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, as Vice-President of the inter-parliamentary delegation for relations with Slovakia, I am constantly involved in intensive discussions as to how minority rights are actually handled within the European Union of 15 and how they will be handled in the applicant countries.
Mr President, Mr Rübig, I would like to add the following: all Member States of the European Union naturally operate on a democratic basis, fully uphold human rights and meet all the criteria that we are imposing on some of the prospective Member States.
This is also the starting point for renewed political dialogue with Slovakia, for example, a process which I personally am very much involved with in that country.
Now that we have finished Question Time, I repeat that welcome but, at the same time, I must express our thanks because, ladies and gentlemen, whether or not we are pleased with the answers, we must recognize that they have all been given with that sense of responsibility, effort and willingness to reply which this House deserves.
Mr President, many think that the Amsterdam Treaty, although disappointing in some respects, has achieved a very important institutional result with the new codecision procedure.
Parliament's position in relation to the Council is indeed much more balanced as a result, and Parliament, in particular, as the legislator of first instance on a proposal from the Commission, can offer the Council an immediately adoptable legislative product.
The so-called first reading can in this way also become the only phase of examination by Parliament, substantially shortening the Union's legislative programme and enabling Parliament to be more involved in Community legislation than in the past.
The motion for a resolution before the House is a document of guidelines that moves in two directions.
The possibility of concluding the procedure after one Parliamentary stage means that this phase has to be structured, with a series of measures that ensure that this procedure is not unnecessarily long, that there is genuine, effective dialogue with the Council, in addition to the dialogue with the Commission, that there is responsibility in the proposals and in the decisions, and that there is transparency.
The change in the legal nature of the first stage is naturally reflected in the second stage as well, the so-called conciliation stage.
Thus, the second direction taken by the document in question is aimed at a new interinstitutional agreement, and it is absolutely necessary that the opinions of the legislative committees that have accumulated the most experience in this procedure be taken into account when negotiating this agreement.
Mr President, Commissioner, as you can see, the basis of this motion is the radical change that the Amsterdam Treaty has brought about in the legal nature of the initial Parliamentary stage.
For this reason, all our efforts must go towards the introduction of this initial stage, with as much elasticity as possible.
On the other hand, I would consider it frankly absurd - although with all my respect to the Members who presented two amendments along these lines - if the European Parliament refused the procedure outlined in the Treaty, retaining a second reading nonetheless.
If this were the case, this motion would turn into a counter-reform, unacceptable not only politically but especially in terms of constitutional legitimacy.
Mr President, with regard to the first reading of the new codecision procedure, I would like to briefly discuss several matters.
It is important that we realize, as the rapporteur also stated, that the completion of the codecision procedure made possible by the Amsterdam Treaty can only be implemented in practice following the first reading if the exchange of information and the informal contacts between the Council and Parliament are strengthened at first reading.
In addition, the rapporteur and the chairman of the relevant Parliamentary committee with authority in the field should theoretically be able to begin informal discussions with the Council, or at least with the chairman of the relevant Council working group, following an initial exchange of ideas in the Commission.
With regard to the second reading and the conciliation procedure, I also have two more remarks.
It is essential that the representative of the relevant Council working group explain to the relevant Parliamentary committee the main issues in the common position adopted by the Council at first reading.
I thank the rapporteur very warmly for his difficult work in the finely spun web of interactions, of action and reaction, in the network of relationships between the various bodies of the European Union.
I do not want to discuss all the aspects of the written opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights which was approved unanimously in committee.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has approved such contact, but only informal contact.
The report is questionable in that it authorizes the rapporteur to negotiate at first reading.
This authorization means that Parliament has commitments regarding others and that a situation of trust is created regarding others, without a vote to this effect taking place.
The opportunities which the Amsterdam Treaty offers Parliament must be used to the full.
It must be possible to conclude a legislative procedure at first reading without the Council having to draft a common position, which, as we all know, requires a vast amount of time.
The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs requests this quite expressly.
For this reason, we request that the Council treat us as though we had a right of codecision.
Therefore, at least in the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, we should consider setting up a permanent committee for conciliation issues to make it clear that Parliament has gained new importance in the area of conciliation also and that we are prepared to exercise our Parliamentary role vigorously.
This will be shown in the organization of the procedure.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report by my friend, Andrea Manzella, on the implementation of the Amsterdam Treaty deals with the most important task of the European Parliament, apart from its budgetary powers and appointment of the Commission, that is, joint legislation at European level.
However, this great success should not distract us from the subject areas which still remain open: agriculture, competition, taxes, Economic and Monetary Union, foreign trade and social dialogue.
If these six areas are not included, the European democratic deficit will not have been eliminated.
We now find ourselves in a new situation, the Council must first of all get used to the fact that it no longer has the last word.
But the European Parliament must also change its work fundamentally and concentrate greatly on legislation.
This offers our Parliament the chance to become a more fully-fledged legislative body.
In view of the new possibilities to complete the entire procedure following the first reading, the rapporteur has investigated how Parliament, the Council and the Commission can capitalize on this situation.
The discussions in our committee have led to a balance between the concern for efficiency on the one hand, and the concern for transparency and broad decision-making on the other.
After all, it would be extremely questionable if the simplified codecision procedure restricted legislative work to a privileged club of only a few Members of the European Parliament.
Mr President, I believe that our rapporteur is right: with Amsterdam, the codecision procedure has taken a great step forward, further legitimizing the role of the European Parliament and, especially, providing citizens with new instruments.
It is very important because we must bear in mind that the European Parliament, when legislating, must also naturally be respectful of the autonomies and, especially, must ensure that its own legislation is of a general nature, meaning that it concerns laws of a general scope.
This is in favour of European democracy and in favour of a just interpretation of subsidiarity, which of course must not be an excuse to renationalise policy but a democratic coordination of the various levels that contribute to the construction of Europe.
Therefore, I believe that we must all support that political objective.
As regards the undoubtably great lawyer, I would firstly highlight his accuracy and the importance he gives to aspects which, for others in this Hemicycle, would be subsidiary or ancillary, such as the quality of legislation, the quality of standards, the quality of drafting and the translations.
But there are also practical aspects, such as appropriate management of time, appropriate management of deadlines and the establishment of interinstitutional agreements in this field.
Finally, I would like to underline certain aspects which, although I agree with them and I see them as objectives to provide Parliament with a form of self-discipline, perhaps go slightly too far.
Mr President, I would like to conclude by emphasizing that, in my opinion, there is a misunderstanding in those two amendments and that, in any case, we are all aware of the importance of this report and the need for this Parliament - which is already relatively old, which already has some real power of codecision, and which is a co-legislator on equal terms with the Council - to mould all of this into internal rules and interinstitutional agreements.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 70 % of the areas dealt with in the European Union will be subject to codecision by the European Parliament following ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty, which should be concluded by the end of 1998.
Up to now, this figure was only approximately 35 %.
Secondly, those involved in the procedure, the Commission, Parliament and the Council, must prepare the texts more carefully and also formally, as the first reading may now end the procedure and at this stage a regulation can become law.
Together with the Council and the Commission, we must establish a clear interinstitutional framework which reflects the new balance of power in the interinstitutional structure of the European Union and makes it practicable.
Finally, we must give our voters an excellent form of legislation which is close to the people, of a quality which shows them that not everything in Europe is complicated.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that one of the positive contributions of the Amsterdam Treaty has been that it strengthens the role of Parliament as a co-legislator, opposite the other branch of legislative power that is the Council.
And, as is well know, this strengthening of Parliament's role was supported during the Intergovernmental Conference by the Commission.
The increase in legislative issues submitted for codecision represents, nevertheless, a challenge for all of the institutions and calls on us all to improve our work and coordinate our action in a constructive way in order to guarantee that the new procedure can successfully achieve its result.
The pleasing result that the codecision procedure has had up until now is due, to a large extent, to the coherent way in which Parliament has worked, and it has done so from first reading through to the conclusion.
There are, in addition, some circumstances which favour it in particular, such as the fact that there has been continuity in terms of the rapporteur and the chairman of the Parliamentary committee for each issue.
This evidently contrasts with the situation in the Council where the presidency changes every six months.
I believe that this new codecision procedure will be successful if we are able to work together and take advantage of the experience which has already been accumulated in a pragmatic and flexible way in order to tackle the important work which we must carry out from now on.
And in that respect, I must say that I support, in particular, the various measures contained in the report aimed at increasing transparency, democracy and the very legal quality of Parliament's amendments.
Moreover, if Parliament takes more care over its amendments at that stage, this would obviously contribute positively to the debate.
Until now, we have seen at times how, due to lack of time, Parliament's amendments at second reading have been a mere reiteration of the amendments which were not accepted at first reading.
And at times, perhaps not even a careful analysis of the Council's common position has been carried out.
For its part, the Council should also adopt a more open attitude in order to find common solutions which take Parliament's amendments into consideration.
I see that sometimes there is a type of paralysis, that is, that Parliament has a second reading in which the amendments from first reading are reiterated and the Council, for its part, does not want to move away from its first position and practically does not take account of Parliament's amendments.
Finally, I would like to tell the House that the Commission is prepared to play an active role in all the stages of the legislative procedure, and particularly at first reading, as Mr Manzella's report proposes.
On the one hand, we must do so with the Council working group itself; on the other hand, we must do so with the rapporteur and the relevant Parliamentary committee, to try to push the process forward and to facilitate the drawing up of a modified proposal aimed at reconciling as far as possible the positions of both parties.
We are going to do everything possible to follow those suggestions we have received from Parliament.
I am also convinced that, if we achieve positive results in the debate on a new decision concerning comitology, on the basis of the proposal recently presented by the Commission, this will facilitate a rapid conclusion of a large number of cases which are submitted for codecision.
According to our calculations, at least 70 % of the cases submitted for codecision have involved some problem concerning comitology.
I finally want to demonstrate my support for the proposal to review the Interinstitutional Agreement currently in force concerning the codecision procedure.
This should be modified in accordance with the terms of the new Treaty and with current practice.
I have no doubt that that will be a relatively easy task to allow our collaborators who have contributed so effectively up until now to the success of interinstitutional dialogue can achieve it.
There are some formal interinstitutional procedures provided for in the opinion at first reading which might mean that the procedure becomes slightly complicated.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
The second aim was that, in further-reaching integration measures and demands of a large majority of Member States, the practical veto of a minority of states or perhaps of a single state should not prevent these additional integration measures, except in constitutional areas such as the amendment of the Treaty for purposes of enlargement, etcetera.
This was the intention of the Intergovernmental Conference, and the European Parliament's position on this was always very hesitant as it was afraid that it would lead to a Europe à la carte, and this is a very justified reproach.
It was for this reason that the European Parliament, in the form of the Tsatsos/Méndez de Vigo report, incorporated very clear and very, very restrictive conditions to allow closer cooperation, and it also succeeded in this.
But even this very modest scope was restricted in the Treaty by the provision that, for important reasons of national policy, each Member State of the EU can, by requiring unanimity, prevent any far-reaching demand for integration on the part of other Member States or the large majority of Member States.
So once again a national veto consisting of national interests has been incorporated with the result that, yet again, one of the main purposes of this Treaty provision has been thwarted, in that true, far-reaching integration has de facto been rendered impossible by a majority decision.
In general, we have achieved the result that this closer cooperation in no way fulfils the political requirements of the European Union.
This is the main political substance of my report, and I hope that the majority of this House agrees with this opinion.
Citizens will still perceive it as an admission of failure, and rightly so, if you remember that the construction of Europe has always had as its main objective the implementation of joint projects as part of a single structure.
Furthermore, it will be noted that a sort of competition exists between the institutional reforms, which must assure the enlargement and deepening of Europe and closer cooperation, which is a means of pressure aimed at forcing the construction of Europe and thus at avoiding paralysis should the intergovernmental procedure fail.
Finally, it is to be regretted that the Amsterdam Treaty requires only that the Council and the Commission regularly inform the European Parliament of the development of closer cooperation.
And, as the rapporteur requests, the process of launching any closer cooperation must be submitted to the democratic control of the European Parliament.
Closer cooperation was only adopted at Amsterdam to navigate between two pitfalls: paralysis or fragmentation.
Mr President, closer cooperation was, during a certain period of time - before the Intergovernmental Conference -, the star topic.
So, in addition, issues such as security and defence, for example, which also cause difficulties in certain Member States, have been in some way resolved through the Petersberg missions.
Finally, the issue of enlargement, for which some people set the date for the year 2000, as we already know after reading Agenda 2000, is going to take much longer and that, in addition, surely the problems of enlargement will be resolved through transition periods, as has happened with all previous enlargements.
Therefore, after all, closer cooperation has not served to solve those problems which had a difficult political solution.
At least that was the original intention.
What was written into the Treaty this time was not the right to opt out but the right for Member States to pursue integration within the single institutional framework without being blocked by a veto.
The need to overcome the paralysis imposed by the veto became all the more urgent with the prospect of enlargement.
However, unfortunately during the negotiations a major change was introduced to accommodate British insistence on the veto.
The provisions in the Treaty now allow any Member State to block the majority vote needed to trigger closer cooperation for 'important and stated reasons of national policy' .
For the first time enshrined in the Treaty is the notorious Luxembourg Compromise of 1966.
Now the Treaty does not even provide this temporary solution to a deadlock.
I hope the Commissioner can comment on that point.
Mr President, closer cooperation between states, and also between social actors, is legitimate if it expresses the common values of the Community, if it pursues objectives of social progress and development and if it takes into consideration the necessary solidarity between Europeans.
I would add that it is also a current need if progress is to be made on a whole series of issues.
For example, on the issue of common economic policies, the French government, in its own way, is looking to encourage possibilities for closer cooperation within the group of 11 countries of the euro area.
Certain social issues should also be mentioned, such as the structuring of European networks of services in the general interest.
The fact remains that closer cooperation must be situated within a legal framework which clearly expresses all of this.
A minority of colleagues think that closer cooperation can do without a legal framework.
Our rapporteur demonstrates very well that there exists a significant obstacle to this process of closer cooperation: it is the national state veto.
I support his report and, in particular, the clause calling for the abolition of this veto.
There are other restrictions, such as the need to avoid causing distortions in competition or the Commission's obligatory initiative in first pillar matters, which we could also discuss.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unlike the rapporteur, I see a clear change in the position of the European Parliament on this issue.
In actual fact, it is, of course, a question of direction, of decisions on political direction.
Thus, the entire basis of national democracies is swept away, and paragraph 10 goes the whole hog in stating that a qualified majority, rather than unanimity, will now be the norm.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report, which covers a very difficult area.
The aim of closer cooperation is to allow some States to go faster or further than others provided that this does not lead to a hard-core Europe or override the national interests of other Member States.
The assumption clearly shared by many in this House that the EU is a one-way journey in which closer integration is an end in itself is a very dangerous and unpopular one with most of our citizens.
I hope that the fully fledged common economic policy referred to in recital F will involve those countries who choose to, or have to, remain outside economic and monetary union.
However, paragraphs 10 to 12 cause some difficulty.
The agreement at Amsterdam that closer cooperation can be stopped by any one Member State for important reasons of national policy was, I believe, a necessary acknowledgement of the concerns that Member States have about this option.
The United Kingdom, for instance, has already shown that it is prepared to allow closer cooperation in the third pillar.
I see no reason to think that the United Kingdom or any other government will use this virtual veto in the frivolous sort of way that appears to be envisaged by the rapporteur and others who have spoken.
With that major reservation my national delegation and myself are happy to support this report.
When tested, the Achilles heel did not really prove to be strong, and even miracle weapons in our century proved to be an illusion, which is fortunate for Europe and for democracy in the European Union.
Closer cooperation in its European form with a compulsory field of activities for the Commission also, with democratic participation of the European Parliament, and with constitutional control by the Court of Justice is essential.
The main point made by the Frischenschlager report, therefore, is that the laborious process of European decision-making in the first pillar, or at least in accordance with the first pillar, cannot be replaced.
We must build our common Europe together.
Examples are also given of the dangers which are associated with the actual aim of the Treaty's provisions on flexibility or closer cooperation.
Even though closer cooperation does not cover the second pillar, there is an interesting idea that the objectives of the Maastricht Treaty could be fulfilled there.
Obviously the objective is for those Member States who for various reasons choose to remain outside to be included as soon as possible.
Closer cooperation cannot be applied to the second pillar, because there are already other instruments within the second pillar for such application.
Firstly, as regards the scope in terms of areas of application of closer cooperation, I note his request that we prepare a study on the potential fields of application of this closer cooperation.
I want to commit myself here - in front of the House - to carrying out this study, because it also seems to me to be a very sensible request to which we must respond positively.
In terms of his remarks on the launch of closer cooperation, it seems obvious to me that to proceed to political dialogue with a country which is opposed to such a launch evidently forms part of the Commission's obligations.
Nevertheless, I note Mr Frischenschlager's comments and I believe that we must consider how we can manage in practice to abolish that quasi-veto.
With regard to democratic scrutiny, the report calls on the Commission to undertake to withdraw any proposal for closer cooperation where Parliament delivers a negative opinion.
But apart from that, from a political point of view, it is obvious that the Commission, when dealing with a topic as sensitive as this one, will always be very careful to take into consideration the position of the different players involved in closer cooperation and, in particular, of course, the European Parliament.
Consequently, I am giving you a legal response, but at the same time I am giving you a political response that we will give serious consideration to the points put forward by Parliament at a given time.
I would like to end by congratulating once again the rapporteur on this initiative which, along with other institutional reports tabled this week, is proof that interinstitutional dialogue has got off to a good start.
It will be followed by other reports currently being prepared by the Committee on Institutional Affairs and which will be presented to this House in October or November.
In short, I think it is up to all of us to do everything in our power to follow this path, to hope for a rapid entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty and to then proceed - once the Treaty is approved - to the necessary institutional changes.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
The right to free movement, which is enshrined in Article 8, allows each European citizen to enter the territory of any Member State in order to work or to seek work there.
Yet only approximately 2 % take this opportunity.
But there are also many other obstacles which are of a political nature, for example, the fact that overdue regulation reforms are blocked in the Council, the considerable information deficits which exist at all levels, slow transposal into national law in the Member States, and bureaucratic administrative practices, such as a variety of petitions which are available to us and which include rulings of the European Court of Justice.
The Commission's action plan contains a sound strategy to overcome these problems.
I therefore welcome the Commission's action plan and, in particular, the legislative proposals announced.
I would also like to thank the Veil High-Level Panel for its comprehensive proposals, some of which are included in the Commission's proposals but also in my report.
I would also like to thank the committees which were asked for an opinion and which added some important points to my report.
It is certainly more important for the future than at present.
We also want to improve slowly and gradually certain requirements and restrictions concerning freedom of movement for citizens from third countries.
We must finally do away with the contradiction between legal entitlement and legal reality, which has unfortunately been in existence for 40 years.
Mr President, free movement of workers is one of the four freedoms granted in the Treaty of Rome.
In my view it is the least developed of these four basic freedoms.
It is clear that there are barriers to free movement of workers and consequently I congratulate the Commission for producing the action plan to try to resolve this problem.
I thank my colleagues on the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for their support and sensitive suggestions but I urge the Commission to take this subject seriously as it can only help the profitability of the European Union if people are more ready to move for work.
Commissioner, we hope that Parliament and the Commission will continue to fight against the tendency in some countries to fall back on oneself, to erect institutional and actual barriers against the free movement of persons.
In contrast to what is thought by some Member States, free movement will not result in a drain on budgets or loss of social security, and it is time that we understand that Europe needs mobility, that mobility gives something to society, it does not take anything away from society.
We in the Socialist group therefore thank the European Commission for this action plan and we hope, Commissioner, that the Commission quickly comes up with concrete legislative proposals, because there is still a great deal of work to be done.
This is true, for example, for the right to residency, which happily no longer applies only to those who are employed, but also to retired persons, students, the unemployed and family members, as long as you can, of course, prove that you have sufficient income and health insurance.
But, in both Community and national law there are still a great number of hindrances, great heaps of administrative obstacles that bring misery, especially to retired persons, people with temporary contracts and those being posted abroad.
My group believes strongly that, regardless of the nationality of the family members, the right to family life is a fundamental human right.
I have seen that the European Commission indeed plans to implement this right to family life, and we want to support that 100 %.
I know that the latter is a very difficult aspect of the Parliamentary debate and I have noticed, by the way, that the European Commission also wants to do something about this in a gradual fashion.
I have also noticed that the PPE group theoretically supports this standpoint, but still links the right to free movement of subjects of third countries to a common European policy of immigration.
It does not seem reasonable to us to make migrants who have lived for years in the Union wait until the Council has completely finished the third pillar, and only then give people the right to travel, to look for work over the border or to transfer their social security rights over the border.
A European integration policy must indeed rest upon the responsibilities and duties of citizens of third countries, but please let us not forget that these citizens still do not have a package of rights which we as Europeans do have.
Commissioner, we support this action plan of the Commission wholeheartedly, and we wish you every success in its realization.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of movement - and here we share the same opinion - is the focal point of the Treaty on European Union.
I welcome it because the Commission presented very specific proposals here.
You want to achieve this immediately, without any pre-conditions.
We must not forget that the third countries must also ensure that they have sufficient border security to prevent problems in terms of people crossing the borders into the Union, and as a result within the Union.
Thirdly, you insist that the right of residence be extended to all relatives, independently of nationality, and also to all partners.
Still, I would appeal to them to support this report.
I was very surprised and disappointed by the PPE amendments that aim to qualify this principle in respect of citizens of third countries that are legally entitled to reside in the Community area.
When we speak of family members, be they Union citizens or citizens of third countries, we should also take into consideration the changes that have taken place when it comes to the notion of the family.
My thesis is that as Western Christians, as rationalists, as Europeans, we cannot be in favour of categorizing people into first and second class and shutting them in behind state borders.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent and open report on this issue.
We cannot talk about a European employment strategy and about adaptability unless we are going to take on board what needs to be done about providing greater mobility in the European labour market.
The action plan on free movement of workers was adopted by the Commission in November last year.
It aims essentially at placing the right to free movement of workers in the overall context of other European Union policies and actions, with express emphasis on two key issues that underpin the whole action plan.
Improving the exercise of the right to free movement is for the benefit of the EU citizen since this right is an essential part of European citizenship.
The second concerns the question of employment policy.
The improvement of free movement of workers is a contribution to the better functioning of the European labour market.
Since November 1997 the Commission has been actively working on the implementation of the action plan in order to fulfil the commitments that were announced in the plan.
Legislative proposals are being considered by the Commission to amend and update the core legislative text on free movement of workers.
We are talking here about Regulation 1616/68 on the right of free movement and Directive 360/68 on the right of residence of workers and their families.
These two basic legal texts have not been significantly modified for 30 years.
The new legislative proposals will cover key issues such as the improvement of the right of residence for job seekers and trainees and the reduction of bureaucratic obstacles for all workers.
Last week the Commission adopted a communication to the Council and Parliament on the follow-up of the report from the Veil group.
The communication highlights the importance of concrete proposals to enhance free movement.
I am pleased to recall that there have been some important legislative advances before the Council in the area of free movement of workers.
The Council has recently adopted two Commission proposals concerning the free movement of workers, these being the directive on supplementary pensions and the regulation on the extension of Regulation 1408/71 concerning the coordination of social security regimes to special schemes for civil servants.
The Commission proposal to extend Regulation 1408/71 to third country nationals legally residing in one Member State is also on the Council table.
The Commission is also actively working on the simplification of Regulation 1408/71 which is one of the most important pieces of legislation for the effective exercise of the right of free movement.
Moving away from the legislative developments, the action plan also announced actions aimed at better transparency in the employment market and better information about employment market facilities.
A new route map for job-seekers has been presented with a view to reinforcing, through a practical and user-friendly guide, information for citizens who wish to exercise their right to free movement.
At the Cardiff Summit also, the EURES database was presented on the Internet so that it is now fully accessible to all citizens who want to consult job offers in all of the Member States that are available through it.
Various actions to enhance information for scholars, practitioners, judges and citizens on the right of free movement of workers have been launched.
A major conference will be held in Brussels in October in order to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the entry into force of Regulation 1612/68 and also to look to the future.
In this context the resolution from the European Parliament is very important.
I would like to highlight that the resolution of the European Parliament stresses the importance of free movement of workers in the same way as does the Commission: through citizenship and employment.
We know that European citizens are worried about the employment situation in Europe and that they are interested to know the possibilities of finding employment in another Member State.
The action plan - and the resolution of the European Parliament - fully endeavours to meet these concerns.
So the action plan is essentially focused on free movement of workers.
Such other concerns are referred to in Parliament's resolution and they include: the elimination of border controls, including the insertion of the Schengen acquis in the Treaty; the right of residence for students, retired people and inactive persons, in line with the concept of European citizenship; the creation of an area of mobility for students with respect of academic qualifications obtained in the different Member States; and the problems stemming from the disparities in fiscal legislation in the Member States as well as the interaction between fiscal and social security systems.
Finally, despite its relatively limited scope in such a wide context, the action plan on free movement of workers aims to create political momentum in the area of free movement.
The plan emphasizes the strong link between all of these various areas and although more work is certainly needed, it is an important starting point for implementing a coherent approach with the aim of obtaining for the benefit of the citizen a wide area of mobility through a border-free Europe.
I suspect that you mean point 23 of my report, in which I call on the Commission to continue its work on the introduction of a European training passport.
Madam President, I have a question for the Commissioner.
Third country nationals are not included in our action plan except as family members.
One of the big problems that I have discovered in recent days is that an awful lot of people in very senior positions have not understood that reunification has already existed for 30 years by way of law.
I do not have time to go into the details of it this evening, but it is a very interesting exercise just to look back at exactly what has been in place for 30 years as regards ascendants, descendants and other family members - some provisions are statutory and some require reunification to be facilitated.
Thank you, Commissioner Flynn.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Madam President, this title sounds very technical but in fact it concerns a relatively practical problem.
The proposal for a directive which we are debating is based on Parliament's first legislative initiative in accordance with the Maastricht Treaty.
The solution which we propose is not based on the harmonization of the liability law, as was occasionally proposed in the past.
This applies both to the representative of the insurer in the victim's country of residence and to the insurer himself.
If the Commission and the Council approve the proposal, interest on arrears will be between 11 % and 12 %.
This compensation body, which will also be active in the victim's country of residence, should, however, be restricted to just a few cases, for example, where the insurer in the other country has not named the claims settlement body or representative, or where the representative or the insurer does not reply within this six-month period, or gives an unsubstantiated reply.
I can say today that this proposal, as it currently stands, is supported by all European insurers and by all European accident victims' associations, with the possible exception of some minor changes in wording.
I am pleased that it has been possible to have an initial exchange of opinions at the preparatory stage under the British presidency.
In conclusion, I would like to encourage the Commission to continue along these lines in terms of policy so that the people of the European Union can feel at home, not only in their own region or in their own country, but throughout Europe.
The fact that a great many citizens are affected by this proposal is underlined not only by the current holiday period but also by the one million frontier workers.
The current directive introduces a direct right of action for the victim, which applies not only to the person responsible but also to the insurance undertaking.
The information centres will have to provide the victim with all necessary information and the claims settlement body or, if applicable, the compensation body, as designated, will in any case accelerate the procedures.
In addition, the directive also concerns accidents occurring between EU citizens in third countries - thankfully, this was added - and this also prompted the Committee on Transport and Tourism to recommend that this directive should perhaps also be given greater consideration in negotiations between the EU and third countries.
The above Directive 84/5 is approximately 15 years old.
I thank the rapporteur once again for his work and I thank you for your attention.
Madam President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this important report.
It is an important first too for Parliament.
It is the first time that a Parliament resolution has been used as the backdrop for a Commission proposal for legislation.
It will help the victims of motor accidents that occur outside the victim's home country in another Member State.
Each insurance company will have to appoint a designated representative or agent in each Member State and the victim will process the claim directly with that designated representative.
At present the average claim processed abroad can take up to eight years and cost at least 15 % more than a claim processed in one's Member State.
On behalf of the Socialist group, I commend this report to the Commission and Parliament as an important new consumer measure.
Having a road accident is stressful enough without the added inconvenience and strain of having to wait for years while insurance companies in different countries settle the claims.
It is worth noting that this directive marks the first time that the European Commission responds to a request presented by the European Parliament pursuant to Article 138b.
Secondly, I would also like to underline that the unanimous consensus expressed by the legal experts of the Committee on Legal Affairs is fully shared by all the European insurance companies and consumer associations; this, too, is a fact that is not insignificant and that should naturally be pointed out.
In that regard, therefore, it is truly a beautiful piece of work that adds something real for citizens of the Union.
But the situation can be even more complicated than the average case presented in Mr Rothley's report.
Finally, Madam President, I would like to say something about my amendment.
Among other things, this article provides the European Parliament, according to the Committee on Citizens' Rights, with full legislative authority.
On the one hand, a growing number of citizens are affected and, on the other hand, the procedures which currently exist are insufficient to provide a fair solution for every case.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive that we are considering tonight has been keenly awaited both by drivers and by insurance professionals and international automobile associations.
It was in response to a clear expectation and Parliament has proved that it was able to take its legislative responsibilities seriously by providing a work of quality.
The amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights aim at complementing the text, even at giving it greater coherence and rigour.
I would like to congratulate all my colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, in particular two of them who combine both charm and competence, Mrs Palacio and Mrs Mosiek-Urbahn.
Madam President, it truly may be the time that is almost inviting us to talk in confidence, to talk among friends.
Madam President, this has not been an easy directive.
Subsequently, Mr Rothley - with firmness, as I have said, but also with a great ability to negotiate, and a great ability to understand the concerns regarding the issue of subsidiarity - accepted 10 compromise amendments.
This meant that it was possible for those 36 final amendments to be adopted unanimously in committee, and I hope that tomorrow, if not unanimously, that we will approve the report by an overwhelming majority.
Madam President, the previous speakers have already discussed in sufficient detail the content and advantages of this report.
The first concerns the citizen-friendly content of the planned directive.
I now come to the second point which I wish to discuss.
Parliament, as the elected representative of the citizens of Europe, is entitled to have the legislative initiative.
If the European Parliament makes frequent use of its new initiative it must in the long term strengthen its influence on the European Union's legislative system.
This increases, at the same time, the indirect influence of the voters on policy in Europe.
The result can only be to improve the standing of the European Parliament among the people and thus to increase its political authority.
I therefore expressly thank the rapporteur for beginning this initiative here in Parliament.
This proposal for a directive in fact concerns a large number of citizens and concerns a difficult moment in their life, a difficult experience, when they are victims in a Member State where they do not reside of a road accident caused by a motor vehicle registered and insured in another Member State.
It has already been underlined, but, on behalf of the Commission, I want to place particular emphasis on the fact that this is the first time that Parliament has made use of Article 138b.
The third reason why I am satisfied and pleased is the way in which this problem was approached, with the positive contribution of consumer citizens and the insurance industry which helped make this proposal for a directive possible.
None of the motor vehicle insurance directives already in force take into particular consideration the specific problem which is dealt with here of compensating the victims.
The purpose of this proposal for a directive is to provide such victims with another legal instrument in order to offset the practical difficulties that they encounter.
In addition, even if the measure we are talking about means some costs for the insurance companies, the benefit for the company is quite substantial, in that the new mechanisms would lower the costs that are usually borne by the victims in the country where the accident occurred.
I will now turn to the individual amendments.
These amendments improve the wording of the language and offer useful clarifications in the text.
The Commission also agrees to accept partially Amendments Nos 15, 17, 19, 28, 29, 30, 33.
This problem needs to be examined more closely in the light of other international agreements.
Amendment No 17 is an excessively simplified version of the Commission's initial proposal.
As for Amendment No 19, we cannot accept in a directive suggestions regarding persons who might assume the role of agent to process the claim.
In Amendment No 28, there has to be a description of the tasks to be performed by the information centre.
In the same point, in cases where the insurer cannot be identified, the Commission could accept the intervention of the compensation body only if the final responsibility lies with the guarantee fund in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 1, of Directive 84/5.
Of these, I would like to very briefly look at No 26 and No 27.
I am talking about Amendments Nos 4, 8, 11, 22, 24, 35, 36 and 37.
Moreover, the Commission may not accept Amendments No 14 or No 34, and this in order to guarantee the overall coherence with the three directives already in force for motor vehicle insurance matters.
The Commission also cannot accept Amendment No 23; it could accept a stronger version of Article 3, paragraph 6, but not the wording proposed in Amendment No 26.
Lastly, the Commission also rejects Amendment No 32, because in some Member States the information services are provided free of charge by the public authorities.
As far as Amendment No 37 is concerned, Mr Wijsenbeek, the use of multilingual forms for collisions could, in our opinion, be introduced through a voluntary agreement between the insurance organizations and not necessarily through a directive.
Thank you, Commissioner Monti.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, employment and the environment, which is what the Commission's communication is about, are two areas which for a long time and on many occasions have come into conflict with each other.
The environmental aspect and environmental awareness have become a more integrated part of society.
However, so far, the Union has shown relatively little interest in following this trend and satisfying the consumers' demands.
We need a better environment, but we also have 20 million people unemployed who need jobs.
They are Amendment No 3 and Amendment No 11 from Mr Virgin.
The Commission's communication on the environment and employment is aimed at establishing the general principles of a strategy to allow for the creation of synergy between environmental policy and employment.
As I believe that we devote more time to talking about the environment and employment than actually implementing real and quantifiable measures to solve these two serious problems, I would modestly call on the Commission to criticize, within the context of the launch of this European strategy, our current "throwaway society' .
For completely inexplicable reasons, the Commission neglected this important approach towards an economic policy which brings together the fields of environment and employment in such a way that they strengthen each other.
And thus, in a Europe in which not only employment but also the progressive and inevitable inclusion of the environment in the European Union's policies is a constant challenge, employment and the environment have become two sides of a single coin, a counterpoint to a now-outworn development model, based on price-investment ratios involving the excessive exploitation of natural resources.
I would also like to take this opportunity to emphasize that the coming reform of the common agricultural policy basically demands, and reinforces the need for, the attribution of sufficient weight to environmental questions, also in the light of this sustainable development strategy to which we have pledged our support.
We must also underline the role of the Structural and Cohesion Funds in developing environmental policy, particularly this link between the environment and employment.
There is no doubt, for example, that the rule that 50 % of the Cohesion Fund must be applied to the environment has contributed very positively to improving the quality of life in the Cohesion states, but it has also increased the amount of environmental investment in the Cohesion states, making the link between the role of the environment and job creation more obvious.
As data from the Commission's communication shows, the environmental sector is expanding strongly with an estimated growth in the coming years of 5.5 %.
I also believe it is important to stress the fact that growth has an important function in this context.
The European Council's recommendations on how we can increase employment in Europe are clearly closely linked to the subject we are discussing this evening.
Some of these ideas are expressed in the amendments proposed by the PPE Group.
I hope that the rapporteur will be able to support all these proposals if she is allowed to sleep on it.
As the OECD rightly states, the environment sector is a sector which might experience a growth of 5.5 % in the coming years in terms of generating employment.
Since Commissioner Bjerregaard is here at this late hour, which I really appreciate, I would like to urge the Commission to approve as soon as possible Sweden's action plan for employment and 'green jobs' which has been waiting for approval from the Commission since November.
The environment is transverse.
Cooperation policy should generate policies of co-development.
In addition, integrating the environment into economic policies often amounts to incorporating new costs.
In order to do this, in order to reduce these risks and to control these perverse effects, we must envisage a global environmental and employment policy.
Today, everyone has realized that it is only by respecting natural resources and using raw materials and energy economically and carefully that jobs can be secured in the long term and thus sustainable development can be introduced.
Even in the Kyoto process, if it is a question of the reduction of emissions, in this area it will also be a question of jobs because due to the thermal insulation alone in buildings which already exist, many states will only be able to achieve half the necessary reduction in emissions.
Commissioner, I hope that the issue of the environment and employment will play a particularly important role in the debate which will take place in the next six months.
Firstly, allow me to address employment, because employment is now clearly included as an item on the agenda of the European Union.
We know that employment was included in the Amsterdam Treaty as a goal for the Union.
We held a extraordinary summit on employment last year in Luxembourg, and this year, for the first time, all 15 Member States have presented their action plans on employment to the Commission.
The Commission presented an initial evaluation of these plans at the Cardiff Summit, giving us the opportunity to scrutinize these policies from an environmental point of view and to discuss with our colleagues how to promote the existing synergies between the two policies.
One way of doing so would be to integrate the objective of environmental protection and sustainable development into the new 1999 employment guidelines.
We are also adding a social dimension to sustainable development.
In order to implement this new development model, there are certain principles - as outlined in the declaration - that must be adhered to, and I will briefly mention some of these.
Madam President, I will stop here, but before I do so, I would like to express my appreciation to the three committees of the European Parliament for their excellent work on the report and their statements on the Commission's declaration on the environment and employment.
Thank you, Commissioner Bjerregaard.
The debate is closed.
