I would ask you, Mr President, to urge the Council once again to show a little more respect for this House. (Parliament agreed to urgent procedure) Annual programme of the Commission for 1997 The next item is the presentation by the President of the Commission of its annual programme for 1997.
This crisis of confidence is in fact a challenge.
Indeed, the Union is essential whenever - in the interests of Europe's citizens - it is better to act together than individually.
Firstly, the adoption of the European Confidence Pact for Employment, which I presented to you on 31 January, made it possible to raise public awareness.
And, thirdly, substantial breakthroughs have been made in the development of the information society.
On the other hand, other important measures, which could not have been foreseen when the work programme for 1996 was presented, were carried out.
I should now like to set out those priorities, in presenting to you the broad outlines of the Commission's work programme for next year.
It will be necessary to improve cooperation between the European institutions and the Member States.
I shall come back to that later, but firstly I should like to present in greater detail our work programme for next year.
This programme forms part of a considered, coherent and sustainable plan of action, made possible by the way in which the Union's institutions are organized: the Commission's five-year mandate now coincides with the European Parliament's term of office.
Therefore, the Commission has established four political priorities for 1997, in line with the main strategic pillars that it set out two years ago for the duration of its mandate: fostering growth and employment and preparing for the single currency; actively promoting the European model of society; enhancing Europe's presence on the international stage; and preparing for the future.
Do not think that I am prepared to give up a project which I see as an essential precondition for meeting the challenges of the year 2000 in the best possible circumstances.
In 1997, much of the Commission's efforts will be directed towards putting into effect the measures set out in the confidence pact.
I welcome the entry of the Finnish markka into the European Monetary System.
And let us not forget the multiannual programme for small and medium-sized enterprises.
We must complete the internal market, but we must also simplify it.
The third pillar of the confidence pact is the reform of employment systems.
In 1997, the Commission will bring forward specific proposals on access to continuous training, the life-long acquisition and accreditation of skills.
The mid-term reassessment of Objective 1 - for regions whose development is lagging behind - and the programming for Objective 2 - regions in the process of conversion - for the period 1997-1999 will provide us with an opportunity to do this.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two issues have become topical in 1996: globalization and the European model of society.
It will step up those measures which contribute to building the European social model on the basis of solidarity and a more qualitative concept of growth.
In this context, I wish to stress that the improvement of environmental protection and the pursuit of sustainable development will be one of the Commission's major concerns in 1997.
We shall do everything possible to ensure that the Union plays a decisive role in the preparations for the special session of the UN General Assembly on the environment - five years after the Rio Summit - as well as in the conference of contracting parties to the Convention on Climate Change.
Enhancing Europe's presence on the international stage will be the Commission's third objective in 1997.
The European Union is already shouldering major responsibilities in many regions of the world, for example the Middle East, Bosnia and the former Soviet republics.
In all its actions, the Commission will also be concerned to ensure that the European Union is recognized to have a political influence commensurate with its financial commitments.
Asserting the European Union's political role implies that we are capable of developing or improving our capacity for dialogue and decision-making, whether in the field of traditional - notably commercial - external relations, or in the newer field of the common foreign and security policy.
The prospect of enlargement makes it all the more vital.
Indeed, I believe that it is inconceivable to retain unanimous voting in a Union of 20 or more Member States.
In 1997, the Commission will present a communication on the financial framework for the year 2000 onwards.
The Commission is assuming its responsibilities.
It is therefore more necessary than ever to state quite clearly what kind of Europe we wish to see.
As we all know, according to the current procedures, the work programme should lead, after negotiations between the Commission and Parliament, to a legislative programme signed by the two presidents.
In 1995, this procedure ended in August.
In 1996, it ended in May.
Clearly, such a delay condemns this exercise to having no political impact in the eyes of public opinion, all the more so since the Council does not play the game in what should be an in-depth dialogue between the three institutions.
In the final analysis, we should end up with a political debate on the main strategic pillars, past and future, proposed by the Commission.
The legislative programme for 1997 consists of 16 new proposals.
This would represent a much clearer commitment on the part of the Commission.
I would also point out that, in 1995, the Commission announced in its work programme that it wished - and I quote - ' to focus its actions to a greater extent on the efforts to provide stimulation and incentives, the majority of which are carried out by the Member States' .
To date, Parliament has adopted four own-initiative reports on the basis of Article 138b.
I shall recall them briefly: the Jackson report on hotel safety precautions against the risk of fire; the Alber report on the prevention and repair of environmental damage; the Leopardi report on the health passport; and the Rothley report on the settlement of claims relating to traffic accidents.
I should like to refer briefly to your evaluation report on the implementation of the programme for 1996.
Let it also be said in passing that your drive for transparency in 1995 has not been repeated in 1996.
The Commission states that it is evaluating 'the principal achievements in relation to the model adopted by the Commission in its work programme for 1996' .
Parliament clearly indicated its priorities for 1996, and those priorities must be taken equally into account in any evaluation of the programme.
According to Parliament's services, we are currently awaiting the presentation of around 120 legislative measures deriving from the legislative programme for 1996, some 50 of which we have been told will be submitted by the end of the year.
Finally, do I need to remind the House of the way in which the Commission swept aside almost all Parliament's amendments to the postal services directive?
So what does the review of 1996 say about the Confidence Pact for Employment, drawn up by President Santer and presented to the Florence summit, a move to which the European Parliament gave its full backing?
If we wish to move forward, however, we must clearly identify the individual responsibilities in respect of this failure.
Once again, however, it says nothing about the problems encountered in the efforts to increase the funding for the celebrated 14 projects, or the Council's procrastination in the drafting of the budget for 1997, or the slowness with which some of these major projects are being developed.
As regards the programme for 1997, the top priority of the Socialist Group remains the fight against unemployment.
In this context, the 'Growth, Employment and the Euro' section of the work programme contains no surprises.
Despite the Commission's assertions, the economic situation is scarcely improving: domestic consumption, investment and employment remain low in the majority of Member States.
In the likely event that there has been no upturn in the economic situation by then, will the Commission seriously be able to consider recommending the same economic policies as those of previous years, which have proved disappointing in terms of growth and employment?
Hence, in the broad guidelines of economic policy for 1996, the Commission did not succeed in persuading the Council to adopt the recommendation for a less restrictive monetary policy, geared more towards employment and growth.
This year, Parliament is in a very difficult situation.
The Ecofin Council is in danger of not adopting its recommendation until the beginning of December, leaving Parliament with only ten days or so in which to deliver its opinion before the Dublin summit.
Undoubtedly, the Commission's communication on services of general interest represents a first step towards taking broader account of what all these services bring to our countries.
The single market is an excellent deal for some people - not least because there are minimal social standards.
I note that, in the programme's conclusion, the Commission has mapped out the route to the year 2000 and beyond.
You will remember, Mr Santer, that when we gave you our vote of confidence, we also reached a number of agreements on cooperation between our two institutions.
It is all very well to create new jobs, but more professional development in existing jobs is also needed, so that workers can remain competitive in what is a changing and increasingly international market.
And as the market becomes more international, there must be greater freedom of movement within the Union, which should become more than just a single market - a genuine internal market, a huge market where a transaction between London and Paris, between Rome and Madrid, can be like a national operation, and where goods, money, persons and young people - with their diplomas and professional qualifications - really can enjoy freedom of movement.
Mr President, when the European Commission took office in January 1995, it was praised by its President as one of the most political Commissions in the history of the Union.
As the President of Parliament said during the debate on the state of the Union: ' People are not against European unification, but they do not know why they should be in favour of Europe' .
Firstly, on the television without frontiers directive, the Commission is not accepting Parliament's stance on quotas; and, secondly, on the postal services directive, the Commission has swept aside virtually all Parliament's amendments!
All the signals reaching us from the various Member States - whether in the form of social unrest or via the ballot box - indicate the same thing: opposition to Europe or, in any event, severe and increasing criticism.
I shall refer to one very specific area: the environment.
The Environment Council recently adopted the directive on the prevention and integrated reduction of pollution.
This is the same demand that was made more than two years ago in the resolution contained in the Alber report of April 1994, which was adopted by an overwhelming majority.
We are undoubtedly convinced of the vital need to introduce the single currency without delay, and we welcome the efforts made by a number of Member States to achieve the budgetary stabilization that will make this possible.
And in the context of the Intergovernmental Conference now taking place, the Commission has put forward proposals to make qualified majority decisions the general rule.
The result will inevitably be a further leap towards integration, and the Commission is putting forward this proposal without giving any indication of where decisions can be handed back to the Member States in other areas.
The European Union is grappling with a problem of drastic proportions, namely rising unemployment, with youth and long-term unemployment the most critical aspects of this depressing trend.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, among the main political priorities of the Commission's programme of work are the future of the European Union and the raising of its profile in the international arena.
Indeed, Mr Santer has quite rightly acknowledged that Europe is not managing to assume its rightful role in the world, at least in relation to its economic and commercial significance and to the scale of its financial commitments in terms of development aid.
By the same token, it is quite clear that Europe is not responding effectively where it should, and where a more active role is expected or even demanded of it, as in the Middle East.
What would be the point of enlargement without a real European foreign policy, without what is already defined in the programme as an external identity for the Union - marked by coherence, effectiveness and visibility - without the possibility of a close link between security, defence, trade and economic relations capable of being a vehicle for a European policy equal to the challenges of the modern world?
Mr President, I welcome the efforts being made by President Santer to focus the work programme of the Commission on a small number of priority areas.
While most of these initiatives were worthwhile in themselves, they were too numerous to implement in a single year.
It now seems increasingly likely that a significant number of the Member States will opt to establish the single currency in three years time.
It will be very difficult, if not impossible, to create a single currency without the support of the citizens of the participating countries.
The opponents of monetary union have already come to this conclusion and are actively engaged in bringing their case to the electorate in many of our Member States.
It is time for the European institutions to be equally vociferous in bringing the arguments in favour of a single currency to Europe's electorate.
I would remind the Commission that the Maastricht Treaty was very nearly derailed, largely because the general public in many of our Member States did not feel sufficiently involved in the debate leading up to Maastricht.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, last week, at Gardanne in the south of France, an election took place.
The Cecchini report told too many lies.
And there is unemployment, Mr Santer.
However, unemployment does not exist everywhere.
Along with all kinds of other sacrifices, you are imposing budgetary rigour - but not on everyone, since you are capable of making a gift of ECU 1.9 billion worth of customs duties to the multinational banana company 'Chiquita' every year.
And I could continue in this way on the question of taxation.
If Europe does not want to miss the boat and if we really want to take the lead in the information society, then we must have all hands on deck in this sector.
I find it amazing that there is now talk of a fifth framework programme, when we still do not have the ECU 700 million needed to implement the fourth.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, after this debate - given that there are only two minutes left - I am going to focus on one of the expressions you used: you talked of the 'disarray of European citizens' and mentioned dehumanisation.
Nowadays, citizens feel that they are mere market variables and, given this, from this Assembly, we are trying to echo their appeal for greater development of anything that can help citizens to feel that they are actually affected in their daily lives: security, the development of the free movement of persons - which is being held up as you know -, practical activity - as Schuman used to say - in the areas of VAT, European society, etc.
We need to move towards a new model of development.
We need to halve unemployment by the year 2000.
Mr President, at the end of this first debate on the Commission's work programme for 1997, I should like to thank all those who spoke for taking part.
I share this feeling, and it was precisely with a view to stemming the loss of public confidence in the European Union that we established the priorities of our work programme for 1997.
These are the three foremost issues of concern to the people of Europe, who are demanding more of Europe, not less.
Certainly, both economic and social policies fall within the competence of the Member States, but I remain firmly convinced that the implementation of a convergent economic and social policy of the 15, in a single market with 370 million people, will have a multiplying effect on the efforts of the individual Member States.
That is the added value which Europe can contribute in this field.
It is for this reason that I support the President of Parliament's initiative to review our procedures - in a constructive spirit, and in the spirit of the continuous dialogue which must exist between the Commission and Parliament.
It is not impossible that an initiative will be taken on this basis in the future.
As for the Jackson report on hotel security, the Commission has already informed Parliament of its position on this subject.
In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to thank Parliament once again for the confidence which, at particularly crucial times, it has always shown in the Commission, as well as for the cooperation of which it has always assured us, especially in the budgetary debates - such as the one that you are now about to begin.
It is very clear - and Parliament has expressed this time and again - that we agree that the budget for 1997 should be a restrictive budget; it should be a budget which also takes into account the priorities of the Member States in seeking to achieve the Maastricht criteria.
Although, of course, the European budget is very small indeed compared to the national budgets, there is a symbolic value in Europe not being seen as a spender at a time when the national parliaments and the national governments are trying to be parsimonious.
The Committee on Budgets will propose to the plenary that the budget for 1997 be restrictive.
We have left significant margins, as we agreed in the guidelines in last March's resolution on the budget.
The worrying part about the budget is the political context in which we are working at the present time.
From the very beginning Parliament has been looking forward to having a real dialogue with the Council on points outstanding, points covered by the Interinstitutional Agreement and points which, it has been promised for many years, are an issue which can be resolved in a dialogue.
We have at present 47 items in the budget which do not have a formal legal base.
A responsible budgetary authority comprising the two branches cannot live with that situation.
On behalf of Parliament, we have put forward proposals you will find reflected in the budget resolution.
Throughout this year, we have reminded the Council of its duty and obligation to review the financial perspectives, not to finance the nice things for the boys, as has always been the case, but to finance its own priorities: transEuropean networks, research and development, and Northern Ireland.
That is a stark fact of life: the Council not willing - or should I say not able to, engage in dialogue; a Parliament which is stretching out its hand, which wants to review essential points for better democratic control for a better budget and therefore for a better European Union.
That, unfortunately, is the climate in which we find ourselves.
I call on the President-in-Office of the Council present here - who, on a personal basis, has always tried to be very helpful - to transmit this message to the Council so that between the first and second readings we will be able to resolve a few of the outstanding issues.
The chairman of the Committee on Budgets himself, has been quite instrumental on this point.
So in our resolution we will indicate very clearly that whatever happens in December at second reading, we will finance the promise of the ECU 100m.
It is essential that the Council also takes its part of the responsibility and that at this stage it looks at it in conjunction with the other issues which I indicated.
We call on the Commission and Council - which has not been very helpful on this point - for next year's budget to further develop this concept so that we will have marked developments already at the stage of the pre-draft of the budget by the Commission.
We should put an end to the situation that the estimates of the Commission are so large that even unforeseen things can simply be financed without any review in the course of the year - as BSE is now demonstrating.
We should end a situation of no democratic control even where compulsory expenditure rather than non-compulsory expenditure is involved.
In category 2: frankly speaking, the cut on the part of the Council seems to have very little to do with a considered view of what to do about Structural Funds, but rather it has been shown to be a simple budget-cutting operation, without reflection on what it will do for the development of the Structural Funds.
This rather anticipates the fact that some of the Member States, as is mentioned in the resolution, have not found the proper ways and means to cofinance the Community instruments set up by Parliament and the Council at an earlier stage.
We should note at this stage that we cannot accept the fact that the Council has been blocking essential programmes such as employment and job creation, which have always been seen as priorities.
We have entered ECU 25m on the line which the Council has so far refused to unblock and it is an important priority for Parliament.
We hope that we can resolve this issue during the forthcoming conciliation procedure with the Council.
The behaviour of the Council in the field of energy has been simply scandalous.
The Council has cut 80 % of the budget when the Commission has already cut something like 40 %.
As part of the overall review of its management, which is also being carried out within the Commission, we believe that, at a time when European integration is increasingly coming under attack, the European Union should at least make itself visible in its external information policy.
We welcome the fact that, under the leadership of Commissioner Liikanen, the Commission increasingly sees that management tools can play a central part in developing a Commission which is credible to the outside world.
We had an interesting debate yesterday with Commissioner van den Broek on the issue of Turkey.
A debate on Turkey was held in Parliament in 19 September.
In the field of foreign affairs we have fulfilled our part of the commitment on the Mediterranean.
The tendency of the Council to disregard external development priorities is worrying.
But within the framework of our financial means we should take very clear account in the budget of the fact that the European Union is after all financing five to six times more than other forces including the United States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the first reading the Council has granted an overall amount for all of the other institutions of 1, 484.17 MECU.
As part of the deliberations, the Committee on Budgets has shown its interest in the double requirement for the institutions systematically to assess financial activities for the Union's budget in order to improve the cost-efficiency ratio, and also to limit the creation of new jobs to commitments already made through enlargement.
In this way, the message gets across quite clearly and without any ambiguity before the great challenge which is the Community budget for the year 1997.
Administrative cost cannot be excluded from the belt-tightening which is imposed on all Member States with a view to monetary union.
However, the rapporteur thinks that this climate of austerity and rigour in budgetary matters should not come in the way of the conditions needed for the proper functioning of the institution.
Of this overall amount of 1, 37 million ECU, 225, 486 ECU refer to measures aimed at staff: 18 upgradings for the Court of Justice, 3 for the Economic and Social Committee, 6 upgradings and the allocation of 1 ad personam for the common structure.
As for the Court of Auditors, the discussions going on with this institution since the creation of a draft budget by the Council has shown that there is a deficit of auditors due to the larger scope of controls carried out by this institution as a consequence of the Union's enlargement.
As rapporteur I should like to point out that the proposed amendments which have been tabled are in compliance with the conclusions of the tripartite talks which took place in April of this year concerning a freeze on staffing.
To end this chapter on staff, I should like to point out the sharp drop, without sufficient justification, which has been observed in the 'special advisors' line in the budget of the Committee of the Regions.
Therefore, I call upon the Committee of the Regions to provide information on this line and in particular on the arrangements for awarding different contracts to special advisors in respect of the provisions in Article 82 of the Statute.
To conclude I should like to point out the need for institutions to respect the provisions of the financial rules and, for this purpose, I point out the obligation for the common structure of the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions to establish an analytical accounting system and the need for the Court of Justice to present a genuinely analytical budget which is not merely a presentation of footnotes without any further explanation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the second consecutive year, I have the task of submitting for Parliament's approval, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, a motion for a resolution on the draft ECSC operating budget for 1997.
Quite apart from its historical and traditional importance, the establishment of the ECSC budget provides each year a unique opportunity of reviewing the situation in two sectors which are fundamental to Europe's industrial success, and in particular of comparing our economic activities with those of the rest of the world.
In 1997, ECSC activities should be seen against a background of real growth in Community GDP of 2.4 %, as against 1.5 % in 1996.
Steel production, after recording an increase of 2.6 % in 1995 over 1994, is likely to fall by 1.7 % in 1996 compared with 1995 and settle at approximately the 1995 level in 1997, with the probable loss of 9000 jobs in this sector.
I should like to draw Members' attention, on the other hand, to a new element in the ECSC budget.
And what in fact is new in the draft budget that we are submitting to the House this year?
It is the proposal to include in the ECSC budget, from 1997 onwards, a fund of ECU 5 million designed to allow - and here I shall read out the remarks - ' the remainder of the reserve to be set aside as start-up funding for the establishment of a body subject to the political and budgetary control of the Community institutions and which would inherit in 2002 the residual assets of the ECSC' .
As the House is aware, this issue has been the subject of several debates and, in particular, a report drawn up by Mr Colom i Naval, which we have already discussed on various occasions.
Indeed, although we have not yet decided on the shape that the ECSC should take after 2002, I believe that the members of the Committee on Budgets are united in agreeing on the need for ECSC activities to continue in one form or another.
Mr President, the Foreign Affairs Committee is particularly concerned with Category 4 of the Budget, but more importantly with the politically sensitive aspects of our external spending.
Obviously Parliament will listen carefully to the Commission and to the Council, but in addition we will watch very carefully indeed actual events, not only in Turkey itself, but also in Cyprus.
We will be consistent with the resolution that we tabled, but I hope that colleagues, whatever the circumstances, will keep an open mind, bearing in mind the supreme importance in geostrategic terms of Turkey and its relationship over a long period with the European Union.
On that we will be retabling a very few amendments to reinstate the preliminary draft budget figures on democracy and human rights programmes in the PHARE programme, in the TACIS programme and in the MEDA programme.
We found that in the debate last week in the Committee on Budgets there was some ECU 120m left in the margin on Category 4.
We will also be putting in some remarks on Hong Kong, Tibet and Macau.
We are now a little more than two years away from the introduction of the single currency, and it is clear that the overall efforts to sell this idea to the European public have been largely inadequate.
In the vote in the Committee on Budgets, an appropriation of ECU 25 million has been entered in the reserve.
In working out a strategy for access to new markets, which may rely on increased participation by the European Parliament, to correct the current democratic deficit, a subject which the IGC should pay particular attention to.
Concerning these, it should be pointed out that the percentage of the use of amounts for authorisations was 57 % on 30 September of this year, with a perspective of 100 % use by the end of the year, data recently confirmed by the Commission.
These cuts are detrimental to the social dialogue; they seriously jeopardize and, in some cases, nullify the efforts being made to combat social exclusion.
It is worth bearing in mind not only that all these EU actions and projects in recent years have brought and are bringing the Union's activities closer to our fellow citizens, but also that they make a very real contribution to raising awareness right across civil society, through the work of associations and NGOs.
The ultimately political debate on the future of the Structural Funds cannot be allowed to degenerate into an accounting operation.
We cannot accept these cuts, as they would place an even greater strain on implementation, already difficult in certain countries.
Mr President, I also want to address the issue of the Council's decision to make cuts amounting to one billion in structural fund payments in the 1997 budget.
Jacques Santer this morning said there is a public crisis of confidence in the EU.
The Confidence Pact for Employment can re-establish that confidence but if we say to Member States they can go slow on spending on their programmes designed to tackle unemployment we are downgrading the vital role of the structural funds in job creation.
Perhaps this is the real hidden agenda of some Member States and the Council in not meeting their cofinancing commitments, not only in 1997 but in 1998 and 1999.
EMU cannot mean no employment schemes in our region.
In setting out the Union's action plan for the next year, the President of the Commission, earlier this morning, once again put growth and employment at the head of our priorities.
There is absolutely no truth in the claim which is sometimes made that development policy involves issuing a blank cheque.
We wish to play our part in combating xenophobia and promoting the integration of foreigners into our society.
The committee asks for the EU's budget to be drawn up on this basis.
I hope that this message will be heard on Thursday for the benefit of, amongst others, some extremely important bodies such as the European University Institute in Florence, which would otherwise not find in this year's budget the sums they need to cover their operating costs.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Fisheries would like the three following amendments to be accepted: First of all, in budget line B 2-901, on the financial participation by the Community in control and surveillance activities in the waters of Member States, to be returned to the quantity provided for in the preliminary draft budget approved by the Commission: 39.5 MECU instead the 33 MECU now earmarked.
This amendment has already been accepted by the Committee on Budgets.
Secondly, setting up a new budgetary line for non-industrial coastal fishing (B 2-522 N, with 10 MECU).
This amendment has also been accepted by the Committee on Budgets, and 4 MECU have been earmarked.
Last but not least, we call for an increase in the budgetary share for B 7-800 (International Agreements), by 36 MECU, bringing it from 276, 4 to 312, 3 MECU.
The official Commission stance is that the amount earmarked for this budgetary line should be enough to cover all of the Community's obligations in this area and that, if at the end of the budgetary year this is exceptionally not the case, it ought to be possible to transfer funds to meet any extra needs by use of the 'Notenboom' procedure.
However, according to figures supplied by DG XIV, the amount available is clearly insufficient to meet the needs for international agreements.
Our position, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is that we should not begin a budgetary year in the certainty that the budgetary amounts earmarked for this budgetary line are insufficient to meet any obligations arising from international fishery agreements already signed by the Community - agreements which represent one of the fundamental bases of the common fisheries policy - which explains our amendment which has already been retabled by the Committee on Fisheries and which should be adopted.
The Committee on Budgets has approved a figure of ECU 10 m.
Thirdly, we wished to see a horizontal approach to 'mainstreaming' - the inclusion of equality of opportunity in all policy areas.
We are setting particular store by the SAVE II programme which we want to see enhanced.
On nuclear safety, we think it essential that countries in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe have the sort of help in training their inspectors that they need directly from DG XVII, and not through the sometimes convoluted PHARE and TACIS approach.
Mr President, for future years, if we could stick by the agenda as originally planned, it would be more constructive, because we should be looking at the monitoring of existing expenditure before we come on to new expenditure planned for 1997.
In the 1996 budget, when it was initially framed, we set out three priorities.
The first was rationalization in terms of information policy, the agencies and nomenclature.
The question then arises: how has this budget been implemented during the current year?
It is clear that we have already set out the guidelines for identifying value for money in the operation of the management of the budget and that we shall continue with them during the 1997 procedure.
Indeed, in the guidelines of our rapporteur general, we have made sure that monitoring of the existing budget runs in parallel with the creation of new credits in the 1997 budget.
Obviously this is going to be made more difficult where the Council has cut back significantly in terms of many internal projects, even if the utilization and management of these lines is really effective.
It will mean greater transparency and more effectiveness in the way in which the budget is established and, therefore, greater reliability so far as European citizens are concerned.
On 18 September I had the honour to present to this plenary the draft budget for 1997, which was established by the Council on 25 July.
On that occasion I outlined to you the main political considerations guiding the Council in its budgetary decisions.
It is important to recall those considerations as Parliament is preparing to decide on its first reading of this budget.
I would like to recall also that the Council's first reading was preceded by a conciliation with Parliament during which a broad level of agreement was reached on the main items of the 1997 budget procedure.
The Council is of the opinion that respect for strict budgetary discipline is an unavoidable constraint for the Community budget this year, when Member States at national level are facing some very tough and difficult budgetary decisions.
To achieve this budgetary discipline, the Council decided to reduce the preliminary draft budget by ECU 1, 000m in agricultural expenditure as well as a further ECU 1, 000m in the payment appropriations for structural measures.
As I stressed on 18 September, the Council considers it essential that the European Parliament go along with this overall restrictive strategy concerning expenditure in the fields of agriculture and structural actions.
Moreover, the rigour imposed by the financial and economic constraints on all Member States in 1997 cannot spare headings 3 and 4 of the Financial Perspective.
In the area of 'external measures' , the Council's priorities were: cooperation with Latin America and Asia, the Mediterranean third countries, PHARE and TACIS and ex-Yugoslavia, among others.
There are, of course, areas where major political efforts are being made by the Union and its institutions, often in association with other world powers.
These include our efforts to promote peace and reconstruction in various places, including Northern Ireland.
Through our participation in these actions, we demonstrate the political strength and cohesion of the European Union and its identification with, and interest in helping, those in difficulties.
The European Parliament has been extremely supportive of the Northern Ireland Peace Programme.
After all, the Commission and President Santer put proposals to the Florence European Council for increased expenditure on TENs and, to a lesser extent, on research and SMEs.
At the July Ecofin, my colleague Ruairi Quinn in his capacity as President of the Council, set up a High Level Group of Personal Representatives of Ministers for Finance to consider the proposals further.
The Group's report indicates that the budgetary difficulties of many of the Member States make it very difficult indeed for them to contemplate increases in budgetary expenditure either domestically or at Community level.
While it is not possible, despite the presidency's best efforts, for the Council to reach agreement at this time on a revision of the Financial Perspective for 1998 and 1999, Ministers have noted the funding available from the EIB and existing budgetary resources.
I would also like to stress the positive role which the current Financial Perspective has played in ensuring the necessary financing of Community policies, as well as its role in avoiding futile disputes between the two arms of the budget authority.
Having met with them on some six separate occasions during or before the Irish presidency, which is I gather in excess of the norm, I have found them willing to engage at all times in constructive and meaningful dialogue on budgetary issues and I hope they have found me to be the same.
I would like to turn now to the question of the legal basis, which was discussed at our earlier conciliation meeting of 25 July.
As you may know, there have been several technical meetings between the three institutions on the legal base.
I want to assure you that the presidency will make every effort to progress this matter with a view to reaching - if at all possible - an agreement between the three institutions when we meet on 19 November, the date of the Budget Council.
In the course of the ad hoc conciliation last July, the Council agreed also to examine, with the European Commission and the European Parliament, a detailed mutual information procedure to be applied in respect of international fisheries agreements.
I can assure you that the Council will examine in depth and with care the results of your first reading.
On behalf of the presidency, I can assure you that I will spare no effort to work with Parliament and the Commission so that, at the end of the year, the most appropriate budget for our Union can, in all circumstances, be adopted.
Talks have started with the Commission, but it has decided that the final negotiations on a new document cannot start until Parliament has rejected the existing proposal in plenary.
If it is one of creating EU institutions which first take in money from Member States and then allocate these funds, it is doubtful whether the EU should become involved.
Amongst other things, the Raphael programme is aimed at supporting projects which are of interest to the Community as a whole, which help to improve the way in which the cultural heritage is represented, and which have a European dimension.
We cannot continue to tolerate the attitude shown by the governments on 11 June, whereby when there is disagreement over some aspects of a proposal, however important they may be, it is simply consigned to the waste-paper basket and thus denied any dignity, value or urgency.
And even worse, the cinema in Europe is rapidly becoming subordinate to that of the United States, in terms of both quantity and quality.
Let it do so - but in the knowledge that conservative and progressive governments alike will have to account for themselves in full to public opinion, because we do not intend to give in to either blackmail or sabotage.
The creation of the European Audiovisual Guarantee Fund is part of the framework of the Community's activity to reform the European audiovisual area on two fundamental fronts: on one hand, regulation - in other words reshaping the Television without Frontiers Directive in order to establish a clearer and more efficient legal framework, to favour the development of television broadcasting activities in the Single Market, and also to relaunch and to consolidate the European programme industry through the MEDIA II Programme and the creation of supplementary machinery, closer to the market and aimed at mobilising resources such as the European Audiovisual Guarantee Fund.
Añoveros Trías de Bés report I voted no to this report.
There is no legislation in Sweden on the protection of utility models.
We have voted against the report from Julio Anoveros Trias de Bes.
What is required, however, is that the EU should recommend that Member States reduce their costs for patent applications.
Japan and the USA currently have significantly lower costs in this area than the countries of the Union.
Mr President, the 1997 budget has an important role to play in the strategy of the Union, to meet the challenges and to regain the confidence of the citizens of Europe.
The 1997 budget needs to be a rigorous budget.
The Union budget must contribute - within its modest limits - to the efforts of all Member States to restore their fiscal health.
These efforts are inevitable.
All institutions have recognized the need for rigour as the cornerstone of the 1997 budget procedure.
A majority in Council has gone a step further and established a 'zero growth' draft budget.
This was mainly achieved by budgeting ECU 1 billion less in payment credits for agriculture and structural funds.
But - and we must remember this - the underlying regulations remain unchanged and will need to be fully financed from the 1997 budget.
If the European Parliament leaves the cuts in categories 1 and 2 intact it will demonstrate that it too is willing to accept a strategy of rigour.
But the amendments accepted in the Budget Committee also show strong support for the Trans-European Networks in the transport sector, for research and development and for the peace process in Northern Ireland.
This keeps alive the joint efforts of the Commission and Parliament for these priorities of the Union.
In fact, from the beginning of the year, when President Santer proposed a 'confidence pact' for the Union, the Commission has been stressing that the Union needs a forward-looking strategy for growth and employment.
Along with budgetary rigour there needs to be investment in the future.
The outcome of the deliberations of Ecofin has been disappointing.
Because of the negative attitude of the Council there is now in front of you an alternative solution for the year 1997: to strengthen the financing of the revision priorities using all the margins in Categories 3, 4 and 5.
The discussions between the institutions must include the question of legal bases.
The Commission is working with the Irish presidency to come to a conclusion before the end of this budget procedure.
But still I hope the Commission and Parliament can continue to work on a few points which would leave no doubt about Parliament's objectives without weakening the Commission's institutional independence to decide on the best way of achieving them.
I note agreement on the resources and, in particular, on a levy of 17 %.
I note your proposals to finance preparatory activities for coal and steel sector activities after 2002.
This is part of the broader debate about ECSC activities after the expiry of the ECSC Treaty.
The Commission has not yet adopted a position on this question.
Let me for now thank you, Mr Giansily, as well as, again, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Samland, and his colleagues, for your work on this issue.
In the Socialist Group we have tried to be open in our approach to job creation.
That is why we are prepared to go along with Article 203 to make sure that the money goes to TENs, goes to research and development and, at the same time, that the Irish peace process is not left out of those priorities.
When we took that decision at the first reading of the budget in committee and highlighted the strategy of going for Article 203, I made the point that the telephones of Europe would begin to ring.
Today I got a note from the United Kingdom Permanent Representation asking us in effect to vote against the amendment that we voted through in the Budgets Committee.
It was not made then, it was made several months earlier by the European Parliament.
I would like to make a point about some of the amendments that will be put in by the Socialist Group.
By the same token, we will be supporting the Budgets Committee's proposals to ensure that the ECU 100m for the peace process is there, but not at the expense of Community initiatives that this Parliament considers a priority.
I turn then to the resolution in Mr Brinkhorst's name.
Mr President, what we have to consider first of all when we have a look at the context of the 1997 budget are the tremendous difficulties which the Council President referred to before the votes, just before our lunch break.
We have Member States who are cutting back or keeping a freeze on their national budgets as the public sector deficits have been cut back, not only to be competitive in the global economy but also for the rationale of the single currency towards the end of this decade.
It would to me, and I think to my Group as a whole, certainly be the wrong step for Parliament to take, while we are in the process of negotiating the Intergovernmental Conference, as it would show us being an irresponsible partner in the budgetary process.
We are in favour of awareness at this particular time of the difficulties of the European Union, both in terms of a budgetary freeze and of negotiating within the frameworks that we have already negotiated.
But, as for the allocation of the rest of the 300 million, that will be in the final analysis for the budgetary authority to decide at the end of second reading.
But in terms of job creation, if you think that simply by putting another 100 million on the trans-European networks we are going to solve the unemployment problem in the European Union then I am afraid that is not our view on this side of the House.
What we must think of in this negotiation - and I direct my final remarks to you, Mr President-in-Office - is that we must have understanding and flexibility from your institution as part of the co-authority of the budgetary process, to make sure the things that you have signed and that we have signed are things which we can actually make work in practice.
Mr President, the preparations for the vote on this budget required the Committee on Budgets to engage in a dual exercise, which merits first and foremost, I believe, a dual salute: to the chairman of the committee, Mr Samland, and to the rapporteur, Mr Brinkhorst.
On 25 July, the preliminary draft budget, which was based on estimates showing an almost 4 % increase on the budget for 1996, was cut back to a zero growth budget.
Indeed, how could the Member States be expected to accept an increase in the Community budget, when they are reducing expenditure in their national budgets in a bid to meet the Maastricht convergence criteria?
While expressing my group's overall satisfaction, I should like to make a number of basic comments on the decisions taken with regard to this budget and reaffirm a number of principles which we believe to be elementary common sense, at the risk of giving the impression that we are repeating ourselves.
Appropriations under Category 1 must retain their compulsory nature.
Clearly, the Committee on Budgets, on which the Interinstitutional Agreement confers very specific responsibilities regarding budgetary matters, wishes to exercise those responsibilities in a precise framework and well in advance.
It is natural, in my view, that the conciliation process should apply fully in this context, but this is also the reason why our group does not agree to Parliament making use of Article 203 of the Treaty, since we believe that the Interinstitutional Agreement is an important step forward in the sharing of our responsibilities.
It is extremely important to make swift legislative provision for the unrestricted use of appropriations entered in the budget.
Our group, especially its Irish membership, is shocked at the fact that ECU 100 million of the appropriations earmarked for support for the peace process in Northern Ireland have been put in reserve.
As regards the research programmes, placing ECU 100 m in the reserve opens up possibilities at second reading, and our group supports this proposal.
That is why, once again, we cannot accept the possible entry in the reserve of appropriations earmarked for the MEDA programme.
On the other hand, it is to be regretted the Committee on Budgets has not approved - although I hope that the plenary will - an amendment which would stop reductions to the commitments in other objectives, such as the Council's proposal suggests.
After all, it was with this in mind that the Cohesion Fund was set up with a very small additionality requirement.
These are all tiny amounts in our budget which is within the 1.25 % of GDP percentage admitted by the financial perspective.
All of these are very important for political reasons and for development.
Mr President, the central question of this budgetary process lies, in our opinion, in the profoundly restrictive penchant and the strait-jacketed nature of the way in which Community policies are worked out in essential areas.
For example, on the eve of the third phase of monetary union, and already with eyes on enlargement, the Council has shown that it wants to turn this budget, not into a necessary response to the relevant problems facing the Union, especially in the social field, but into an exemplary exercise for the governments of Member States exactly at the moment where, at that level too, everyone wants austerity budgets.
As a result, we can neither accept the values nor the logic of the Council's draft budget.
I wish to underline the following: we feel that we should restore the values in the Commission's preliminary draft budget in sensitive areas and we also feel, as the European Parliament has always affirmed, that some of the most pressing matters - such as Northern Ireland, the trans-European networks and research - should be considered as part of a revision of financial perspectives so that other objectives are not compromised.
There has been no significant reaction to the cuts in farming expenditure despite the fact that the Council has gone far beyond what was proposed by the European Parliament in the field of the ad hoc procedure.
Reductions in important areas such as culture and cooperation are outstanding.
I hope that the plenary session will now correct anything which is negative about this budget and we hope that the positive aspects which came out of yesterday's vote in the Committee on Budgets will be followed through.
There are cuts of ECU 1 billion on agricultural spending, but in view of the substantial excesses of last year, that is hardly a convincing figure, indeed I regard it as a dishonest figure.
The Council should instead have taken a serious look at the problem of where our Structural Fund expenditure is going.
After all, the net contributors are already looking forward to getting back the money that will go unspent in 1998 and 1999.
Over a ten-day period, we have seen - and this should come as no surprise - the triumph of anti-Maastricht parties in two national elections.
Even worse will happen if this Council continues short-sightedly trying to scrimp and save, when this budget should in fact have been the impetus for growth in our European Union.
I hope that this trend will be corrected on Thursday, allowing us to hope that in next year's amending budget it will be possible to reinstate some of the appropriations left out of our humanitarian aid budget.
In short, we shall vote in favour of the Brinkhorst report, as I said, despite our doubts as to how effective a weapon this will be against the Council.
Mr President, under the good influence of certain Member States, the Council's draft budget forms part of a rigorous approach to public finances that should be highlighted.
The preliminary draft budget for 1996 provided for an increase of more than 8 % in commitment and payment appropriations.
Similarly, this year's PDB provides for an increase of 4 % in commitment appropriations and 3.1 % in payment appropriations.
This rise is once again excessive, and the Commission's efforts inadequate, considering what is currently being done in many Member States.
The Council's draft budget, on the other hand, provides for a 0.3 % reduction in comparison with the budget for 1996 - a reduction, that is, of ECU 900 million divided evenly between agricultural and structural expenditure.
The Council has thus taken on board something to which we have frequently drawn attention: the existence of nonutilized payment appropriations - which, for the years 1994 and 1995, were worth ECU 9 billion.
There is no hesitation in keeping non-priority budget lines without a legal base.
So a good opportunity has been lost, and our group will be unable to support this budget if the Committee on Budget's amendments are retained.
Mr President, I followed the debate in the Committee on Budgets with interest, but the French and Flemish non-attached Members will be unable to vote in favour of this draft budget, because they fundamentally disagree with it.
They do so, firstly, for the reasons that have just been set out in an excellent manner by Mr Fabre-Aubrespy.
They do so, secondly, because this budget makes inadequate provision for the major sectors in which action on a European scale would be effective: the aerospace and aeronautical industries, and indeed the major infrastructure projects.
And they do so, thirdly and above all, because the essential purpose of this budget is to buy support for the federalist project with the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, by creating indebted clienteles at local and national level.
In this area, everything is done with a total lack of transparency.
We cannot support a budget which appears to be designed to manipulate public opinion.
Both Article 203 of the Treaty and the Interinstitutional Agreement of 1993 provide for substantive negotiations between the two arms of the budgetary authority - Parliament and the Council.
However, it has been notable in 1996 that substantive negotiations of this kind have not taken place, because the Council has refused to enter into them.
Now, with the further refusal of the Ecofin Council to revise the financial perspective for 1998 and 1999, and with the fact that there is still no agreement on legal bases or on fisheries policy, one has to conclude that the majority of Council members are failing to do their duty as laid down in the Treaty and refusing to engage in substantive negotiations.
By contrast, the European Parliament has kept all the promises that it made in Mr Brinkhorst's guidelines.
We were not the ones who wished to make ECU 300 million available for the Northern Irish peace process instead of ECU 200 m.
Where were you, Mr President-in-Office, a fortnight ago yesterday when the Ecofin Council refused to revise the financial perspective, with the result that the decision was taken not to make the additional ECU 100 m available for the Northern Irish peace process?
However, the question of whether the EU sends out signals in favour of job-creation cannot be a matter of indifference to this House.
Mr President, the distinctive feature of the 1997 budget is the Council's proposal to cut the Commission's preliminary draft budget by ECU 1 billion in the agriculture sector and ECU 1 bn in the area of regional policy.
That is why our group continues to call for savings in Categories 1 and 2.
We would also urge that the peace process in Northern Ireland should be supported, and we wish to see support for a European research and development policy.
It is a fact that two weeks ago the Committee on Budgets voted to cut the Peace and Reconciliation allocation by £78m.
Since then I have worked with my colleagues to ensure that this vital funding is safeguarded and thanks to our efforts progress has been made and the present compromise proposal represents a step forward.
There is ongoing tension between the institutions of the European Union, the Committee on Budgets and the Council, but let us say hands off the Peace and Reconciliation Fund!
I was heartened by the widespread support for my stand and I should like to thank the Irish Government, including the Taoiseach and the Tánaiste , Commissioner Wulf-Mathies, the Irish and British industry bodies, my party leader and the parties of Dáil Eireann and of course the British Government which has also supported this.
Mr President, this first reading on the budget is a defining moment but, as we know, it is not yet the definitive moment in identifying and setting our priorities for 1997.
As a point of departure, I recall that it was the European Parliament, first of all the European institutions, that insisted that the Union should show its solidarity with and support for the peace process.
On Thursday we will vote on a package of priorities for Parliament's reserve in which Northern Ireland will be accorded the priority of being the first among equals.
To guarantee the allocation for the peace process in Northern Ireland, the Council must now facilitate this accumulation of reserves between the first and second readings.
Our vote will allow this House to place the deeply sensitive issue of the peace process in Northern Ireland above our day-to-day political concerns.
But there is a message for Northern Ireland as well: accelerate the uptake and help those of us fighting for your cause in this House to be justified by next December in asking the Minister - I know that his and his government's good will is there - to back a realistic and fair package for Northern Ireland, which we will vote on Thursday.
Mr President, the financial Europe does exist but the Europe which we are all much more concerned with, the socially cohesive and economically homogenous Europe, is still a dream.
Undoubtedly, that social Europe is the most difficult aspect to achieve because it means that political decisions have to be taken which are not inspired by the well-worn principle 'every man for himself' , which the situation of State and Community budgetary austerity seems to have converted into a universal axiom.
Since then, a compromise has been reached which is much more moderate, but the ECU 300 million entered as a general reserve means that the margin available still exceeds that provided for in the financial perspective.
In our opinion, therefore, there is no need to have a general reserve of ECU 300 m, which is only likely to lead to institutional problems at second reading.
Mr President, economic and social cohesion has recently received considerable political attention - officially, at least.
But unfortunately, the words were not followed by actual deeds; on the contrary, the Council of Ministers has imposed a cut of some ECU 3000 million in the Community budget for 1997.
There are cuts of ECU 1000 m in the agriculture sector, ECU 1000 m in the Structural Funds, and ECU 750 m in internal policy, research, transport and social affairs.
The real problem is that the cuts have related principally to Objective 2, concerning areas affected by industrial decline, support for SMEs and the construction of the trans-European networks.
Yet again, it is being shown that the policy of the Structural Funds provides a sound basis for progress towards EU integration, but that the success of this strategy is dependent on political will.
The second relates to the cunning behind the cuts, whereby all that mattered was approval of the draft budget.
Apart from that, as we all know, Objective 2 concerns industrial areas in decline, areas where unemployment levels in industry are higher than the Community average, with a structural decline in this category of workers.
Mr President, before anything else, I should like to make three preliminary remarks: First of all, as draftsman for the revision of financial perspectives I am worried and irritated by the demagogically motivated polemic about the Northern Ireland programme.
I am personally very much involved and completely behind the combat led by John Hume and I can tell you that, many years ago, more than ten years ago, Mr Hume invited me to the first meeting and I have returned many times to Northern Ireland, trying to make my very modest contribution to finding a peaceful solution to the conflict there.
To summarise, what has happened is a 1 billion ECU cut to the Structural Fund, representing 0, 01 % of Community GDP.
The fact that some governments do not wish to finance the fight against unemployment or reconversion activity cannot lead to an a priori reduction in these funds.
If nothing is actually done in the autumn, there are measures - such as a corrective budget - which means that they can be paid in good time and that would avoid the European Parliament the shame of approving a budget whose only message would be undermining the fight against unemployment.
Mr President, as regards tourism, over 40 Members of the European Parliament have tabled two amendments in which we ask that the same number of similar amendments by the Committee on Transport, which the Committee on Budgets strangely rejected, should again be included in the budget.
Concerning those amendments, namely at position B5-325 on funding for the HOSPITALITY Programme and at position B7-830, the Committee on Budgets not only deleted the sums in question but also went as far as deleting those two positions entirely.
In other words, it eliminated tourism entirely from the budget and has countermanded Parliament's firm view that European tourism must be subject to Community regulation and support.
Finally, if the Transport Committee's amendments tabled again by the 40 Members are not accepted next Thursday, this will create confusion, a real irregularity, since if the report on the HOSPITALITY Programme is approved by Parliament next Friday, there will be no money with which to fund it.
Mr President, in a sense, this is indeed a budget typified by rigour, since it is a 'zero growth' budget which reduces by over ECU 2.5 billion the appropriations for agriculture, the Structural Funds, internal policy and external actions.
The personnel of the Community institutions has increased by over 50 % in the past ten years and is still growing, even though their efficiency seems to be declining alarmingly.
Some members of my group discovered something recently which few people know, namely that the Commission has over 230 offices in non-Community countries - more even than the number of nations in the world.
In December last year, the Court of Justice ruled that Parliament, the Council and the Commission should decide this question among themselves.
I can still hear everyone congratulating themselves on this, even though the amount involved was actually only 1.2 % of all expenditure under Category B1.
Now, I am naturally all in favour of making savings where this is possible, since there is no point in spending money for the sake of it, but ECU 62 m seems a very poor result compared with ECU 556 m.
My reaction is that we can do much better than this in future.
A budget that goes hand in hand with the drastic cuts imposed in the Member States as they approach the critical decision on accession to the third phase of EMU.
I cannot, however, say the same about the allocations for the MEDA programme that concern Turkey, which we should find a way of freezing until that country demonstrates practical respect for international law, and for the human and democratic rights it is provocatively and unrestrainedly violating.
In 1996 I was given responsibility for carrying out a thorough investigation of satellite agencies as part of the 1997 budget process.
In 1996 we adopted an interim strategy of putting a global reserve on the satellite agencies to ensure that the Commission came up with a harmonization of regulations with regard to those agencies and also to ensure that the agencies themselves employed budgetary rigour.
Re-use of own resources qualifies as income for the European Union and only the European Union and the Committee on Budgets and the budget partners can budgetize own resources within its budget.
We are therefore recommending placing ECU 1.7 million in reserve.
Fifthly, on the question of Bilbao I am placing one million in reserve with the three million budget on a recommendation that we get a report and a business plan from those agencies.
Finally, I would like to thank the Commission and the budget authority for their support on my work and, with that, I hope that the agencies get better support, both from the nation states and in Parliament itself.
The Council has specifically guaranteed funding for compulsory agricultural expenditure by openly mentioning the possibility of a supplementary budget.
The House will have to deal with this new situation very carefully in terms of procedure.
For the first time, the Council and the Committee on Budgets have decided that the ad hoc procedure on compulsory agricultural expenditure could be concluded before Parliament had voted on the draft budget at first reading.
This means that, likewise for the first time, Parliament will not be voting on any amendments on the agricultural items in Category 1.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the point has been made on a number of occasions that the European Union's budget for 1997 cannot be seen as a separate issue from the Member States' national budgets.
We are accepting a zero growth budget - apart from the Structural Funds, which are obviously bound to increase.
We are accepting an overall levy which is more than four points lower than that which could be permitted.
The payment appropriations are already ECU 23 bn behind schedule.
I regret the fact that we have still not been able to create a MEDA reserve, because I do not think that entering a set of remarks in the budget is enough to counter legislation.
Mr President, I should like to welcome the President-in-Office of the Council, my old colleague in the Irish parliament, and thank him for his cooperation so far through the budgetary procedures and for his understanding of the difficulties, particularly his understanding of Parliament's position.
I am very happy to note that in this difficult situation the institutions of the Union have stood by their commitment to continue with the increase in structural funds - the funds devoted to the regional policies of the European Union.
I remember when this budget line was first proposed within the Committee on Budgets.
The European Parliament has one overriding priority, as does our group, and that is to combat unemployment.
In this context, the Structural Funds are an important instrument.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists wishes to reinstate ECU 1 billion in the Structural Funds, in order to avoid creating the impression that the European Parliament is turning its back on structural policy.
The alternative is the ECU 1 bn cut which is proposed by the Council.
In my view, the European Parliament must in future demonstrate that it will not tolerate resources being wasted - in the Structural Funds or elsewhere - or Member States failing to fulfil their obligations.
Mr President, the most striking thing about this whole budgetary procedure is the Council's negative attitude towards social policy.
I think it is scandalous that the Council has still not understood that without a social policy, Europe is completely handicapped.
The Council has made the wrong decision and is guilty of discrimination.
Despite the attitude of the Council, the Socialist Group has tried to support the employment policy.
Mr President, the Community budget for 1997 has been drawn up in the spirit of Maastricht.
However, it is our duty to contribute in every way towards addressing the major social problems faced by Europe's citizens.
The Council's cuts to the 1997 budget are large, and serious commitments are being ignored.
The European Parliament must restore the amounts specified in the draft budget.
This was seen in the recent vote to the European Parliament.
On the question of legal base, I hope, come the meeting on 19 November, that we will be able to report serious progress and that we will be able to reach a compromise and an understanding with Parliament.
In relation to the subject which has created a great deal of heat in my own country - that is the threat to the peace programme in Northern Ireland - all I want to say about that is that I have never listened to such unanimity of purpose, both in this House and I know too amongst each of the countries which I represent as President, about any issue as there is about this.
Finally, I wish to say that it simply is not true to state that the Council is not listening or is not negotiating in a meaningful way with Parliament.
From a budgetary perspective, 1997 is almost a unique year, both for the problems which it has presented for individual Member States and, in consequence of that, for the problem that it inevitably confronts this great institution with as well.
Mr President, I wish to come back on four points.
We have chosen trans-European networks and research because they were Council priorities but also because they were proposed by the former President of the Commission, Jacques Delors, in his White Paper.
We regret that the Council was not able to accept our proposal and for that reason we greatly appreciate the support we have received from Parliament.
I cannot comment on the discussions here in Parliament but I assure you that the Commission will guarantee that all the commitments will be covered by payments provided the budgetary authority is prepared to accept, if necessary, a proposal in the form of an amending budget.
Thirdly, I greatly appreciate the President-in-Office of the Council's words on the legal base issue.
It is extremely important now for the three institutions to show their willingness to resolve this issue.
This operates against a clear, coherent budgetary policy.
I really hope that a solution can be found to these difficult institutional problems to make the financial management of this House credible in all fields.
He complained that Commission officials come to the Committee on Budgets and to other committees to propose increases in the Commission budget proposals.
The Commission is the institution which has the confidence of Parliament and it makes a collective proposal which is a political paper to Parliament.
The debate is closed.
We have provided over ECU 2 million for the tribunal on the former Yugoslavia, for example.
Now that these two tribunals are in place, the Commission and the Council feel it is vitally important that a permanent International Criminal Court should be set up to bring criminals to justice at international level.
A court of this kind would have to deal with the following issues: serious violations of humanitarian law, serious and systematic human rights violations and crimes against humanity, irrespective of where they are committed.
From the ECU 300 000 under budget heading A 3030, which was introduced by the European Parliament, the Commission has already funded projects by non-governmental organizations to promote the setting-up of the International Court.
The current United Nations General Assembly is expected to make further recommendations on when to convene this meeting, and we shall then have a better idea of whether the 1998 deadline is likely to be met.
Question No 42 by Pat Gallagher (H-0802/96): Subject: Single Currency The changeover to a single currency will have practical implications for the computerized systems used to record financial transactions by the business, commercial and banking sectors.
The honourable Member's question draws attention to a very specific problem.
With a view to drawing up a full list of the measures needing to be taken as part of the preparations for the single currency, the Commission is at present actively consulting all the interested groups and bodies on the implications of the introduction of the euro for computerized systems.
Lastly, within the framework of the information programme on the euro, which the Commission is developing in partnership with the European Parliament and in collaboration with associations representing SMEs, the Commission is currently drawing up practical guidelines designed to meet the specific needs and concerns of the SME sector, especially in the field of data processing.
As the honourable Member will see, the Commission is well aware of the efforts in favour of small and mediumsized businesses and commercial sectors which this transition requires.
I can assure him that, in close coordination with the national administrations and representative organizations, the Commission will endeavour to facilitate the adaptation of the public and private sectors in each Member State.
Question No 43 by Per Stenmarck (H-0748/96) Subject: Airline cartels and alliances It has become increasingly common in recent years for airlines both inside and outside Europe to form cartels which generally involve cooperation on code-sharing, departures, prices and services.
The mere fact that we investigated these cases under Article 89 - and Neil Kinnock and I acted in complete understanding - shows that we are concerned about competition but also about the protection of consumers and users.
We need to make this move in spite of the fact that in 1987 the Council of Ministers did not give the Commission the necessary powers because it restricted us to what is happening inside the market of the European Union.
It would not be a good idea to go against that principle.
It is indeed true that from now on we must regard the European Union market as a unit, particularly since cabotage is going to have to be introduced very shortly.
Neil Kinnock has today given the Commission his report on the implementation of the third package, which details some positive and some negative aspects, and I am sure that he will be only too pleased to explain these to you.
Therefore we needed a common policy to ensure that competition in that sector should be real.
But if it is happening we would make sure that whether by merger, acquisition or cooperation, it happens with full respect for competition and the rights of the consumer.
Hungary and Poland have both undertaken to ensure that the driving ban does not have a discriminatory effect on international traffic.
The growing recourse to weekend bans underlines the need to promote alternatives to road freight transport on certain heavily used routes in Central Europe.
I should like to know exactly what you and Commissioner van den Broek intend to do in practice?
Our specific and concrete actions to ease the congested and difficult traffic conditions in Eastern and Central Europe include the use of the PHARE funds to improve conditions at border crossings, to improve the training and development of personnel in customs services and, indeed, to encourage hauliers wherever possible to use the facilities offered by various governments to transit their loads across countries - even at weekends - on freight rail.
Now when we and the Central and Eastern European country governments are striving, within the limited resources they have at their disposal, to try to ease the traffic problems for the greater convenience of western hauliers I hope that there will be a more ready response than has proved to be possible in the past.
As the honourable Member may know, only the southern section of the Atlantic line is included in the nordic triangle which, as he will know, is one of the fourteen priority projects endorsed at the Essen European Council and then subsequently by this Parliament and by the Council in the decision on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network.
Finally, I can assure the honourable Member that the Community's financial support for the trans-European transport network is largely directed at developing environmentally-friendly transport modes.
To illustrate the point, more than 66 % of the planned 1996 trans-European transport network budget is assigned directly to rail or to multimodal projects and just 15 % to road projects.
All this is true.
We are in the position of having recently adopted the relevant legislation both in terms of the financial regulation and of the guidelines.
I therefore regret, as I have said publicly on other occasions, the decision of the Ecofin not to provide the top-up to those funds called for as long ago as December 1994 by the Essen European Council.
Question No 48 by Felipe Camisón Asensio (H-0722/96) Subject: Recognition of commercial pilots' licences What are the Commission's proposals to deal with the practice in some Member States of the European Union whereby commercial pilots' licences gained in other Community countries are not recognized?
Council Directive 670/91 on the mutual acceptance of personnel licences for the exercise of functions in civil aviation regulates the issue which concerns the honourable Member in his question.
The Commission has opened legal proceedings against those Member States under the provisions of Article 169 of the Treaty.
Mutual acceptance of pilot licences is regulated by Council Directive 670/91 on the mutual acceptance of personnel licences for the exercise of functions in civil aviation.
In the case of Belgium, the letter of formal notice, the first stage in infringement procedures, as the honourable Member knows, was communicated to the Belgian Government on 15 September and we await their response within the deadline of two months.
Question No 49 by Jan Andersson (H-0765/96) Subject: Transport of goods by rail It is very much more environment-friendly to transport goods by rail than by road.
Rail transport currently takes too long, partly because of the inadequate capacity of the rail network in many places.
The reason for my question is that I was at a conference in Sweden attended by a number of companies including some from the transport sector.
Given the results of this inspection campaign, on 25 July the Italian Government presented a plan for the conversion and rationalization of drift net fishing.
In general terms, the plan sets out a series of measures designed to bring about the elimination and destruction of drift nets, as well as the withdrawal of licences for this type of fishing, in exchange for Community and national financial aid to offset the social and economic consequences of this ban in certain regions of southern Italy which fall within Objective 1 and typically have a high rate of unemployment, with very little likelihood of alternative work.
The Commission has therefore asked the Italian Government to introduce an even more rigorous system for inspecting the conditions under which fishing is being carried out, and to provide for severe administrative and penal sanctions in the case of infringement.
Finally, the funding needed to implement the plan will be drawn from Italy's present allocation under the Structural Funds, with no increase in the appropriations already earmarked for the programme period 1994-1999.
My answer is: bearing in mind the Italian proposals - which seems to be giving in to the States which are against these nets - and bearing in mind that the Baltic might be left out, has the moment not come for the Commission to make a new proposal so that a majority can be achieved in the Council and these nets can be eliminated once and for all?
The Commission would point out that any Member State can take an initiative within the Council to amend the Commission's proposal, which has been before the Council since 1994.
Any Member State may take the initiative of dividing the dossier between drift nets in the Baltic and in other zones; every Member State has a right of initiative, and may amend or divide the Commission proposal which is before the Council.
In the meantime, we are exploring with the Member States the chances of finding a new majority to enable us to move this issue forward.
Madam Commissioner, I wanted to ask you a supplementary question.
The Commission intends to monitor very closely the progress made in implementing the various stages of the plan.
Question No 54 by Mair Morgan (H-0732/96) Subject: Safety of children at activity centres With the increasing number of extra curricular activities and school visits throughout the European Union it is imperative that there are measures adopted to ensure the safety of children.
It seems to the Commission that this directive may well also cover some aspects of the situation described by the honourable Member.
So, I do hope that we will see this directive coming forward.
We must encourage young people to travel to the different Member States.
It is very important that we ensure that safety measures are in place so that this process is not stopped, just the contrary.
We have also tried to develop a code of conduct, but up to now the results have not been very encouraging.
But perhaps we could talk with you, Commissioner, and try to suggest ways forward with the associations that run hostels and similar activities internationally, and find a practical way forward so that parents can be sure of their children's security when they send them abroad so that we have a quick practical solution to this problem rather than a theoretical one in the long term.
Another thing which might be possible is to involve consumers' associations in this issue and perhaps they have some broader documentation which could be helpful in our discussion to try to see what measures we could take to overcome the problem.
The questioner draws attention to two decisions which he considers damaging to the Community's interests.
The first relates to the future management of cod stocks in NAFO zone 2J3KL, and the second to the hypothesis that the objection procedure might be abolished if a new framework for conflict resolution were to be introduced.
In fact, as regards the measure relating to cod stocks, it has been agreed that in future, the management will be shared between Canada, whose waters contain 95 % of the stocks, and NAFO, which holds 5 %, and that these two authorities - Canada on the one hand and NAFO on the other - will set their respective TACs in close collaboration with one another and on the basis of scientific opinion.
The measure is worded in terms which clearly demonstrate - or so it seems to the Commission - that NAFO will autonomously set the TAC for the 5 % of cod stocks in the zone for which it is responsible, so that it will not be bound by the TAC applied by Canada to the 95 % of stocks present in its waters.
The Commission therefore does not think that this measure can be interpreted as granting Canada the right to exercise jurisdiction over the stocks in question, beyond the limits of its own exclusive economic zone.
Consequently, Canada will exercise such powers in its exclusive economic zone and NAFO will do likewise in international waters, it having been established that 95 % of the cod stocks are located in Canadian waters and 5 % in the international waters managed by NAFO.
In fact, we are already discussing this issue which not only concerns Latvia but also Estonia and others.
In undertaking certain commitments at the Stockholm Conference, the Commission submitted a related memorandum during the informal meeting between Ministers for Justice and Internal Affairs on 26 and 27 September 1996.
Regarding the dimension of the problem so far as tourism is concerned, I would like to remind you that in its proposal of April 1996 for a Council decision on the establishment of a first multinational programme for European tourism, the Commission indicated the need to address the problems that we call 'sex tourism' .
The Commission is now preparing a special announcement on the subject of combating sex tourism with child victims, associated with a draft recommendation to the Member States indicating a number of measures to address the problem.
Measures related to judicial cooperation between the Member States, such as the important problem of extraterritorial implementation of the penal orders applicable to sexually aggressive acts against children committed by citizens of third countries, are under consideration by the Council of Ministers for Justice and Internal Affairs.
The Commission's initiative will take into account both the European Parliament's related position and the recommendations of the Stockholm Conference's action programme concerning tourism.
The massive demonstration in Brussels last Sunday bore witness to the agony, interest and determination of Europe's citizens to exert pressure on governments and politicians to take action against this circle, whose activities disgrace the democratic and cultural values of Europe today.
Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Member for her question and to assure Parliament that we do indeed intend to strengthen our cooperation both with the industry and with the Member States, to develop a broader strategy to combat the problem.
Of course, we are counting on the firm backing of the European Parliament.
Full cooperation by the sector is vital to ensure that these problems are addressed in a detailed way.
At the recent informal meeting of Ministers for Justice and Internal Affairs in Dublin on 26 September, the Commission tabled a discussion document which explains the activities carried out within the ambit of the European Union's various bodies.
I also want to remind you that line B4-1020 of the budget for radioactive materials transport allows the Commission to finance studies, research, measurements or experimental programmes that aim to assess and further improve existing international regulations.
But correct me if I am wrong: the transportation containers that have been used so far are of Type B, which can withstand an impact at 48 km/h.
Type C is built to withstand an impact at 324 km/h.
However, the figure required in America is 464 km/h.
The aircraft which crashed over a residential area of Amsterdam had an impact speed of 520 km/h.
If there are different standards in different countries, including the USA which is the capital of the nuclear world, surely it is best to harmonize at the highest level the regulations, standards and conditions for transport of this material, rather than just leaving it to local decision?
Mr President, it will not tire me at all to repeat that the Commission shares the concerns that exist in all sectors and all areas of the European Union.
We must adopt as many measures as possible, we must promote our technology, we must be careful, and we must study the facts.
The proposal before us needs to be seen in conjunction with the legislation on trade marks, as I have said before.
This brings me to Amendment No 11.
In the original proposal, the Commission provided for the possibility of carrying out comparative tests as part of comparative advertising.
Mr President, I should like to say at the outset that we are considering this proposal tonight after a delay of four years in bringing forward an effective amendment of the misleading advertising directive.
We believe that the amendments which look at the need to respect the codes of conduct laid down by professional services again are now well chosen and have taken account of the debate on second reading.
That is Amendment No 12.
We follow the rapporteur in what she hopes to do here, but there are a couple of areas of concern which do not extend to outright opposition on my part but which I would like to raise in my last 15 seconds.
It is very important that we get this right.
On the question of Amendment No 11, on trade marks, it seems to me that this is dangerous, even though trade marks are actually safeguarded in the parts of the directive which immediately precede this.
I very much value the Commission's comments on that.
However, I should like to recall, in respect of designations of origin and all products which have a trade mark, how difficult it is for countries which only entered modern times very recently to obtain the name of a mark, to obtain a designation of origin and to obtain a geographical indication.
Therefore, my Group will certainly not be voting for deletion of Recital 11, nor sub-paragraphs f) and g) of Article 3a.
The majority of our group believe that products which have designations of origin should only be compared with products with the same designation, and they therefore cannot accept Amendments Nos 5 and 10.
Mr President, as consumers and citizens in all EU Member States have the right to decide for themselves which product is better than another, it is very important that these criteria should be objective.
First and foremost, it should be remembered that the sole purpose of this proposal is to harmonize the legislation governing comparative advertising.
The basic objective is harmonization with a view to improving information for consumers, as well as facilitating the free movement of public services within the internal market, thereby guaranteeing the right to engage in comparative advertising.
It would seem worth drawing attention to the context, because although some of the questions and perhaps some of the aspects and concerns which have been highlighted may apply to other fields, they are possibly less relevant in this context, namely a directive serving to harmonize a situation.
The acceptable amendments are Nos 1, 2, 4, 8, 9, 16, 20 and 21, which include the partially acceptable former Amendments Nos 7 and 14, whereas the others are unacceptable, at least at this stage.
For example, we could say that Parma ham can be compared with Parma ham, but not with Viareggio sausage.
Amendment No 12 is unacceptable because of the excessive and pointless administrative burden which its inclusion would place on advertisers; I am referring in particular to the problem of the 48 hours.
As regards the question of comparisons of products presented as imitations - one Member referred to copy-cat products, singling out a well-known brand of jeans - we take the view that the reference made in recital 17 of the common position and the protection afforded by the trade mark are sufficient.
We cannot accept Amendment No 17 because we see it as superfluous, given that the freedom of Member States to decide on the control procedure is already covered by Article 4(2) of Directive 84/450 which, as you know, is still in force.
Finally, with regard to Amendments Nos 22 and 23, these would introduce over-restrictive conditions in our view, thereby limiting the scope of comparative advertising.
Our view is that products with the same origin can be compared, and the same problem exists for products of designated origin and trade marks, where these are obviously of two different origins and relate to different products.
Thank you very much, Mrs Bonino.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, we are now examining the recommendation for second reading concerning the common position established by the Council on 14 May with a view to the adoption of a Community programme of action on health monitoring within the framework for action in the field of public health.
The common position of the Health Council, adopted unanimously, accepted only two of the 44 amendments agreed by Parliament at first reading - Nos 17 and 20 - and partially accepted 17 more, in most cases in the version proposed by the Commission.
We can thus only express our dissatisfaction, and that is why I have tabled 19 amendments in this draft recommendation, adopted unanimously on this occasion too by the Committee on the Environment on 25 September.
The Council's fears in respect of the ban on harmonization of Member States' health services, contained in Article 129 of the Maastricht Treaty, miss the point entirely.
What we are doing here is harmonizing scientific terminology; no one wishes to intervene or interfere in any way in the health arrangements of the Member States.
The second point relates to a suitable budgetary allocation, as opposed to that proposed by the Council, which is totally inadequate and unacceptable.
As for the Council, it has - if I may say so - exhibited ludicrous tight-fistedness in reducing the ECU 13.8 m by ECU 800 000, to leave ECU 13 m.
The Commission's proposal to delete 800 000 from the ECU 13 800 000, when its own officials had envisaged 35 m, is clearly incomprehensible.
Indeed, such a programme, albeit seemingly technical, is of major long-term strategic importance and would, if it functioned optimally, not only satisfy the call for guarantees and quality for Europe's citizens in the field of health, but also meet the major budgetary concerns now shared by all the Member States in respect of health spending which has become unsustainable.
This explains the major political significance of this kind of programme of Community action on health monitoring, which makes it possible, on the basis of comparable data, to define the priorities of health policy and improve its productivity and thus its effectiveness.
So from the very start, right up to this recommendation for second reading, all the political groups in Parliament have felt fully included in Mr Poggiolini's positions.
For one thing, the programme cannot develop in five years with ECU 13 million and, for another, it excludes the existence of a stable structure, a European Health Observatory which would consolidate the data and make it productive and permanent.
For that reason, although all the amendments are important, I think Amendment No 8 and Amendment No 17 are fundamental if the project is to continue to have the outstanding significance we gave it at first reading.
But we must be more united in opposing the Council.
We know we are in a period of financial stringency, but the needs of the citizens and the need for a Europe with a human face are imperative.
Perhaps the message that goes out to the citizens tonight should stress the importance of this epidemic monitoring network because unfortunately there is a vacuum here and a need to fill it that we face today and every day.
There are centres operating in this area already, like the centre in London or the network set up to monitor AIDS.
But a call to individual responsibility should also go out.
And in this respect we need to remind governments - which are stingy enough at the moment in their support for these Community programmes - that they also devote very little money to preventive medicine at the national level, the regional level and the local level.
And that is what we ought to condemn here and now, because only between 2 % and 4 % of European health budgets is devoted to preventive medicine, clearly inadequate figures which undermine the overall effectiveness of the system.
Another fundamental requirement is establishing coordination at local, regional, national and Community levels and we must draw up a common external health convention linked to the single frontier convention.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate Mr Poggiolini on this report, which the Liberal Group entirely supports in principle.
In any event we feel, like the rapporteur and various other speakers, that the ECU 20 million requested is an absolute minimum if we are to achieve any real results.
There are plenty of reasons to deplore the stingy and restrictive attitude of the Council, which can only be understood in terms of the negative influence of the neo-liberal current in Europe driving public expenditure cuts and reducing the capacity of the departments responsible for providing services to communities.
Or to take another example, I have contributed to a paper on public health which is going to be published this year.
And the third is that the revision of the Maastricht Treaty will emphasize improvements in cohesion and the common instruments.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Poggiolini report is full of good intentions, something which, on the face of it, ought to make it a good report.
In actual fact, we do not need an observatory to tell us that expenditure on health and social security, which are inextricably interlinked, is reaching astronomic proportions.
This is required of us by Article 129 of the Treaty.
You first saw this particular proposal in April of this year when you gave it its first reading.
But, since then, the Council has adopted this common position on the programme which accepted fully only a very small number of the amendments from first reading.
I can very easily understand, therefore, your desire to reintroduce many of the amendments which were there at the first reading.
We accept partially Amendments Nos 2, 6 and 10 - part 1 - and 16 and 18.
The partial acceptance of these amendments is due to a number of reasons.
Amendment No 6 might give rise to misinterpretation and some confusion.
The first paragraph of Amendment No 10 is not in keeping with the structure of the committee already adopted for the other public health programmes.
It is only natural that I would wish to see the financial resources for this programme increased, but as the House very well knows the margin available for additional expenditure under rubric 3 of the budget is very tight indeed.
At that point, I suggest, in the legislative process the budgetary authority will have a better appreciation of the final content of the programme and the resources that will be thought appropriate and necessary.
I also hope that, demonstrating the very general concern about health monitoring, Parliament will give a favourable opinion to this particular programme.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is thanks to the European Parliament and its Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that we have the opportunity today to discuss a European Community water policy.
The Commission communication is still based on the old approach which was already a failure 21 years ago.
This combined approach of emission standards and quality objectives is the only way of making proper provision for prevention, as required under the Maastricht Treaty.
First of all, we welcome the fact that many of the recitals, such as C, Q and V, and many of the paragraphs in the motion for a resolution, in particular paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 21, 23 and 24, are entirely in line with the views of our committee.
However, we feel that the Commission proposal does not go far enough in the area of simplification, and we are calling on it to develop a framework directive which incorporates all the existing directives and any proposals that are in the pipeline in this area, including those relating to monitoring and information requirements.
Our opinion clearly indicates the course to follow: rearrange, simplify, harmonize and clarify the existing legislation, but naturally without reducing the level of protection currently provided.
The European Union would thus have a single major piece of legislation to protect one of its essential natural resources.
Although we support the analysis given in paragraph 16 on the need for an integrated European approach for the management of cross-border river basins, there are a number of other paragraphs which we cannot support.
Paragraph 1 states that the priority objectives and measures of a Community water policy can be better attained at Community rather than Member State level, yet paragraph 9 expressly acknowledges that they cannot be implemented in the same way everywhere.
Mr President, the fact that my group is only proposing four amendments to the Florenz report is a measure of how much we appreciate not only the work of the rapporteur, but the work of the other shadow rapporteurs, both in the Liberal Group and the Green Group and also all those who have contributed to what I think has been a very successful conclusion to a long programme which started several months ago.
Certainly it is felt on this side of the House that the hearing of 20 June, which Parliament established and which is referred to in the preamble to the Florenz report, was a very good beginning.
Therefore, we will accept the principle of a framework directive and we will also accept the diminution in our powers under Article 130s.
And I think we, as a Parliament, should take swift action to make all the citizens of Europe and all those in positions of responsibility aware that in the near future things cannot continue in this area as they have done up to now.
Every citizen must be reminded that water has a price, and that price will go on rising for economic, social and environmental reasons, and we also have a duty to make a reality of the Maastricht Treaty requirement to incorporate all the costs into the price of water.
The problem also arises in terms of land management, re-use of waste water, and taking advantage of all the available resources, including the opportunities for Mediterranean coastal areas of installing desalination plant, and such initiatives cannot be left until drought problems are serious.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our Group is supporting the Florenz report, in particular to defend the need to adopt a framework directive on the sustainable protection of water resources, condensing and simplifying the very many directives in existence on this matter.
Nowadays we must tackle water questions in a different way, without fighting over water in the way that we used to.
As for the latter field, apart from the interest of preserving indigenous forests, it should also be pointed out how important it can be to boost water resources by means of a global EU strategy in forests, which in practice means significantly and urgently increasing forested areas in all of the Member States and all of their regions, but in particular the southern regions, where the governments have not always been very careful and have not always made genuine efforts to pursue proper long-term policies.
Our hearing, which Mr Florenz also mentioned, made a significant contribution to this revision.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, according to the Environmental Agency, between 10 and 20 per cent of water in Europe is not of adequate quality.
And since 1973 a legislative framework of contradictory directives has developed.
We believe that prevention, protection of resources and halting the deterioration in the quality of water, as well as repairing the damage, are priority issues for the European Union's water policies.
And we think all these directives need to be integrated to create clear and comprehensible legislation for the Member States, without lowering the level achieved.
We still have time to take steps to prevent resources as precious to human life as water being lost forever in the world and in this case in the European Union.
In conclusion, I do not think that we will solve our water quality problems by opting for quality objectives and limit values without providing for the economic instruments to achieve them.
Mr President, the very fact that the European Environment Agency estimates that only 10 to 20 % of the waters in the European Union now meet the good water quality requirements should in itself make every sensible person sit up and think.
The general tone in favour of an approach based on water quality, the global and coherent approach which it recommends and the perspective of water catchment management, in particular in transfrontier regions, are three points which we think are very positive.
Thirdly, the water quality policy, which should not only be based on biological criteria but also on the perspective of various bio-indicators, on-going indicators, criteria based on human beings and biological communities in waterways and areas of water.
In the context of the British debate about Europe and the amount of money that the United Kingdom has spent - some would say unnecessarily, although I do not agree with that - in cleaning up our water over the last 20 years or so, I welcome that statement.
One of the reasons we get into difficulties with these water directives is that the Commission is not sufficiently explicit about the exact costs that would be entailed in complying with the directives which it brings forward.
Mr President, I too support the Florenz report.
The nitrate content of more than 66 % of rivers and lakes in Europe has risen.
The European standards for total pesticides in drinking water have been exceeded in 75 % of the European Union's agricultural regions.
Clearly Europe has a role to play in laying down and enforcing strict norms on water quality.
However, the institutions of the Union have yet to grasp the importance of this task.
We cannot put this issue on the long finger any longer.
The framework directive will be delayed for years if an action programme first has to be worked out.
I also look forward to the Environment Commissioner ensuring both that the many mutually contradictory water directives are made compatible with each other, and that water policy is incorporated into other policy areas such as agriculture, industry and transport, where these are subject to the consideration of a sustainable environment.
I should therefore like to hear from Mrs Bjerregaard when she intends to submit the proposal for a directive, and whether it has been correctly understood from her letter that the Commission has now committed itself to following the guidelines contained in this report when it brings forward the framework directive.
The European Parliament has given its unceasing attention to this vital issue which affects all our futures.
As several speakers have pointed out, Parliament's Committee on the Environment held a hearing in July last year on the EU's water policy, to which it was kind enough to invite me.
This communication was an analysis of all the current EU legislation which has a bearing on water resources, and it contains proposals for improving policy in this area.
And, finally, it would ensure what everyone has certainly mentioned, namely the coherence and overall coordination of legislation in this sector.
I should like to take this opportunity to stress that the idea is not to change the more recent water legislation, and let me mention some of the directives which I have in mind here, such as the nitrates directive, IPPC, the urban waste-water treatment directive and the directive on pesticides.
On the contrary, the framework directive is intended to introduce measures which supplement the recent environmental legislation on water, thereby greatly increasing the general level of protection of the Community's water environment.
We received many written comments on our proposals, and we organized a conference in May to discuss various aspects of the proposal for a framework directive.
We have also had support from the other institutions - the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
I therefore also hope that we can now draw up a proposal for a framework directive that will obtain Parliament's support, and I am very pleased that the rapporteur is able to give his backing to an amendment to the motion for a resolution which deletes the reference to an action programme and makes it possible for us to bring forward a proposal for a directive very quickly.
Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner.
On the other hand, it did in a sense emerge from the debate here today that some southern European countries have very serious problems with water resources, and they are naturally interested in this issue being included in the discussion of the proposals on water, in one way or another.
Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The Commission has proposed that the new product should be registered under the E number 407a.
The issue is a technically complicated one, but I shall try here to explain the differences between the two products.
Commissioner Bangemann reached the same conclusion some years ago, in a written answer to a Member.
Firstly, I would remind the House that the USA does not have a system of E numbers, so PES does not have an E number in the USA.
I believe it is true to say that the Codex Alimentarius has accepted that this is basically the same product but a different process.
Well, consumers must be a very strange breed if they are going around the supermarkets looking to see if this is 407 or 408.
But since, in fact, this system of numbering for this kind of product is primarily addressed to manufacturers - of course, they will have to state the type of product they use on the list of ingredients - I think that there is no danger that manufacturers will be confused into using one product rather than another.
Presumably they were asked their opinion by the Council of Ministers before the Council agreed the common position.
I have absolutely no idea of what the British Government's view is on this issue.
I think it is important that we, who are elected by the people to represent both consumers and industry here in Parliament, should also listen to what they say and ensure that we take a clear decision which safeguards their interests.
But I very much hope that we shall have a clear decision tomorrow.
I think that is in everyone's interest, not least in terms of preserving the E number system and thus respect for the single market.
Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner.
Thank you very much, Mrs Riis-Jørgensen.
After your remarks the Commissioner naturally wants to say something else, so you have the floor, Madam Commissioner, and you will close this debate.
I am bound to inform the House that Denmark voted in favour of the proposal.
Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I should first of all like to thank Parliament's Bureau for putting this oral question on the agenda this week.
The deteriorating situation in Burma calls for urgent discussion, and since our resolution in July, things have only got worse.
Mr President, it is clearly important for the European Parliament that we have this debate.
They deserve the same odium, the same treatment as many of us demanded against apartheid South Africa.
We talk about the actions of oil companies, Unical and Total are involved in Burma and we understand that they are responsible for violations of human rights and for the fact that people have been forcibly removed from their land in Burma.
We need to know at what cost it was to South Africa that the developed world ignored the pleas of Nelson Mandela and the people of South Africa.
We should act to do something before it is too late.
Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Parliament for taking the initiative of holding this debate.
Besides confirming the current sanctions, the draft common position includes a ban on visas for members of the SLORC and high-ranking officers, together with a suspension of visits to Burma by senior national officials under bilateral arrangements.
Thank you very much, Mrs Bjerregaard.
If it relates to the debate, I you can have it at the end of the debate because there are still speakers before you.
In the case of Burma, there is an opportunity for everyone to join in from the start.
When the report on forced labour is finally available, the customs agreement should be scrapped.
Respect for human rights is the sound principle which should form the basis for a common European foreign policy.
Added to that, as we have heard, there is the personal danger which Sang Suu Kyi has been placed in together with her personal supporters to whom, on account of the Sakharov prize, we must feel very committed.
I am still incidentally waiting for a reply to the questions I put to the other Commissioner who came here, was it one or two months ago?
Mr President, Commissioner, the Liberal Group wholeheartedly supports the message behind the questions put by my colleagues.
The reason for this was that the NLD had organized a party congress.
That could, potentially, have an adverse effect on cooperation between the EU and ASEAN.
We very much welcome the statements made by the General Affairs Council on 1 October, and the comments made by the President-in-Office in the Irish Parliament.
I went in December 1994 in an attempt to visit Aung San Suu Kyi who was then under house arrest.
I saw how the SLORC has managed to reduce Burma to one of the ten poorest countries in the world.
After that there was a very slight glimmer of hope that emerged with the release from house arrest of Aung San Suu Kyi.
I do not know who in the democratic world is opposed to Aung San Suu Kyi, who has any doubts about her belief in democracy, her belief in peace and her belief in non-violence.
Mr President, I should like to make two comments and ask one question.
We want it to follow up the very important hearing on forced labour that took place in Brussels with action on the GSP.
We want the Council under this presidency later this month to take a whole range of initiatives to isolate Burma.
Thank you very much, Mrs Bjerregaard.
Thank you very much, Mrs Kinnock.
