What I am asking is: are you able to categorically confirm that the building satisfies these regulations, yes or no?
Recent events concerning the contamination by dioxins of certain foodstuffs in Belgium have resulted in a very serious situation, not only with regard to the risks to people's health, but also because they have weakened confidence in the animal feed and food production chain and in the ability of the authorities to monitor the situation properly.
At the same time, we have to bear in mind that an undesirable occurrence such as this has very costly economic consequences.
We have to take into account the fact that legislation on issues of veterinary medicine and animal feed in the European Union is amongst the most stringent in the world.
Before I move on to the question of the approach agreed upon in the Council, I would like to remind everyone of the timely and effective work instigated by the Commission and given the support of the Member States' Standing Veterinary Committee to implement vital crisis measures imposed by the precautionary principle.
In addition, the Commission imposed conditions on certified produce coming onto the market and on the continuance of trade in produce in national markets as well as the entire Community market.
The Council reminded everyone that, with the threat of a risk looming, the Member States should use the early warning systems currently in place fully and in good time.
The Council considered the Commission's proposal for an exhaustive programme of legislation to be welcome in principle, a programme of which you are aware and whose purpose is to accommodate legislation on animal nutrition and measures relating to animal waste.
A Regulation was passed on 16 June with the aim of maintaining exports at an acceptable level in spite of the more difficult conditions.
With regard to the poultry sector, a Regulation was passed on 13 June allowing export grants for destination countries in addition to the Middle East.
Apart from the emergency measures which have already been adopted, the Commission is, however, now working, and this is where the general context comes in, on proposals to improve and define Community provisions relating to foodstuffs and animal feed more closely.
The Commission is trying to deal with this matter as quickly as possible but, in this regard, we also need the support of the Member States and, above all, of this Parliament.
A legal basis must be created as regards the application of a safeguard clause in the event of emergencies which may occur in the European Union in connection with animal feed products and which may pose a serious risk to the health of humans or animals and the environment.
Thirdly, we also wish to introduce an early-warning system for animal feed products, along the lines of the one already in place for foodstuffs.
From this time, there will be a ban on the intermixing of contaminated animal feed raw materials and the exemption regulation for the regional use of animal feed products that have been contaminated due to local conditions will also cease to apply.
No country is free from dioxins and we can cite a whole number of examples of dioxin contamination which have made the headlines in many different parts of the world.
The Foodstuffs and Veterinary Office of DG XXIV has introduced a range of measures on site.
Even in the case of the first visit to Belgium, it became clear that the crisis, unfortunately, had been poorly handled by the Belgian authorities.
Tests carried out in the Netherlands, France, Germany and Spain also demonstrated certain loopholes in the procedures relating to the inspection of animal feed products.
With regard to the infringement procedures, I can report to you that the Commission has introduced, on the basis of Article 226 of the EC Treaty, summary infringement proceedings against Belgium, since it failed in its obligation to inform the Commission and Member States immediately regarding the dioxin cases and did not fully transpose Decision 1999/389.
In this instance, following our unpleasant experiences with BSE, the Commission is largely blameless and the Member States have once again played their games under the guise of subsidiarity and have not been brave enough, for example, in drafting a framework Directive on foodstuffs which could be something concrete to which the Member States can adhere.
Mr Fischler, I believe this to be the case and, after your speech here today, which I thought was excellent, I am even more convinced.
Everyone in the Council knows that individual countries all handle things in a similar manner.
If we do not ensure that the tests are better carried out in Member States, if the Commission is not able to carry out inspections unannounced, but first has to wait for permission from a Member country such as Belgium or another Member State, we can forget it.
If we believe that we can make high profits by means of waste products which are as cheap as possible, and that is something which we want, such cases will always crop up.
These mistakes have resulted in an extremely serious situation, firstly as regards public health, and secondly, they have caused economic disaster in agriculture and throughout the food sector.
Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, you are what you eat.
A far-reaching proposal must be produced which will reinforce the precautionary principle in food production and trade at European level.
A clear distinction must be drawn between what is waste and should be treated as such, and what can still be used in our food production.
I have here the report by the Court of Auditors on the Community aid given to those farmers affected by the BSE crisis.
Therefore, Mr President, I strongly endorse our group's proposal for the Parliament to set up a temporary committee which will fully deal with all issues of food safety and public health and not just certain aspects of it.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the dioxin crisis, BSE and the pressure put on us by the Americans to ensure that we accept hormone-treated meat are just a few examples of the very serious threats overhanging the safety of our citizens' food today.
Ensuring the safety of our citizens' food is one of our prime duties.
But sadly enough, the problem is not just one of incompetence, nepotism in the administration, political appointments and lack of monitoring in Belgium alone.
Perhaps we, as MEPs, must now just face the fact that years of European agricultural policy have, in fact, almost destroyed the high-quality agriculture that can invariably almost be described as small-scale, and have led to the omnipotence of industrial European agriculture and to the omnipotence of a number of agro-industrial groups which are only out to make a profit and which thumb their noses at public health and quality standards.
Pursuant to Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure, I have received five motions for resolutions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am certainly very reassured by the fact that no one in this House, nor in the European Commission or the Council, has considered the Belgian dioxin crisis to be a purely Belgian problem.
My colleague Dagmar Roth-Behrendt has already said that we are of the opinion that food safety should remain under the control of the European Commission, and consequently also under that of the European Parliament.
The customer is king and the same inspection bureau that monitors biological food will also be able to monitor food subject to different standards.
For if it happens in Europe, then we will be the first large trading block in the world to provide consumers with guarantees of food quality in this way.
The European Union is responsible for conserving human health and the environment.
Both crises were caused by the addition to animal feedingstuffs of raw materials derived from recycling and both caused serious problems for consumer health.
But although we cannot go into a schematic analysis here, I must make a comment in this context: the Common Agricultural Policy and the World Trade Organisation are increasingly promoting the search for aggressive competitiveness as a fundamental principle, which worries me greatly because this type of official approval of competitiveness, above all else, will surely lead to practices presenting risks, such as the use of hormones or antibiotics for example, amongst the raw materials used in animal feedingstuffs.
One serious problem in this area concerns the insufficient regulations on the manufacture of feedingstuffs and the lack of a food policy in the European Union.
But what we have learned from our incidents is that precipitate reaction can often do more damage than the initial crises.
Therefore, Mr Fischler, you will be able to rely on this Parliament for its full co-operation and support as regards the questions of open declaration, the safeguard clause and also the positive list.
The dioxin story is very familiar to those of us in the United Kingdom who have lived through BSE.
What we have now seen is the same set of arguments that perhaps they were trying to avoid: a consumer panic and protection of a market - a market which is actually now much more imperilled by the way in which the crisis has unfolded.
Now when that is the situation, how can we say that the proposal, welcome as it is, to look at a Europe-wide Food and Drugs Agency and all these grand gestures can work when no individual inspector can penetrate into the world of crime and fraud which characterises sections of this industry.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Fischler, in this dreadful state of affairs, we must take note of the fact that here clearly systematically toxic substances have been recycled via animal feed.
Above all else Mr Fischler, the question of maximum values must be tied in with a ban on mixing or else this systematic disposal will continue.
The President cut the speaker off Mr President, in an internal market, the attention given to producing safe and healthy food must, of course, be organised on a cross-border basis.
However, the dioxin crisis is not the first crisis to occur in European food policy and neither will it be the last.
Of course the Member States must exercise more control, but there is also a need for control at the European level.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Commissioner, we owe it to the people of Europe to tell them the whole truth about this dioxin business.
The first would be to amend European legislation which has shown obvious shortcomings.
There is a need for an authority with specific responsibility for food safety, but it would have to remain independent, because we need both the Commission and Parliament to uphold the public interest in this matter.
Mr Commissioner, I would like to know if you are intending to propose a ban on animal bone meal and within what framework you think this measure might be possible.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Commissioner, in recent years, Europe has been plunged into two significant health crises caused by food; firstly, BSE in the United Kingdom and, subsequently, the dioxin case in Belgium.
In the case of dioxin, 15 days passed between the communication of the Standing Veterinary Committee and the official alert, while Commissioner Bonino simply announced that she did not drink Belgian milk.
Dioxin, and in this case its source chemical PCB, is one of the number of non-biodegradable bio-accumulative chemicals that we know are contaminating the food chain around the world.
There are rules and regulations already in existence for the correct and proper disposal of these substances.
I would thus advocate quickly getting down to work and setting up a food safety bureau under the direction of Commissioner Fischler.
Quick, efficient action is also expected by farmers since, in our country, in Belgium, well over 90 % of farmers are victims of this crisis.
We should not punish these farmers who have invested many years in the quality and also the clarity of their controls.
The chain begins with the farmers, but then leads via the foodstuffs industry to our dinner plates.
I do not want to insinuate anything, yet clearly precautionary measures and careful inspections in an area as sensitive as the human food chain were disregarded.
Quality must take precedence but quality also has its price, ladies and gentlemen.
In this regard, I welcome the establishment of an independent European Food Agency.
Mr Florenz raised the issue of the position of the Council in this crisis.
At Community level we need effective control, but the office responsible for overseeing the work of the Member States is sufficient for that.
Mr President, I shall convey the messages I have heard here to my colleagues in the Council.
The problem, and this particularly applies to the Belgian Members of Parliament who have asked to speak on this issue, that we are still faced with is that as a prerequisite for using this test, parallel tests on dioxin and PCB content must be available so that a correlation can be established.
Dioxin these days is an ubiquitous substance that can be found anywhere in the world and which also occurs, unfortunately, in our countryside.
In this regard, I am also of the opinion, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, that it is irresponsible that we do this by means of the dilution factor.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Minutes of yesterday's sitting, 21 July, my name appears as a Member of the ARE Group.
Of course, we will be systematically checking all of that to ensure that everything is correct.
Applause Mrs Doyle, we are working on a list which will be as complete as possible, of all the problems - and unfortunately there are many - that we have encountered in this building.
I would like to know if I am the only person who is not aware of these amendments, or if there are other MEPs in the same position, because before deciding if I am for or against an amendment, I would like to know what it is about.
Madam President, you say that these are just revisions or changes, but we would like the Socialist Group to tell us, concerning its amendment 1, if it is an addition or a real change, and we would like the same answer from the European Socialist Group on their amendment 4.
Mrs Grossetête, I propose that you hear what I have to say, if you don't mind, and then, if you are not satisfied, you may ask for more detailed explanations.
Applause It is quite possible that some Members may have voted electronically rather than by hand, but they are entirely within their rights to do so.
Motion for a resolution (B5-0008/99), on behalf of the PPE Group on the conclusions of the Cologne European Council meeting on 3 and 4 June 1999 Madam President, firstly, please allow me to intervene so that there may be equal treatment amongst all of the groups.
I believe that you said that it was the Group of the European People's Party/European Democrats.
No, Mr Barón Crespo, we had a joint motion for a resolution which was issued by two political groups, the Group of the European People's Party and European Democrats, and the Liberal Group.
Madam President, in the event that the PPE Group and the Liberal Group present a joint motion for a resolution, as I understand it, the other proposals are automatically rejected.
I could only approve with reservations the resolution of the European Parliament regarding the European Council Summit, held in Cologne on 3 and 4 June 1999 under the German Presidency.
Back in 1994, with a German as EU President-in-Office of the Council, Helmut Kohl, a milestone was reached in Essen when agreement was reached on the first elements of a co-ordinated European employment strategy.
Kosovo Madam President, with regard to the resolution approved on Kosovo, and in particular with respect to point 11, which appears to be an opportunity for political dialogue between the different positions, I think that it is important, within the declaration of voting intent, to emphasise a certain number of aspects.
The Kosovo conflict has further complicated this situation.
I am pleased that it features on our agenda and that representatives of the European Commission and the Council spoke on this matter this morning at the request of our Assembly.
The scandal of chickens and other animals being contaminated by dioxin, this carcinogenic substance, brought back very bad memories for all consumers.
The vote for this resolution is a genuine sign of the will of the European Parliament to get to the very bottom of this business and to answer consumers' legitimate concerns.
This is why I, like many of my colleagues, feel that we must set up a Temporary Committee of Enquiry on the dioxin crisis.
Short-term solutions must be found in order to resolve problems caused by the contamination of foodstuffs in Belgium, and in the longer term, debate must be started on the many questions first thrown up by the mad cow crisis and which are again coming to the fore because of this new food crisis.
The dioxin scandal has once again demonstrated that an open information policy is an essential prerequisite for effective and comprehensive consumer protection.
The irresponsible behaviour of the Belgian authorities and the withholding of information relating to animal feed and foodstuffs contaminated with dioxins have shaken consumer confidence permanently.
Nevertheless, or precisely because of this, it is important that consumer safety is safeguarded by the Member States and the European Union.
