Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 25 February 1999.
Our fellow Members here in the House are among the most active supporters of this cause and it would be remiss on our part not to thank them for all their efforts and for the work they have carried out during this legislature.
I would therefore ask you to give a round of applause to thank all our female colleagues in the House and particularly the members of the Committee on Women's Rights.
Applause Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of the sitting of Thursday, 25 February have been distributed.
As many of us know, the most important topic of discussion on this International Women's Day seems to have become that of violence against women, children and young people, which is really a very serious worldwide violation of women's human rights.
It is most distressing that half of all women who are killed in Europe do not die as a result of violent crime by someone unknown to them, but are murdered by their own spouse or partner.
It is worth pointing out too that the European Parliament has been responsible for the action the European Union has taken to begin to combat violence against women.
The Treaty of Amsterdam places us under an obligation to make equality between men and women an essential element in all Community action.
I would ask that we do not embark on a debate on this question.
The President cut the speaker off Mr Santini, this is not the right time for you to be making this speech.
Mr President, yes it was, because I wanted to express, on behalf of my group, not just our shock but our disgust at the result of the military tribunal in the United States which acquitted the pilot who was responsible for the dreadful accident in which 22 Europeans died.
On 18 February another woman in the Community won her case in the European Court of Human Rights - Denise Mathews v.
I would like to request that you inform the House, if possible this week, whether any efforts have already started on the part of both Parliament and the Commission to enable the citizens of Gibraltar to vote in the coming European elections.
The situation has not been very clear since October when I wrote to Commissioner Liikanen to ask him to investigate it.
That is not in our hands, but in those of the contractor, who was not chosen by us.
If you are denying this, I am happy to take note of it.
In any event, we are unable to do anything.
Furthermore, we are supposed to have said that the negotiations on Agenda 2000 might continue during the Finnish Presidency and even up to and including the Portuguese Presidency without creating any problems for the enlargement process.
And, thirdly, is this consistent with your duties in accordance with Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure?
Thank you, Mrs García Arias.
Important as the Friday sitting is, and we all accept that, it is more important for us to be able to debate and vote on this issue when there is a very substantial number of Members in this House.
The agreement is that if there are reports which are controversial, they should not be placed on Friday's agenda.
Parliament rejected the request There are no changes to the agenda for the sittings on 22 and 23 March 1999.
In this Parliament, as in most democratic countries, parliamentary immunity is most assuredly not a personal privilege bestowed on individual Members.
In the present case, it should first of all be noted that the Member of Parliament in question, Mr Rosado Fernandes, has a deep and lively interest in agricultural policy issues - in actual fact it is his speciality.
The debate is closed.
A declaration on the situation of women, and especially on violence against women, is thus appropriate.
Women form slightly more than half of the population in every country.
All of our countries have subscribed to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
We all know that the human rights of women and of the girl child are an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of universal human rights.
Women have the right to live in safety, but a great number are not even safe in their own homes.
Women have full human rights but oppression and violence keep them in subordinate positions in all our countries.
The issue of violence against women was on the agenda of the United Nations Women's Conference in Beijing in 1995.
Most Member States have changed their laws so as to make violence against women a criminal act.
Women often have the right to a special counsellor during court proceedings.
Women's organisations play an essential role in the fight against violence.
Since 1996 we have supported nongovernmental and voluntary organisations in their fight against violence towards women and children.
The new Daphne programme will also be open for NGOs from countries from Central and Eastern Europe.
The Commission and the presidencies have also launched a campaign against violence towards women, in response to the demand by the European Parliament to make 1999 a year against violence against women.
The next big European event will be the ministerial conference on violence against women, to be held in Cologne at the end of this month.
Women and children are the victims of this violence.
As part of our European campaign I invite all men today to support the campaign by wearing a white ribbon.
We are also conducting a statistical report on violence as well as Eurobarometer.
On 20 May 1998 the Commission presented a proposal for the new Daphne programme.
On the other hand, many Member States saw Article 129 as an appropriate alternative to the legal base.
The discussions in the Council in January and February showed clearly that there was a considerable risk of blockage if Article 235 was maintained.
I assume that Article 129 will not limit the scope of the programme.
Furthermore, the Daphne programme is victim-based.
When the new Daphne programme is adopted it will provide a new impetus in the fight against violence.
Under the programme we will continue to provide support for NGO cooperation within the European Union but we will also be able to include cooperation with NGOs in the candidate countries.
The need for support and cooperation with the NGO community in these countries is evident.
We would like it to deal with all the possible legal aspects connected with violence against women, including the trade in women.
If the legal basis is the promotion of public health, we want guarantees that the Commission will actually be able to create a programme, in conjunction with the Member States, in which violence against women is not merely reduced to a health problem.
Perhaps we can try together to convince those reluctant Member States I mentioned that they should agree to consider Article 235 as a legal basis.
A year ago 350 Members supported the written declaration calling for this and for a campaign to that end.
Today is the last 8 March of this millennium.
The ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam will certainly help us to do that as we will have firm legal bases that establish mainstreaming as a fundamental and horizontal objective.
I hope that Agenda 2000 and the new Fund regulations - which are vital documents - establish clear measures in favour of working women.
This is despite the fact that there are more women than men in the European Union.
To a lot of men, including men in this Chamber, violence against women is a marginal and rare phenomenon, at least in the European Union.
We must use 1999, the year of campaigning against violence towards women, to make men aware of their obligations.
For all these reasons and given your most excellent statement, I find it a pity that the new legal base for the Daphne programme is so restrictive, even though you are asking for it to be interpreted broadly.
That is why the Daphne programme is so important to us, not only because - if I could use the phrase - it was our own child, but also because we see the importance of its effect on a global scale.
However, I am confident that, utilising the new legal base, we can begin once again to put this issue on the map.
Now that I have the floor, I should in any case like to thank the voluntary organisations for their work, not just within the European Union, but all over the world.
I have been wearing jeans now for several days in celebration of International Women's Day, which was first proclaimed by women Socialists at the beginning of the century, and by the United Nations in 1975, since we are hardly ever able to celebrate it on 8 March.
I hope that some time in the next century it may be possible to designate 8 March a holiday in honour of us women, so that we can celebrate that one day in a fitting manner.
Obviously, there are other men who are.
Although the President should never make comments, Mrs Eriksson, I would inform you that in several of our countries there are many initiatives along the same lines as the one launched in Canada, even though they have not yet been as widely publicised.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again for the umpteenth time we find that in some Member States it takes clever legal manoeuvring to combat violence against women and children in an effective manner, and that some Member States resist that.
We hope the Commissioner is right, or wins through, and that even with an inadequate legal base she will manage to implement a programme which is effective in combating crimes such as trafficking in human beings.
The men have drifted away in droves, despite being sympathetic on this issue.
I am sure all of us recognise that we have a responsibility to work in our own Member States, in our own networks, to combat violence.
We also want to develop partnerships between our own non-governmental organisations and those in other Member States so that we can share good ideas and good practice.
It is men in this Parliament and men in the various committees that have been dealing with this issue who, for budgetary and legal reasons, have often resisted the work we have been doing.
One in four women experiences violence and virtually every woman is vulnerable to violence.
I should like to add 'with admiration and dignity', as women represent 50 % of the world's population and are responsible for the remaining 50 %.
However, the problem is that everyone rushed to the defence not of the woman, but of the man who dismissed her, because apparently it was he who had been provoked and suffered sexual harassment.
Mr President, I shall speak later on the Hautala proposal, and I shall refrain from commenting now on 8 March.
But we are also committed to other actions under Daphne, and all I wish to know is whether the move from Article 235 to 129 will alter the content of this programme.
In my view, if Article 129 really were restricted to health matters alone, it would greatly curtail the activities which are already under way and need to be extended.
I therefore believe that, although we in Parliament certainly do have an important role under Article 129, since we can step in and bring matters to a rapid conclusion, we share Mrs Gradin's desire to see this programme up and running by early 2000.
It really would be a shame and a retrograde step, in my opinion, if all the actions originally scheduled for Daphne could not be included in their entirety.
It must be said that we had a long debate in the Commission before we presented this programme to the Council and Parliament and we came to the conclusion that Article 235 would have been the best base.
In my report I state that we have before us a double challenge, and that we have to apply the principle of transparency.
Then there are illnesses that only affect women, especially in health problems relating to childbearing.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to congratulate the Committee on Women's Rights on the report it has tabled and to say that, in general, I support it.
Nonetheless, we need to emphasise that some of the health problems experienced by women are different and therefore require specific action.
Anorexia, bulimia and coronary diseases are becoming more prevalent and, in the case of anorexia and bulimia, increasingly common among young women.
It is also important to give greater consideration to occupational illnesses that are more common among working women, and this is particularly important today, 8 March.
We wish women's health to be taken into account in the health programmes and mainstreaming to be built into these, guaranteeing the high level of protection which is recognised - first in the Maastricht Treaty and then in the Amsterdam Treaty - as an obligation of the Union.
It is the day that Clara Zetkin called for in 1912 to advance the condition of women.
So we must aim to give women a greater chance of living their later years in good health, with greater independence and less impairment.
The Amsterdam Treaty which will shortly be coming into force increases the Union's powers in the areas of both health and equal opportunities.
Equal and adequate access to health care remains a problem for some women outside the Union, but in the Member States as well.
So we shall vote against paragraphs 10, 11 and 16, and part of paragraph 24.
This report is much better, and at least makes clear what Parliament's priorities are with regard to women's health.
Madam President, today is known internationally as a day for taking action in support of women, and we need to reflect a little on the continuing, unimaginable struggles of the women's movement, which continue to bring about many changes not only for women but for society as a whole.
Women continue to be one of the most vulnerable sections of the population, as their rights, including their right to health, are violated.
Today's date, 8 March, and the tradition of militancy which accompanies it will show the way.
Madam President, in view of the short time I have to speak, I will be concentrating on the paragraph in my colleague's report which is devoted to reproductive health.
In anticipation of the United Nations Conference on Women in Beijing, I have obtained within the framework of STOA a study on the impact on health of the different contraceptive practices in Europe and the reliability in scientific terms of what is called natural family planning.
It would be worth resuming the work carried out on it because in accordance with the resolutions voted by Parliament on 11 March 1994 and 28 October 1994, I think we need to respect a genuine freedom of choice for women.
Madam President, I would first of all like to thank the committee for its constructive report on women's health.
The Commission decided that its first specific report would be devoted to women's health and medical problems.
The report deals with the major trends in women's health.
Furthermore, the report discusses particular problems such as eating disorders, HIV/AIDS, family planning, abortion, the menopause and violence against women.
Since 1996, the Commission has been running a special programme aimed at preventing AIDS and other infectious diseases.
The programme includes several projects relating exclusively to women.
The Commission recently submitted a report on the implementation of the 1995 directive relating to health and safety measures at work for pregnant women and women with new-born infants or mothers who are breastfeeding, known as the pregnant workers directive.
As part of the programme on equality of opportunity for women and men, the Commission has compiled a report on the representation of women in health services and medical care.
The report covers state and semi-private health care institutions in all the EU countries.
The aim of the Commission's 'mainstreaming' strategy is to incorporate equal opportunities for women and men into all Community policies and activities.
Parliament and the Committee on Women's Rights have, through this report, made a valuable contribution to the work in hand.
The debate is closed.
It is true that we have not signed this declaration.
I think that Chapter V, in particular, has most relevance for the European Union.
In the Commission's view, the most serious obstacles are a lack of awareness of gender equality issues at the decision-making level, a lack of human and budgetary resources, and a lack of gender experts.
Madam President, Commissioner, as today is 8 March I too would like to say a few words.
It is a day of remembrance for those women who led the struggle for equal rights and equal opportunities. 8 March is a symbolic day for this unending struggle.
Nevertheless, I fervently believe that the Commission must create or strengthen special mechanisms to incorporate equal opportunities, for example in the new technologies and information technology, and in research where access for women is especially limited.
Madam President, it most certainly augurs well for us that today, on the occasion of International Women's Day, we have the opportunity to review this much talked-about mainstreaming, this great concept which consists in incorporating equal opportunities for women and men into all Community policies and activities.
Two years after the communication on mainstreaming was adopted by the Commission, it seems clear that progress has been rather modest, and that we still have a long way to go both internally and externally.
This is why I consider it necessary for the Commission to now reassert its firm commitment to the promotion of an active and visible policy on equal opportunities.
May I also take this opportunity to remind you once again that we are hoping the Commission will finally propose an amendment to the watered-down 1986 directive on equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity, including assisting spouses.
Apart from two round-table discussions, no action has yet been taken in response to the report I produced in 1996, in which Parliament unanimously proposed a framework status for assisting spouses in Europe; there are millions of these invisible workers in our societies, and the overwhelming majority are women.
This status - the framework of which needs to be outlined in the 1986 directive that is to be amended - will need to provide for compulsory registration of assisting spouses, independent social security entitlement and, in particular, compulsory pension insurance.
Rest assured, Commissioner, that the Committee on Women's Rights will - within the scope of its political responsibilities, which will need to be redefined and strengthened following the elections on 13 June this year - keep an watchful eye over the action taken by the Commission in response to this debate and our report.
Madam President, I also hope that Parliament itself and its political groups will not ignore the conclusions reached in paragraphs 19 to 22, particularly with regard to strengthening the political responsibilities of the Committee on Women's Rights, and not abolishing it, as advocated by some of our colleagues.
Madam President, I made my maiden speech in 1984 on emancipation and here I am now giving my 'old maid's speech'.
We want more women involved in decision making.
Madam President, I welcome the opportunity to speak briefly on this report incorporating equal opportunities for women and men in all Community policies and activities.
Madam President, as the coordinator for the Green Group on the Committee on Women's Rights, I should like to stress the importance of having men support women in achieving equality in the European Union.
I only wish we had the wholehearted support of many of the other men in this Parliament including those who tried to abolish the Committee on Women's Rights earlier in the year.
I include my own government in this.
By effectively deselecting three of our women colleagues - Sue Waddington, the Labour Spokesman on Women's Rights, Christine Oddy and Veronica Hardstaff - the Labour Party has made a poor contribution to getting women re-elected to the European Parliament.
Women in Europe can see that the Commission is sympathetic to women's concerns.
But much still needs to be done on jobs and equal pay, for example.
We need equal opportunities at all levels, in all undertakings, and we need to study gender effects in all areas, devising instruments to monitor whether or not progress is in fact being made.
As regards the Structural Funds, for example, even though the policy of mainstreaming was introduced as long ago as 1993, the latest progress report reveals that only 1.6 % of their resources have been used for this policy.
With regard to the European Social Fund, we call for 15 % of project funding to be targeted at women, since much still remains to be done in terms of their employment and pay.
In our view, the action plans submitted by the governments following the Luxembourg summit are very disappointing.
But we will have to wait a few more months before the principle of equal opportunities for women and men is also strengthened.
The European Commission has established that there are considerable shortcomings as regards incorporating equal opportunities into the Community programmes.
The only way we are going to get some sort of equality for women is when women actually occupy the key decision-making roles.
As someone said a few years ago in my own country: when there are as many incompetent women in roles of power as there are men, then we will have true equality.
Women have to be two or three times better than men if they are to get anywhere, to actually achieve anything.
This is the problem - the women who are here at the moment in this Parliament - the women who have actually achieved - who have got somewhere - are much better than the vast majority of men.
At first glance this figure seems fine, but if we take a closer look we see that women account for 80 % of category C staff employed in the lower echelons, 40 % of category B staff but only 20 % of category A, where staff hold senior positions, and 0 % of directors-general!
On 13 June Parliament will be re-elected and then we women must be more strongly represented.
I am pleased that in my party in Germany, the Social Democratic Party, 44 % of nominations have been for women.
But we simply must ensure that equal opportunities are enshrined in all policy areas, which means that we cannot just look at the gender mainstreaming aspect but need to accompany it with the dual approach, with special measures for women.
I am very proud to be able to add in a small way today to what our colleagues have said, particularly in my capacity as a member of the Committee on Women's Rights.
You will no doubt remember that of the priorities singled out by the hearing in Luxembourg on employment, the fourth and final priority concerned the problem of equality between men and women.
Women make up 80 % of the people who carry out secretarial and office work, while men occupy 87 % of the managerial positions.
There should always be individual assessment of individual candidates.
Madam President, I welcome Mrs Eriksson's report on mainstreaming.
We hope that in a few months' time the Amsterdam Treaty will be ratified by all 15 Member States, thereby making equality of opportunity between women and men an overarching goal in our Treaty.
At the moment we are trying to pursue major initiatives in the health sector, but the same principle also applies in education, science and technology.
We know from our research that only when one third of decision-makers are women will they have any real influence on decisions.
In its communication on women in science and technology, the Commission has established that the under-represented sex should account for at least 40 % of those working in these fields.
The debate is closed.
In agreement with Parliament's Committee on Women's Rights, I decided to await the Court's ruling on another case, that of the Marschall case: again a man, this time from North Rhine-Westphalia, who claimed to have fallen victim to discrimination because his female colleague had been chosen for promotion over him.
In fact, the Treaty makes equal opportunity policies a Community task, and expressly stipulates in Article 119 that measures providing for specific advantages with a view to ensuring full equality in practice between men and women are compatible with the principle of equality, and do not therefore constitute discrimination.
In other words, positive discrimination does not discriminate.
Following the Marschall ruling, we considered in consultation with another expert hearing whether the positive action can be preserved without amending the 1976 directive.
In my country, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the number of women primary school teachers and magistrates has already been increased too much, in my humble opinion.
Giving the current situation regarding the Amsterdam Treaty, we take the view that the amendment of the directive proposed in 1996 is inappropriate.
We no longer dare to question the right to equal treatment and opportunities between men and women as a fundamental right of a democratic society, which demands equal treatment and opportunities that are achieved through a series of active measures, including positive action.
The proposal for a directive which we are hoping for should contain mandatory legal instructions with a view to taking positive action wherever necessary in order to achieve equal treatment and opportunities for men and women and to remedy the under-representation of women in decision making.
Moreover, before voting on this legislative resolution, we want to see here and now, hic et nunc , the Commission's clear and firm commitment to agree to both these paragraphs in the draft legislative resolution.
Mr President, I welcome this general debate on equal opportunities on International Women's Day.
But worst and most frightful of all was the discussion in our Member States, among the regulars in the pubs and bars, where the men all started to feel discriminated against and thought they could invoke the law.
The 1995 Kalanke ruling, which found in favour of a man who believed he had been discriminated against because an equally qualified female colleague was given preference over him, belongs in the second category.
While the Kalanke ruling was a setback, the European Court of Justice's decision in the 1997 Marschall judgment was encouraging.
Mr President, on this International Women's Day, I would ask Mrs Gradin, who has already been so helpful on women's issues, to give Europe's women a special little present by withdrawing this proposal for a Commission directive, as other Members too have urged her to do.
I fully appreciate that the Commission was trying with this proposal to resolve the uncertainty which has existed since the Kalanke judgment and which in my view the Marschall judgment did nothing to dispel.
We are quite convinced that the proposal now before us will just make things more chaotic still.
So that means not just the mainstreaming we were looking at just now in Marianne Eriksson's report, but positive action too.
This really would be the best present the Commissioner could give Europe's women on this International Women's Day, but you could do something else as well.
In regard to equal opportunities for women the Amsterdam Treaty may be one step forward, but the European Court of Justice ruling in the Kalanke case and the Commission proposal to amend Directive 76/207/EEC represent two steps back.
The Amsterdam Treaty represents progress along the road to equal opportunities.
So the Lulling report and the request to the Commission to withdraw its amended proposal for a directive make sense.
Mr President, in an ideal world positive discrimination should not be necessary but, unfortunately, we do not live in an ideal world.
Even the way the programmes have been set up in Member States does not take account of the fact that these women were in the unofficial workforce and were contributing to society in their role as carers etc.
The only way we are going to move forward is if we put in place measures which some people may feel discriminate against men.
This proposal was submitted to the Council at the end of March 1996.
As you know, my colleague Commissioner Flynn appeared before the Women's Rights Committee on 16 February and clearly stated his position.
I believe this statement should answer Parliament's question and indicate the Commission's willingness to make use of Article 141 in a general positive action.
Thank you, Mrs Gradin.
The debate is closed.
