However, I must confess that I am somewhat concerned about one thing, namely that the political attitude displayed by President Santer yesterday in pretending that every failure and every defeat was a success could one day plunge our EU into a serious crisis of credibility.
Parliament is respected to the extent that Parliament itself respects the other institutions.
We shall not therefore start a discussion on this question which has now been considered in accordance with the provisions of Rule 108 of our Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, there are very pessimistic statements going round about the industrial prospects for the Union.
Many people have spoken about the 18 million unemployed and the 50 million on the breadline.
The bankers acting as intermediaries may lend at 2 % less than the standard interest rate for a period of five years.
For my own part, I wonder whether the dissemination of information about this scheme is satisfactory.
European information centres, where they exist, do a good job but there are not enough.
The Committee on Budgets suggests that there should be a more favourable attitude to small and medium-sized businesses in peripheral areas.
Mr President, small businesses is big business for the European Union as we strive for growth recovery in jobs.
Help is at hand for these smaller entrepreneurially-managed growing companies in the form of Europe's small capital electronic stock markets like EASDAQ in Brussels, AIM in London, Neuer Markt in Frankfurt and Paris's Nouveau Marché.
I should make it clear at this point that the earlier references to EASDAQ in my text should be replaced by the term pan-European small capital markets.
All these new markets borrow ideas from the world's most successful small capital market, America's NASDAQ, its most famous listing being Microsoft itself.
Not only is NASDAQ the forcing-house of American fast-track SMEs but it is also the home to European companies thirsty for capital.
The Commission and Parliament acknowledge the need to focus on the specialized area which in the American hothouse of NASDAQ has netted 16 % of all new jobs in the early nineties despite representing only a minuscule 0.04 % of all US company listings.
Parliament can strongly support the Commission's communication reporting on the feasibility of creating what are more Europe-wide capital markets, another distinctive feature of which would be the electronic screen-based nature of the marketplace.
Finally, I reiterate the point that the introduction of the Euro as our single currency will heighten the attractions of a small capital market for all Europe's fastgrowing hi-tech companies.
On late payments, recently in my home town of Chester, I was approached by a small firm which was suffering cash-flow problems as a result of a big firm paying late.
Their problem was intensified, however, by the fact that their supplier in the chain of added-value business was a business in Sweden where payment times are short due to the far-sighted payment practices endemic to Scandinavia.
In the meantime we will naturally support all the other worthy ideas set out in the Commission communication.
It must be wise, for instance, to establish definitions regarding due date, to have common ideas on payment periods - perhaps 60 days - whilst leaving such decisions to the contracting parties, to encourage the development of a common format for invoices, to applaud the publication of appropriate credit information on persistent late payers, to harmonize legal provisions especially in respect of enforcement procedures, to supply concrete measures for training SMEs in credit management, something positive which was recorded in the latest Coopers and Lybrand report on British SMEs.
As parliamentarians we must ensure that small businesses are given the true opportunity they should have by acting on late payments.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to support the Hendrick report on the future organization and operation of the information and cooperation networks.
With regard to the Hendrick report on the other hand I must confess that I have my doubts about his view that these communication networks and so on can create employment in line with the Delors report.
There is a risk of developing variable-speed networks.
To sum up, I should like to emphasize the importance of these networks.
Mr President, the most serious problem faced today by Europe and European society is the very high level of unemployment that prevails, which threatens the fabric of social and economic life.
The activity we are debating today on the opportunity of the Commission's report concerning the implementation of the decision on Community interest subsidies for loans by the European Investment Bank to small and medium enterprises, is a positive step by the European Union in the right direction, though its scope is limited compared with the overall problem.
It is significant that 42, 000 new jobs have been created so far.
As many of you will know, the enterprise policy for the European Union began approximately six years ago and these centres have been in operation for that period.
Particularly at a time when the finances of the European Union are coming under great scrutiny for various reasons - fraud, mismanagement and waste - it is particularly important that we assess the benefits as well as the costs of these information centres and the services they provide to small business.
It is doing much to foster enterprise and trade across the European Union.
My report focuses on two particular areas.
Firstly, as I have already said, it is clear that significant amounts of European Union funds go into these centres.
They are fostering enterprise and promoting business but it is difficult to say how many businesses they are helping and how successful that help is.
For example, a company which sells bolts and wishes to sell in France needs to be matched up with a company in France that wants to buy bolts.
With those comments, I ask Parliament to support my report.
The EU should make sure that there is also enough competition in all Member States in financing, and that small and medium-sized companies are not unreasonably squeezed in this respect.
In this connection I would like to describe briefly the situation in my own country by giving you a practical example.
I know of a company whose exports account for 80 % of its business.
Finally I would like to point out that in any circumstances currency is a factor, and problems facing small and medium-sized companies cannot be overcome until we have a common currency.
Mr President, today there are four reports on the agenda which have a bearing on the position of European small- and medium-sized enterprises in the internal market.
We are thinking of the ECU 180 million which the Commission needs in order to carry out its action programme properly.
Parliament increased this budget heading for 1996 to ECU 50 million.
I applaud the latest Commission proposal for providing credit guarantees for investments of small- and mediumscale businesses through which the SMEs get better access to financing, the so-called ELISE programme, particularly because it is specifically addressed to the really smaller businesses.
I see it as a continuation of the growth and environment budget heading which I had to defend almost with my life in this Parliament in 1995 and 1996.
Only those loans made within the framework of the EIB's SME mechanism are eligible, and the subsidies - granted for a period of five years - are fixed at 2 %.
I should remind you that the original mechanism was intended to promote investment to create jobs, not to subsidise the creation of jobs.
Furthermore, Article 10 appears to us to be unfounded in that its effective functioning does not presuppose the creation of a joint committee which would prove to be an ad hoc supervisory body.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is certainly important because it reconsiders specific and very relevant questions to try to give due attention to entrepreneurial activity which is of paramount importance in creating employment - and which forms the basis of the European Union's business activity - such as the small- and medium-sized enterprises.
Of course these are questions of fundamental importance affecting the most important social problem raised by the European Union, namely that of employment, and let us remember once again that it is precisely the small- and medium-scale businesses which, at times of crisis or recession or simply of economic stagnation like the present, create the most jobs.
So in this debate there are a number of features which we must emphasize and I should like to say how anxious I am for this debate to come first to the ears of the small- and medium-sized enterprises so that they may know that the European institutions and the European Parliament do concern themselves with the specific problems affecting them and so that they have the best access to these facilities provided by the European institutions.
For all the speeches that are made in this august building on that subject, this is one thing which could make the biggest difference, if we are serious about it.
Paragraph 6 of the motion for a resolution calls for a directive.
A directive looks very nice for the SMEs but how will that help an employer?
And efficient information and cooperation networks can give small SMEs in particular the necessary market access so that they do not to lag behind in terms of efficiency and can participate in the innovative developments.
Mr President, I think that, as has already been said, we owe hearty congratulations to the Commission because this initiative means an important series of measures which help to find a solution to the excessively long payment periods in commercial transactions and which provide security for their recovery.
Up to a point the recommendation - which is not binding according to Article 189 of the EC Treaty - diverges from Parliament's resolution on the Commission's communication on the implementation of an integrated programme, but all the same it must be accepted seeing that this instrument is intended as a first stage in regulating payment periods, with a view to creating a reference framework.
What is happening is that the report on the recommendation has the great advantage of bringing solutions to a specific subject.
At international level it is important to stress that it would be necessary to begin extending to the commercial field the Rome Convention on the Law Applicable to Contractual Obligations and also to carry out a study of the situation of those who, in spite of the 1968 Brussels Convention on Jurisdiction, have difficulties in obtaining enforcement.
All these organizations are committed to nurturing small and medium-sized companies.
Eleven small companies have benefited or become eligible to benefit from South Essex since 1994.
Another company, Beaver 84 Ltd, of Basildon was not even told by its intermediary that its application for a financial lease was even on the list for a European subsidy.
Europe's role was hidden from them.
In Britain as a whole 700 companies have been helped but 650 more applied and were eligible.
There is a huge gap to the north of London, in Essex, Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire.
Commissioner Oreja's answer to my parliamentary question on 13 June when he said that services are provided from Norwich or should be sublet from Norwich is wholly unacceptable.
Let the Essex County Council Library Service be a European information centre.
Mr President, I am glad that before dealing with the multiannual programme for SMEs we can devote a whole morning to these dossiers.
In the organization for independent employers and SMEs for which I worked for years it was our slogan that SMEs are not just pocket-sized big business.
At that time I was anxious to reduce the target group to undertakings with fewer than 250 employees.
I hope ELISE will give our new loan guarantee system a push in the right direction.
The SME capital market is another instrument for financing.
Mr President, our group has come out in favour of the position sustained by the rapporteur this morning on small and medium-sized enterprises.
We could not do otherwise, because anyone with a broad vision of Community economic growth cannot dismiss the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises.
In that sector payment conditions are only one of the contractual terms governing relations between client and supplier.
The Commission must make the necessary effort along with the Member States so that free movement of capital does not remain a dead letter here and so that obstacles such as double taxation, amongst other things, might be overcome.
Consequently, we consider that the limit of 500 employees mentioned in the decision is entirely unacceptable.
The reduction of that limit to 250 and the classification of SMEs suggested by Commissioner Papoutsis are along the right lines, but not enough.
I agree with Mrs Ewing that we should consider going even further in directing interest subsidies to the very small companies, and in this respect the ELISE programme occupies a key position.
It is an especial problem for our 17 million small and medium-sized enterprises.
Europe's SMEs and SMEs in towns like Dudley, Halesowen, Stourbridge, Smethwick and Wolverhampton in my constituency need more.
We need to change the business culture regarding late payments but I would say to the Commissioner that I do not believe this can be achieved with a recommendation which is essentially a wish list for best practice observance.
I believe we may be back here in two or three years' time talking about the failure of the recommendation to deliver what we want.
Mr Harrison's report on payment periods in commercial transactions, which should have been issued as a binding document from the Commission.
They are very helpful contributions to the very important debate we are having about small businesses.
But perhaps the most important and most immediate of all these reports is that on late payments of debt.
These payments would be made much more quickly if the economy were in good health, and the economic policy which you impose on the Member States is not conducive to growth.
In this organization in Staffordshire we had over 200 members ranging from large companies such as Wedgwood and Steelite which are well-known - when you drink your coffee in this Parliament it is from crockery made in my constituency by Steelite - to micro companies.
I really want to address my remarks on the two reports before us today to the question of those micro companies.
These are the companies consisting of between roughly 5 and 15 employees.
When I was deputy chairman of the Staffordshire Development Association two key problems emerged in dealing with small businesses.
The work of the EIB is highly commendable but two points should be taken on board.
The sums available of ECU 1bn are too small given the number of micro companies in the European Union.
If we do not have a statutory right to interest, if we do not bring forward legislation on this, we are going to sell short our small companies in the European Union.
It would be ideal if companies were to take their responsibilities seriously in terms of prompt payment but we know that is not the case and therefore minimum legislation is necessary to improve the business culture and ensure fair and good practice.
How often have we said in this House that the growth of SMEs is the key to fighting unemployment in the EU and indeed in our regional policy programmes we have strengthened our support for SMEs in recognition of this potential.
It is a fact that many small firms struggle because of late payments.
Recently the British Government White Paper: Competitiveness - Helping Business to Win said that small firms pay a vital role in the economy.
Yet I am sure you will agree with me that it is scandalous and shocking that the Economic Secretary to the Treasury in the UK and the spokesperson for small businesses, Angela Knight MP, an MP in my own Euro-constituency, said that the Treasury's late payment on 25 % of its bills is not exactly the crime it has been portrayed as.
SMEs are now called upon to play a protagonistic role in that effort.
All these years, the European Parliament with its resolutions has stressed the essential role of SMEs in economic development and employment, but also the problems faced by European companies.
However, a significant fraction of the demand, representing over 400 million ECU, was not satisfied.
In some countries, indeed, jobs have been created with lower loan levels than in other countries.
Yet, it is a fact that though facilities for SMEs have existed throughout the lifetime of the Union, they have been used more in some countries than in others.
The Commission will include the European Parliament's proposal in its preparation of the mechanism for the ELIS initiative, an initiative which also supports the creation of jobs by small companies via a loan guarantee system.
I would like, however, simply to point out that all these new markets are initiatives in the private sector, initiatives that operate within the scope of competition between the capital markets, which were created by the directive on investment services.
The role played by the Commission was to stimulate interest in the creation of new capital markets for SMEs.
As you know, in 1995 the Commission made a recommendation to the Member States concerning that issue.
The recommendation persuaded the Member States to adopt necessary measures to reduce the problems created by late payments.
On behalf of the Commission, I want to express my great satisfaction at the fact that the Harrison report supports the initiatives undertaken by the Commission in that area.
I believe that within the scope of the new multi-annual programme on behalf of SMEs, there is great potential to speed up the assessment procedure envisaged by the 1995 recommendation concerning delayed payments.
Besides, the Commission will support further action that could be undertaken by various bodies to improve payment practices in industry.
The Commission's report on the future operation of the information networks and on cooperation, was drawn up after widespread consultations with the members of the network.
The basic problems analysed in that report have been included in the proposals for the third multi-annual programme on behalf of SMEs, which is now being examined by the European Parliament.
That is also the reason why the Commission proposes to maintain the two existing cooperation networks, in other words BC-NET and BRA, bearing in mind the need expressed by SMEs to search for partners in various ways depending on the degree of complexity of the cooperation sought.
I believe that the sector of SMEs will play a definitive part in the development of Europe's economy over the next few years.
Today's debate has been very useful.
In conclusion, I would like once more to thank the four rapporteurs and the European Parliament for its support throughout all these years in the preparation and implementation of the policies and programmes on behalf of SMEs, and to assure you that the Commission will take serious note of all your comments and proposals.
The debate is closed.
Thus, we need to reconsider the nuclear problem in terms of its origin: the production of energy.
The territory of the European Union cannot remain a permanent nuclear danger zone.
We have therefore chosen to abstain from the final vote on the Schulz report.
This problem is mentioned in paragraph 3 of the Schulz report, which is good.
Europol is not the appropriate organisation for this issue as Europol is not a global organisation.
The Danish social democrats in the European Parliament are voting in favour of the Schulz report on the illicit traffic in radioactive substances and nuclear materials.
That is why, in this report, Parliament is calling on the Commission to assess the possibilities offered by modern technology.
Second question: when did the Federal Government inform Euratom?
European Council in Florence Madam President, the European Council in Florence gave the impression of enormous confusion where the problems of employment are concerned.
Unfortunately, one may wonder whether the bureaucratic coordination of ill-conceived policies like those of today may not be more likely to paralyse growth and employment, as seems to be proved, a contrario , by the experience of those countries that have remained outside the Union.
For these reasons (and more) a Council unable to cover up social failures withe so-called successes over mad cows and EUROPOL and a resolution that once again skirts around the real issues as if they had been solved or would be solved once we reach El(euro)dorado .
The wording in clause 1.26 is in our opinion completely absurd.
The Green Group in the European Parliament has also expressed concern that clauses on minimum standards regarding environmental, consumer and social protection in the future are interpreted as optimum standards.
This report deals with an absolutely crucial issue, the importance of which for the further development of the internal market - and, in this context, for employment and economic growth in Europe - must not be underestimated.
The report thus contains an excellent analysis and a critical assessment of the so-called Molitor Group's report on legislative and administrative simplification.
Mombaur report Debates on energy have been fashionable in the European Parliament just recently.
The European Union really does have an interest in developing renewable energy technologies.
Renewable energy techniques need to be developed on a voluntary basis: if, as this report demonstrates, the same appropriation from the European Union budget were to be made to the promotion of renewable energy sources as is made to the promotion of nuclear fusion, ECU 840 million in other words, they would soon reach a competitive standard.
The stimulus to master the various technical and economic problems can come from the European Union, but that is not to say that the Member States have no responsibilities of their own to discharge, especially if the target - as this report proposes - is that renewable energies should amount to 15 % of all primary energy by the year 2010.
As our colleague recalls, birth control alone cannot solve the population problems facing the world, and more particularly the developing world.
Even more seriously - and here I echo the text of the motion for a resolution and the oral question - we cannot accept, I trust, a situation where the European Union finances or aids, by whatever route, all or some of those countries which prevent their women from going to compete in the Atlanta games.
Almost 100 % of our companies in Europe are officially classed as SMEs.
When in the UK alone over ECU 200m has helped to create almost 12, 000 jobs since 1993 it is vital that we build on such success, given the hard economic times people are living through in my constituency and across Europe.
However, the good intentions of the Commission will not be enough if as currently suggested compensation to creditors affected by late payments is a nonbinding Recommendation to Member States.
