Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 24 April 1997.
It meets weekly in my office in the Belliard building, or a room booked in my name, and includes the assistants of Members from political groups other than the PSE, such as the PPE and the EDN.
Mr President, on 24 April a lorry from Murcia driven by Mr Antonio Antolinos was attacked in France, between Marseille and Avignon, while the French police looked on without intervening and even encouraging.
I give Mrs Oomen-Ruijten the floor to move the request for referral back to committee of this report.
We have not been able to discuss this change sufficiently in the groups, at least not in certain groups, and in particular there has not been enough discussion in committee.
The question, in view of 240 proposed amendments, is whether we ought to vote now at all?
There are only 36 amendments to my report, and most of them have been tabled by the Green Group in any case.
There is thus every reason for Parliament to send a clear message about what has to be done.
And if I recall correctly, we shall have a statement from the Council in Brussels on 29 May, after the special European summit, and it will be much better for us to debate it then than this week.
Suffice it to say, Mr President, that in only four months, between September 1996 and the beginning of 1997, the Internet displayed over one million advertisements for pirate devices.
The threat is also particularly severe for Europe's cinema industry, since 34 % of its income comes from that source.
The work of drawing up this directive will certainly be very difficult, but with collaboration between the Commission, Parliament, and the Member States, it can be achieved.
It is a first report referring to a consultation on the Commission Green Paper on the legal protection of encrypted services in the internal market and it is just part of a whole set of legal regulations worked out by the European Community on the protection of telecommunications and the media in general.
Analysis of the legal position in the 15 Member States shows how fragmented Europe is as a legal area.
Mr President, I shall make just two points.
As you know the Green Paper was presented by the Commission in March 1996.
The findings of the consultation confirm the need for a Community legal instrument and the Commission observes with satisfaction that the European Parliament shares its point of view.
The Commission has already made a clear promise on the principle of making a legislative proposal in the 1997 work programme, presented by President Santer at the plenary session of October 1996.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
What stands out from the 1994 report is its classical methodological approach, which makes it possible to appreciate the foundation of Community measures vis-à-vis those for which, on the contrary, the Commission has no legitimacy to take, because the criteria of Article 3B are not met.
The 1994 report also underlines quite clearly the problems which the application of the subsidiarity principle came across in practice: in particular, the Commission explains how the attitude of the Member States vis-à-vis the analysis of subsidiarity often responds to questions which have little or nothing to do with Article 3B.
The reports being presented to the plenary session received the unanimous support of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, in that it has very much taken into account the focus of discussions in the Intergovernmental Conference and, in particular, the protocol currently being worked out by the Dutch Presidency, and it is focused on the following considerations: first of all, the subsidiarity principle, which has as its aim the notion that certain decisions should be adopted as closely as possible to the citizens themselves, and this undoubtedly has a clear political dimension.
Secondly, the subsidiarity principle is active on two fronts: when the Commission plans to take an initiative which goes beyond the exclusive competencies of the European Community, it must demonstrate the legitimacy of its action by explaining, in particular, that the matter has a Community dimension, that it must be taken, that it would add to the efficiency of Community action in general, compared with the action of Member States individually.
It is therefore the responsibility of the European Parliament to denounce the risk of creating in this way, in some cases, a more uncertain type of law, a less secure type, so-called 'soft law' - which is less binding and which can be translated into a sham harmonisation and an uncertain transposition into national laws and regulations.
The resolution which we are proposing highlights the confusion which arises from this decision and insists on the vital difference between simplification and consolidation - and clarity as a natural corollary of both of these principles, which are criteria of good legislative practice vis-à-vis the legal nature of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
To paraphrase the introduction to the 1995 report, as rapporteur, I doubt whether in reality this report, ' Better law-making' , demonstrates - and I quote - that 'the Commission performs the task incumbent on it' .
The European Parliament must exercise a supervisory role over these temptations.
There have been fewer legislative initiatives but instead the Commission has introduced control through other initiatives.
It is our responsibility as members of the European Parliament to make sure that the Commission, when it considers it appropriate to put the subsidiarity principle into practice, assesses its own effectiveness in Community terms and its positive effects on sectors which are important for ordinary citizens, such as employment.
This is borne out by the fact that the Commission withdrew 48 legislative proposals in the period 1994-1995.
But these measures to simplify things are no less important if the European legislative process is to work well.
As long as a majority in Parliament - I say Parliament because I have the feeling there is some improvement in the Commission - clearly refuses to acknowledge this reality that we are an 'association of states' , to my mind debates like this one have little point.
The definition of what should be seen as a common objective should in our view be worked out on the basis of the principle of proportionality which is also enshrined in the last part of the same constituent precept.
A concept that was developed in the European Union context by this Parliament when it prepared the Spinelli draft treaty on European Union is now actually used by opponents of European Union, who allege that the European Union is becoming over-centralized, that there is a danger of a centralized superstate.
But I think it appropriate in this debate on the subsidiarity principle to emphasize that this very principle stems from Christian social thinking and should thus be applied with this in mind and not, as is so often the case, as a means of helping people to help themselves.
We are satisfied by Article 3B and we think that it is important for all of the institutions to apply it in practice.
I should like to take this opportunity - if you will so allow - to specify the Commission's position in respect of some of the points which have been mentioned.
In some cases we have had to do so twice: we have had a first consultation, and if we were not satisfied with the responses that we received then we have issued a second Green Paper.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The same applies to Amendment No 10 in which we ask lobbyists to observe any rules laid down by Parliament on the rights and responsibilities of former Members of the House where I understand the Quaestors are looking into this matter.
The final point is with respect to Amendment No 1 which says that only registered assistants working exclusively as assistants shall have access to Parliament under the same conditions as staff of the Secretariat or the political groups.
I refer to Amendments Nos 1 and 12.
The Group of the European People's Party continues to have reservations about this idea.
It might be disproportionate to any political benefit which accrued, and equally we have a sense that underlying Amendment No 12 is the idea that contacts between Members and third parties or interest groups is something so suspicious, so intrinsically shabby almost, that it needs to be monitored and controlled as tightly as possible.
Madam President, Amendment 12 concerns the annual report; it is completely daft and unnecessary and much too much work.
I will make only two comments.
For that reason, I think Amendment No 1 is very important, and I would ask all the Members, on all sides of the House, to reconsider their attitude towards it.
Amendment 1 is certainly not consistent with the rules of the code of conduct.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
It is not the work of the plenary to turn itself into a drafting committee consisting of 626 Members.
The work and role of the committees should be to ensure that when we come to the plenary we do not simply repeat what ought to have been done in the committee.
It is made clear in Rule 115 that the normal case should be that voting takes place in blocs on the basis of a recommendation from the competent committee.
It is with that thought in mind that I suggest that we would be better advised not simply to duplicate the work of the committees.
My third reason is perhaps the most important one, and that is the impression and impact that we as a Parliament make on the people sitting in the tribunal, the people watching us on television and looking at our work.
I have spoken - as I am sure many Members have - with groups of constituents, of academics, of journalists, of people who have come to our Assembly and have been very surprised at what they regarded as the excessively detailed and nuanced voting, for instance when we vote on the insertion of a particular word or the possible deletion of a particular phrase, and do so not just once or twice but all morning.
In going down the road that I am suggesting we will perhaps lose some nuances which are particularly important and beloved of one or two coordinators, perhaps of coordinators throughout all the groups.
Chapter 14 of our Rules of Procedure is therefore one of the most important, and you probably recall that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has made a number of proposals to try to shorten voting sessions.
If we agree to refer this report back to committee before the vote, a few things should be pointed out.
Mr President, I would like to correct an incorrect allusion that I made to a Rule a moment ago.
I would also like to say that the question of the EPP's attitude to my report was fully discussed in the group.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
