Mr President, you have drawn our attention to page 14 of the Minutes.
I notice that 40 Members had to correct their votes yesterday.
It seems absurd to have 40 corrections of vote from one voting session.
I seem to recall that particular vote was out of the normal sequence and that was why some Members were thrown. (Parliament approved the Minutes) Mr President, on Tuesday when I raised the matter of the need for a statement on Norwegian salmon from the Commission - the European Parliament being the only body Sir Leon Brittan has not consulted - the President said he would pass the matter on to the Commission.
I would like to know if Sir Leon Brittan is prepared to come out of his cloister in the Commission and communicate with Parliament the terms of the agreement he has signed with the Norwegian Government.
I understand the seriousness of the issue but, as I said on Tuesday when I was in the Chair, the Conference of Presidents has the right to request the Commission to come to this House and make a statement on any matter.
Under Rules 37 and 95, the European Commission can propose at any time that it wishes to come and make a statement to this House.
The President in the Chair can propose a change to the agenda at any time.
In the proposal for which you have taken such a timely initiative, Madam Commissioner, to offer young people aged 18-25 years the opportunity to gain experience in another country by means of an action of practical solidarity, we find the best of these ingredients and I should like to congratulate you and your colleagues - but yourself in particular, Madam Commissioner - because I know that you have invested your talent and your heart in this project.
It strongly encourages it and the amendments that I am submitting to the European Parliament on its behalf - make no mistake - are aimed solely at ensuring that this European voluntary service will be as efficient as possible.
Like you, we want to optimize the chances of success of the European voluntary service which means paying special attention to the quality of that service.
The Commission has specified very clearly that the European voluntary service does not replace the national military or civilian services.
Nevertheless, we think that the activities of the European voluntary service could easily and appropriately be made compatible with national civilian services so that those Member States so wishing could integrate these activities into the framework of their national services.
The conclusion of agreements between the European voluntary service and national civilian services could turn that prospect into a reality, and that is what we wanted to cover in our amendments.
We also insisted on an aspect that seems essential to us and which is dear to our hearts, that of a European status of young volunteers.
That status must guarantee young people conditions of social protection, tax exemption and equivalent legal coverage in all countries of the European Union, or else the project would risk remaining a dead letter.
Our proposal to raise the whole budgetary amount to 80 million ECU is based on that concern, a concern that would only guarantee that this excellent initiative would be as widely publicized as possible.
Hence the proposals that the Committee on Development has discussed and is presenting refer to all of the area encompassed by the Lomé Treaty and to the area encompassed by the new Mediterranean policy, to mention just two examples.
Lastly, given that we focused, as I have said, on the external aspect of voluntary work, I consider it very important that the delegations of the European Union in other countries should also take account of this very good proposal that we have before us.
I would point out that the idea of a European voluntary service originated partly from a European Parliament initiative which, by introducing a line into the 1996 budget, enabled the pilot phase to be launched with a sum of ECU 15 million earmarked for 1996 and ECU 10 m for 1997.
Since the election of the new Socialist Governments in France and the UK there has been a new emphasis on a people's Europe and, in particular, on jobs and connecting Europe directly with people's lives.
Through the European voluntary service thousands of young people could have a chance to break out of the social and economic rut that they are living in and take up the challenge of working and living in another country.
I certainly have extreme reservations about EVS being extended to third countries, and in particular to developing countries, not because I want to see a fortress Europe developing, but because we should not rush into extending this idea across the whole of the world before proving that it can work very well here in Europe first.
One of the points of the EVS programme is that it should boost the cultural identity of Europe, thus reducing the consequences of xenophobia.
I think he would be seen as German and not as European and, in that case, it is a matter for the Member States.
Every Member State must take the necessary measures to enable young people to take part in the programme without let or hindrance.
The decision as to whether these national organizations can be incorporated into the structure of the European voluntary service on the basis of agreements between the two will remain a matter for the national legislatures.
Despite these defects, I am delighted that the voluntary service initiative is finally taking shape.
I believe that this service can make a substantial contribution to increasing the mobility of young Europeans, which is still rather too restricted.
The Florence European Council of 21 and 22 June 1996 put forward the idea of European voluntary service with a view to involving students and young people, in particular graduates and the unemployed, in practical projects which could bring these youngsters closer to the building of Europe, through social initiatives to help people in need, combat drug dependence and enhance our cultural, artistic and sporting heritage.
The EVS cannot take the place of either compulsory military service or national forms of civil service, and the Member States have to bear that in mind.
The Community action programme 'European Voluntary Service for Young People' has excellent objectives.
It should give young people mainly, aged between 18 and 25, the opportunity to obtain valuable work experience in various areas of public service in another Member State.
The aim is to help particularly disadvantaged young people to obtain international experience and language skills as well as to learn civic responsibility through work.
The relationship of this new voluntary service programme to the important Youth for Europe programme, and its influence on that programme, is as yet unclear.
At the same time it is possible to simplify administration, reduce bureaucracy and ensure that the resources earmarked are really used to benefit the participation of young people.
One thing which also hinders participation is the lack of a definition of the legal position of young volunteers.
This proposal could help young people to take part in European construction, so that they can feel that they are the subjects and protagonists of that construction.
The rapporteur points out in her report that this should not be directed at a few elite youngsters who already have all that information and all those possibilities, but at a wide group.
In my country there are some young people - whether or not you agree with them - who are in prison for avoiding their military service because they refuse to be labelled conscientious objectors.
So it is good that the emphasis is being placed on projects both within the EU and outside, for example in Eastern Europe and the third world.
Then I would say to the Commission that as it is to give a lot of money to space research and buildings for the Commission, it can surely afford 20 million ECUs for the young people of the EU to fund this excellent project.
This transnational programme will enable young people aged 18-25 years to go on training courses in another Member State or in non-Community countries, in a spirit of solidarity.
That also means close cooperation between the various organisations concerned in the European Union.
This collective activity, by means of the diversity of learning courses and social or even vocational insertion that it might propose, should be likely to develop a better awareness of European citizenship among the young people concerned.
Finally, I should like to remind you of something that is perhaps quite obvious but which I think should always be borne in mind by the young people who are flocking to us, showing their interest in this project - something that they do not always bear in mind.
Mr President, much as I admire the rapporteur as a person and as a Vice-President of Parliament, I am unable to endorse this report.
I do not believe that we need voluntary service organized at European level, unless it is meant to be yet another small step, using the famous technique known in French as la tactique du voleur chinois , towards a more centralized and federalist Europe.
For example, the fact that the report claims that the Union is entitled to deal with youth policy because Article 126 makes some very low-key references to education is a typical example of this.
As the French say, et c'est pourquoi votre fille est muette .
Young people across Europe are open-minded and are looking for opportunities that this programme provides.
By travelling to other countries in this project, young people can learn about the partner countries and different ways of life.
In that idea he lent his name to a scheme that has channelled the idealism, the energy and the desire to be of use that thousands of young Americans have shown across the world for 30 years.
I myself saw that on the ground when taking an active part in France in the meetings of national dialogue for Europe launched by Michel Barnier.
Young people are highly motivated to undertake European actions that are likely to open up the way to new knowledge, new contacts, new employment and fulfilment prospects.
We know that the demands of budgetary tightness will oblige us to review the normal increase in existing Community programmes but we should not disappoint those young people whose energy could contribute to the development of the European construction that represents their future.
Finally I would like the Commission to tell us what it intends to do for liaison between the various Community programmes aimed at young people and how it wants to finance this new voluntary service programme over time.
Fourthly, the ECU 60 million earmarked under the Interinstitutional Agreement is quite sufficient, as far as the Liberal Group is concerned.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not against the rapporteur personally but I am going to be very critical.
I am afraid that the real aim of this project is to make us forget mass unemployment provoked by a European deflationary policy and the unbridled opening up of our borders.
Mr President, the European voluntary service for young people is an important step towards a Europe for the people.
But when we talk about voluntary service, I am anxious to underline its importance.
So it is important that young people from third countries have the opportunity to come to us and experience the culture in different parts of Europe.
Young people are the future of Europe.
Mr President, we can only welcome the proposal for a Community action programme 'European voluntary service for young people' , which originated in an idea from the European Parliament, I would point out, and was launched during Italy's last presidency.
It must be possible to achieve the goal of citizenship in a responsible way, and this proposal to establish a European voluntary service will, in our view, involve young Europeans in community life, providing them with an opportunity to gain useful work experience.
However, the implementation of the programme is being held up in a number of Member States.
Particularly serious problems have arisen in connection with social security and taxation.
This problem, which relates to national decision-making, makes it impossible to apply the principle of reciprocity between Member States.
The Commission should include without fail in its report its opinion on the future of the Youth for Europe and 'European Voluntary Service for Young People' programmes, and on the possibility of a Children's Europe programme in future, as proposed by organizations for the under-15s.
Ladies and gentlemen, voluntary action has now been turned into one of the basic instruments of action in social areas in civilian society.
That is why I firmly support the amendments tabled by the rapporteur to the Commission proposal on a budgetary increase for the programme and the need to recognise a legal status for European voluntary service.
If this service is to make any progress, as has been said, the volunteers need to have their condition recognized, so that all the young citizens of the Member States can enjoy the same payments.
The framework of a European programme must consider the desired guarantees in terms of free movement, residence rights and social security.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to be addressing you here today on the future of the European voluntary service for young people, thanks to the proposal for a decision on a multiannual programme.
This proposal for a decision confirms the fruitful cooperation between the European Parliament and the Commission.
The European Parliament has always supported the idea of a voluntary service, at Community level.
It was in response to your resolution of 22 September 1995 that the Commission adopted, in January 1996, a working document on the European voluntary service for young people, before formulating the proposal for a decision that is the subject of your work.
I must inform you that the Commission actively supports the Spanish proposal to include a new article on the voluntary service in the Treaty and I can tell you that the Dutch Presidency's proposal includes a declaration emphasizing the importance of the voluntary service.
These projects cover areas of all kinds of activity and will enable young people to translate into action the notion of solidarity between Europeans, while gaining genuine training experience in the social field - but also in cultural areas, environmental protection and all sorts of monitoring activities, such as those relating to the sick, especially people suffering from AIDS or sick children.
They are very diverse and far richer in variety than we originally expected because we could not predict all the proposals that we would be presented with by the basic bodies.
I should like to tell you, if you do not already know, that there is a small handbook called 'European Voluntary Service-Volunteers Info' which is available in English, French and German, in principle distributed to all members of the European Parliament and national parliaments - please tell me whether or not that is so - and which has been sent to all the national bodies, and those in charge of the project.
I would like this document to be distributed as widely as possible because it contains very practical examples of what has been achieved, inside the European Union and in non-Community countries.
We can see how young people were mobilized in European Year against Racism.
This handbook will appear every six weeks.
Of course, the Commission expects a sizeable increase in the number of young volunteers over the next couple of months.
Of course, the European Parliament will be kept regularly informed of the pilot action and its assessment.
Based on Article 126 of the Treaty, it is part of the policy of Community cooperation in the youth field.
The Commission is happy to note that the European Parliament shares its approach and has sought to enrich its proposal thanks to the amendments proposed by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media and by the Committee on Development and Cooperation.
We are therefore going to be able to take many of these amendments on board, either in the body of the decision or in the guidelines to accompany the implementation for the 'European voluntary service for young people' programme.
In particular, the Commission can take on board those amendments that concern the following subjects: the development of the cooperation policy in the youth field, the importance of coherence and coordination with the Youth for Europe programme, the need to bring down legal obstacles to the transnational mobility of young people.
I know that it is always very difficult to have that type of thing changed but I think that you will be the best advocates - better than the Commission because it is not within our powers - to try and convince those in charge in the respective governments that a certain number of decisions have to be taken.
Other subjects accepted by the Commission: the contribution to a genuine European citizenship in terms of the ideals of democracy, tolerance and cohesion in European construction.
We must make a special effort towards young people who do not necessarily automatically head towards the reception structures reserved for them.
Participation by young nationals from non-Community countries in the programme activities in their country of origin and in European Union Member States and taking into consideration certain specific aspects of voluntary service in developing countries and the countries of central and eastern Europe.
The importance of linguistic and intercultural preparation - some of you have found the start-up rather expensive, but we cannot afford to make mistakes.
We must therefore ensure that all these young people are truly well prepared especially when they are heading for destinations outside the European Union.
The Commission has not been able to accept some amendments for legal reasons including part of Amendment No 11, on the link between national civilian services and the European service, as the former are the responsibility of the Member States.
The principle of subsidiarity also meant that the Commission could not accept part of Amendment 28 and Amendment 29, referring to points that are the exclusive remit of the Member States.
The Commission has not been able to accept Amendments Nos 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 or 35, concerning the comitology.
The quality of their work and the very constructive nature of their amendments must be emphasized.
I wish to thank the European Parliament as a whole for its support and the interest that it has shown in this project.
We are therefore trying to do things quickly.
I think I understood that you, like your colleagues in the same Group here in the European Parliament, are opposed to this idea and the development of a European voluntary service.
You know that we have set up revolving apprenticeships, another very interesting system of education and training: you do your apprenticeship in another Union Member State and you are paid a small amount and, of course, you have to pay tax in the country where you are doing your apprenticeship.
Mr Monti, the Commissioner in charge of the single market and with whom I cooperate on this subject, is dealing actively with this idea.
Nevertheless, let me say a few words on the programme and its extraordinary importance.
This programme was not created to hamper the work of Member States but to demonstrate everywhere the added value that European education can bring and to promote the European dimension within education, thereby bringing the European Union closer to its citizens.
The achievements of the programme in boosting European cooperation have come to encompass quite new sectors of education.
In this programme we have also created the opportunity in the 15 Member States to add an extra European dimension to the curriculum, especially within initial and in-service teacher training.
After all, how can we expect our children to develop into European citizens if their teachers are Euro-ostriches?
This is an extremely good programme, and it accurately reflects the spirit of Article 126 of the Treaty.
All I want to say is that the programme was set up in 1995 for twelve States.
We want to include them all in the programme, because this is a way in which we can spread the European ideal more widely in those countries.
We should need at least ECU 165 million for two years to come anywhere near meeting our own target.
To that end I need a convincing vote from this Parliament.
This programme is important because Europe must be, and is, more than just big business and capital, moving money about Europe and people getting richer and richer.
Socrates has been a great success.
People are talking about the programme and they often write to me to find out more about it.
Students who have been on those programmes or schools that have been involved in exchanges have tremendous experiences that they will remember for the rest of their lives and they build the foundations for the Europe that we want to see.
The European Parliament and European Union provide subsidies for tobacco farming, breeding bulls for bull-fighting and, if we are to believe the press reports this week, breeding beetles in Italy for alcoholic drinks colouring, and yet we seem to be balking at or objecting to a small increase in the project.
As chairman of the Committee on Culture, I have been bombarded with requests from various countries claiming that we promised that they could participate in the programmes and that they have projects ready, but are never given a chance.
Here again, as I said about the other programme, we are spreading disappointment instead of promoting the idea that young people are the future, and that Europe needs young people for its future too.
I would end by urgently calling on the Commission to join Parliament in campaigning for a decent budget increase for this programme, now and in the future.
I wish to remind everyone of the great success which the SOCRATES programme is enjoying within the Union, especially in promoting higher education through ERASMUS and language learning through LINGUA.
The number of inter-university cooperation programmes has so far reached 2673.
The success of SOCRATES has led to a rise in applications to participate in the various actions covered by the programme, in particular since 1995, from students and teachers alike.
Across the European Union there are in fact some 60 million school pupils and 11 million students.
The Commission has proposed increasing by ECU 50 million the funding already set at ECU 850 m by the Council for the period 1995-99.
This sum, which is much less than the ECU 1005 m initially proposed for 12 Member States, is now woefully inadequate for the present 15 Member States, plus the EFTA countries, the CCEEs and Cyprus, which have been included in the programme.
The fact is that in 1998-99, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and Cyprus will be participating fully in the programme; with the help of the PHARE programme, the CCEEs will be contributing some ECU 70 m, but if this participation is to be meaningful, that effort will have to be reciprocated by the Member States to the tune of some ECU 70 m.
The demand is therefore far outstripping the financial scope of the programme.
Activities of the type of the Socrates Programme amount to much better and more positive information work than hastily completed information campaigns.
With that in mind, we cannot afford to weaken the credibility of this programme which is so important to our citizens and works so well.
Mr President, we Greens believe that in order not to compromise SOCRATES, which was originally designed to meet the needs of only 12 Member States, it is now essential to increase the funds allocated for its implementation.
The growing number of applications under the programme and, above all, the involvement of 11 new countries as from 1998, require an increase in the budget in order to ensure reciprocal mobility between the European Union and the associated countries.
Mr President, really, the resources that the European Union puts into its youth policy are at the heart of this morning's debates.
That is the problem of the Socrates programme: everyone recognizes its positive qualities and the need to enhance its activities.
Let us not forget that, during conciliation, the European Parliament only accepted the 850 million ECU, far below the initial proposal, on the condition that those aims should be revised after two years.
The association of certain central and eastern European countries in these programmes, to take place very shortly, even if cofunded by the Phare programme, will make certain adjustments necessary.
This is just one example, but it shows that if we want the Socrates programmes to meet its legitimate expectations, it will have to be given a larger budget.
That is why we regard the development of Community action programmes in the educational domain as a wisely chosen and effective means, albeit in the medium term, of combating unemployment in Europe and why we consider the Socrates programme to be an important investment in the future of our continent.
With regard to the inclusion in the Socrates programme of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which we also very much welcome, we would insist that substantiated needs assessments be drawn up with a view to identifying the actual financial requirements.
If, however, the funding is not replenished, the exchange programmes in the countries of Western Europe will inevitably be curtailed.
Scarcely any of these young people will take part in exchange programmes on their own initiative and at their own expense.
That is important if we really want to strike at the roots of the intolerance and xenophobia that are once more rearing their heads in Europe.
Our training standards are in competition today with those of other parts of the world.
Mr President, let me begin by expressing my sincere congratulations and thanks to Doris Pack for her sterling effort.
We all know from our own countries how well the Socrates programme is working and how popular it is.
Socrates is one of the bestknown Community programmes; its activities are right in line with the needs of our people and directly touch their lives.
The programme has numerous achievements to its name, including an increase in mobility within the European Union and progress towards mutual recognition of degrees.
Moreover, I believe that greater importance should attach to the aspect of adult education within the Socrates programme.
Socrates can and must make a contribution to this and other innovation processes if the European Union wants to remain true to its educational aims and to demonstrate that it is at one with its citizens.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the first few years of its application, the SOCRATES programme, which is aimed at promoting the European dimension in education and in particular at bringing the Union closer to its citizens, succeeded beyond all expectations.
Once in a while, we are unanimous in expressing our approval of an initiative and a wish for it to be supported and continued in the future.
Initially, as we know, the Commission proposed an overall sum of ECU 1005 million for 12 Member States.
So, while entirely understanding the Commission's financial reasons for proposing an increase of only ECU 50 m for this programme, I share the view of the rapporteur - whom I would compliment - that this project must receive additional funding of at least ECU 100 m.
First of all, these financial restrictions must not mean that only students from wealthy backgrounds can afford to engage in such programmes.
Education is a very important aim, and I hope it is an aim that we shall achieve.
I wish, when politicians, whether they be in this Parliament, the Council of Ministers or the Commission, decide they would promote programmes of this kind and raise people's expectations - particularly young people across the European Union - that they would be prepared to back their protestations and provide money for such programmes.
As others have said, it is a question, sometimes, of how you spend the money.
The cost of this programme over five years is only what we give as subsidies to tobacco growers in one year.
It was wonderful to get that article into the Treaties but when we commit ourselves to a programme of this kind, we must provide the necessary funding so that young people from disadvantaged backgrounds, minorities and other groups are not put to the bottom of the list, which may well otherwise be the case.
No programme demonstrates a people's Europe more than SOCRATES - except perhaps the voluntary service which we have just been discussing.
The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media feels very strongly that in order to do justice to the programme, a substantial increase in funding is necesssary.
Since 1994, not only have we seen an increase in the number of EU Member States and their right to apply for funding, but only now will the full impact of the information campaigns conducted in 1995 and 1996 be felt.
Theoretically, there is available a maximum grant of ECU 5, 000 per year per student, but if all the eligible students received the money they applied for, this would in reality amount to no more than ECU 75 per student per month.
There will certainly be no problem spending the money.
The single currency, freedom of movement and common security will be as nought without people who want to and who know how to build upon that foundation a world of peace and a better life.
SOCRATES is a programme which, supported by the indisputable success of the ERASMUS university exchange visits, is enabling an increasing number of students and lecturers to exchange experience and to compare knowledge, thus creating a European Community of the spirit and of the heart.
The Union cannot continue another day as an economic giant and a social, political and cultural dwarf.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to thank the European Parliament for dealing with this proposal so quickly - it was only adopted less than three months ago.
The Socrates programme is essential for the construction of the so-called 'union of knowledge' that we fully support.
Even with the increase in the budgetary amount earmarked by the Commission, Socrates accounts for only 0.2 % of the Community's 1998 budget.
That is why, given its importance, the Commission and the European Parliament, as it happens, can only regret the financial amount voted on two years ago and, as you recall, it was a 150 million ECU reduction over our initial proposal.
The experience of two years demonstrates that the Commission's initial proposal was not only realistic but was the bare minimum.
The programme has received a particularly enthusiastic reception in educational circles throughout the Member States.
In proposing an increase in the budget, after these two years of developing the programme, the Community intends to meet the high expectations shown by ordinary people.
You all know that as you have all experienced it.
It is the case of the first amendment which draws attention to the White Paper and the Green Paper and the budgetary priority that the European Parliament gives to the education programme.
We also take on board the second amendment, strengthening the Commission's arguments concerning the consequences of maintaining the financial status quo or too small an increase that would steadily reduce the amount of support granted.
In its explanatory memorandum, the Commission drew attention to the budgetary impact for Member States' establishments if Socrates is opened up to the associate countries of central and eastern Europe and Cyprus.
If the costs directly linked to the participation of these new countries are also met by their own contributions, cooperation with those countries might lead to further major costs for the institutions of the Member States.
The amendment will be slightly altered in order to take into account the fact that the opening up of the programme has not yet come into effect, something scheduled for the second half of 1997.
The fifth amendment introduces a pertinent reference to the budgetary context enabling the funding of the increase proposed in the draft decision submitted by the Commission.
In 1998, the Commission has proposed an 11 % increase for Socrates over 1997 and that 11 % should be set alongside the increase in internal policies of only 0.5 %.
Of course, I am aware of the disappointment that this might raise among members of the European Parliament who have fought, along with us, for this programme to have a budget more in line with its future prospects and the expectations of our fellow citizens.
Your support for the Community programme in the education fields will have considerable impact on the Socrates programme in its current form and will continue to have effects as we develop our activities beyond 2000.
Your commitment to strengthening the resources of the Socrates programme is a very clear commitment and political message as to your priorities for European action in the future.
The debate is closed.
On behalf of my group I should like to move a postponement of the vote on this report.
In its vote on the Sturdy report the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development adopted a balanced package on agricultural prices.
The package, however, entails additional costs of around ECU 170m in total.
Mr Böge, if I understand you right, you want Rule 131 to be applied.
I would remind the House that the bulk of the farm prices for 1998 will be determined not by the Sturdy report, but by the Funk report, and the two are therefore closely linked.
I would urge colleagues to vote in favour of the Socialist Group's Amendments Nos 24 and 26 to the Funk report: although these two amendments are no major cause for concern to farmers, they trim ECU 500 million off the 1998 budget.
If there is one area where resources can be saved in agriculture, it is that of arable crops, which accounts for 40 % of farm spending.
So in my view, rather than budget neutrality, what the PPE Group's position reveals is serious political bias. (Parliament rejected the request) (In successive votes, Parliament adopted sixteen legislative resolutions) Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your massive vote in favour of my report.
The day before yesterday, Madam President, Commissioner Fischler declared that he was refusing to take into account 20 of our 22 amendments to his very watered-down proposal.
The two amendments he accepted are purely formal ones.
My initial reaction to this attitude, royally ignoring the proposals we adopted here two and a half years ago in favour of direct aids to save European bee-keeping, was to ask for referral back to the Commission.
But as you have just massively adopted my report, and in order not to waste more time with pointless discussions with the Commission, in the light of its attitude, I turn to the Council of Ministers and hope that it will not ignore our proposals, proposals that the European Parliament has thought long and hard about for 12 years, and will follow them up.
Unfortunately, I have not had the opportunity to meet Mr Fischler this morning to find out whether he has done any thinking over night, but if I have any new information, I shall inform you.
If nobody in the House objects, we ask that in point 4 the words 'to take into account' be replaced by 'to adopt without further delay' .
The current tightly regulated agricultural policy is bureaucratic, ineffective and unjustifiably politically divisive.
We hope that agricultural policy will be drastically reformed in 1999 and will do all that we can to see that this happens.
This mad, barbaric manner of treating animals should not, in my opinion, be given any economic support.
The European Parliament has to consider sixteen regulations setting 1998 agricultural prices.
The background for this annual - but today especially gloomy - agricultural mass can be summed up in three dates: 1999 the single currency and the 'year III package' on five-year budgetary programming; 2000 the opening of negotiations at the WTO; 2002 the beginning of enlargement to the East.
These three dates, three violent upheavals, give the Commission grist to its mill in its accountant's view of a policy of austerity and rationing.
That explains why 1998 farm prices have been frozen, with a reduction in compensatory aids and a lowering of cereal and oil-seed prices, together with a reduction in set-aside premiums - the 1998 setaside rate was already around 10 %, with a threat of a basic rate of 17.65 %.
Brussels is showing one of those early 1990s disaster movies, threatening us with stocks of 58 million tonnes of cereals in 2005, on the pretext of a good harvest of 202 million tonnes in 1996-1997, 60 million in France alone.
Yet the Commission obviously omits to state that world stocks are at all time lows, only 40 consumption days of stocks.
So much so that, in order to maintain stocks on the European market, a 15 ECU per tonne surcharge is being levied on exports.
Whereas the guidelines provided for an expenditure ceiling of 43, 267 million ECU, the provisional budget for the next year is only 41, 009 million ECU, a 0.5 % increase over the current agriculture budget.
Most of the Member States are imposing very strict spending limits in order to meet the convergence criteria provided for by the Treaty on European Union and conditioning participation in economic and monetary union.
The Commission is therefore proposing a prices package that could be summed up by a prices freeze and a reduction in aids (reduction in monthly premia for intervention prices in cereals, rice and sugar stock recovery).
In its proposal the European Commission specifies that the measure proposed in the prices package are to be taken along with its previous proposal to change the payment of aids for arable crops, providing for a 7 % reduction, and a reduction in set-aside payments in terms of land that is not set aside.
The aim is to save 1400 million ECU out of the 1998 agriculture budget.
Our Group supports the amendments tables and voted in committee.
We shall vote for the Funk report since it rejects the bases of the Commission proposal on a system of production aids for certain arable crops.
Against the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, the European Parliament has decided only to adopt the measures to help the beef sector and to reject the other proposals.
Our Group is in favour of the amendments presented and voted on in the Committee on Agriculture, because they deleted or modified certain recitals and articles contrary to French and European farmers' interests.
Sturdy report on prices package).
The current tightly regulated agricultural policy is bureaucratic, ineffective and unjustifiably politically divisive.
We hope that agricultural policy will be drastically reformed in 1999 and will do all that we can to see that this happens.
The amendment is much more positive than the Commission's proposal.
In addition the Baldarelli report allows for a 5 % margin for excess in relation to the MGAs intended as an incentive to bring young people into farming.
European durum wheat production areas dropped by 12 % between 1991 and 1992 (two year average) and in 1995-96 because of set-aside and the lack of support in non-traditional durum wheat areas.
Production plummeted by 35 % over the same period because yield drops were added to surface area reductions.
Climatic conditions, lower production in non-traditional areas with higher yields and 'extensification' linked to a high level of direct aid in the product/ha of traditional areas are the main reasons for the drop in European cropping.
The European Union went from being a net exporter of 2 million tonnes of semolina and pasta to having a net deficit.
The inter-regional approach that we have proposed should satisfy French producers in traditional areas and non-traditional areas, while limiting European imports of durum wheat from non-Community countries.
In order for aids to be put to good use in the traditional areas of southern Europe and to bring about a good qualitative adaptation of durum wheat to the needs of user companies, it is vital to demand quality seed.
Resolution on set-asides For obvious reasons, so that farmers can decide how to prepare their soil for sowing, they must know by 30 June each year the set-aside rate for the following year.
That is why our Group supports the oral question put by the Committee on Agriculture, and has co-signed the joint motion for a resolution.
Our Group has also tabled two major amendments aimed at limiting the compulsory set-aside rate to 5 % and to abolish the extraordinary set-aside rate in the case of excess area use during a given year.
Worldwide, a rapid analysis of the year to be decided by 30 June shows that forecasts of production and prices are weakened by the facts.
On 25 July 1996, the International Cereals Council forecast a world harvest of 560 million tonnes and it turned out to be 580 million tonnes.
The European Union had to revise its forecast upwards by 7 million tonnes.
In fact, world prices have increased considerably and the Commission was obliged to set an export tax, to guarantee internal supplies in the European Union as of 14 May.
This export tax, set by the Commission, is 15 ECU per tonne on wheat, durum wheat flour and semolina, 20 ECU per tonne on wheat flour and semolina and 10 ECU per tonne on durum wheat.
In this specific case, exporters do not know in advance whether Brussels will make a repayment or impose a tax.
In early May the ICC - International Cereals Council - reduced from 583 to 578 million tonnes its forecast for the world wheat harvest in 1997.
The drought is going to limit European Union production while the frosts in Kansas cut winter wheat production there by 3 million tonnes and floods in Dakota delayed spring sowings.
Against this general background of higher world demand for cereals and the prospects of a poorer harvest in the northern hemisphere in 1997, we must have the lowest possible set-aside rate and limit the ceiling to 5 % and no more this coming year.
In 1992, the PACT programme on pilot actions for combined transport, came into effect for 5 years.
Recognizing the work of my colleague, the rapporteur, I should like to go along with his thoughts on the budgetary amount earmarked for this future regulation - 35 million ECU over 6 years - and wonder about the real political motivation behind the promotion of this type of transport.
The development of intermodal transport must be one of the priorities of a European transport policy.
The expansion of combined transport lies at the heart of the redeployment process and the new development of transport.
The development of the PACT programme heads in that direction and I welcome, in particular, in the proposal for a Council regulation, the implementation of arrangements for: improving the competitiveness of combined transport in terms of prices and service quality vis-à-vis road transport; -promoting high technology in the combined transport sector; -improving access for combined transport companies, regardless of their size.These arrangements prefer innovative and practical measures to the launch of prior studies.
This programming is accompanied by an increase in the resources in the PACT budget to 35 million ECU over six years.
In the coming years, these resources must be further increased.
The EU's agricultural policy must be reformed.
The crumbs left over from the budget proposed by the Council regulation for honey marketing and technical aid to health action of quality improvement bring the matter before a European Parliament which, on 20 January 1995, already drew attention to the difficult situation facing the European bee-keeping industry.
Failure to respect Community preference, profiting Chinese honey that now accounts for 30 % of world production or Mexican or Argentine honeys, requires compensation in the form of a premium to make up for that situation.
Bill Clinton's United States have not thought twice: they have imposed a 151 % tax to protect their honey.
Instead of these two premia, which are justified in a fifteen member European Union where 50 % of the honey marketed in the world is imported, 80 000 tonnes imported into Germany and 10 000 tonnes imported into France, the European Commission is only granting a budgetary credit of 15 million ECU, 11.6 million for combating varroa.
For a country like France, that means 14 million francs in aid, 10 francs per hive (there are 1 434 000).
The European Parliament approved unanimously, in its resolution of 20 January 1995 on the Commission's communication to the Council and the European Parliament on the situation of European bee-keeping, the setting up of certain direct support measures for honey production (pollination premium, the payment of a compensatory premium for loss of income due to the lack of Community preference).
Despite these important, necessary proposals for the survival of European and French bee-keeping, the Commission is now only proposing a few one-off measures, to pacify its conscience.
None of the measures proposed by the Commission meets the economic difficulties facing bee-keepers.
The Commission must propose a promotion policy, but above all a policy for introducing common marketing standards for Community and imported honey.
A joint amendment tabled by myself and Méndez de Vigo introduced that request to the Bourlanges-Martin report on the IGC, whereas many of those who have expressed astonishment today at the absence of tourism from the revised Treaty then voted against it...
A tourism policy geared to quality and competitiveness can contribute to growth and employment in the EU.
Tourism policy is such a broad area that giving it its own legal basis would open up the possibility of bringing in much too wide a range of concerns under this legal basis.
So we have voted against the text in points 15 and 19.
For good reasons: the policy conducted by the Member States was in the end a fairly wise one.
It is all the more curious that nobody calls into question the federalist dogma that we have before us, every day, the results of that system in a particular area, that of our external economic relations.
That means in particular that: 1.
The cost of these actions must be shared by those States taking part, according to a yet to be determined coefficient, such as GDP; 4.
If the European Union is incapable of defending its members' common trading interests energetically vis-à-vis their external partners, it is useless going any further and speaking of a common external policy.
It would also have been vital to specify, secondly, that a foreign policy is appreciated in terms of its effective influence on the ground.
We should not try and build a CFSP that demobilizes, demotivates or amputates national diplomacy: they are now the special channel of expression for European interests in the international arena.
The aim sought by the Member States is that of a common external policy, not a majority external policy.
We really must include the spirit of the Luxembourg compromise in the treaties.
Neyts-Uyttebroeck report (A4-0179/97) The report gives a good analysis of the problem of democratic control over EU institutions.
First, it can be said that political debate in the EU Member States is concerned with the activities of the respective national governments.
The growth of political debate at a European level is further complicated by the fact that there is no common media and because language, tradition, culture and political concepts differ so much between the Member States.
How is it possible for a European Parliament with 700 Members to properly represent approximately 500 million citizens, with all the different political groupings, different social groups and linguistic minorities.
The second point concerns points 10 and 11 in the report proposal where it is proposed that the European Parliament's co-decision procedures in the budget sector should be broadened by removing the difference between obligatory and non-obligatory tasks.
EU co-operation must be built on co-operation between independent states not through supranational government by a federal Parliament.
The role of the national parliaments is a fundamental criterion of the type of Europe that we want.
In a Europe of nations, the national parliament is the higher assembly which may delegate certain precise powers to the European Parliament, each time that it ratifies a modification of the Treaty.
In a federal Europe, on the contrary the European Parliament would be the higher assembly, and national parliaments would only retain local and subordinate powers.
It is a little more up front, however, when it says what that complementarity should actually consist of: the European Parliament should control the Community institutions, and the national parliaments should only control their respective governments.
The national parliaments do control the national level, but their duty, in ratifying the Treaty, is also to determine the rules of the European game and general relations between the two levels.
If Europe is now a victim of disillusionment and is suffering from the so-called democratic deficit, it is because too much ground has been given to the federalist conception of it, depriving the ordinary people of their natural framework of expression, their national institutions without that being replaced by a living participation in a European democracy.
That leads to the total opposition between our proposals and those of the federalists; they want to subordinate the national parliaments and we want to revitalize them; they want Brussels to control the nations; we want the nations to control Brussels.
It is not surprising in those conditions that the IGC, where there is a majority of governments in favour of the federalist approach, has only been willing to throw some crumbs to the national parliaments; the 'right' to be informed in good time of the Commission's legislative proposals; the 'right' to the six-monthly conference bringing together their representatives (COSAC), to submit to the attention of the Union institutions suggestions, modestly entitled 'contributions' , in particular in the areas of the third pillar or subsidiarity.
The NeytsUyttebroeck report, for its part, says hardly any more.
These microscopic proposals reflect very well the federalist spirit according to which the national parliaments should possess barely more than the right to information or make the odd suggestion when it comes to European matters.
The Europe of Nations Group wishes to restore the national parliaments' prime role, in a framework of a Europe founded on national democracies.
On the contrary, the national parliaments, when voting every year for their Community contribution, would verify whether the Brussels instrument is rendering them a good service and would reform it if not.
The report is partially an acknowledgement of the importance of national parliaments.
The lack of a common language and common media in the Union restricts the opportunities for political and democratic dialogue before a decision is taken.
The gulf between elector and elected will increase further as the EU expands.
But, faced with these problems, the report does not come up with an answer.
Instead it repeats the traditional proposals from the Parliamentary majority of increased power for their own institutions, despite the obvious lack of popular and democratic legitimacy.
Such a contribution containing 23 points was presented by critics of the Scandinavian Union in the David Group when the report by Martin-Bourlange was accepted on 23 May 1995.
The report contains a good analysis of the 'democratic deficiency' in the EU.
The report should have been formally sent to national parliaments with a request for comments within a defined period of time before being discussed by the European Parliament.
The report is a move in the right direction, so I have voted for it.
Relations between the European Union and China cover areas as varied as cultural exchanges, the development of trade relations and the questions of security and political stability in south-east Asia.
The Europe of Nations Group welcomes, in particular, the fact that China has now signed up to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty.
Our Group can only welcome the desire to pursue and extend European human resource development programmes in China, including one action in the field of legal cooperation.
That respect must be guaranteed even if it is not for us to import into China our model of political and social organisation.
The return of Hong Kong and Macau to China must take place in the respect of the political, social and economic freedoms that characterize the status of those territories and the political traditions to be found there.
The question of dumping practices is extremely important here: the existence of these practices can be deduced from a comparison between the normal value of products and their export prices towards the European Union, which are far lower; that is prejudicial for European producers, as shown by an increase in imports from China, the increase in the country's European market share and their low prices which have seriously affected the financial situation facing Community industry.
It expresses in the clearest possible terms Parliament's demands that the freedom and rights of Hong Kong and Macau should be respected.
We therefore welcome the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy on the Commission communication, in which the committee insists on the need for the implementation of policies on reforms, growth, integration and stability in the region.
Today, nobody denies these three countries' natural vocation to enter the European Union.
The challenges of this cooperation are many since they concern cultural exchanges, research, the economic development of countries weakened by fifty years of imposed communism, the fight against organised crime and the consolidation of the political stability of this region of Europe.
It is vital for the European Union to respond to the high hopes of the peoples of eastern Europe with a language that is far more encouraging than convergence criteria and simple incitations.
Madam President, the repeated attacks by groups of French farmers persistently blocking the free movement of goods, a basic principle of the Union, has reached a situation calling for energetic action, as it has not only threatened lorry drivers physically but has actually threatened their lives.
It is clear that we cannot speak of completing or achieving the single market if one of its main planks, the free movement of goods, is not being carried out.
It is vital to introduce into the reformed Treaty the possibility for the Commission to impose immediate financial penalties on Member States, institutions or sector representatives who break the rule on the freedom of circulation.
I am still sincerely confident that the European Parliament's opinions are not just paying lip-service to our revulsion and that the Commission and the Council as a result will act fairly, energetically and rapidly, to put an end to these attacks which are repeated, year after year, in spite of the lamentable passivity of the Commission, the Council and above all every French Government.
Madam President, one of the regions suffering most from these unjustifiable attacks on Spanish lorries carrying fruit and vegetables is Murcia, for three reasons: the number of its lorries and drivers, the size of its fruit and vegetables production and because exports and marketing are a major activity in the region.
One more year and we are attacking this serious attack on a basic principle of European construction, the free movement of people and goods.
A year ago, more or less to the day, I said that I wanted to know one name of someone who had been found guilty in France and condemned for these crimes.
But the European Parliament, faced with a flagrant attack on the free movement of goods and one of the pillars of European construction, must demand that the Council and Commission, once and for all, take measures to stop these regrettable events taking place year after year.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we are debating recent acts of vandalism by French producers against Spanish fruit and vegetables.
Of course, we can only denounce these acts of violence and vandalism.
For example, in respect of tomatoes - the subject of the most recent clashes - on St Charles market, in Perpignan, in April supplies of Spanish tomatoes hovered around 800 tonnes per day, compared with 100 tonnes for French produce.
Similarly the calls to boycott our products from Spanish farmers across the Pyrenees to respond to the attacks by French farmers are no more excusable.
It must ensure the regulation of production and prices and avoid any unfair competition between Member States, preventing products from being put on the market at prices lower than their production costs and more seriously controlling mass imports from non-Community countries.
Madam President, we can only condemn the acts of violence perpetrated against Spanish lorry drivers.
It is an agricultural problem and it has to be recognized that, in a way, this violence reveals the depth of the discontent among fruit and vegetable producers faced with a loss of markets, a disastrous drop in prices and dumping practices.
Madam President, once again we are dealing with a problem that we face every year at around this time of year.
It is a problem related to Article 35 of the Treaty on Union which guarantees the free movement of goods and all Member States are obliged to guarantee that right.
Madam President, this piece of fruit lacks, in practice, the right to free movement of goods as enshrined theoretically in the Treaty on European Union.
The Commission, as guardian of the treaties, should also ensure that this piece of fruit can move freely within the European Union.
This occurs every year because certain producers want to dominate certain markets and oppose the free movement of fruit and vegetables.
Only in that way, next week in Amsterdam, can the Council make sure that this piece of fruit has the same right as persons, capital and other goods to move freely within the single market of the European Union.
The Commission agent asserted that this case related to continuous action over more than 10 years and that the incidents referred to had continued into 1996 and 1997.
The rule of law is not working in France with respect to fruit and vegetables.
Commissioner, you must also offer urgent specific Community aids to those affected and restore, by means of Community action in this sector, the conditions of free competition.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of a certain inability on the part of the French authorities to control the unrest caused by a group of farmers against agricultural products from other Member States, especially Spain, the Commission would point out that, within its jurisdiction as guardian of the treaties, it was able to use the infringement procedure in order to oblige France to fulfil its obligations pursuant to Articles 5 and 30 of the Treaty.
That case is before the Court of Justice; the hearing was held on 10 June and the Advocate-General is to present his opinion on 8 July, so it is appropriate to await the Judgment of the Court of Justice.
This is, however, no passive waiting, since the Commission, as soon as it heard of the first incident on 24 April, immediately contacted the French authorities to persuade them to use their powers in the field of public order by adopting the measures needed to prevent and suppress violence, thus preserving the right to freedom of movement for goods, which is guaranteed by the Treaty.
On the other hand, the Commission, by means of a letter from Mr Commissioner Franz Fischler dated 4 June 1997, again urged France to take with the utmost urgency the measures needed to guarantee freedom of movement of goods in France.
As regards the Common Organization of the Market, the Commission would point out that, within the scope of the reform of the COM for fruit and vegetables adopted by the Council on 21 November of last year, provision was made for the setting up of operational funds intended for producer organizations which would make it possible to have a panoply of measures in order to improve conditions for the production and marketing of these products.
The decentralized operation of these funds makes it possible, therefore, for the producer organizations to target their actions more appropriately on those sectors in greatest need.
On the other hand, both in the reform of the mechanisms for withdrawing products from the market and in measures for finding an outlet for the products withdrawn there is even provision also for free distribution.
It is also necessary to point out that, at the end of the transitional period of the reform, it is planned to draw up a report on the operation of the COM in fruit and vegetables which will cover all products, including the strawberry sector.
I should in conclusion like to add, Mr President, that it is obviously an area of great concern to the Commission, which will under no circumstances shirk its responsibilities.
We at long last saw modest progress last year with the peace agreement in November and the introduction of democracy in March, but now it is back to square one.
At the same time I wish to condemn the intervention by Nigeria.
Madam President, I agree with the two previous speakers.
Over the crisis in Sierra Leone resulting from the military putsch, the ARE Group is obviously in favour of a return without delay or conditions to the legitimate constitutional order under President Kabbah.
We also wanted to speak out against the power of a regional military police force which Nigeria has taken on in this crisis and following other events.
It is time that the European Union used the tools at its disposal, in particular those given by the Lomé Convention, to help to restore law and order in Sierra Leone and condemn Nigeria's regional imperialism.
Madam President, Commissioner, back in March we friends of Africa were jubilant when a general, then governing as the result of a military coup, handed over power in Sierra Leone - a former British colony with less than five million inhabitants - to a 64-year old lawyer, a Muslim, like most of his fellowcitizens, with international experience but dressed in traditional robes.
But this once again shows that Europe, not just Britain or France, has no policy to deal with Africa's problems.
Madam President, the process of democratisation begun in 1996 by the holding of presidential and legislative elections collapsed on 25 May when the coup took place.
This civil war lasted five years and led to more than 10 000 deaths.
Vigorously condemning this coup, we call on the OAU to take the necessary initiatives to restore the democratically elected regime, that came to power in March 1996.
Until those conditions are met, we call on the Commission and the Council to suspend implementation of the Lomé Convention and all aid to the Sierra Leone Government.
Madam President, obviously the Commission condemns the coup d'état in Sierra Leone by Major Koroma.
A statement by the presidency on behalf of the European Union issued on 28 May deplored the overthrow of the elected government and urged the restoration of the democratic civilian government.
This statement reflects similar sentiments expressed by organizations and countries throughout the world: the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity, the Commonwealth, the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Japan and the countries of the region.
The crisis in Sierra Leone has resulted in de facto suspension of all aid programmes in the country.
However, the Commission believes it is important to send a strong message to the perpetrators of the coup that such action is unacceptable and will not result in any financial or other aid being provided from the donor community.
The European Union supports all efforts currently being undertaken to achieve a negotiated peaceful settlement to the conflict which would enable the return of the democratically elected civilian government of President Kabbah.
We are fully aware of the paradoxes and difficulties that may come from the intervention of ECOMOG and of the important role being played by Nigeria, as Mr Hory mentioned.
Finally, I would like to emphasize that it is important that the OAU takes the leading role in defining a strategy to counteract the coup perpetrators and the rebel forces of RUF which are supporting them in Sierra Leone.
The matter is high on our agenda and we have firmly maintained that no country which retains the death penalty is welcome in our Union.
So, Madam President, Parliament now issues a real challenge to the Council and the Commission and to our fifteen Member States.
Demand a moratorium on all executions at the UN General Assembly in the Autumn as a step towards the complete abolition of the death penalty throughout the world from the first day of the next millennium.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the fight for the abolition of the death penalty is in keeping with progress towards a humanity that is responsible for itself.
The debate is the same be it about the death penalty, the social clause or proper conduct in business.
Europe should therefore set an example and send a strong signal for the rest of the world to follow sooner or later.
I should like to take advantage of the presence of Commissioner Pinheiro to remind him that the last two joint assemblies of the ACP-EU approved resolutions in favour of abolishing the death penalty and that it is therefore very important to reiterate, on every occasion, whenever meetings are held or contracts signed, and in discussions with the ACP countries, which are many, the importance that the European Union attaches to abolition of the death penalty.
It may seem marginal to many people but it is important as it would enable us to begin to introduce the chapter on fundamental rights.
I think that that would be a third element on which to focus the action of the European Union.
There is a lot to be done but first of all I should like to ask Commissioner Pinheiro to ask his colleagues to make sure that the Commission, which also has an office in New York, has this important question put on the agenda of the next General Assembly of the United Nations.
Madam President, of the countries of Eastern Europe, it is the new members of the Council of Europe - Russia and Ukraine - which, in spite of their promises, have taken the fewest initial steps towards creating a humane system of criminal law.
I think that Europe has a culture of defending life and has therefore seen the biggest movement in favour of abolition of the death penalty.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, point 6 of the joint resolution proposes that countries wishing to accede to the Council of Europe should undertake to sign and ratify the second optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights as a condition of membership.
In the struggle against the death penalty, that is a very dangerous development.
I think that this phrase is attributed to Alphonse Karr, from the last century, in the debate on the death penalty.
It is, in any case, the philosophy underlying this resolution.
In order to be integrated into the Europe that we are building, abolition of the death penalty is not a sufficient condition for respect of human rights but it is a necessary one.
A baby survived, but only because it had been hidden in a cupboard just as the men entered the flat.
The utter brutality of this act of violence has horrified not only the people of Colombia but the international public too.
For years in the reports by the Commission on Human Rights the Colombian Government has regularly been urged to protect and respect human rights and the people who promote them.
Allow me to close with a few words in Portuguese to our Commissioner: I should like to tell the Commissioner that, unless we work together for human rights in Colombia, unless we fight together against the injustice which exists in Colombia, we shall resolve nothing.
We are also well aware that the Colombian government is not worthy of all the confidence which we, together with the Spanish PSOE and PP are placing in it.
The Colombian people deserve our aid, not the government.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we wish to express our solidarity with the victims' relatives and our condemnation and concern.
In February we included Columbia among the ten countries in the world with the most serious human rights and violence problems.
We trusted in the Columbian Government when the European Union and that government signed preferential trade agreements.
Madam President, a number of disquieting reports have been reaching our ears about serious human rights violations in Colombia, particularly in recent months.
However, as we have heard from the previous two speakers, there can be no doubt about the tragic situation which has arisen in regard to the family named in the resolution, and not only that family.
We are concerned, for instance, about another person, Neftali Vanegas, whose life is said to have been in danger in recent weeks and whose organization is at least partly financed by the European Commission.
The recent murder of three members of the Calderón family and the serious wounding of another exemplify the uncivilized savagery which has become a familiar feature of life in Colombia today.
Mario Calderón and Elsa Constanza Alvarado were killed as members of the human rights organization CINEP, which is committed to defending human beings against violence and terror and working for peace.
In the last six months it is estimated that 650 people have been the victims of violence in Colombia, including poor peasants and many others.
Further than this, however, we should reflect on the fact that the European Union played a key role in helping to restore peace in Central America and is cooperating with Latin America as a whole in a bid to achieve both closer relations and development.
If, on the other hand, so little is heard in public of the opposition leader Aung San Sun Kyi, despite her Nobel Prize and her Sakharov Prize, it may well be that even a two-and-a-half-hour debate, which is only right and proper, has to be regarded as something of a success.
But little though the voice of the opposition spokeswoman is heard, even less is heard of the thousands of children who die as a result of forced labour and other measures.
Only recently a prominent member of the NLD, 67-year-old Tin Shwe, died in prison.
Mr President, notwithstanding worldwide protests, ASEAN has finally decided to allow Burma to become a member, despite its continuing human rights violations and despite the continuing imprisonment of the elected prime minister, Aung San Suu Kyi, by the military dictatorship.
I may be being cynical, but I have to say that ASEAN seems determined to establish a reputation as a group of countries with lofty economic ambitions but little interest in democracy or human rights.
Just when President Clinton announces sanctions against Burma, ASEAN does the complete opposite.
But we need to persuade ASEAN to change its policy towards Burma.
I myself am not against taking economic sanctions, though I realize that this is a policy which is very difficult to sell within the European Union.
Croatia is no worse then the other States of the former Yugoslavia, but makes greater claims for being accepted as a cooperation partner of the European Union.
Mr President, this behaviour must stop along with similar excesses in Serbia and Bosnia.
For this reason we must draw attention, for example, to the fact that in Krajina, where 200 000 Serbs once lived, almost all these people have since been displaced, and that a temporary law adopted by the Croatian Government and Parliament has allowed Croats from other parts of the country to occupy Serbian property if the legitimate owner is absent.
The initial idea of the political groups was to condemn the Croatian Government, firmly, over its violations of human rights in Krajina and Slavonia.
The European Union will be able to intervene with credibility only when it acknowledges that it bears a major portion of the blame, firstly because of its great haste in promoting and extolling the break-up of the former Yugoslavia and, secondly, because of its delay in acting after the conflagration had started.
Until there is an end to the ethnic divisions, ethnic thinking and ethnic barriers which are preventing refugees from returning home, there can be no hope of any economic progress in many of the states concerned, especially the Republika Srpska, where ethnic thinking is at its height and there are still people in power who are solely bent on bleeding their country dry without any concern for their own people, and who are determined to pursue their own ethnic ideologies.
I am pleased to see that the resolution also calls for UNTAES to remain too, although that is a little different in that it is a confidence-building measure, but with SFOR it really is a matter of life and death for the people who live there.
And yet the right of free movement is being violated, as is the right of the displaced persons and refugees to return to their homes.
The Croatian Government is impeding their return by authorizing the confiscation of Serbian property through a temporary housing law and by embarking on a programme to settle Bosnian Croats in seized homes.
Street children in Moscow Mr President, this resolution concerns the plight of abandoned children, most of them homeless, in the city of Moscow.
Despite having some understanding for the financial difficulties confronting the municipal authorities in Moscow, the European Parliament is bound to censure any act of violence directed at people who are acting purely out of generosity, and must likewise censure the total abandonment of this small population of street children in Moscow.
Mr President, the topical and urgent debate on the street children of Moscow really highlights two different problems that have accompanied the massive political and economic upheavals in Russia.
The first is the dreadful social situation of many children in Russia.
The 25 % of the population who live below the poverty line inevitably include a great many children, and the problems that occur under these circumstances have long been familiar to us here in the European Parliament from other parts of the world.
Indonesia and East Timor Mr President, as we expected, the elections in Indonesia went very badly.
The massive victory of the Golkar Government will enable President Suharto to seek a seventh consecutive presidential term in next year's presidential elections.
The system really needs a breath of oxygen because, even if the country is doing well economically, in the future those who are not doing quite so well will have to be satisfied.
As for the situation in East Timor, we are also very worried about that.
We welcome the fact that it was possible to reach a joint compromise motion for a resolution which is to be put to the vote.
Mr President, in connection with these unfortunate elections it has become clear that violence is again on the increase in East Timor.
When Mr Ramos Horta, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, was visiting this parliament in April, he showed us East Timor activists a documentary film which showed how the police and the army crucifying people in prison.
The European Parliament has repeatedly called for a parliamentary delegation to be sent to East Timor.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution under consideration on the elections in Indonesia and the consequences in East Timor bears witness to the fact once again that the Indonesian authorities are systematically denying freedom, failing to respect human rights and perpetrating moral and physical violence.
When the Maubere people of Timor, assisted by the Secretariat-General of the UN, presented proposals for a peaceful solution to the conflict, the military dictatorship in Indonesia, ignoring the United Nations resolutions and showing flagrant disrespect for human rights, responded with violence and killing.
Nevertheless, one thing the Council can do is to insist on an agreement for ASEAN to have a democracy clause, as we discussed in relation to Burma.
In other words, not only has the process of democratic reform in that country been halted but so too have the charitable aid measures on which the country's survival depends, because the Government has no money and is even curtailing its own measures of assistance.
As regards the motions for resolutions on the abolition of the death penalty, I must confirm that the Commission, having been greatly impressed by the questions presented, regards it as essential to respect the guarantees embodied in the International Charter on Civil and Political Rights and on Optional Protocol No 2 seeking to abolish the death penalty and Protocol No 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
The Commission still thinks that the question of the abolition of the death penalty is implicitly covered by the clause which has systematically been included since 1995 in the agreements with third countries and which enshrines respect for democratic principles and human rights as an essential element.
It is in that spirit also that the Commission continues to support the local non-government organizations, which have as their objective the defence of human rights and democracy, and the Commission is currently paying for five observers to be present under the auspices of the United Nations High Commission for Human Rights in order to gain first hand detailed knowledge of the situation and to obtain specific proposals going beyond the scope of Colombia and applicable at international level.
Finally, Mr President, I should like to mention that in the field of the homeless, which is a highly worrying field, Commission, through the ECO, has managed to allocate approximately ECU 5 million to make a start on tackling this problem with our collaboration.
We are continuing to follow the internal situation of that country closely and we would say, unfortunately, that with the exception of the freeing of Aung San Suu Kyi last July, no significant improvements have been noted to date.
The Commission fully endorses the European Union's call for a State Law and Order Council in order to establish a productive dialogue with the other political forces with a view to reconciliation and the introduction of multi-party democracy.
The Commission hopes, finally, that the accession of Myanmar as a full member of the ASEAN will help to make human rights and democratic principles more constant and more continuous.
I should also like to mention that, as regards the sanctions imposed by the United States, we cannot have a dual standard.
We cannot condemn the Helms-Burton law because it is unilateral and extra-territorial whilst at the same time supporting the same measures implemented in Myanmar.
Having said that, I should like however to stress that the Commission will not omit in its proposals for collaboration between the European Union and ASEAN to stress this as an essential point.
Experience has shown for example that the question of human rights in Indonesia or the question of East Timor have never been placed on the agenda for the talks between the European Union and the countries of ASEAN, since they were opposed by Indonesia.
So, ladies and gentlemen, there is no guarantee that this question of human rights and the situation of democracy in Myanmar will be included in the talks between the European Union and ASEAN.
Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the peace process in the former Yugoslavia, at the Coordination Council meeting within the scope of the Peace Implementation Council held in Sintra on 30 May, it was stated that no parts of former Yugoslavia were fully respecting their obligations as regards the possibility for refugees, particularly those from minority groups, to return to their place of origin - with Bosnia-Herzegovina presenting special difficulties.
The Commission therefore fully supports the application of a stricter conditionality clause to all parts.
The future relations of the European Union with Croatia will depend to a large extent on the way Croatia respects the return of these minorities.
The municipal elections on 13 April were a success and the Croatian government's manifesto was a suitable basis for a constructive relationship with the Croatian Serbs.
Consequently, the Commission has allocated part of the funds available under the TACIS LIEN instrument to help these children.
The Commission is of course still following the situation through its delegation in Moscow and is naturally at Parliament's disposal for any more detailed work in this matter in conjunction with a visit due to be made by a parliamentary delegation to Russia very shortly.
However, the recent events in the elections in Indonesia and the violations of human rights in Timor remind us once again that this is perhaps one of the key elements in the coherency of the European institutions.
Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards cooperation with Belorus I shall simply mention that the Commission suspended last November the normal cooperation framework, that is the TACIS programme for Belorus.
Consequently the Commission is prepared to draw up within 1997 a considerably reduced ad hoc TACIS programme in favour of Belorus for an amount of ECU 5 million in order to help with the rehabilitation of the civilian population in accordance with the conclusions of the Council and with the views of this European Parliament.
The debate is closed.
Voting will take place at 5.30 p.m.
The situation facing Europeans there is especially alarming and it is very difficult to repatriate them.
The spectre of 1993 is hovering.
A boomerang effect towards Kinshasa cannot be ruled out.
Mr President, I obviously support the compromise motion put before the European Parliament by the radicals and liberals on the Congo crisis.
I should, however, like to draw your attention to an amendment that I have tabled, asking European countries to abstain from any military intervention in Brazzaville until they receive a mandate to do so from the European Union or the United Nations, except strictly for the purpose of ensuring the safety of their nationals.
Once again, France is to blame today in Congo, as it was in the case of Rwanda, Zaire, Central Africa, Niger and, unfortunately, as it probably will be in other African countries in the future.
The discredit in which France has placed itself by its imperial neo-colonial policy is such that even its best intentions are now suspect.
In this case, it seems that a French oil company armed the Congolese militia during the first clashes in Brazzaville just after the parliamentary elections.
According to French expatriates, the French embassy is more concerned with political influences in this crisis than the safety of its own nationals living in Brazzaville.
I think that the wisest thing for my country to do would be to give up most of its bilateral cooperation and put its human, technical and financial development aid resources at the disposal of the European Union.
Mr President, a very brief statement to stress that the Socialist group supports this motion for a resolution and the wording of the joint resolution and would draw attention to the point asking the parties to respect the implementation of the cease-fire, stressing the efforts by the President of Gabon and his proposal; on the other hand we for our part shall not be voting for the proposal just put to us by the previous speaker, because we believe that any military intervention in this framework should be in conjunction with a United Nations mandate and we shall therefore not be voting for this amendment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are some lessons to be learned from the dramatic situation in Congo at this moment.
There are 54 main tribes, divided into three groups: the Mbochis in the north, 13 % of the population, whose current leader is the former President, Denis Sassou N'Guesso; the Tekés in the centre, the Kongos and Bakongos in the south, 52 % of the population, represented in their sub-groups by President Pascal Lissouba.
The latter are divided among three States: Congo, Zaire and Angola.
The fourth point is that independence in the framework of colonial era borders - borders seen as inviolable - the major legal and political principle that presided over decolonization - is directly in contradiction with the right of people's self-determination.
Mr President, the tragic situation in Congo-Brazzaville is reminiscent of that in the neighbouring Congo, formerly Zaire, where the hopes for peace that were vested in Laurent Kabila by the European Community now seem to be evaporating, in view of the atrocities being perpetrated against defenceless, innocent people.
Mr President, the Commission shares the serious concerns expressed in the motion on the tragic events in Brazzaville and their consequences on political stability and the economic and social situation of Congo and the whole region.
The head of the delegation is still in the city.
He is in permanent contact with the Union's ambassadors in the country and I think that we are helping to ease the mediation referred to in the motion for a resolution.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, the absence of some Members shows how extremely difficult it is for Parliament to function in Strasbourg.
I wish to concentrate on tigers, because these magnificent animals are on the brink of extinction and a good number of those which remain are in India, a country with which I am connected as chairperson of the Delegation for relations with the countries of South Asia.
Training of customs agents and exchanges of information so as to help them recognize illegal products is essential, and the European Union countries can all help with the technical assistance needed in less-developed countries.
Other species are at risk too: the vicuña in Peru, Argentina and Bolivia; the whale, following a proposal from Norway and Japan; and the Caretta turtle, in view of a request from Cuba.
It is true that in some cases, thanks to CITES, there has been an increase in the population of certain species, but it is also true that if downlisting under the Convention were to be accepted, this would inevitably give a boost to illegal trade and the situation could become untenable.
That is why I welcome the fact that, just as the Zimbabwe conference on protecting these endangered species is taking place, the European Parliament should also make it clear that we, the representatives of the nations of Europe, are determined to save the world's fauna for our children.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PPE Group supports the joint resolution.
But we must also ensure that animals are properly protected.
I should like to take this opportunity to urge the European delegation most strongly to fight for the tiger's survival, and I would also call on the other CITES countries to ban all trade in tiger products and to take extra measures to save the tiger from extinction in this unparalleled way.
The Conference of Parties to CITES, currently being held in Harare, is attended by all Member States that are party to the Convention and the Commission is actively involved in the establishment of common positions in the spirit of the new regulation, on both precautionary and sustainable use principles.
However, since the discussions in Harare have just started, the Commission is not yet in a position to provide definitive answers on the final outcome of the proposals under discussion.
We support the resolution.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
I hope and trust that all Members and all members of staff will make every effort to attend.
VOTES (continuation) The Commission proposal to set up a voluntary service to involve young people in collective interest activities in the Union or a non-Community country possibly reflects a good intention but seems to be founded on no legal basis in the Treaty.
Article 126, the only article mentioned in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, only concerns questions linked to education and the education system.
We find this practice alarming - it is a current practice in Brussels, according to which the Treaty is put in the cupboard as soon as the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament agree not to apply it.
The Treaty is the European Union's law.
By the way, this situation shows just how much we in Europe lack genuine controls over the respect of subsidiarity that are sufficiently strong and independent to put an end to such deviations.
The area of youth policy is not mentioned in the Maastricht Treaty, and that is how it should remain.
The idea of sending thousands of young Europeans into a Member State, for a sufficiently long period for it to be effective, in order to carry out a given task, to be there and be useful, turns this programme, far more than traditional youth exchanges, into a genuine tool of citizenship.
It has always done all it could to involve young people in Union life and increase their opportunities on offer at European level.
It is therefore quite logical that it should have supported the Cresson initiative to relaunch the idea of a European voluntary service of young people by creating, in 1996, a new budgetary line B3-1011 designed to fund this action.
This report establishes the bases of a new participation by young people in European citizenship.
Thanks to the voluntary service, all young people aged 18-25 years - and sometimes as old as 29 - will be able to take part in public utility actions across the Union.
The structure of the programme is highly decentralized, rightly so if we are to encourage the necessary flexibility on the ground.
We are asking for 80 million ECU for the period 1998-99.
This is in keeping with the financial perspectives and it is very low in terms of the benefit for young people involved.
The European Voluntary Service may be a valuable instrument for consolidating a more human and more competitive Europe - two dimensions which, provided they go together, will define a new Europe.
I hope that the Member States will accept the commitment to increase this programme exponentially by a minimum of 10 % per annum in order to guarantee that in a few years' time all young people between 18 and 25 shall have access to the Voluntary Service which will naturally turn them into European citizens.
I must congratulate Mrs Nicole Fontaine on her report on the Commission's proposal for a European voluntary service for young people, a Community action programme.
Of course, it should be noted that this Community initiative has already enabled several hundred young Europeans to enjoy this experience, a practical act of European citizenship.
It was nevertheless vital, as our rapporteur rightly emphasized, to strengthen and broaden participation in the programme.
That is why I fully approve of the proposals aimed at increasing spending on the first two years of implementation of the programme and lifting obstacles to the widest possible participation by young people.
The Member States should take the necessary measures to make their national civilian service programmes compatible with this voluntary scheme.
This programme should make it possible for as many young people as possible to have an experience of general interest in another Member State or outside the European Union, undoubtedly contributing to making Europe more practical for the younger generations.
Plooij-Van Gorsel report (A4-0153/97) The European ICT industry offers great potential for employment and for the improvement of democracy.
We therefore welcome the initiative report produced by the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, in which both the European Union and the Member States are called upon to take the necessary legislative measures to strengthen free market forces as soon as possible.
The development of information and communications technology must not be held back by a lack of legal security.
Marset Campos report (A4-0170/97) . (DA) It is important to bring about a sustainable development model in the European Union - both in order to increase employment and to create attractive job opportunities.
But it seems that these Inuits live in sumptuous houses on the west coast or the east coast, or in Amsterdam, or in Paris, or in Tel Aviv.
However, we are not as sceptical as the rapporteur with regard to the exemptions included in the agreement to safeguard the cultural heritage of indigenous peoples.
It would also show that, here in the Union, we trap between four and five million animals in traps for which there are no EU standards at all.
A European Parliament resolution to reject the international agreement will certainly not bring about any improvement in animal welfare.
I have supported the rapporteur's call to reject this agreement between the EU, Canada and Russia on animal traps.
The fact that this agreement as it stands would allow for their use for at least another four years is therefore unacceptable.
Sport, after all, was drawing nations together before we founded the European Union, and so we should at least recognize the great significance of sport in Community life.
But in my opinion the very fact that a huge number of people are interested in sport must make us talk more about sport in the European Union too and accord it higher priority.
Every year the Commission comes to this Parliament with its budget, and we always find an empty line there.
We should therefore like to create a legal basis, so that we no longer have to keep trying every year to bring forward new arguments for the inclusion in the budget of resources for sport.
It is, of course, a very small percentage of the budget that is ultimately spent on sport, but it is spent to good effect in the Eurathlon programme and in the programme to develop sport for the disabled under the same budget entry.
That too would be enough to give it a legal basis.
I am glad to say that this wish has been anticipated in the Directive on television without frontiers.
However, we hope and expect that the national lists of important sporting events which the Directive requires will be drawn up in collaboration with the sports governing bodies, for they are the best advisers in that domain.
We also expect the Commission to get down at last to forming a task force in which the 18 or 20 directorates-general with responsibilities in the realm of sport can pool their efforts, since this would undoubtedly be a more efficient way of operating.
Since the Bosman ruling by the European Court of Justice in December 1995, sport has been a major topic of public debate.
Community standards influence sporting activities in innumerable ways, but the sports world is not able to influence decisions.
However, sports organizations and sports clubs are not consulted in the preparatory stages about legislation which affects them.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of my colleague, Giampiero Boniperti, who is unable to be present in the House today.
An amendment was tabled and adopted a short while ago calling for sport to be incorporated into the Maastricht Treaty, with particular reference to general education, vocational training and employment.
As the mother of two children, she has taken an interest for many years in the problems of young people, especially those in troubled inner-city areas.
Mr Florio, excuse me if I sound pedantic but, according to the Rules, you are not allowed to deliver anyone else's speech in the House.
Mr President, as Parliament's longest-standing rapporteur on sport, I am very pleased with the Pack report.
Mrs Pack, you have put sport back on the agenda, which is important.
Mrs Pack says 'I hope so' , and so do I.
Sport does not recognize the European Union, and the European Union does not recognize sport.
We can declare a European year of sport, we can set up a youth fund, we can organize an annual European sports forum - all very laudable gestures, but far too superficial to bridge the gap between sport and the European Union.
That is why we need to give constructive dialogue top priority, and Bosman must surely have taught us all a lesson.
So, Commissioner, use this Green Paper as an opportunity to consult the sporting world in detail, and let us develop a structural approach and closer cooperation in this field.
Sport has always exercised a strong cohesive influence over young people and encouraged the development of positive values such as determination, courage, tolerance, loyalty and friendship.
Until now, the European Union has taken an interest in sport solely as an economic activity, often overlooking its cultural and social dimension.
A second very important point is the rapporteur's request that the Commission should set up a task force to look into the different aspects of sport, and draw up a green paper launching a comprehensive action plan.
We Greens also seek the support of Parliament for our amendment calling for the national and international federations to agree to comply with Directive 337/85 and its subsequent amendments concerning environmental impact assessments for major sporting events.
Mr President, in the European Union sport has more than 100 million practitioners in thousands of clubs, and yet the European institutions still neglect it.
But we cannot mention sport without a word on the Bosman judgment, especially on the broadcasting of sports events on the TV.
The sporting world in general, and more specifically that of football, suffered a severe shock over the Bosman ruling, which caused such an uproar and upheaval that there are now serious difficulties affecting relations between clubs and above all the training of young players, as well as the very survival of thousands of amateur sports clubs.
Now, the logical consequence of the Bosman ruling should be to declare that state aid to professional clubs must be seen as a violation of Article 92 of the Treaty, particularly state aid to economic entities, because it cannot be justified and is simply a distortion of competition.
Mr President, Mrs Pack not only organized an excellent hearing on the subject of sport, but she has also produced an excellent report for us to discuss today.
Firstly, legitimacy, in other words a legal basis produced by including sport in the Treaty.
The importance of sport has hitherto been totally underestimated in the EU; on the rare occasions it is ever mentioned, it is considered as a purely economic factor.
Lastly, sport is also extremely important as a means of international understanding when it takes the form of fair and sporting contests with other countries, when people take pride in representing and supporting their own nations without letting that pride spill over into senseless and excessive nationalism.
I totally back the call to include a reference to sport in the Amsterdam Treaty.
Maastricht recognizes the significance of culture in clause 128 but for millions of Europeans sport is more important.
Next month in Portsmouth, my constituency, I am attending the opening of the Special Olympics organized for young people from across Europe with severe learning difficulties.
That said, since in Amsterdam we are going to be debating important questions for the future of the European Union, I hope that this report can be considered by our Heads of State and Government as a useful contribution to a major debate on the European Union's competences.
The question of sport broadly departs from the framework of sport proper.
Secondly, the relationship between TV and sport.
Thirdly, as has been mentioned, the social role of sport.
Sport is an excellent instrument for creating jobs; sport as an instrument for combating social exclusion, poverty in less favoured communities; sport as a vehicle of integration par excellence; sport as a means of forging links between people from different parts of the world or different walks of life.
Those are just some aspects which, in my opinion, the Commission should take seriously when looking at sport in the future.
I think that the idea of a Green Paper is an excellent one and even that of a task-force.
It should be strengthened by improved cooperation between the Commission services: education, culture, research and even external relations and DG X.
Inasfar as I can speak on behalf of some of my colleagues, I have to say that it is the Commission's intention to present a communication after Amsterdam.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m.
The report deals with exemptions from excise duty applied to certain mineral oils.
The reason why we are dealing with it now is that it arises from a review of those exemptions which needed to be undertaken and that review was provided for in the basic legislation on excise duty agreed in 1992.
About 80 exemptions are treated, covering all 15 Member States, and they are the ones dealt with in this report.
A large number of exemptions were agreed back in 1992 at precisely the same time that the excise Directive was adopted.
This is something that in principle Parliament does not accept.
There is a second package in the list of exemptions, which has been adopted over time and which more or less follows the rules set out in Article 84 of the 1992 Directive which deals with these very exemptions.
Finally, there are some more exemptions, making about 80 in total, that have got through the system by tacit agreement: a Member State indicated that it wanted an exemption, no one cried 'stop' so the exemption came to pass.
This has been a slow procedure and the result is that some of the timing dates mentioned in the proposal are now out of date.
Mr President, after Mr Cox there is not much else to say.
I was thinking as I was listening to the previous debate that for the first time in 68 years Kilmarnock has won the Scottish Cup, so I really have to think this is the year for change.
Mr President, we support the Commission's proposal to abolish a considerable number of the exemptions from excise duty on fuels.
All the proposed amendments which alter the effective dates in the draft Council decision can be accepted without reservation.
The amendment to Recital 8 can also be accepted in principle, subject to detailed examination of the drafting.
On the other hand, whilst the new Recital 8a precisely describes the Commission's intention to introduce a new procedure in its proposal for the restructuring of the system for the taxation of energy products, we cannot accept it as a new recital as it does not refer to any provisions in the body of the text and is not, therefore, legally justifiable.
In this context I should like to point out to Parliament that during discussions in the Council on the Commission proposals for the restructuring of the system for the taxation of energy products, the Commission will take the opportunity to come back again on the whole issue of the treatment of derogations and seek, through the introduction of a new procedure, a situation whereby no derogations exist for an indefinite period.
Mr President, in the principle of the matter there is no disagreement between Parliament and the Commission.
With regard to Amendment 5, that is, Recital 8a (new), which the Commissioner says cannot be accepted because it does not find a legal basis in the decision, the amendment refers to exemptions in the Council decision.
I do not dispute in any way that we are in full agreement as regards the substance of the issue.
The debate is closed.
