Thank you very much. (Sustained applause) Mr President, I rise on behalf of the Socialist Group to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of this House.
Thirdly, my third expectation of a President of this House is that he make this Parliament more relevant and more accessible to the people of the European Union, making it more user-friendly and more people-friendly.
Mr President, on behalf of the Union for Europe Group, I offer my sincerest and warmest congratulations on your election, which gives us very special pleasure.
And, for good measure, this system was extended in 1994 to include the Quaestors, making it impossible for anyone outside the two main groups to be elected to that office either.
The effect of this kind of system is to kick into touch six political groups out of eight - and yet those six groups account for 40 % of the Members of this House. (Applause) Furthermore, another effect of this kind of system is the ruthless elimination from positions of responsibility of the elected representatives of the least numerous nationalities within Parliament, which is out of step with the European ethos that gives equal rights to every nation represented in this House.
When I came to our Group, Mr President, you said ʼI am a free man.
We ask you to voice the concerns of our citizens, 20 million of whom are without work in this Europe of ours.
It is an interpretation of Rule 17 which we should consider once again, on which we should work once again, in order to guarantee as much as possible that the election of the Presidency of the European Parliament should reflect as far as possible that person's political ability to represent as far as possible all European citizens.
On behalf of my group I warmly congratulate you on your election!
Democracy in this House must also mean that women can hold this office! (Applause) Democracy in this House must mean that Members from all the Member States of the European Union have the chance to hold this office, and democracy in this House must also mean that Members from different political groups can hold this office.
Mr President, I should also like to congratulate you on your election, on behalf of my colleagues in the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Commission and on my own personal behalf I too should like to offer you my very sincere congratulations on your election as President of the European Parliament.
Please continue, Mrs Green.
We have always said that we are amenable to amendments of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but I would emphasize that here in this multicultural Parliament which has members from 15 Member States we apply a system which is fair and which, compared to other systems, is thus in my view the best method for this Parliament.
The following nominations have been received: Mr Anastassopoulos Mr Avgerinos Mr Capucho Mrs Fontaine Mr Gutiérrez Díaz Mr Haarder Mrs Hoff Mr Imbeni Mr Marinho Mr Martin Mrs Péry Mr Podestà Mrs Schleicher Mr Verde i Aldea The candidates have informed me that they agree to stand. (The vote took place) We shall now scrutinize the vote.
Mr Falconer, you have the floor.
Thank you very much, Mr Falconer.
Ladies and gentlemen, Rule 15 of the Rules of Procedure clearly and expressly demands for the first rounds of voting to be conducted by means of ballot papers.
Mr President, If I understood you correctly when you were talking about the electronic voting, you said that we can only vote in favour.
Obviously, all Members of the Parliament can use any of the three buttons they wish.
Only the votes 'for' will be counted and may I remind you all that all we are doing is establishing an order of vote.
May I remind you that the total number of votes which everyone obtains will decide the relative order and could I ask all members, please, not to indicate how they have voted.
Everyone should therefore be sufficiently aware of the meaning of their vote. (The vote took place) The result of this vote according to the election officers here behind me is 254 votes. (Applause) There is no need to know how many Members voted, because we are simply determining the order of precedence.
But I see no problem with disclosing that there were 470 voters.
Mr President, I think that under Rule 13 the ballot you just held is not admissible because you influenced the vote.
In a secret ballot - which is what the first and also the second ballots were - all the candidates are elected at the same time and then you announce the results at the end.
I have tried to facilitate the expression of this Assembly's will in terms of the order of precedence of the three Vice-Presidents but of course the President's interpretation can always be reviewed by the Committee on Rules of Procedure and so that decision will be conveyed in due time.
Mr President, I believe you are quite right to refer a number of matters arising in connection with this vote to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
I remind Members that according to Rule 16 of the Rules of Procedure the number of Quaestors shall be five.
I declare the ballot open. (The vote was taken) The ballot is closed.
