Our model of community is now being imitated on other continents.
If we are to fight the common market in crime, we have to have a genuine European judicial and police area.
It appears clear that the great majority of the Member State governments are willing to discuss this question seriously at the Intergovernmental Conference.
Peace, ladies and gentlemen, also depends, in our Union, on the preservation of a broad social consensus on the form of distribution of the fruits of labour and wealth.
This consensus is the product of a long struggle, which entailed great sacrifices for the working class until often bloody confrontation was gradually replaced by the general realization that dialogue and agreement between the social partners represent the best means of progressing firmly towards increasing social justice.
This model is founded on a delicate balance between the three values which are common to all truly democratic societies: liberty, equality, and fraternity or solidarity.
None of these can be sacrificed without democracy suffering and social peace being put in jeopardy.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is the responsibility of our Parliament to ensure that these values preside over the development of European integration and the workings of the Community institutions, beginning, obviously, with this Parliament itself.
However, it would be an unforgivable error to confine our efforts to the changes required simply to ensure the smooth internal running of our institution; the true objective is to bring Parliament closer to the citizens.
The effort which we make to get closer to the citizens over the next two-and-a-half years, and our ability to relate to their anxieties and problems, will, to a large extent, determine whether they see the 1999 elections to the European Parliament as a politically important moment, capable of influencing the future direction of European integration.
The second challenge facing us is that of economic and monetary union.
Our Parliament will have a particular challenge to rise to in this field: it will have to ensure that these policies correspond to the needs and interests of our fellow citizens, and that the sacrifices required to reform our economies will lead to job creation and the elimination of social exclusion.
Thank you, Mr Colom i Naval.
Mr President, the Minutes of 13 January state that I have been appointed as a Member of the European Parliament.
In the United Kingdom, even when a vacancy occurs mid-term in the European Parliament, we do not take the next Member on a party list; we have a by-election. (Applause) Thank you, Mr Corbett.
I am sure that your remark will be taken into account by the Intergovernmental Conference, if it decides to address the issue - which affects us so profoundly - of establishing a uniform electoral procedure.
Thank you, Mr Falconer.
That has been noted, Mr Herman.
I ask you, please, to report on what the Bureau of this Parliament decided to do about that gross breach of conduct in this House.
Very well, Mrs Green.
I shall gladly read out, for everyone's information, the last two paragraphs of the minutes of the Bureau meeting - although, as everyone knows, the Bureau minutes are a public document which is distributed to all Members.
This decision of the Bureau raises several issues.
Secondly, I would ask you to confirm that the letter was sent to the Member concerned and to read to this House that letter so that everyone is aware of exactly what has been said on behalf of this Parliament to a Member who engaged in a breach of conduct in this House.
Mr President, we all know that interpreting the Rules of Procedure is always an issue that stimulates great debate.
As it was a very sensitive vote on the Zimmerman report and a lot of the votes were very close indeed, where does that leave the validity of the actual vote on the report?
The result would have changed by one vote, but the outcome would have been the same.
I should therefore be grateful if Members would not persist with this issue.
If my information is correct, this was a very controversial amendment which was adopted by just one vote, in other words that of Mrs Baldi, who was not in the Chamber.
Mr President, I do not gladly intervene in this kind of discussion, but this is a serious matter where the reputation of Parliament is at stake.
I wish to comment on the Rules of Procedure.
Neither Rule 117 nor Rule 110 makes any mention of the Bureau.
The Rules only mention the President.
Can I interpret your comments, Mr President, as meaning that you have just given formal notice to the Member concerned, pursuant to Rule 110, and that you have thereby taken your responsibility under the Rules?
Rule 110 states that: ' In serious cases of disorder, the President may - may , in other words, it is left to the discretion of the President of the sitting - after giving formal notice, move, either immediately or no later than the next sitting - it has to be on the same day or the following day, therefore - that Parliament pass a vote of censure which shall automatically involve immediate exclusion from the Chamber and suspension for two to five days' .
Perhaps the House did not remember that there is a deadline, but it is my understanding - and this is the prerogative of the President or the Rules Committee - that once those two days have passed, it is not possible, according to the Rules, to take the disciplinary action provided for by Rule 110.
Nevertheless, I give an undertaking that the Minutes of today's sitting will be sent to the Rules Committee, so that it can examine this interpretation, if it thinks fit.
As things stand, however, both Mr Hänsch and I take the view that Rule 110 establishes a clear deadline.
Consequently, neither the Bureau nor Mr Hänsch, in application of their powers, was able to take disciplinary action in this case.
Hence the Bureau considered - and I have read out the minutes of its meeting - that Mr Hänsch, in application of his powers to ensure order in the Chamber, was fully authorized to send a letter to the Member concerned.
In these circumstances, and in view of the fact that the Rules do not specify whether or not the letters should be read out, I shall leave that decision to the House.
We all know that 'one person, one vote' is absolutely central to the work of this Parliament and I have to say to you, Mr President - and I hope you will listen very carefully - that you are the fifth president of the European Parliament that I have raised this issue with.
Thank you, Mr McGowan.
I now put to the House my proposal to read out the letters in question. (Parliament agreed to the proposal) I shall therefore read out the letters.
If a Member chooses to defend himself from an accusation made against him by means of a letter, then the least that we can do as democrats is to listen to his reply.
Two Members have asked to speak on this matter.
Mr President, I have no intention of prolonging this debate, but having been in the chair at the time and had the very difficult task of dealing with this matter, I feel I owe Members a word or two of explanation.
As Mr Anastassopoulos has rightly said, the wording of Rule 110 is extremely clear.
The President may exclude a Member.
Mrs Muscardini, this matter is closed.
Mr President, I am referring to the official seated on your right, who perhaps has no eyes to see this area of the Chamber, but who has looked at me five or six times.
It is therefore necessary to hold a third ballot.
Since there are now only two seats to be filled, Members may not indicate more than two names.
In the event of a tie, the eldest candidates will be declared elected. (The vote was taken) I would ask the tellers to go to Room 3 on the second floor to count the votes.
The Irish presidency of the European Union, which has just concluded, was characterized by very close cooperation with Parliament.
There were about 40 separate meetings between Irish Ministers representing the presidency and various committees of Parliament.
In particular, the agreement on the Stability and Growth Pact, the agreement on the new Exchange Rate Mechanism and on the legal status of the Euro, which were concluded at the end of the Irish presidency were a major step towards sound money in the pockets and purses of Europeans.
I would particularly like to pay tribute to my colleague, Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, of Luxembourg, for his contribution at the meeting in Dublin to what we achieved.
I am glad to say that during the Irish presidency we achieved substantial movement forward in making the streets, and indeed the rural areas, of Europe safer for our citizens.
We agreed a resolution on serious illicit drug trafficking.
Furthermore, we took a very important decision in Dublin when we agreed to commission a major report on organized crime, which the Dutch presidency will receive in April this year.
The other important objective is that of secure jobs for Europeans.
If you look, for example, at the use of heroin in Dublin, the city I am most familiar with, there is a very close correlation between the level of long-term unemployment in a particular and closely identifiable geographical area, and the level of heroin abuse.
That shows that there is a link between the problem of unemployment and many of the other problems we encounter as a society.
We adopted the Dublin Declaration on Employment.
It is an illusion to pretend that political institutions can solve the employment problem.
They cannot, whether they be national institutions or European institutions.
I believe that is the biggest challenge for the European Union.
That capacity is not something that you train people to have, it is something that you educate people to have - educating people, if you like, to find the strength that is already within them; educating them to realize that most of us only achieve 10 % of our potential and encouraging them to discover the remaining 90 %.
It is fair to say that during the Irish presidency Europe became more recognized as a player in the Middle East peace process, as a result of the first Dublin Summit.
We have also seen a qualitative improvement in our relationship with the United States during the Irish presidency.
The action taken by the President of the United States in regard to suspension of the operation of Title 3 of the Helms-Burton act can be directly traced to the success of the pre-Christmas Summit between the European Union and the United States.
If it is not concluded in Amsterdam on time as planned, the whole process of enlargement will be postponed and all the strategic considerations flowing from it will be left unaddressed.
I wish to conclude my few remarks here by saying that Europe, as I see it, has been looking inward for the last three or four years: we have been looking inward at the project of a single currency, the project of a new Treaty, the project of the single internal market.
If I were to state the major challenge currently facing European politicians it is not the question of what instruments we find to deal with the problems of the single currency, or what the precise relationship is between Parliament and the Commission or between the Council and Parliament.
Those sorts of issues are important to all of us here, but perhaps they are not very important to our citizens.
If we do a demographic projection forward 50 years, we know we cannot continue doing so or allowing other countries to do so.
That is the challenge for Europe in the years ahead. (Applause) Thank you for your statement, Mr Bruton, and for your kind opening words to the Chair.
The message is a very positive one: the two Regulations on the legal status of the euro have been approved in principle and can now be finalized, the first being due to come into force this year and the second by 1998, when the Council has ruled on which Member States will be participating in the euro zone.
The European Council has approved the new exchange mechanism, designed to safeguard the unity of the single market between the countries which join the single currency from 1 January 1999 and those which do not - the ins, the pre-ins and the outs.
In accordance with the Essen conclusions, the Council has adopted the second joint report on employment - another step towards joint mobilization, as indeed is the decision to set up the Committee on Employment and the Job Market, which is to play an important part in assisting the Council to prepare and implement the European employment strategy.
The social partners are moving, too, and, for the first time in the history of the Community, unions and employers have presented a joint declaration at a European Council meeting.
They are currently negotiating at European level on work organization and flexibility.
We need not only to perfect the internal market, the single market, but also to exploit its full potential.
There are substantial untapped reserves of growth and employment: I have therefore undertaken to present to the European Council in Amsterdam in June a plan of action and a detailed timetable for achieving this objective before 1 January 1999.
My intention is to restore the dynamism of the single market with specific, priority proposals designed to make good all the existing shortcomings.
Mr President, if there is one area in which the Irish presidency has made an exemplary contribution, that area is justice and internal affairs.
If the fight against drugs is a public priority, it was an Irish priority too, and Dublin has shown that it was a European priority.
Four programmes have been adopted that are designed to strengthen cooperation in the area of justice and internal affairs: GROTIUS, SHERLOCK, VOISIN and STOP.
The Council has decided to set up a high-level group responsible for drawing up a plan of action to a tight timetable.
Now, Mr President, I come to the matters that will determine the institutional future of the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you also wanted an opportunity to discuss the results of the Ministerial Conference in Singapore.
The European Union was able to obtain reaffirmation of the commitments entered into during the Uruguay Round, as we hoped, but those commitments have not been extended, which was the particular aim of those countries that export textile products and agricultural produce.
The Singapore declaration on multilateralism and non-discrimination in the services sector is encouraging, as are the agreement on information technology products and the political commitment to telecommunications.
I remain convinced that the future will enable us to press forward with our ideas, as indeed we can do here and now in the other two areas in which the Union is keenly interested: relations between trade and investment, and relations between trade and national competition rules.
The Dutch presidency will follow the same road, and we shall be discussing that this afternoon.
Ireland took over the presidency at a crucial time when the intergovernmental process was in the doldrums, when a concerted effort was needed to try to re-establish its momentum.
Whilst my group may have very many criticisms of the draft treaty which came out of the Dublin II summit - and many of these will be aired by my group's specialists later in this debate - there is little doubt that the Irish commitment to and success in producing a draft Treaty covering many of the vital areas under consideration was a very considerable feat, especially given the very real differences which exist between the Member States of the Union on sensitive issues such as: flexibility and qualified majority voting; employment and the social dimension: the third pillar and the fight against drugs; international crime and terrorism; the development of a common foreign and security policy; and enlargement of the Union and much, much more.
Ireland also took over the presidency at a time when the timetable for economic and monetary union demanded action, a time when the concept of EMU was under attack in many Member States and when it would have been simpler and much more comfortable simply to ease off the throttle and wait for the following presidencies to take up the challenge.
The presidency also met with the committees and political groups in this Parliament, while of course governing Ireland and engaging in the tortuous process of seeking real peace and reconciliation in Northern Ireland.
Perhaps it is to Ireland and its buoyant economy, its expanding potential and its burgeoning confidence that we should look when we ask ourselves why one of the Union's smallest countries should have performed so well in the presidency of the Union.
Ireland has exercised a measured and thoughtful role in this most difficult of areas as well.
In this Parliament we have congratulated Foreign Minister Dick Spring for his intelligent and sensitive handling of Europe's role in the Middle East peace process.
It has laid the grounds for the Dutch presidency and demonstrated that Europe can play a role internationally.
The President-in-Office will recollect that the European Union played a facilitating role in the Middle East peace process at the Barcelona Conference which launched the Union's Mediterranean policy.
Given the present tensions in the Eastern Mediterranean, the opportunity now exists for the Union to demonstrate its facilitating role again by using the arena of the Mediterranean Conference to bring together all those involved in the current tension - Turkey, Greece and Cyprus, all involved and committed to the Mediterranean process.
That was certainly the case with Taoiseach John Bruton and his ministers, who have carried out their task efficiently and with a strong sense of conviction towards Europe.
For us, this stability pact is not a strait-jacket for our economies.
The Irish presidency also succeeded in taking the IGC negotiations into a political phase.
When the IGC has been successfully concluded in Amsterdam, we shall have to make a start on enlargement.
That is why some very sensitive issues, such as the composition of the Commission, the powers of the European Parliament, the weighting of votes, majority decision-making in the Council and the competence of the Court of Justice will have to be resolved.
European diplomacy must become a genuine instrument of cooperation and collective security.
Unfortunately, despite the successes of your presidency regarding external policy, I am bound to say that the positions adopted in Dublin on relations with Russia, for example, on the conflicts in the Great Lakes region and the situation in former Yugoslavia still fall short of a real common foreign and security policy.
The remarkable progress - which is also being accepted in some national ministries - towards a real common police force, a kind of European FBI and a European legal area, augurs well for working together to combat terrorism, drug trafficking and international crime.
I hope that the momentum will not be lost, and that the Dutch presidency will take the helm in the same spirit, though we shall be discussing that shortly.
We are all very pleased at the success of Ireland's presidency.
To the Taoiseach and his colleagues in government and the many hundreds of civil servants who have been involved we say a very sincere thank you and we are very proud of you for a job well done.
I am also pleased to say that the summit in Dublin was one of the more successful summit meetings in recent years.
I welcome the progress made in Dublin on strengthening cooperation between European Union countries in the fight against organized crime and international drug smuggling.
The illegal drug trade is responsible for a great deal of misery in each of our countries and crime against people and property to fund drug habits means that large numbers of our citizens are living in constant fear for their personal safety.
The draft revision of the Treaties which was presented to the Dublin Summit by the Intergovernmental Conference represents a solid basis from which to proceed to the final and most controversial stage of the negotiations on a new Treaty.
One of the issues still to be decided in these negotiations concerns the number of European Commissioners to be appointed in the future.
It is vitally important to preserve the political legitimacy of the Commission in all Member States and in the eyes of each national electorate.
In the long run this will only be possible if each country has a full seat in the College of Commissioners.
A second institutional issue still to be decided concerns the future operation of the presidency of the Council of Ministers.
Well, the record of the Irish presidency during the last six months and in particular during the Dublin Summit, like the previous Irish presidency, demonstrates clearly that smaller Member States can organize efficient and successful presidencies and in many cases can broker agreements which larger Member States are unable to achieve during their presidencies.
Mr President, on behalf of the Liberal Group, I would like to begin by congratulating you and also by congratulating the Taoiseach and his colleagues in government on the excellent conduct of Ireland's six-month presidency of the Union.
I would also like to pay tribute to Ireland's public service which, though relatively small in number, has managed to rise to the challenge of preparing and coping with the presidency and, in many instances, chairing many of the 2, 000 and more meetings that are part and parcel of the work of the presidency.
Given the uncertainty that surrounded the issue prior to the Dublin II Summit, perhaps the single most significant political achievement was the agreement of the Stability Pact as part of the necessary preparations for economic and monetary union.
As well as obtaining agreement on the legal status of the Euro and the general principles of ERM II, the Irish presidency has maintained and deepened the momentum towards a single currency.
Mr President, although there is no Irish contingent in my group at present - but there is an associated party, which incidentally forms part of the Irish Government - I also wish to express my group's thanks for the work of the Irish team at the head of the Council presidency.
We certainly welcome the proposed new chapter on employment, but the draft treaty contains no reference to safeguarding public services or to the orchestration of job-creating policies.
We feel that there is a need to reconsider the third stage of economic and monetary union, and to reflect again on the effects which are being produced in some national economies and societies.
And we strongly disagree with the thrust of the pact on stability and growth.
I do not have time to say more, Mr President-in-Office, but I wish to say that our criticisms are made in good faith, and that we hope that your excellent work bears fruit in the future at the Intergovernmental Conference.
Mr Chirac said that Dublin had given us an image of a new Europe.
I also wish to see growth, and plenty of it - but growth of a very different kind.
The text itself really has very little to do with democracy: it proposes no increase in transparency or consultation, no increase in rights of participation, nor in democratic control.
Everything else will be taken care of by Europol and the euro, as if the euro and Europol were actually the key, the instant cure for all our problems, as if securing these two things would really benefit the people.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, now that the European Council in Dublin has finally got the single currency up and running, I shall confine my remarks to the work done at the Intergovernmental Conference.
That means, among other things, a genuine procedure of codecision between the European Parliament and the Council, the abolition of the unanimous vote, the establishment of the Commission at the centre of the Union's institutional system and a tougher cooperation clause to prevent any future deadlock or paralysis.
In conclusion, I should like to call formally upon President Santer to align the Commission with Parliament in this battle.
It would be incurring a serious responsibility if it were to fail to caution public opinion and the Member States against the dangers of any enlargement which is not preceded by a genuine institutional reform.
Mr President, the European Council in Dublin once again highlighted the disagreement between those States for which the single currency is merely an instrument of economic regulation and those for which it is a central element of policy.
Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating the Taoiseach, the Tánaiste, Mr De Rossa and also Minister Mitchell and Irish civil servants for clearly demonstrating once and for all that a small nation can not only shoulder the responsibility of hosting the EU presidency but can discharge its task with great success.
We should remember the experience of Maastricht.
For these reasons, I am wary of John Major's definition of flexibility earlier this week.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, the Dublin summit will probably be remembered as an important step towards the achievement of economic and monetary union, a major political objective for Europe, on the planned date of 1 January 1999.
So we must pay tribute, Mr President-in-Office, to the work done under your leadership during the past six months of the Irish presidency.
Apart from the significant progress achieved in the monetary field, the Irish presidency - in line with its stated priorities - has succeeded in achieving a broad consensus on the approaches to be adopted in future with regard to employment policy, and on improving the future coordination of activities to combat the drug trade, organized crime, terrorism and the sexual exploitation of children.
We must therefore congratulate the Irish presidency on its excellent results, and thank it for the efforts it has made to achieve those results.
The conclusion of the stability and growth pact, which can be seen as a decisive step towards the introduction of the single currency, will no doubt be the most striking achievement of this summit in terms of its impact on the future of European integration.
And that issue is not purely technical or economic, but political in the strongest sense of the word.
We are talking not just about a development but about a real change in the process of European integration.
Mr President, I should like to add my congratulations to the Irish Government on the excellent way in which it has conducted the presidency.
Mr President, all European Councils have a story behind them and some will go down in history.
It was also decided to defer all decisions concerning enlargement and employment, because enlargement cannot disturb the road towards a single currency, which is now a final decision, as the unemployed who so often have been called the priority of priorities should and could hope for.
Some changes to the security section of the document propose greater militarization of the European Union.
The Stability Pact for the EMU, brokered in Dublin, is not something to be joyful about, although furthering the battle against unemployment was a stated objective of the Irish presidency.
Less than one-third of Ireland's trade is with the probable founding countries of EMU, while 70 % of it is with Britain and the rest of the world.
I think this summit will be judged a resounding success at many levels.
Firstly, the Irish presidency was entrusted with the task of producing a draft treaty to replace Maastricht.
Not only did you do this on time, as promised, but you also came forward with a 140-page document which, unlike the present Treaty, can be easily read by ordinary citizens and, most importantly, they can make sense of it on that first reading.
I particularly welcome the commitment to streamline the codecision procedure, thus putting both sides of the European Union legislature, the Council of Ministers representing the Member States and us, in the European Parliament, representing the people, on a truly equal footing.
The second main area of success was undoubtedly EMU.
Finally, I welcome the Dublin Declaration on Employment.
The European Union must aim for greater coordination of employment policies and a growthorientated macro-economic policy.
I hope that they will report back so that the Irish public will be informed of the high esteem in which our leadership is held.
On employment, incentive measures are to be implemented, but there are no jobs to replace those being lost in the adjustment to the third stage of economic and monetary union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are three points I should like to raise in connection with this morning's debate.
Mr President, the presidency of these last six months, of which Dublin II was the summit in both senses of the word, has been the presidency of a small country.
And I believe there is a lesson to be learned here for the purposes of the institutional discussion at the intergovernmental conference.
The Dublin summit, for example, resolved nothing as far as employment is concerned.
Europe will be saved not by profit but by investment, by training, and I agree with what the Irish Prime Minister said about the importance of that subject.
A final word, Mr President.
I should like to pay particular tribute to the efforts of the Irish presidency in the field of internal security.
We should like to think that this will be the basis of the negotiating approach under the Dutch presidency, in terms of content and method.
Let me mention briefly two further points in the time I have left.
We must take care to see that we do not reach a situation in which the role of parliaments is downgraded - and the European Parliament is in the same boat as national parliaments in this respect - nor must we allow the creation of a new third chamber.
Mr President, the six months of the Irish presidency have been a period of intensive and productive effort.
They include the following points: the adoption of an important series of measures in the area of justice and home affairs; the progress made in respect of economic and monetary union, for example the approval of the structure of the new exchange rate mechanism; the agreement on the rules establishing the legal framework for the euro; the approval of the principles and main features of the growth and stability pact designed to ensure budgetary rigour in the economic and monetary union; the important results concerning the growth and employment strategy, which led to the adoption of a declaration on employment, in other words a common programme to identify a broad range of measures to be implemented at national and Community level, to strengthen the synergy between the macro-economic and structural policies in the Member States' programmes for employment and growth; and the presentation, as requested by the Florence European Council, of a general outline document for a draft revision of the Treaties, focusing on three main objectives - bringing the Union closer to its citizens, strengthening and broadening the common foreign and security policy, with the aim of achieving greater consistency and efficiency, and ensuring, with an eye to enlargement, the proper functioning of the institutions and the efficiency of the decision-making process.
Mr President, because of lack of time, I shall restrict myself to a brief and thus incomplete political assessment of the Ministerial Conference in Singapore.
One of the major gains was certainly the reaching of a multilateral agreement on information technology - the key sector for today and the future, which already has a worldwide turnover of USD 400 billion.
We should give our full attention to this aspect in future, especially in the light of the revision of the Treaties, and with a view to the next conference of the World Trade Organization.
Mr President, the Dublin Summit was yet another step towards the exacerbation of poverty and unemployment in the European Union.
The European Union must unequivocally condemn this aggressive attitude and action by Turkey.
Mr President, we all know that the WTO has a central role to play in the fair regulation of international trade relations.
To think it sufficient to stress that problem in a final declaration and then go away with a clear conscience, or to believe that it is enough to refer the question to the ILO on the pretext that international trade and social rights should be kept separate, is irresponsible to say the least, especially bearing in mind the limitations of that institution's power to act.
I take a very dim view of it because the Union could, and should, have done more to achieve the setting-up of a working group on social standards within the WTO.
My profound desire is that the Union should take strong action against any failure to respect human rights in the field of labour, and that it should not hesitate to take the necessary steps when specific illegal acts become known, as in Burma and elsewhere.
Concerns of this nature are also being aroused, however, by the planned extension of majority decision-making and the suggestion from the presidency, in its conclusions on the second Dublin summit, that the legal framework for the introduction of the euro should be based on Article 235 of the EC Treaty.
Lastly, the European Parliament's relationship with the national parliaments is not clearly defined in these guidelines, which nonetheless constitute a framework which we believe to be very important, and on which we offer our sincere congratulations to the Irish presidency.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add a few words on the conference in Singapore.
We went to Singapore in order to take part, and that should continue to be our practice in future.
The conclusion of an agreement on information technology products, with the green light for a future deal on telecommunications, is an historic event in terms of the further development of world trade.
As the European Union, we can take pride in our presence there, and I would only say that if we can sustain this kind of development, we shall also, in the long term, achieve our goal of free world trade.
Mr President, I too would like to talk about Singapore, and I believe we should have had a separate debate on this important subject.
China would rightly complain if - after satisfactory economic negotiations - political objections were raised to its entry.
We in the ELDR Group urge our negotiators to redouble their efforts to achieve a solution to these problems.
Then there was the single currency we have been promised for 1999, and the social clause drafted as if the country of Adam Smith, creator of the universal poverty of nations, could at the same time rediscover ultra-liberalism and talk about social affairs.
Fortunately, we also had Singapore.
But, Mr Santer, let us not go back to Punta del Este.
The United States has adopted the Fair act.
In April 1996 it severed the link between production and aid, and it is occupying a position of strength with a view to reopening negotiations at the end of the year 2000.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Irish presidency and, in particular, the Prime Minister and the Irish Finance Minister, for the progress that was made on economic and monetary union.
December 1996 will be seen as a watershed for the whole process of economic and monetary union.
I hope that all the people who signed up to that agreement, on the Pact for Stability and Growth, will honour it as it is written and that there will be no rearguard action either by members of the Monetary Committee or the Central Bankers or, indeed, any particular Finance Minister from any major Member State in the European Union to undermine the compromise that was reached in Dublin on that pact.
It is essential that the Irish Prime Minister and the incoming Dutch presidency honour that agreement.
If you look at the Irish economy, Prime Minister, you will see that in your own economy the role of public investment has been absolutely crucial in getting the sort of growth rates that you have had in recent years.
During the course of 1997 it is absolutely essential that the Council, the Commission and this Parliament seek to establish a mechanism as a counterweight to the centralized monetary authority of the European Central Bank so that we have some sort of economic governance within the European Union.
In his New Year message, speaking to his own people in his own state, he set out as one of his three objectives to work for the creation of a federal Europe.
National and regional parliaments have a very big role to play.
She based this on our trade flows with the United Kingdom and the rest of Europe.
Today we export 40 % of our goods to the hard-core countries of the European Union and 28.5 % to the British market.
Mr President, I hope you will forgive me, but I see the results of the Irish presidency and the Dublin summit above all in terms of their value as a starting-point for the Dutch presidency, especially when it comes to employment.
When we look at the results of your presidency, I have to say, in any event, that such a balance is not present in the draft treaty.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to speak about the third pillar: about what Dublin has achieved so far in that area, and about our expectations for the Intergovernmental Conference.
Our most important project in this respect is Europol.
Everything was agreed in the Maastricht Treaty, then long drawn-out negotiations on the convention caused delays, and now the project has become bogged down in ratification procedures in the national parliaments.
Probably not, because it is no longer election time in Germany.
We in Parliament have long been aware that in the Member States, the reservations over national sovereignty - and that is ultimately what is at issue - are more important than taking effective action against crime at European level.
The members of our group have no hope of a change of attitude in the Council of Ministers or on the part of the Member State governments.
It is to you that we look, Mr President of the Commission.
I am thinking of UCLAF, the anti-fraud unit, which could be much more active in tackling organized crime.
Mr President, in terms of square miles, Ireland is not one the largest Member States of the European Union, but it is a major player in terms of what it has achieved.
Rapprochement between the Member States, which was tried successfully in Essen two years ago and has now been documented in the Dublin declaration, is the best way to achieve greater joint responsibility, coordination and cooperation at European level.
There is less reason than ever to oppose a meaningful future Treaty chapter on employment.
Mr President, in my two minutes I wish to focus briefly on one aspect of the outcome of the WTO Conference in Singapore: the question of observance of internationally recognized core labour standards in worldtrading arrangements.
That was no easy task given the hostile position of some of our own Member States, not least the United Kingdom, to any mention at all of core labour standards in the final declaration.
Some will be disappointed with the paragraph on labour standards which appeared in the final declaration because it does little more than reaffirm a commitment to the principle of such standards, underline the role of the ILO and note the need for continuing collaboration between the ILO and WTO secretariats on this matter.
The Socialist Group calls upon both the Commission and the Council in their preparatory work for the next ministerial conference - and that needs to begin now - to build upon the reference that we now have to ensure that progress is made on core labour standards, as well as environmental standards, and to ensure that we have world trade which is fair as well as free.
I wish to thank the Irish presidency sincerely for its valuable work on this issue.
Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating the Irish presidency on the excellent job it has done during the past six months and for its excellent cooperation with the European Parliament, in particular in the area of the environment and in international cooperation, as was the case in Singapore.
Mr President, unfortunately, in Singapore, nothing was done about the environment.
The European Parliament has been demonstrating for two years now its total opposition to the lack of decisions concerning the relationship between environment policy and the GATT norms.
In Singapore, under the brilliant leadership of Willy Declercq, the European Parliament delegation manifested at all fora the fact that it will not accept that the World Trade Organisation continues to overlook thirty years of international environmental law, continues to ignore the legitimacy of conventions fighting the traffic in endangered species, fighting the tourism of toxic waste, protecting the ozone layer or trying to diminish climatic change.
Thanks to Sir Leon Brittan the Commission completely ignored the will of the Council of Ministers and that of the European Parliament in pursuing a policy which does not apply the existing Community law - Regulation 91, and completely ignores the European Parliament's vote, ignores the Council of Environment Ministers which took place in December.
Mr Santer, you can be sure that we are going to censor this behaviour by the Commission concerning trade and environment and in particular the issue of leg-hold traps.
At last, we can appreciate how great the international impact of monetary union is going to be, because we need a stable monetary framework at international level too, after the collapse of the Bretton Woods system.
Our system of rules is far too underdeveloped, not only in the area of social and environmental standards, but also in relation to the way in which international competition operates.
That is why we need a system of international competition that will help to make fair international trade a reality.
A presidency and a Commission cannot achieve anything when it becomes clear in Singapore that the European Union is divided on the question of rules in this area.
That is why we need what GATT and the WTO have always sought to achieve: fair international trade, governed by rules, on the lines that we in the European Parliament have always advocated.
This is the second time in my life that I have spoken before the European Parliament, the first being in September.
It is a positive debate where people are demanding that Europe should do more but in those demands there is the underlying feeling that they are confident that Europe has the capacity to do more.
That change of atmosphere from September to January is a great credit to the leadership of Parliament and it is also a sign of health in Europe.
It introduces for the first time into the Treaty the concept of sustainable development, a matter of great importance to all of us who concern ourselves with the environment.
It also explicitly brings about for the first time a position of equality between the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers in regard to co-decision.
These points show that this treaty is bringing Europe closer to its citizens. (Applause) This brings me to my third point.
It will not be ratified unless citizens understand that it contains something valuable for them.
That is the political challenge that we face.
Finally, I agree very strongly with all those Members who made the point, in particular with regard to Europol, that it is not enough to adopt a treaty or a declaration unless ratification and implementation in the Member States is as strong as the political will to adopt the provision in the first place.
Mr President, regarding Amendment No 1, to which you just referred, I should like to thank the honourable Members who agreed to join me in signing it, and I should also like to thank the PPE Group for giving up a seat on the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities to enable all the groups to be represented on that committee.
The question raised by the amendment related, in fact, to the representation of all the political groups on the committees.
It is not proper that the Conference of Presidents should be able to make a proposal to any parliamentary committee on which one political group is not represented, and of course that applies especially to the Rules Committee.
I think that this point should be cleared up and that Rule 135 should be interpreted in its correct sense.
Thank you, Mr Fabre-Aubrespy.
In any event, as an active substitute member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, you know as well as I do that any Member or political group can bring before that committee whatever matters they think fit.
I hope that our meeting today will lay the foundations for constructive cooperation between the Council and Parliament over the next six months.
I am thinking here of more decision-making by a qualified majority and relations between the institutions, including the European Parliament.
But this is not to say that a genuine European foreign policy is not proving hard to get off the ground.
Yesterday evening's agreement on Hebron was an important step on the road to a just and stable peace, and could give the peace process the new momentum which it so desperately needs.
The role of the European Union in former Yugoslavia is much more overtly political, since many Member States have sent troops there to support the diplomatic and humanitarian efforts.
The decisions of the Peace Implementation Council in London will be important here.
Some of you have asked me to comment on the resolution before Parliament on former Yugoslavia.
The Council has clearly and repeatedly endorsed the conclusions of the González report and called on President Milosevic to recognize the results of the elections of 17 November.
However, there is still a long way to go to democracy in former Yugoslavia, and until a satisfactory result has been achieved in Serbia, the world must keep up the pressure on Mr Milosevic and keep on supporting the opposition and the student movement.
The fall of communism and 'Maastricht' have put Europe at the very heart of national politics in all the Member States.
President Vaclav Havel, who made a memorable speech to this House in 1994, had also identified this problem.
Mr President, on behalf of President Santer and the whole of the Commission, I should like to add just a few words to the most interesting introduction given by Mr van Mierlo, on which I should like to congratulate him and his team.
On 7 January this year, the entire Commission visited The Hague to discuss the Dutch presidency's plans, and it was encouraging to learn from these intensive and very useful talks that we share just the same priorities.
We intend to put forward more detailed proposals in Amsterdam, including an action plan to ensure greater freedom of movement in our common internal market.
I should like to say a few words about the situation in Belgrade, in view of your motion for a resolution and the questions on the subject that have been addressed to the Commission.
Europe has its own role to play here, in addition to what the Member States are doing.
Mr President, despite the very upbeat report we have just heard from Mr van Mierlo, on which I should like to congratulate him, the Dutch presidency has not made a very good start.
The unnecessary and incomprehensible discussion on the very modest Irish proposals for a joint approach to combating international drug crime indicated a lack of perception on the part of other Member States, and a lack of coordination here in the House.
Citizens should have a general right to information, there should be a law on open government, and the European Parliament should have normal powers, since it is ridiculous that 18 years after the first direct elections, Parliament should still not have been given full powers.
The VVD does not want Europe's powers to be extended in this field, while the other parties do.
When he was in difficulties, Willem van Oranje Nassau used to say in French: ' Il n'y a pas besoin d'espérer pour entreprendre et ni de réussir pour persévérer ' .
You may be primus inter pares for 14 Member States, but given that post-war European idealism has faded and the whole concept of Europe is gradually being eroded, you can no longer afford to hide behind terms such as flexibility and pragmatism.
The European Union is entering the most important phase of its development since 1957.
A Union with 18 to 26 members must therefore choose either to restrict the use of the veto or else to see itself become a miniature version of the OSCE.
As has already been mentioned, three major subjects are on the agenda which cross over in some cases in such a way that they are inextricably linked and should inevitably be included among the priorities of the Dutch presidency.
There are other subjects, of course, which are particularly felt by the citizens of our countries and which also deserve to be concentrated upon.
These include growing social problems and, in particular, the serious scourge of unemployment, citizen participation in Community life and decision making and whether or not to apply the principles of Community cohesion and solidarity which are enshrined in the Treaty.
I should like to begin by saying, and this is no surprise, that it is my conviction that little or no progress has been made in this presidency concerning the last three aspects which I have just emphasized.
Indeed, on a social level - and especially in the field of employment - there seem to be no changes of a major sort on the horizon, no significant changes, no basic changes concerning what have been Community policies until now.
New guidelines and, in our view, a farreaching change are vital.
We know from experience that the Commission and the Council are far too easily swayed by lobby groups or the governments of certain Member States.
It is clear that the internal market has not scored well on creating employment over the last few years, and I would point out that there is increasing evidence of conflict between sound environmental regulations in the Member States and free competition on the internal market.
The Netherlands does not have the greatest reputation in this area, preferring to leave it up to the Union to take initiatives on human rights.
I would therefore urge the Dutch presidency to give particular attention to two issues arising from this disturbing and unwelcome side-effect of centralization.
Firstly, there is the proposal that a protocol should be attached to the Treaty defining how the principle of subsidiarity is to be applied.
In this context, the Dutch presidency must not hesitate to give back to the Member States, if necessary, certain responsibilities which have been transferred to the Union.
A second useful proposal in the Irish draft is to strengthen the position of the national parliaments in the administration of Europe.
We therefore also support the proposals to involve the national parliaments in the European decision-making process, for example by sending them early drafts of proposals for European legislation.
It would seem that flexibility is going to be the most serious obstacle in the negotiations over the next few months.
It was proposed as a way of preventing those countries which refuse any further transfer of sovereignty from standing in the way of the group of countries which are prepared to allow it.
The Dutch presidency could make a major contribution on these and other issues, even though certain statements from you and from the governor of the Dutch Bank lead me to believe that attention is more likely to be focused on the achievement of the single currency and compliance with the Maastricht criteria.
Firstly, of course, there is a move towards the final stage of economic and monetary union but there is also, just as crucially, the enlargement of the European Union towards the Mediterranean and in Central and Eastern Europe.
In this context, too, let us also focus our attention on the reforms of the European Union, reforms which will be necessary to allow enlargement to come about.
I wish to emphasize that all of us, together as Europeans, have a moral responsibility to work with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe so that they can overcome the legacy of the past forty-odd years.
In my view, what we should be expecting from this presidency is not that it should manage to resolve all the problems currently facing the European Union - something which would be physically impossible, for reasons of time - but that, by shaping wills and achieving consensus, it should be capable of giving a boost to the process of European integration, which is now at a critical point in its timetable.
Firstly, has the Dutch presidency scheduled for the informal meeting of the ECOFIN Council in April an initial analysis of the revision of the financial perspectives, with a view to the future financing of the Community?
I shall end, Madam President, as I began: by expressing my best wishes for success to the Dutch presidency, and reminding the President-in-Office that the challenge for the presidency - which, as he rightly said at the beginning of his speech, is in a way the challenge for the European Union as a whole - is to reconcile unity and diversity, using prudence, skill and tact, to make compatible the legitimate interests of the individual Member States, including those of the Netherlands, and to forge the European Union into a harmonious whole.
And to that end, Mr President-in-Office, our group advocates two principles: for ideas to be placed at the service of ideals whenever necessary; and for the individual Member States to seek their advantage in advantages for all.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, I too endorse the positive assessments of the prospects which you have outlined in respect of the IGC, monetary union, enlargement and, in particular, the strengthening of dialogue.
Well, tourism is now dead - or rather, it has been killed off, murdered by the Council of Ministers in the middle of last month.
The figures speak for themselves: 9.5 million workers, meaning just as many families, 65 % female employment, 296 million visitors every year within Europe, and revenue of USD 165 000 m, which is over 5 % of European GDP.
But it is not the tourism of Venice, Paris, Madrid or Amsterdam: that is constant, inevitable and guaranteed.
The presidency rightly devotes a great deal of attention to efficiency, which will require the scrapping of the veto and a move towards qualified majority decision-making in the Council.
But I would also urge it to develop a much more active foreign policy.
We must not forget that the crisis and the instability are the result of the Turkish invasion of northern Cyprus, which we have tolerated for the last 23 years.
In other words, he told us what the President of the Bundesbank and other monetary and government officials in the Europe of the hard core might really be thinking.
And I believe that a great many Spaniards, Italians, Greeks and other Europeans will have understood perfectly well what sort of future awaits them in this kind of economic and monetary union.
Consequently, diplomatic words can do little to mask something that was said not speaking from the heart, but thinking of the wallet, and I say this as someone who certainly does not support the ill-fated chapter of the Maastricht Treaty on economic and monetary union.
We are also debating the situation in Serbia.
I believe that Parliament must call on the Dutch presidency to demand that President Milosevic recognize the results of the municipal elections of 17 November in their entirety.
I shall end by pointing out that, as a Spaniard, I was disappointed to find that the programme of the Dutch presidency fails to mention the development of relations with Cuba.
It would be a very bad thing for democracy in Europe if we did not talk about a subject which is causing people increasing concern.
And rightly so, since EMU in its present form will simply lead to social disintegration.
First, on the economic and financial front, the Dutch presidency is going to have to negotiate the single European market, and in this area it will certainly be much preoccupied by a great many monetary questions that dictate the future of the famous single currency.
What we must hope for here - and it certainly won't be easy - is that Europe will speak with a voice that is not the voice of the United States of America.
Madam President, clearly and briefly, with a legal basis enshrined in the Treaties, the Dutch presidency is defining its programme text with rigorous challenges forced upon us by the way in which we are moving towards the introduction of the euro.
First of all, because only on the basis of the Treaty and the rigorous fulfilment of the criteria which Community law imposes can we define who will enter in the first wave or not.
It is one thing for the Dutch Minister to express his opinion without an objective basis or a legal basis on a very sensitive subject concerning relations between Member States about the subject of non-existence Community norms.
Secondly, it was offensive vis-à-vis the efforts made by governments, citizens and countries which believe in a European compromise and are doing everything to fulfil the belt-tightening policies which are called for.
It is my desire, a desire which I make formally to the Dutch presidency and which in the end everything will be done so that the project to create a single currency will be a project covering the largest number of European citizens possible, based on requirements of rigour, but also based on the principle of equality among all the States in the European Union.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, I am speaking only on the subject of Serbia.
I welcome the Council's decision of 9 January, calling on the Serbian Government to respect in full the results of the local elections in Serbia - in other words the victory of Zajedno, the alliance of opposition parties - to grant freedom of the press, to stop putting the independent media under pressure and to promote dialogue among all Serbia's political groups.
After one foreign minister of this European Union brought the whole of the EU's foreign policy into disrepute through his unnecessary trip to Belgrade before Christmas, coupled with his imprudent remarks there, my own visit to Belgrade last week was made very straightforward by the Council's statement of 9 January.
If our foreign ministers had experienced for themselves this atmosphere of a country reawakening, as I did last Thursday night, they would probably offer even more support for this democratic revival and also threaten - and actually impose - more stringent sanctions on Milosevic and his government.
However questionable the political stance of the two male leaders of the opposition alliance may have been in recent years - as I have said here before - the last few weeks have shown that they wish to give Serbia a new democratic face, through peaceful means and with the support of the civilian population.
Milosevic is no longer the sole guarantor of the implementation of Dayton.
Responsibility for ensuring that now lies in Sarajevo, Pale and Banja Luka, and those in authority there must be called to account: they must be regarded as our partners in dialogue.
Commissioner van den Broek, I hope that the European Union will in particular help the independent media - and especially Radio 92, which is playing a leading role - to facilitate this democratic process.
It was at the time of the last Dutch presidency, and of Foreign Minister van den Broek, that the war in former Yugoslavia began.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, the six-month period of the Dutch presidency is beginning at a crucial period for the European Union, as it faces the dual challenge of enlargement and intensification.
That, Mr President-in-Office, is why I have been paying careful attention to your proposals on employment and social policy.
The priority must be to create economic conditions favourable to the development of the job market.
That determination must be translated into specific action, and I call upon the Council presidency to generate the necessary determination for the implementation of this project, so that the 80 million children living in the European Union can grow up in a Europe that welcomes them and is, of course, prepared for a better future.
Madam President, I would like to wish the Dutch presidency success during the coming six months.
Over some issues, however, we have seen a complete lack of sensitivity and we are hearing the Dutch presidency's programme here in Strasbourg, in Strasbourg where European Parliament Plenaries have repeatedly raised extremely serious issues concerning human rights violations by Turkey and where the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has in recent months proclaimed two decisions condemning Turkey, both in relation to the human rights of Kurds and in relation to the assets of Cypriots in areas of the Republic of Cyprus occupied by Turkish troops.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, the Dutch have sometimes been criticized in recent weeks for a lack of ambition in planning their presidency.
As someone who comes from a small country, I support you in your efforts to ensure that in future, even in an enlarged Union, the small countries should have a sufficiently strong representation.
I fully support your efforts to find a real solution here, but I believe that this will depend on many elements being put in place.
Secondly, I would mention briefly something which is very important in the context of disarmament and war.
On behalf of my group, I must therefore ask the Dutch President-in-Office to explain his behaviour.
The regulations on the legal status of the euro, the finishing touches to the stability pact and a decision on a new European Monetary System are all matters which call for confidence and unanimity.
To conclude, I very much hope that the Dutch presidency is going to give us a people-friendly Amsterdam treaty that is just as creative as the city itself.
Judging by what was said in Parliament this morning in reply to the last President-in-Office, Prime Minister John Bruton, one can see that the emphasis is on a Europe which is closer to the people, which can take account of the people's concerns, can react quickly and assuage fears but which, at the same time, can stir enthusiasm and passion in people.
One has already been mentioned in the presidency document which has been given to Members: it is the fight against international crime and illicit drug-trafficking.
A programme on BBC World Television last Monday night emphasized the point again that 82 % of all crime in Britain is drugs-related.
Recent figures from the Irish Police Force say that 76 % of all crime in Ireland is drugsrelated.
With the Europol drugs unit based in Holland, I hope the Dutch presidency will continue the work started by the Irish presidency in bringing forward coordinated and concerted action, moving these issues from the third pillar to the first pillar and getting more and more coordination and more and more cooperation between the Member States in tackling what is an evil and vile illicit business.
Following on from that, my second and final point is that if this European Union is to mean anything, if the new treaty on European Union is to mean anything, it must protect those who are most vulnerable in our society, and that is our children.
If we cannot protect our future which is our children, what point is there in protecting the present?
Concerning the situation in Serbia, I would first like to comment on the cautious way in which the President-inOffice approached the issue in his statement.
The Serbian Government's decision to declare the municipal elections void and the reaction to that decision make it essential to find a solution of the issue within the scope of Serbian law and order and the specific choices of its political forces, to highlight the real problems faced by Serbs and free them from the present situation, which is creating fertile soil for any who are scheming against the rights of Serbia and its people, and to back its struggle for peace in the area, democracy and social prosperity.
It is already apparent that the election results have been accepted for the more important towns and cities such as Belgrade and Nis.
Madam President, 1997 is an extremely important year for Europe, as various speakers have rightly pointed out.
Mr Patijn, you yourself have witnessed the great uneasiness that now exists between Parliament and the Council.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, on 31 December, a group of Members of this Parliament drank a toast to the Dutch presidency, encouraged as we were by the success of the last Dutch presidency, which culminated in the signing of the Maastricht Treaty.
On 6 January - Twelfth Day, moreover - the Dutch Finance Minister and President-in-Office of the ECOFIN Council made his début with some remarks which showed him to be in favour of creating a very small economic and monetary union, in order - and I quote - to ensure the credibility of the euro.
It is said in a Spanish classic which you probably know - ' Don Juan Tenorio' - that a modicum of contrition brings salvation.
The President-in-Office now has the opportunity to make a formal statement of the obvious and say that - whatever his Finance Minister may think - the only law governing participation in the single currency is that of the Maastricht Treaty; or to make a somewhat more ambitious statement, and say that the Dutch Government wishes a large number of Member States to join the single currency; or finally, in a fit of passion for Europe, to make the statement we would wish to have and interpret the Maastricht Treaty in such a way as to allow the maximum number of Member States to participate in the single currency.
If he does this, the President-in-Office will probably be saved.
Madam President, other speakers have criticized the Dutch Finance Minister's political indiscretion.
In the same spirit, Mr President-in-Office, you must nip in the bud the attempts of some Member States to bring certain policies back under national control.
I refer in particular to environment policy; in this respect, it should be pointed out that we have been waiting for the realization of one of the proposals which you highlight in your programme - final implementation of the agreement on the CO2 energy tax - since 1992, the year in which the Earth Summit took place, when we made a formal international commitment to bringing this legislative measure into effect in the European Union in the near future.
With regard to internal policy matters, it is in my view a matter of urgency finally to adopt the Convention on the Common European Frontier Agreement, as well as to implement measures to combat terrorism and, of course - as other speakers have said - illegal drug trafficking.
Lastly, Mr President-in-Office, I believe that the fundamental nature of the parallel competences of the national parliaments and the European Parliament must not be changed in the next Treaty.
Any fundamental altering or mingling of those competences would be very detrimental to the future of our work.
Madam President, first of all I should like to say that in the field of the environment, at least, I welcome the aims of the Dutch presidency.
I find their programme a curious mixture of worthwhile ambition and unrealism: unrealism because I think there are problems about timetables and the machinery of the Community that are not reflected in the programme they have published.
I hope that during the six months of the Dutch presidency they will make progress with the fifth Environmental Action Programme, first of all by ensuring that the Council agreement of December is actually transmitted to Parliament so that we can begin work on the second reading.
Lastly, I hope that they will recognize that we do not yet have the framework programme on water and that they will therefore encourage the Commission to reach agreement on that so that we can begin to work jointly.
It is not our intention, and never has been, to take powers away from the national parliaments, but simply to provide a safe Community haven for those powers which have been abandoned on the wrong doorstep at the Council in Brussels.
Mr President, the Dutch presidency is not going to be an easy one.
In judicial cooperation, in police cooperation, the story is always the same: organized crime has created its European theatre of operations, while those who should be fighting it are taking cover behind the rampart of their so-called sovereign interests and so achieving little or nothing.
The word hysteria was used in the context of a description of countries which will not be ready until a year or two after the first year, but before the euro is introduced.
Let me repeat how important this topic is for the Netherlands, and not just as window-dressing or because various aspects of drugs policy have become a sensitive issue between France and the Netherlands.
The first was very simple: has the Dutch presidency scheduled for the informal meeting of the ECOFIN Council in April an initial assessment of the revision of the financial perspectives, with a view to the financing of the European Union in the post-1999 period?
And the second - and important - question was: following the latest round of negotiations, and especially its contacts with the present British Government, has the Dutch presidency provided for the possibility of the conclusions of the Intergovernmental Conference on the reform of the Treaties being adopted by only 14 Member States?
Thank you, Mr van Mierlo.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I believe that the way in which we set our agenda and plan our business must be improved in the daily conduct of our work.
I hope that the European Council will be informed that it will have sufficient time to engage in a genuine open dialogue with Parliament, of a kind for which the House has repeatedly called and which is essential to our institution.
Distance selling The next item is the report (A4-0009/97) by the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text (C4-0666/96-00/0411(COD)), approved by the Conciliation Committee, for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the protection of consumers in respect of distance contracts (rapporteur: Mrs Oomen-Ruijten).
Mr President, the conciliation procedure on distance selling has, to my mind, produced an excellent result.
It is important in view of the tremendous upsurge in distance selling of goods and services.
We have laid down a number of conditions in the directive with regard to marketing.
What we did manage to achieve - and I also say this to my colleague Mr Herman - is that we now have an undertaking from the Council with regard to the Green Paper on financial services, so that where there are gaps, there will be further scope for legislation.
It is also quite a novelty that in a conciliation procedure, in joint discussions between the Council and Parliament, a good solution has been found in this respect.
I just want to make a few very brief points because much has already been said by the rapporteur.
Firstly, the enormous increase in direct selling leaves the consumer with both the best and the worst of this new world.
The best, in that there is access to a whole range of new services.
The worst in that there is no protection in terms of knowledge about the selling techniques that are used.
Commissioner Bonino made a commitment to come forward with a communication on financial services and, if necessary, a directive.
On behalf of the committee and personally I want to ask Commissioner Bangemann where the Commission now stands on this proposal?
This Parliament would urge the Commission and the new Director-General of DG XXIV - when appointed - to show the same determination about legislation in this field of financial services that the rapporteur has shown.
Lastly, coming from a country whose government is recalcitrant as far as consumer organizations being able to bring class actions in the courts is concerned, I welcome that possibility that is now available in all Member States.
As a result of the hard work of all those involved in this directive, but most notably the rapporteur, consumers no longer have a forlorn hope but a firm assurance that they will have the right measure of protection.
Furthermore, the Member States are expected to comply with the directive within three years of its entry into force, while the Commission is called upon to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive within four years of its entry into force.
We welcome the work done, first and foremost, by the rapporteur, whom we should like to thank, by the Conciliation Committee as a whole and by the Commission, which was sufficiently open-minded on the compromise text as to incorporate almost all of Parliament's proposed amendments.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in contrast to some of the amendments put before the House at second reading, we are now discussing a compromise which shows more realism and is acceptable to all Members of Parliament.
It is not that I wish to spare this sector, but the fact is that the special nature of financial transactions is incompatible with the general character of this directive.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report that has returned to us from the Council under the conciliation procedure is concerned with the legal harmonization of the system of distance contracts, which is giving rise to a degree of unfair competition.
Many such techniques are in use today: mail shots, circulars, catalogues, phone calls with or without human or automatic intervention, radio, video phone, fax, TV telesales - and more to come in the future with CD-ROM, modems providing link-ups between personal computers, and so on.
I congratulate the rapporteur, and I note that the Directive provides for a variety of instruments to enable these objectives to be achieved: periods allowed for withdrawal, reversal of the burden of proof under certain conditions, distinction between professionals and amateurs, exclusion of certain types of contract, especially those relating to financial services, specific information, etc.
My only reservation concerns the fact that one piece of information that seems to me quite essential does not appear in the draft Directive and is not mentioned in Mrs Oomen-Ruijten's excellent report.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Novel foods and food ingredients The next item is the report (A4-0006/97) by the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text (C4-0667/96-00/0426(COD)) approved by the Conciliation Committee, for a European Parliament and Council Regulation concerning novel foods and novel food ingredients (rapporteur: Mrs Roth-Behrendt).
As rapporteur on this subject for almost five years, I firmly believe that the compromise text now before the House, on which we shall be voting tomorrow, offers just that: safety and information for consumers, and legal security for the production industry.
Those Members seem to have an enormous capacity for wishful thinking.
That is all very well, but when it comes to making laws, it can also be dangerous.
There will be legislation in perhaps three or four Member States at some time in the future, if the legislative process in those countries can be concluded in two or three years.
What the European Parliament has achieved for European consumers in the Conciliation Committee after second reading, in terms of safety, transparency and reliability, as well as in respect of labelling, what we fought to secure - and I use the word 'fought' advisedly - is a great success.
Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the splendid negotiations which she undertook in the Conciliation Committee.
Like Mrs Roth-Behrendt, I feel that this is an agreement which does not really need defending: it speaks for itself.
Can we reasonably expect the 15 Member States to suddenly coordinate their legislation and insist on labelling throughout the European Union?
I am very grateful to all those concerned in the Conciliation Committee for the compromise which we have collectively achieved.
The Group of the European People's Party fully supports the solution that we have arrived at with this joint text.
We in the Liberal Group see it as essential for the consumer to be able to make the choice between a genetically modified item and an unmodified one.
Of course this is a compromise - and I say this to our Green colleagues - but if you vote against this proposal, then that will be a step backwards.
Just think, for example, of the decision on genetically modified maize.
The 'novel foods' regulation is based on this dubious compromise text.
With regard to more than 80 % of genetically modified foods, it is a regulation designed to maintain secrecy.
There is not a single phrase in the regulation about the content of the labelling.
This compromise text constitutes a betrayal of consumer protection!
It is a lousy, rotten piece of legislation that will permanently shake our citizens' confidence in the European Union!
Mr President, in my country 85 % of the population does not want to consume genetically-modified foods.
If our assembly wants to respect the democratic principle of freedom of choice for consumers, we have to guarantee the transparency of origin of the ingredients of our daily bread.
The compromise directive which we are discussing right now does not give any guarantee in this sense.
Should the assembly vote in favour of this compromise, the procedure of registration would be the so-called 'simplified procedure' .
They have the right to make a qualified choice, and this has been achieved to some extent through the conciliation text - but not to such an extent, unfortunately, that we can now talk about a responsible consumer policy.
Given the demand for information and openness in all procedures, the Danish members of our group will be voting against the conciliation text, in spite of the great efforts made by the Conciliation Committee.
I should like to make two points concerning labelling.
So this is not deceiving consumers, but ensuring that at least something positive is done.
We are being asked to vote tomorrow on the amended text of the draft Regulation, which has had a varied career, and I personally should like to dispel any possible misunderstanding between us: we are not giving an opinion on the work done by the European Parliament's delegation to the Conciliation Committee, because in my view its room for manoeuvre was inadequate for it to have any hope of success.
That in itself is sufficient, in our view, to make the text inadequate.
But there is more!
The compromise is essentially one in which Parliament has recognized the technical realities associated with this directive on labelling and the Council has accepted the right of people to know what is in the food they eat.
I commend this proposal to the House confident that it is a step forward by the European Parliament to realize the wishes of the consumers in the European single market.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the result of the conciliation procedure is a resounding slap in the face for Commissioner Bangemann.
He wished to prevent the labelling of genetically manipulated or modified products.
It says: length, over 170 mm; diameter, 33 mm; thickness, 0.07 mm.
Mr President, the debate we are holding today is, as we know, the final chapter in a long series of negotiations.
There are still some opponents in the House, fortunately not many of them, who like to present this issue as if we were dealing with a contrast between the interests of the internal market and those of consumer protection.
Clearly, the present situation of total freedom is a bad option, not least for the consumer.
The consumer is being provided with information, and the fact that we have played a part in this can only highlight our role in consumer protection.
Mr President, I hope that we will never have cause to regret the tide of optimism on which this measure seems to be likely to go through the European Parliament.
This must not be so opaque that the provisions of Article 8 are meaningless.
Mr President, my 80-year-old aunt has assured me that she will never buy genetically modified foods in her life.
The safety and inspection criteria are clearly set out in the regulation.
Nobody must be afraid that they will eat genetically modified foods in future, if they do not wish to.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too believe that this compromise text represents a success for the European Parliament.
And that is undoubtedly the reason why all the European consumer associations are pressing us to approve the compromise text.
The other option is simply to have no labelling at all, since surely even the Greens do not seriously believe that all 15 national governments and parliaments are suddenly going to introduce rules on labelling.
However, I should like to end by saying that the campaign by Greenpeace and the Greens against this compromise text is irresponsible propaganda!
I have said that from the outset.
This means that it must not lead - as the use of biotechnology becomes more widespread - to 80 % to 90 % of foods having to be labelled.
We have achieved that objective, though by a different means from that which we proposed.
Paragraph 24 of the explanatory statement describes precisely the situation that Parliament will be faced with tomorrow: should it approve a compromise text which does not meet all its wishes - justified or otherwise - or should it settle for nothing?
Mr President, I should also like to make a personal statement.
But you also know that there are no methods of proof enabling the allergenicity of genetically modified foods to be established in advance.
I believe, and other speakers have also made this point, that there is no such thing as total protection.
I should like to ask Commissioner Bangemann whether he accepts that Article 8 now, as a result of the conciliation, provides for comprehensive labelling but that if, in the light of experience, there prove to be gaps in the system of protection of public health, then consistent with the statement which is being attached to the conciliation agreement, the Commission will come forward to ensure that there will be always comprehensive labelling?
Mr President, once again I put a question to Mr Bangemann, and once again he did not answer it.
I have already said this in response to the rapporteur's request, and it is also set out in Article 14.
Thank you, Mr Bangemann.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, the Conciliation Committee, on which I sat as rapporteur, endorsed the joint draft text of the directive on cross-border credit transfers.
As a result of the single market and very shortly now the Euro the volume of cross-border transfers is steadily increasing, both the number of transactions and their value.
Until such time as this is guaranteed a major obstacle persists to the free movement of goods and services within the Community.
The directive applies to all transfers of less than 50 000 ECU and provides primarily for a procedure which seeks to improve the transparency of costs and the speed and reliability of transfers.
All this within a period of 14 banking days, naturally once the period agreed between originator and bank has expired.
The end result now before us is a very good one overall.
Mr President, the cross-border credit transfers directive is good news for Europe, good news for its citizens, good news for small businesses and good news for the European Parliament.
So frustrated was my constituent, Mrs Dorothy Evans of Ellesmere Port, in sending cash transfers to Sweden for her magazine subscriptions that she resorted to sending Kroner notes in the post.
By invoking the conciliation procedure and arriving at a sensible compromise with the Council we have shown Parliament capable and cunning in the deployment of its new conciliation powers.
One final thought: the greater transparency introduced into the act of sending money from one country to another will itself be all the more apparent once the single currency is introduced.
This directive will also be good news for banks which will become more competitive in Europe's great enterprise, the single European market.
As we know, there are some 400, 000, 000 cross-border credit transfers in the European Union annually, and 50 % of individual transfers amount to less than ECU 2, 500.
A banking transaction between two different cities within the Community should be treated in the same way as a transaction between two different cities in the same state, and management of those transactions should not be left entirely to the discretion of the credit institutions, that leaving them to determine transaction procedures, monetary value and costs.
For that, I thank the rapporteur above all and, I venture to say - the French government which made this one of its priorities during its presidency, in the first half of 1995, when it reached agreement with the governments of almost all of the Member States and with this House, which gave its support, firmly convinced that what we want is not a Europe of bankers but a Europe of citizens.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the previous debate I mistakenly did not use up nearly all my speaking time.
And I hope our counterparts in the Council will keep to their word.
We need a directive on cross-border credit transfers and I hope that as promised the Member States will implement it by 1 January 1999, i.e.
Mr President, on behalf of the Commission I should like to thank Parliament for its efforts to ensure that the conciliation procedure produced the results which have permitted this compromise between the three institutions.
It is much more transparent for citizens and, furthermore, what is more important - and I will finish with this remark - it is a positive step towards gradually reinforcing the border-free internal market.
Thank you, Mrs Peijs, for your explanations, thanks to all of you and also thanks to the conciliation procedure which has enabled this positive decision to be taken today.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Therefore, Mr President, if you consider my point to be justified, perhaps the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities could look at the matter to establish the actual function of the parliamentary delegations within the structure of our work.
I simply asked whether you thought we should continue the debate and refer the matter to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities so that it can study, can examine the role the delegations should in future play in these areas.
Mr President, speaking personally and on behalf of my Group I must congratulate you on your reelection as vice-president of Parliament.
My thanks to the Commission and above all to Commissioner Marín for the statement on future relations with Latin America.
Mr Marín knows that better than anyone, the San José dialogue.
Mr Carnero, another old Latin America hand, has written a very good report on it.
A policy of reconciliation, democratization and respect for human rights provided the basis for political and social stability.
We gradually lost the Latin American market to the United States which jumped in with NAFTA and the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative and plugged the gap which Europe had left.
Drugs, corruption and crime which goes unpunished undermine the political structures in Latin America.
Europe must deal with Latin America as a fully-fledged mature partner.
The Commission statement is a beginning.
We cannot allow so important a region with its still fragile structures to be ignored by the common foreign and security policy.
I urge the Commission to prepare a programme of action, proposing specific initiatives as part of a new policy.
We must not convert the transatlantic dialogue we have with the United States and Canada into a transatlantic dialogue with Latin America.
Thus 450 million consumers.
Many of the European Union Member States have made considerable investments in the field of energy.
There is already the ALURE programme (Optimal Use of Energy Resources in Latin America) launched by Commission Directorate General I concerning cooperation between Latin America and the European Union, which is important but not sufficient.
We are determined to ensure understanding because we have similar cultures which have been brought closer together with the accession of Spain and Portugal to the European Union.
While there is a traditional understanding between Latin America on the one hand and Spain and Portugal on the other, similar to that between the Commonwealth and the United Kingdom, the Community has perhaps not responded to Latin America in the same way.
Despite this, however, we note that not only are European investments in these countries not increasing, but they are actually diminishing.
The United States of America accounts for 43 % of global trade and 75 % of direct foreign investment.
Latin America is an emerging Chile, a Nicaragua with very severe poverty levels; it is Guatemala which is concluding a peace agreement, and Costa Rica which is a real example of democratic stability.
But it is also Mercosur, an ambitious project, and the Free Trade Treaty with Mexico, Canada and the United States.
One example is the San José dialogue which Commissioner Marin is also developing, but perhaps it is not enough.
We cannot accept the risk of Latin America continuing to regard the United States as a priority and the European Union as just a faithful companion.
It is very useful to know about the evolution of investments and trade flows between the European Union and Latin America in order to embark on an analysis of the potential prospects for the future.
Latin America and the European Union need each other, and on the basis of an equal footing and with commitment to a climate of cooperation, they need to reinforce the instruments of political and trade cooperation.
Anyone who has examined or witnessed the cooperation between the European Union and Latin America will have discovered that cooperation takes place on a large scale and yet - the Commission is also aware of this - this is often not very visible to citizens wishing to determine the levels of cooperation.
Some Latin American countries have very serious drug trafficking and corruption problems, but we dare not raise a hypocritical accusatory finger until we can deal rigorously with this, because the coca being produced would not be converted into drugs unless there were was a demand for these.
But what we are concerned with today is the future, namely the attempt to revive the relations between the EU community of states and Latin America, marked by years of conflict between dictatorship and democracy, the fight for human rights and the construction of common markets in Latin America, by creating a partnership until the year 2000.
That is important to our common foreign policy and our foreign trade policy alike.
Since its direct election, the European Parliament has endeavoured for many years to promote this dialogue.
Article J.1 of the Maastricht Treaty calls for a dynamic policy towards Latin America.
We have strongly supported the development of Mercosur, the formation of regional parliaments in Central America, the Andean parliament, the Central American parliament.
Like Mr Bertens, whom I congratulate on his excellent report, I welcome the Commission's initiative and the tone of its communication, designed to reestablish good relations between the European Union and Latin America.
This view takes no account of its contribution to the spread of democracy throughout the world, through the conclusion of cooperation and association agreements with countries where democracy was or had been under threat.
The Commission's proposals regarding the establishment of a political and trading partnership between the Union and the Latin American countries meet this requirement.
First, Mr Bertens proposes to go beyond the ministerial framework within which such dialogues take place - he would like to see more inter-parliamentary meetings organized, with the European Parliament and its Latin American counterparts participating in the ministerial meetings.
This way of looking at the problem worries me, because although it is true that there is a need to create other forms of development in the areas where these products are cultivated, it is equally true that the drug trade must be obstructed by every available means, without exception.
Part of the European Union's mission is to help these countries rid themselves of a scourge that never makes any contribution to the advance of democratic awareness.
Mr President, Commissioner, the recent years have been marked by a rapprochement between the European Union and Latin America, mainly due to the accession of Spain and Portugal which increased and accentuated the cultural similarities between both continents.
We consider that the essential priority objective must be to extend and reinforce the various activities which promote development and the consolidation of democracy in Latin American countries, as described in the Commission communication also dealing with this matter.
To achieve this, we in the European Union must engage in more energetic and ambitious activities to ensure that relations with Latin America become the main objective of the new common foreign and security policy.
In the past three years a deficit of some 1500 million dollars was recorded.
In conclusion, Mr President, we consider it vital for the Commission to formulate an action programme for Latin America which, as already mentioned, contains practical, common proposals which promote, on the one hand, economic development and, on the other, peace, democracy and the strictest possible respect for human rights.
Not only has it helped to reduce significantly the production of drugs, but it has also, conversely, destroyed whole sectors of European horticulture and fisheries.
I am also concerned when the development of our trade relations is presented as being necessarily destined to result in an intercontinental free trade area, even though this prospect is at present formulated in somewhat vague terms.
Mr President, the scant attention paid in recent years by the European Union to the countries of Latin America again raises the problem of the absence of a general foreign policy strategy for Europe, at least at a political, commercial and security level.
Only political short-sightedness could prevent the European Union - and its Member States - from looking to Latin America as a geographical area of major importance, politically and culturally at least.
And so long as Europe fails to fulfil its role as privileged partner, its place is being rapidly taken by the United States which now accounts for 43 % of trade with Latin America and 75 % of direct inward investment.
In any event, Europe should register its interest in taking an active role in the development of Latin America.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Bertens for his report.
Some important aspects of the links between the Union and these countries, such as the encouragement of democracy, increased respect for minority groups, concern for the environment, the fight against drug trafficking and international crime, have served to widen and expand the relationship between the two continents.
But I question some of the aspects of cooperation covered in the report.
To discuss, in this context, the inclusion, in the political dialogue with these countries, of EU security and defence aspects of the cooperation is, in my opinion, a step in the wrong direction.
The report also takes up the question of control over the export of weapons.
This must be seen as the first step towards a global restriction of the trade in weapons.
Of the three vehicles for European Union action in the coming years - political dialogue, cooperation and trade relations - I think that what will mark the direction for developing these relations is political dialogue, with the parliamentary dimension referred to by other colleagues.
Because it was political and not economic reasons which led to the San José dialogue; because it was political and not economic reasons which are behind the consolidation of the Rio Group dialogue, and because it is political and not economic reasons which must lay down the guidelines for political transition to democracy in Cuba, with full respect for fundamental rights and liberties, as requested by this Parliament.
But we are not stimulating production by Latin American countries because, in fact, they are competitive in many products and, in many cases, we are closing our markets to them.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the report and the communication from the Commission.
I believe it is important to continue expanding relations between the European Union and the Latin American continent to avoid the risk of being edged out of this continent by the United States.
Moreover, I agree with the rapporteur that in many areas the Commission's communication fails to make any concrete proposals.
For example, there are no proposals on dealing with the drug problem, which is very acute in these countries.
I welcome the proposal concerning the importance of information about that continent and mutual understanding, with a view to strengthening the rule of law and involving civil society in the development of a genuine human rights structure.
Amendments to ensure the principles of development underpin our relations with all Latin American countries highlighting the very severe social impact of the structural adjustment policies, supporting far greater involvement of civil society in our dialogue and agreements as well as the sensitive question of fair trade access for products of the countries own choosing, not ours.
However, I regret that we have not found priority in tonight's resolution to incorporate two of my other amendments to support specific programmes for women, including reproductive rights, and to reassert our commitment to ILO Convention 169 and to combat the flagrant abuse of the rights of indigenous populations which continue to occur in nearly every country in the region.
I would also like to support the rapporteur when he questions the Commission on how far vague concepts will be applied in concrete terms.
Anything that will reinforce relations with Latin America, augment the content of these relations, increase the European presence and guarantee the quality and quantity of our political, economic, financial, trade and cultural relations must become quite natural for the European Union, mindful of the historical and cultural links for some and the economic and trade links for others.
In reality, the Commission's communication concerning the way in which we will conduct our relations in the last five years of the century is simply a practical guide to where our activities should start and end.
Consequently it was necessary to work very flexibly so that, while maintaining exclusively the horizontal level - the Rio Group - as a specialised forum for political dialogue, the European Union could offer a suitable cooperation platform to every country, from the North to the South of Latin America, in line with the regional, territorial and political needs as well as the level of economic development of these countries.
NAFTA has not been extended to any other Latin American country in the past three years.
Next comes Japan with 19.5 % and then, in third place, the United States with 14 %.
It would be very difficult to reproach the European Union for not concerning itself sufficiently with the Latin American continent when, based on the OECD figures for last year, we represent 62 % of cooperation, much less attempt to compare it with the United States which was even surpassed by Japan last year, and which accounts for only 14 %.
One thing I would admit you are right about, Mr Bertens, is that although we are the main cooperation partner with 62 %, this is not known, or not very well known.
But how can you achieve visibility in today's world?
At this moment, with regard to Latin America, the European Union is the main trading partner of nine countries, and the second biggest partner of eight countries.
In terms of stock, the increase in direct European investments in manufacturing sectors in recent years has quite simply been extraordinary.
Several European Union countries have even tripled their direct productive investments.
The European Union is still Latin America's most important partner, hence the quality of our cooperation due to our direct productive investments, in other words capital which is invested to create wealth, jobs and development.
There is one fact of which little has been said, but which I consider essential in relation to Latin America.
The problem facing Latin America in the coming century - which is very important and which I think we will have to discuss in future - is its social debt.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
In fact, from an isthmus plagued by military regimes, open armed conflict and continuous violations of human rights, it has become a region taking its first steps towards pluralist political systems based on universal suffrage, where human rights are increasingly being respected and agreements have been reached which have silenced the weapons and enshrined national reconciliation as a principle and an objective.
Despite the success of this we cannot ignore the fact that much remains to be done in Central America, as regards both political and socio-economic aspects, in order to achieve an acceptable situation.
The European Union will also have to help ensure compliance with and the implementation of the peace agreements which have been concluded, the last one of which was signed on 29 December between the Guatemalan Government and the URNG commanders - obviously excellent news.
Not only must we renew the San José dialogue, but we must also strengthen and extend it as much as possible, underlining its basic objectives and making available the instruments necessary to achieve these.
In addition to the objectives referred to above in the political and social fields, there are two others which in fact cover these areas: the proper and acceptable integration of Central America into the international economy, not by means of adjustment and regulatory policies, but based on strategies which promote models of development sustainable in human and ecological terms, and the boosting of regional integration itself.
The various proposals contained in the report I am presenting on behalf of the Committee on External Affairs are a step in this direction, but there is one more point I would like to emphasise.
The formulation of a comprehensive Common Foreign and Security Policy action programme for Central America, adequately funded, like the relevant cooperation framework agreement, should be accompanied by a financial protocol which would involve a substantial increase in the resources assigned to cooperation with Central America.
Such a programme should include measures to modernise and consolidate the rule of law which would be aimed, for instance, at combatting impunity, promoting human rights, supporting refugees and the return of displaced persons, ensuring democratic control over the armed forces and cut-backs in military expenditure, as well as providing protection for indigenous groups and sections of the population such as women; extending to the Central American industrial sector the new Generalized System of Preferences of which the Andean countries are beneficiaries; cancelling, at least partly, the external debts of the countries in the region; providing impetus in the fight against the drugs trade and, lastly, any measures that would enhance the quality of life and also achieve more equality, combatting, as I have already said, poverty, exclusion and marginalisation.
Similarly, in adopting a stance in favour of intensifying the political dialogue between the European Union and Central America, we must suggest that both the European Parliament and PARLACEN should play an increased role in this, these being the only parliaments in the world directly elected on a transnational basis, and that a Civil Society Consultative Forum be set up, in which initiatives such as the ICIC and bodies such as the CIFCA can be included and take part.
This report is important because it identifies the basic needs in the region and specifies in clear terms the policies which the European Union should now pursue.
The San José process should continue providing an opportunity for an exchange of views and discussion not only through the conferences - at two of which I have had the opportunity to speak on behalf of Parliament - but also through greater involvement of civil society in the region.
The European Union can, and should, play its full part within this region.
So I will confine myself to a few comments on the problem specific to this region.
Even more than South America, Central America has for years been the subject of fierce debate in this Parliament between the European parties and their Central American partners on the right road to follow.
A democratically elected president has just been freely elected in Nicaragua for the second time and the EU has signed an agreement with Nicaragua aimed at supporting the education system and improving the judicial system.
The San José dialogue that has begun between Latin America and the EU and its results since 1984 may well be regarded as one of the few truly successful examples of a common foreign policy.
The framework agreement between the partner countries of the 1993 general agreement on Central American integration forms an important cornerstone of this cooperation.
The European Parliament has discussed these questions on numerous occasions, e.g., in relation to the street children of Guatemala.
It is essential for a civil society to develop that really is prepared to assume political tasks and responsibilities and to resolve economic and social problems on its own.
Mr President, sometimes it is gratifying to see that things are going well in the world and that is the case in Central America.
The dialogue between the EU and Central America has already borne fruit.
Still more can be achieved if the Commission is prepared to go along with the suggestion for a detailed multiannual programme for Central America which Mr Carnero makes in his excellent report.
The best thing would thus be a social dialogue of the kind we have in Europe between employers and workers.
Mr President, the San José dialogue process was a model of integrated policy for the European Union: to undervalue it therefore and reduce it the level of a mere experiment in development cooperation would be a mistake on our part and a mistake for the countries of the Central American isthmus.
If we consider that Latin America currently holds a central position in the mainstream of world development, those countries lie at its very heart: they represent the most sensitive and the most fragile link but one that is crucial to our policy and needs therefore to be viewed with all its implications - in terms of the CFSP then, in our jargon, and not just cooperation.
If we move in that direction, Commissioner, Parliament will give its wholehearted support.
That means that as far as Central America is concerned, we need concepts and a programme whose economic and institutional objectives are consistent and in step with one another.
If we compare the state of the San José dialogue when the Esquipulas Group was set up, remembering what happened in Central America, with the contemporary political situation, it can in fact be considered that an enormous leap has been made as regards the political stabilisation of the Central American isthmus.
The San José dialogue was started ten years ago and maintained during the Cold War on certain bases, the main aims of which were to end the civil wars, establish democratic systems and produce a plan for economic development.
Very difficult and complicated political situations had emerged which have been solved democratically, and civil wars have been ended.
And now we have the phenomenon of Guatemala: next week, on 20 and 21, the donors' advisory committee is to meet in Brussels, under the aegis of the European Commission, which demonstrates, if not the leadership, then at least the increasingly important role of the European Union in delicate processes such as this peace process.
Mr Carnero, what Central America actually needs is the concept of state.
Consequently, our fundamental objective, very briefly, is to foster decentralised cooperation with civil society.
This will essentially be the central element of cooperation in the next five years, the aim being to have one idea accepted: that a democratic State needs more than anything else a State which is starting to demonstrate the credibility of all the peace and political processes in the region.
Central America's problem is once again poverty and marginalisation, but this is much more acute than in other Latin American countries.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Protection of privacy in telecommunications The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0415/96) on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the telecommunications sector, in particular in the integrated services digital network (ISDN) and in the public digital mobile networks (C4-0470/96-00/0288(COD)) (rapporteur: Mr Medina Ortega).
Mr President, I would like to say that if we had wanted to find a name that was not clear, that was against transparency, it would be impossible to find a more entertaining one than the one on this directive or proposal for a directive, which is called (at least in Spanish - I do not know how it sounds to the Commissioner in his native tongue) directive concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the telecommunications sector, in particular in the integrated services digital network (ISDN) and in the public digital mobile networks.
I would like to take advantage of the fact that the Commissioner is present to say that in the interests of fulfilling the principle of transparency and familiarity with Community law, the best thing would be for him to accept the amendment of the title, as proposed in Amendment No 2 of our text, which speaks of the directive concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the telecommunications sector.
The first draft Commission communication dates from 1990; it accompanied the general directive on data protection.
The Parliament took its time and completed its first report in 1992.
In fact the amended Commission proposal to Parliament and Council dates from 1994, thus there are four years between the initial proposal and the amended proposal.
Finally, the Council's common position was adopted in 1996 and has arrived at Parliament at a time when everything is perfectly clear to us.
The most important innovation of this directive is probably the fact that it applies not only to natural persons but also to corporate persons.
One thing that does not make sense, and I think that the Commissioner would agree with me on this, is to speak of subsidiarity in this area.
It is absurd that, in the case of a telephone call from Paris to London, one country applies one law and another one applies a different law, because if we are trying to protect the privacy of people, it is only normal to apply the same law.
In my view, the reason why some British politicians like this word so much is because it is very difficult to pronounce in English and nobody knows what 'subsidiarity' means.
If a phone call is made from Paris to London, there is no reason why one law should be applied in Paris and another in London.
This is not the place for subsidiarity, therefore, and this is the purpose of our Amendment No 7.
But what does not make sense is that in some countries corporate persons can be protected and in others they cannot, because this brings us back to the same problem.
In other words, if a multinational company calls London from Paris, the message can be protected in Paris but perhaps not in London.
Although as the rapporteur I must recommend all the amendments, I can tell you now that a political group, in fact the one to which I belong, is going to try and remove all national legislative options which enable a distinction to be made between national powers.
Mr President, as mentioned by the rapporteur, who has carried out commendable work on this report and on the common position we are concerned with today, doubtless the result of a laborious consensus, it is not just the title but the entire text which is confusing and ambiguous, and it is difficult to recognise it as the initial proposal on which this House gave its opinion after the first reading.
Having said that, it is necessary to stress that this directive deals with a complex and delicate situation requiring an urgent solution.
And to this scenario must be added the ups and downs suffered by this directive.
The general directive on the protection of personal data came into force between the first and second readings, which makes this directive a sectoral directive, geared more to the management of these data in the specific field of communications than to actual protection, in relation to which constant reference is made - it could not be otherwise - to the general directive.
Moreover, unlike the initial proposal, this directive - as pointed out by the rapporteur - includes corporate persons and is also extended to cover certain services which were not covered by the first version, for instance videos on demand and a few other services of this kind.
Against this background, the European People's Party will tomorrow vote for the amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, with the purely technical Amendment No 12 which was submitted by the Group to the House.
Others, as mentioned by the rapporteur, refer to the proper use of the concept of subsidiarity.
Lastly, the remaining ones serve to protect the legitimate interests of consumers and user companies.
The European People's Party will also vote for the removal of the third paragraph of Article 12, and the corresponding one in recital 20, since we do not think it right to have a distinction here between the way in which the legitimate interests of natural and corporate persons are treated and protected.
Finally, Mr President and Commissioner, we will vote in favour of Amendment No 11, submitted by the Liberal Group, which we consider necessary, not only in strict application of the provisions of the single market, which are not really in keeping with the two possibilities in the current text, but also because we think that it provides a fairer compromise between the legitimate interests of companies and the legitimate interests of personal data protection for natural persons and users.
The description to be found here and in many other Directives covering the Telecommunications market does not in any way correspond to the situation which exists in those Member States which have come furthest along the path of liberalisation of the telecommunication market, Scandinavian countries for example.
The arrival at a common position has - to say the least - taken rather longer than usual and, understandably, that has caused some inconvenience for this Parliament.
We will be rendering a service to both economic operators and to consumers by adopting this directive.
In short, we need to ensure that the information society offers equal opportunities and mutual benefits to all.
Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 10 and 12 are viewed by the Commission as useful clarification and improvements to the text and therefore they are readily accepted by the Commission.
The Commission agrees with Parliament than an individual subscriber should not have to pay for the right to privacy and we can therefore support that amendment.
Firstly, on Amendment No 5, I have to remind the House that the draft directive allows Member States to limit the application of Article 11 on directories to natural persons, i.e.
The amendment before us introduces a new element, namely a right of information of the user which is not covered in any way by the substance of the directive and which would seem to suggest if interpreted a contrario , that Member States may actually be allowed to oblige legal persons to appear in the public directory.
On those grounds therefore the Commission cannot accept this amendment.
Nor can the Commission accept Amendment No 8 - simply because it contains a drafting error.
However, the amendment is replaced by Amendment No 12 which the Commission can support.
The common position allows Member States to choose an opt-in or an opt-out system for unsolicited calls made for direct marketing purposes.
That means that governments can either prohibit such calls in general unless subscribers have indicated that they do not mind receiving those calls or allow those calls in general while providing the opportunity for subscribers to indicate in a public list that they do not want to receive unsolicited calls for direct marketing.
The Commission cannot support this amendment because it would delete the option with the higher level of protection and would do so without any imperative reason that relates to the operation of the internal market.
As to the proposal to delete paragraph 3 of Article 11, the Commission cannot support this because there are valid reasons not to apply the detailed provisions regarding the privacy option for natural persons in exactly the same way as they would be applied to legal persons, as I indicated in response to another amendment.
For legal persons it is not the right to privacy which is at stake but a legitimate interest to determine how they should appear in public directories.
Therefore, a differentiation is made in Article 11 of the proposed Directive.
The Commission would be able to support a clarification of Article 11(3) to explain that the legitimate interests of legal persons should be taken care of in all cases but not necessarily in the same way as the right to privacy of natural persons.
I further hope that it will be possible to take advantage of the basic convergence of the views of the Commission and of this House, and to secure adoption of the Directive very early this year.
I thank the rapporteur and his colleagues for the work that they have done in improving this proposed Directive.
Mr President, the Commissioner has just proposed an oral amendment to one of the amendments.
I hope that he will put it in writing for me so that we can formulate our opinion on it before the vote.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Air traffic management The next item is the report (A4-0381/96) by Mr Cornelissen, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the Commission's White Paper on Air Traffic Management - Freeing Europe's airspace.
Last week, Mr President, I received the latest figures on delays in air transport.
Last November more than 20 % of European scheduled services were delayed by a quarter of an hour or more.
Thus Europe still has 49 ATC centres, 31 national systems, 18 hardware suppliers, 22 control systems and 30 programming languages.
European airspace must be operated as a collective entity without national borders and differences between civilian and military airspace must be eliminated.
As I understand it the ECAC ministers propose to take a decision on 14 February on the future institutional structure of European ATM.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the limitless skies referred to at times by Pam Cornelissen all too often turn into a real hell.
The first step must be to improve coordination in order to avoid further mistakes.
All this must included in the list of measures that can be introduced.
Our friend Mr Cornelissen has retired from this office.
It is not possible to propose, as a solution to this problem, that the European Union should simply join Eurocontrol.
Everyone knows - and this was made perfectly clear at the hearing we held in the Committee on Transport and Tourism - that Eurocontrol was unable to fulfil its commitments to guarantee a harmonised air traffic control system in Europe because many of the Member States withdrew the supranational powers they had granted to the organisation in the past.
Serious because it affects the operating costs of our undertakings, which are paying a very high price for the lack of a harmonised air traffic control system in Europe, and urgent because each time there is a disruption, not only does this involve losses for our undertakings, but also incalculable inconvenience for our citizens.
I have always said, Commissioner, that these powers lie with the European Union and that it must assume them with determination, that Eurocontrol has the means but not the power, and that the European Conference of Transport Ministers has neither the means nor the power, but has a lot of ideas.
Commissioner, I invite you to put forward proposals in a determined bid to preserve Community powers and find solutions to a problem that affects the costs borne by our undertakings and the patience of our citizens.
A propos of this I have a further question for both rapporteur and Commissioner regarding the Dutch presidency's programme which has been outlined to us here this afternoon.
This says that one of the Council presidency's objectives is that the European Union should become a member of Eurocontrol as soon as possible.
But paragraph 17 of the rapporteur's report actually says something rather different.
He too says that we should accede as soon as possible, but he then says in his report that we should add something else or construct a new organization within the EU.
Parliament's efforts to get the practicalities of air traffic managed by a single European body may well be the most economic solution, but the national authorities want to retain responsibility for managing their airspace.
But the countries of Central and Eastern Europe need to be involved as well.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the single market in the air transport sector has brought with it an unprecedented increase in air traffic, with the number of routes and airlines constantly increasing.
Given that that is the position, we have to make the necessary assessments and proposals and, in my view, the efficiency of air navigation services is a vital prerequisite for air traffic management.
Other important points are the application and monitoring of new advanced technologies, such as the digital and satellite systems which offer huge scope for efficiency in air traffic management, and common standards for the training of air traffic controllers.
The Commission has simply analysed the current shortcomings in the system and recommended separating regulatory from operational functions in air traffic management and that the whole of the Community should adopt a Eurocontrol system.
The report is a very wide-ranging one in both technical and political terms, and is extremely comprehensive.
The first is that the main thing is for a political decision to be taken on whether we should continue in this direction.
However, there should be more common ground between the Commission and the European Parliament in our proposals.
The fault lies with outdated air traffic management and air traffic control and anachronistic national systems.
All this has been known for a long time, like the expected doubling of the air traffic flow in the next fifteen years.
The solution we are seeking today must, therefore, be geared to the next thirty years.
The main difficulty remains an institutional one and in principle it can therefore be resolved politically, provided we want to do so.
I thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
This House has on various occasions come out in favour of creating a single air traffic management system in Europe in order to avoid the current dispersal of control centres, national systems, suppliers of electronic supports, operational systems and programming languages.
There is dispersal too when it comes to selecting technology and standardisation, and also in relation to responsibility between various international organisations and the Member States when decisions are needed on a global air traffic management policy.
Furthermore, we must be aware of the fact that about 10 years will be needed in order to plan and apply the measures necessary to achieve the harmonisation of air traffic management in Europe, since there are many difficult legal, institutional, political and technical barriers to be overcome.
Mr President, there are a great many dimensions to improving air traffic flow in Europe.
This is very important to us in Finland, as we are geographically in a very vulnerable position as air traffic congestion increases.
The integration work which Mr Cornelissen has called for to solve the problems with the aid of a European air traffic management system deserves support.
From Finland's point of view, greater involvement of the Baltic States, in particular, in European air traffic control cooperation is especially desirable.
Each country must itself shoulder its responsibility and invest, for example, the revenue from route levies so as to ensure that traffic flows smoothly within its own air space.
As I do not have to tell the House, the development and modernization of air traffic management is a vital issue to the millions of travellers in the European Union and, indeed, from elsewhere who use our airspace; to airlines, to airports and, indeed, to everyone associated with the industry.
Members of the House will know that the Commission's initiative on air traffic management has been developing at the same time as the INSTAR study being undertaken by the European Civil Aviation Conference in which the Commission has been closely involved and to which we have, indeed, made significant financial contributions.
The major question of Community membership of the new Eurocontrol, which itself raises issues of competence, has, of course, not yet been resolved - as some honourable Members have noticed.
We are glad to have the support of the House in these ventures.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
In general terms, it can be said that state aid which is given automatically, time after time, has been the cause of monopolies being created or maintained, and therefore should in principle be avoided.
I think it is an excellent report, in which the European Parliament sets out its basic approach to the transport services which the towns, regions and Member States have to provide for their people and on the state aid that is also necessary to the provision of these public transport services.
I am eager to hear whether the Commissioner believes it is essential for the European Commission and the European Community to draft new provisions.
Mr President, support for any action which makes a universal public service possible, in other words public transport with guaranteed access to all citizens and which fulfils the objective of social interest, must be one of the main objectives pursued by Community action in the transport sector.
If Europe adopts this practice, it will be following the right road.
The average cost, if we take bus traffic in Sweden as an example, is 46 %.
Firstly, as Mr Castricum's report makes clear, we should not forget that many excellent privately and publicly-owned public transport services are provided without any financial support from public resources.
The decision about whether or not to finance those services is for all the obvious reasons best taken by competent and accountable authorities in Member States.
As far as Member State financing is concerned, state aid should contribute to the development of public transport in the common interest, and the Commission shares the thinking of the draft resolution about increasing transparency in the financing of public transport, especially by improving the data provided in the annual competition report and in state aid reports.
I have to tell the House that the Commission does not share the view that a new legal basis of the kind suggested is necessary.
Instead, in our communication on services of general interest, we advocated that a reference should be inserted in Article 3 of the present Treaty to the effect that a specific activity of the Community should be a contribution to the promotion of services of general interest.
This approach is certainly valid in the case of transport, where the right balance between liberalization and general interest is provided not only by Article 90 of the Treaty as it stands but also by the sectorbased Article 77.
I hope that on reflection the House will agree that this is the most practical approach to achieving the objective expressed in the draft resolution, an objective with which I have to say that I broadly sympathize.
Whilst fully respecting the subsidiarity principle, we also take account of course of the problems which can arise in frontier regions and other regions with specific transport requirements.
The debate is closed.
