When I saw this letter to Mr Howard, I have to say I was absolutely horrified and so were other Members of the European Parliament to whom I showed it.
Mr President, would you please indicate to the House on what basis and why you wrote this letter cancelling the visit by Hedy d'Ancona and other Members of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs?
Pursuant to Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure, the Conference of Presidents is the body responsible for all political relations of the committees of this Parliament.
If you do not agree with this procedure, the simple remedy is to change the Rules of Procedure and dispense with the powers of the Conference of Presidents, and then every committee will be able to send as many delegations or groups as it likes.
Mrs D'Ancona, I would remind you that I asked you for information on the matter, and you told me in a letter that it was not a delegation from your committee.
When I saw that the press was describing it as a delegation, then, with the knowledge of the Conference of Presidents, I merely conveyed what you told me in your letter to the British government.
I could not say that a delegation was not being sent and then leave things ambiguous.
I could not do that, because under our Rules of Procedure the Conference of Presidents must have control over relations of bodies of this Parliament which might have a political impact.
That is all I did, and I believe the Conference of Presidents, which I informed, was fully in agreement on the need to remind all Parliament's committees that, when they want to send delegations, they should communicate that and ask for proper authorization.
He does not need authorization from this Parliament or from the Conference of Presidents.
I refer to the photograph of Robert Maxwell.
Robert Maxwell was responsible for stealing millions of pounds of pensioners' funds in my country.
Mr Thomas, I have said I will not accept another word on the subject.
Mr President, as regards the voting on the Van Lancker report, item 49, the second part of the final resolution, I am mentioned in the voting protocol to have voted yes.
and resumed at 10.40 a.m.) Community Transit System The next item is the joint debate on: the report (A4-0053/97) by Mr Kellett-Bowman, on behalf of the Temporary Committee of Inquiry into the Community Transit System; and-the draft recommendation (A4-0054/97), on behalf of the Temporary Committee of Inquiry on the Community Transit System, on the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Community Transit System.
It represents three volumes of evidence, the committee's report and 38 recommendations concerning the transit system.
The single European market has been a success for business, but no business has succeeded as well as crime.
The current figure for transactions during a year is now reaching 20 million.
First of all, faced by 15 customs services operating in a single customs area, we have made a recommendation that the Commission should find a framework in which those customs services can act together as if they were one.
They will not solve the problem but they should make it much easier for that clearance document to be issued electronically so that the customs services can be aware that something has gone wrong within days, instead of waiting for weeks, for months or, in some cases, even over a year before investigations start.
We would like to see the Commission negotiate with Switzerland to make sure that those safe havens that exist in Switzerland for the criminals and for transfer of ownership of goods should be brought into a control which is sympathetic to the transit system as it is working in the other Community countries and the other members of it.
We would like to see the Commission be able to take powers when manufacturers, particularly of cigarettes, are not fully cooperative with the authorities in stopping their products from reaching the black markets in our Member States.
This committee has been an exercise in cooperation between Members from different countries and Members from different groups.
We could not have found out what was happening in the Community without a great deal of help from many of our citizens.
When we saw you on Monday we reported how the staff who have been appointed to the Committee of Inquiry had done a superb job.
I want to pay tribute to the overwhelming majority of the members of the committee for their attendance, diligence and discipline, which were necessary in order to get a report with a degree of consensus contained in it that will be imperative for that report to command respect from the Commission, the Member States, the Council and those engaged in the transit trade.
I commend all Members of the House to read at least volume 1 and, if that is too much, certainly chapters 1 and 17 of volume 1 - the executive summary and the recommendations - so that they know clearly what is being said in their name.
This report may sound to some as if it is a technical report - it is not.
If you multiply 18 million movements by ECU 25, 000 you see that we have entrusted to this archaic, paper-based transit system ECU 450, 000m of fiscal liability.
Fraud represents not just unlawful gain to the criminal, it represents the policies forgone because of the shortage of public resources; it represents the policies that the Commission could have had without an increase in own resources; the policies that the Member States could have pursued without increasing taxation rates.
I wish to add my thanks particularly to our rapporteur, who has faithfully served the committee, and to all the Members, the Secretariat, the technical services from translation through to printing, the Commission and the many witnesses, without whose evidence we could not have had the recommendations because each of them stands on the evidence we have been given.
I commend the report to the House.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already pointed on another occasion to the quality of the work done by the Committee of Inquiry, the first such committee ever set up by the European Parliament.
On behalf of President Santer and all our colleagues, let me stress the importance the European Commission attaches to this report.
The report makes a major contribution to the debate on customs transit.
The report highlights the fundamental role played by customs in relation both to the functioning of the single market and to international trade and economic growth.
That obscured and undervalued the continuing role of customs in administering the Community's external borders, preparing the applicant countries for enlargement, fighting fraud and implementing trade agreements.
Perhaps the European Commission, in its 1993 programme, did not entirely understand the importance of the new challenges facing the customs either, and this was reflected in its political analysis.
These five points are as follows: the question of a European customs service, the investigative services, reform of the transit system, relations with the European economic area and the associated central and eastern European countries, the question of unpaid duties.
Firstly, the question of the European customs service.
The analyses of the crisis carried out by the Committee of Inquiry reveal that many of the problems encountered in transit derive from anomalies in the operation of the customs union, which therefore needs global reform in the framework of customs policy.
The report recognizes that many of the difficulties affecting transit are a direct result of the fact that the customs union is made up of 15 different administrations.
Some of the recommendations put forward by the Committee of Inquiry are specifically provided for in the 'Customs 2000' decision and, having participated closely with the delegations of the European Parliament and the Council in the conciliation procedure, I can say that the political lines set out by the European Parliament have been reflected in and acted as practical forerunners for that decision.
The Commission is in favour of the recommendations on the creation of a common investigative service and a centralized European Union customs office.
The Commission fully endorses that approach.
I am sure my colleague, Mrs Gradin, will be happy to respond to any requests and to look at these questions in greater depth.
The recommendations on the organization of the structures, powers and administrative responsibilities in the Member States are closely related to those on improving the investigative and inquiry structures, as are those on judicial cooperation.
And, Mr President, I must say that in this context the report has come at a good time, given that it also clarifies the need for a successful outcome of the negotiations in the Intergovernmental Conference on increasing and strengthening joint action in matters relating to the third pillar.
In this context, let me point out at once that the Committee of Inquiry, starting from an analysis of the system and the serious problems to which it gives rise, rightly situated this question in the framework of a more general problem.
With that in mind, my services have organized wide-ranging consultations both within the Commission and with the Member States and other countries involved in the common transit system, as well as with the entire private sector.
As you know, the Committee of Inquiry was closely involved in this process which led, early in February, to the Conference on Eurotransit in which 250 public and private sector representatives took part and which was also addressed by Mr Tomlinson.
The Commission endorses the overall conclusion of the report, namely that the transit systems are essential to trade in Europe and outside Europe, but that they are in need of radical reform.
Allow me to say that the Commission also examined this question at the beginning of this Commission's term of office, in its communication of March 1995, followed by another in February 1996 and by the interim report on the transit system last autumn.
The work done by the Committee of Inquiry, which sheds so much light on the situation and provides strong political impetus, will be of great help when it comes to translating these initiatives into action.
The report voices serious concern about the functioning of the common transit system and its enlargement, last July, to the four Visegrad countries.
In the Commission's opinion, it will become increasingly difficult to maintain three different types of transit system - Community transit, common transit and the TIR.
The Commission will be submitting practical proposals on integrating Community transit and common transit in a single convention.
The Commission assumes its full share of responsibility for the decision to extend the system to the Visegrad countries.
The report calls on the Commission to make a proposal on cancelling unpaid duties if these are due to poor administration.
However, it is difficult to make a proposal of this kind that would take account of the particular situation involved in every single case.
In any case, the Member States can secure favourable payment terms, on a case by case basis, and the Commission encourages them to do so.
In conclusion, Mr President, I would say that it is not possible in the time available to do justice to the wealth of detail in the report, which really is a very comprehensive one.
It contains 38 recommendations, many of which call on the Commission to make proposals and carry out studies or encourage the Member States to take specific measures.
The report calls on the Commission to show greater political leadership and on the Member States to show a stronger political resolve.
It is also clear that if the Commission is to play a more important part, that will increase the workload, especially for DG XXI and UCLAF.
The Commission counts on Parliament's support in obtaining adequate financial and human resources and is resolved to make its contribution towards directing the Member States' attention more closely to these questions.
The success of the reform will depend also on the courage and determination shown by the Council, the national customs administrations, the economic operators and the European Parliament.
In this context, I intend to fully involve the Internal Market Council and the ECOFIN Council in the transit question, to ensure that they too assume their responsibilities, a need that is often and rightly underlined in the report on which, once again, let me express my very warm congratulations.
The Committee of Inquiry has proposed a series of measures to be taken.
I hope Member States and the other institutions also are willing to take action.
We must together create a flexible and at the same time safe transit system as this is vital for the Community.
Since then a common internal market has been set up with 15 countries participating.
The Committee of Inquiry's report is constructive and basically supports our efforts within the Commission to modernise the system and make it more effective.
I hope Parliament also realises that if these changes are to be carried out, financial resources must be made available for the additional investments required in this area.
The proposal to strengthen and facilitate the judicial collaboration between Member States is also in line with the work started by the Commission.
Various long-term programmes have commenced.
These promote the exchange of experiences and education between the different categories of employees fighting international crime.
The Council of Ministers and the Commission are at the same time discussing a formal legal structure for a more effective legal collaboration within the Union.
These are the conventions on Europol, co-operation between Customs, extradition of criminals and protection of mutual financial interests.
I therefore wholeheartedly support the Committee of Inquiry's recommendation No. 16 which requires the prompt ratification of the convention to protect Community financial interests and which also should apply to all the other conventions.
Recommendations 19 and 20 involve the Member States introducing an extraterritorial legislation, i.e.
The Commission should in my opinion be able to take legal actions in a criminal case and to give evidence in courts on the same basis as the national authorities.
A similar concept has been presented within the high-level group who are also attending the meeting with our Heads of Government in Amsterdam discussing international organised crime.
This report demonstrates the European Parliament at its best.
There is clear evidence in this report of the failure of the Single Market at this moment, and of the need to tighten up.
Indeed Mr Martens initially came up with an idea that we should deal with fraud in the Union, and my group came up with the specific proposal about the area of fraud we should deal with.
That has allowed us to demonstrate the truly effective nature of this House in its role to monitor, to examine, to investigate and to expose.
If there is any message that the media of the European Union ought to take away from this, it is that the European Parliament is exposing this fraud perpetrated against the institutions of the Union in terms of its budget and, of course, against the Member States of the European Union; that we are actually saying now to the governments and the parliaments of the Member States of the Union: ' Please now get on and do what you are supposed to do and follow up this report' .
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group and on my own behalf, I want to congratulate Edward Kellett-Bowman on his months of work, of which this extensive and welldocumented report is the tangible proof.
I also want to acknowledge John Tomlinson's effective and probing chairmanship, which enabled us to extract more information from many witnesses than they initially seemed disposed to volunteer.
Underlying the problem of Community transit there is something more than crimes committed by organized mafias who corrupt the system for gain, which equates to loss for Community taxpayers.
Broadly speaking, this division distinguishes the countries where Community transit originates and the countries where that transit terminates.
The conflict between these two customs cultures has done much to degrade the Community transit system.
The temporary committee has demonstrated that customs cooperation between the Member States must be urgently strengthened.
The temporary committee has also demonstrated that fraud and smuggling is not sporadic, but is already a genuine Pan-European problem; a striking example is cigarettes, where testimony after testimony has demonstrated that they are being smuggled throughout Europe.
Beyond the timescale of the report lies the future of Community customs and the answer to the question of whether a single market can operate with five separate customs services or whether we should look for some way of advancing towards a common customs service which does not undermine national sovereignty but does deepen the Community dimension.
Above all, ladies and gentlemen, it must be clear that the European Parliament has detected a problem and that the various political forces will jointly and correctly analyse the causes and provide concrete solutions.
Mr President, Commissioner, I never thought that I would derive pleasure from a Committee of Inquiry and discover that, even in a democracy, a benign despot and friend can carry out the work of a Committee of Inquiry, as Mr Tomlinson has done with great success.
Madam President, the evidence shows that there was an enormous amount of evasion, with significant losses to the Union's budget and therefore also to that of the Member States.
All this has had serious consequences, such as inadequate protection of the Union's financial interests, major distortions of competition and the wide margins offered to organized crime, which has found new opportunities for making big profits.
We must therefore immediately draft a customs protocol that defines an equal level of control in the 15 Member States in order to avoid the present extremely serious distortions.
Madam President, the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left fully supports the work and recommendations of the temporary committee of inquiry into the Community transit system.
We have gained very significant experience in this committee and the European Parliament has been really proactive in investigating a matter which concerns the whole of the European Union, so I think we can congratulate ourselves on the progress this represents.
But there are three points I want to clarify, from our political standpoint as leftwingers committed to solidarity in a social Europe.
The result has been collapse of the customs and monitoring services and demoralization giving rise to a consolidation of fraud.
In my opinion the European Commission and Council have acted with negligence and lack of public responsibility by not foreseeing the foreseeable and finding a remedy.
The second point refers to the relationship that exists between the neo-liberal process of dismantling the welfare state entailed by the Maastricht criteria and the extension of the single market on the one hand, and the lack of interest in European public funding which ought to be supporting European social policies, on the other.
The third point is the conclusion of everything I have said: we agree with all the recommendations, predominantly technical and bureaucratic, to improve the customs services, the technical information channels, legal and fiscal homogenization, creation of specific Community police forces and so on, but if the underlying neo-liberal philosophy is not changed, none of these efforts will succeed.
So we think all these public service measures and policies are needed, but modification of the Maastricht convergence criteria and the stability pact for the Euro is also needed.
And for solidarity in a social Europe, these recommendations must be conveyed to the Intergovernmental Conference.
To that end, the Maastricht Treaty gave us this new right of investigation, which has now been exercised by two committees of inquiry.
In this way a two-way process is established, in which Parliament develops as a source of democratic control and consequently - or so I hope - the people of Europe gain confidence in the European institutions.
To that end I propose the following five points: those in positions of political responsibility, whether in the EU institutions or in Member States, must have an obligation to appear and give evidence to the committee.
They are also switching to other Member States, and to other tax havens; Switzerland had and still has a very bad reputation in this regard, and Cyprus is now going the same way.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the Committee of Inquiry is an admirable document in its account of the failings of the Community Transit System and the scale of the fraud.
That is why I expressed a minority opinion, and I ask all honourable Members to read that opinion, which appears on pages 207 to 210 of the report.
Instead of this rapid introduction of effective measures, the Committee proposes as the main objective the establishment of a single customs service operating within a European framework.
That is why I voted against the final report and against the recommendation - in which, I am sorry to say, I differ from my colleagues.
Are we talking about ECU 750 million over four years, or are we talking about ECU 3 billion per year?
Mr Kellett-Bowman's second gift is a paean of praise for borders - in the present case, customs borders, criminal law borders and health borders, too.
The report tells us that a single country, Poland, was able to send us 1000 lorries, 150, 000 head of cattle and 6000 tonnes of meat - and that happened despite the outbreaks of foot-andmouth and swine fever, which have spread freely because there are no longer any borders.
The common VAT system itself engenders fraud.
The basic approach is very simple: a leap into the unknown.
It is obvious that fraud offers the chance of an 83 % profit when excise duties vary from 76 % of the price of a pack to 83 % in Portugal.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, almost nobody, scarcely a single one of these 370 million citizens of the European Union whom we claim to represent, knows that there is a Community transit system and that it is not working.
Nevertheless, although no-one knows that it is not working, these 370 million citizens are well aware of the threat to themselves that results from the failure of the system.
In this broad panorama the fraud that is occurring within the Community transit system is but one small feature.
But the criticism we have made today - thorough, competent, based on 15 months of hard work - would surely be more credible in the eyes and ears of the European public if we included ourselves, this Parliament, the 'High House' , as we like to call it in German, in this criticism.
To the 38 recommendations made by the committee, which I fully endorse, I should like to add one more.
A lack of cooperation and reluctance to recognize evidence from other countries make it almost impossible to prosecute fraudsters.
The supreme achievement of the committee of inquiry under its dedicated chairman, John Tomlinson, consisted in bringing to light the abuses of the transit system.
Like a thread, Madam President, running through the committee's 38 recommendations is its awareness that a European customs service ought to be the long-term aim.
In general terms, it is apparent that some important aspects of customs procedure are political in nature and are closely associated with political reality.
Some similar process took place as we just now had and I did not have the space to indicate my disagreement with this proposal and I now do so.
Thank you very much, Mrs Ahern.
I therefore ask Parliament to adopt Amendment No 37.
In Amendment 12 it is alleged that the European Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine expressly bans cloning and that this is the first prohibition of cloning in international law.
I consider it important that this is clear before we vote. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, the next vote on our agenda is with regard to the Renault closure.
I think we should welcome them to the gallery and demonstrate our support for their cause. (Loud and sustained applause ) Thank you very much, Mrs Green.
And there is complete freedom in this Parliament to express opinions through the vote.
He may speak after the vote. (Mr Giansily insisted) Mr Giansily, I must remind you that as long as I am in the Chair, I will make the decisions in this House, right or wrong.
I have told you I will give you the floor after the vote, so please sit down.
We owe it to the people of the Renault factory that this vote proceeds according to the standards of this House, quietly and in a dignified manner.
Mr President, as we all should, I fully respect your authority.
So given the importance of the vote we are going to take, I would rather resolve the situation if the whole House will assist me.
Yesterday, I heard many honourable Members talking about social Europe and their support for the Renault workers in every country, not just at Vilvoorde.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we have to do now is the customary and proper work of this House, that is to say we must approve this resolution.
If you continue with the vote I shall refer it to the group chairmen at the Conference of Presidents.
As has already been said, Mr President, the gravity of the issue we are dealing with requires us to fulfil our obligation.
We have already re-established calm debate in Parliament.
I congratulate you on the decision you took to resume the sitting and you have the support of the majority of the groups through our group presidents.
I have to add that our group was surprised at the wording of point 8 of the joint resolution expressing the hope that the management of the company will draw up, in agreement with the workers' representatives, a company plan which will make the dismissals acceptable.
We cannot support this resolution, we withdraw our signature and we ask for rejection of point 8 so that we can support the resolution.
Our job today, our responsibility, after debating this matter, is to vote upon it.
Mr President, you are responsible - as Jean-Claude Pasty said just now, and he was right - for the incidents that have occurred.
Mr President, I personally am delighted to see the Renault workers here with us.
I would remind her that the United Kingdom has caused much suffering to Belgian workers, since, in the 1980s, the British Leyland works was also relocated to the United Kingdom.
Thank your very much, Mr Féret.
Mr President, my actions just now were not prompted by any aggressive intent as far as you were concerned - I simply wanted to ask you what Rule you were using to suspend the vote in order to give the floor to a Member who just happens to be the chairman of the largest group in this House and cause us to vote on an important motion under pressure from a number of individuals in the gallery.
Our Parliament lacks credibility outside these walls.
I believe, Mr President, that all those who are present here voted for you in the election for the vice-presidents because there was a consensus, and it seems to me that the consensus in this House is, first, to show respect for its Members.
Mr President, on a point of order, not only have you damaged the dignity of this House, but you have called into question the office which you have held today as President of this House.
I would also like to know why a colleague of mine who was trying to exercise his right under Rule 127 was not allowed to speak and why you, Sir, did not vacate the chair under Rule 111 and immediately suspend the sitting until order was restored.
Thank you, Miss McIntosh.
I said earlier - and I will say again now - that, in application of paragraph 1 of Rule 19, I take full responsibility for what has happened during this sitting and I am prepared to answer to the Bureau of Parliament and the Conference of Presidents at any time.
Mrs Green spoke in favour of the resolution which was put to this Chamber.
So, Mr President, you conducted business quite correctly.
Mr President, I want to place on the record of this House that during this afternoon's discussions, particularly during the distressing scenes, Members of the British Conservative Party were seen making obscene gestures towards people in the public gallery.
Mr President, the order and authority of this House depend on respect for the Chair and the decisions taken by the Chair.
I do not want to further inflame what is already a tense situation, but the respect for our Rules of Procedure which is fundamental for the conduct of this House's business requires that even that particular part of the Rule be respected.
Thank you, Mr Corbett.
When positions differ in the House the Chair must take a decision and cannot please everyone.
It must try to do so in what it considers the most correct way, sometimes in the way that will defuse the situation, always in line with the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, your first duty as the president of the sitting is to ensure respect for the Rules of Procedure.
And that was what you did not do.
We respect the people in the gallery, because they are our guests, but they must respect the Members of Parliament.
I shall refer this matter to the Conference of Presidents.
So this is not entirely a coincidence, and I want this matter to be referred both to the Conference of Presidents and to the Bureau, because it is intolerable that vice-presidents should behave as you have.
Thank you, Mr Pasty.
Thank you, Mr Cox.
We cannot expel a person from the Chamber and subsequently allow him to take part in votes and make use of his speaking time.
A Member called Féret, a representative of the Front National, called both Mrs Green and myself fascists.
Mr President, I have sat quietly since my first intervention in this.
I must say that I was astounded at the reaction to that intervention because it is normal practice, as everybody in this House knows, for Members to draw the attention of the House to the fact that there are people in the Gallery during debates on certain items in which they are interested.
I was astounded at the reaction at simply having a delegation from the Renault factory here when we were about to vote on that resolution.
If she thinks that is the kind of behaviour that will reassure people that the Labour Party is ready for government, she has a lot to learn.
You are right, Mr Bourlanges.
However, I cannot support the proposal because of the amended legal basis.
The Committee on the Environment is proposing the use of Article 100a as the legal basis, whereas the Commission's proposal is based on Article 130s.
It is being said that this amendment of the directive is not in fact a matter of environmental protection, but of harmonizing the rules in this sector.
I am therefore unable to vote in favour of using Article 100a in this case - the only thing that would be achieved by this is that Parliament would gain more responsibility.
The report also rightly points out the need to strengthen health and safety measures in this area of science.
Soulier report (A4-0065/97) Mr President, I must first congratulate my colleague André Soulier on his excellent report, which was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy.
The European Parliament had already delivered its opinion on 16 April 1996, on the basis of a first report by André Soulier and approved a multiannual programme intended to promote international co-operation in the energy sector.
Today, we should place on record our amazement at the attitude of the Council, which amended Article 8 on commitology, and decided to consult Parliament again.
The result of this change of method was not only to create a delay but also to introduce a substantial change, since the initial budget of ECU 10 million has been reduced to ECU 7 million for 1997.
However, in order that the SYNERGY programme should not be further delayed, and pending an in-depth debate on the subject, I am in favour of my colleague's report.
The group has therefore chosen to reject the report.
Such important matters as scientific assessment of the impact of fishing on the target and non-target species, control and surveillance of fishing activities, coherence with the development and environmental policies of the European Union and impact of the landing provisions on local markets are given insufficient attention in EU fisheries agreements with developing countries.
We are asked our opinion long after the negotiations have concluded and the boats have begun fishing.
We protest this situation with a vote against the two agreements.
Faced with declining fish stocks in its own waters and overcapacity in its fishing fleet, the EU has chosen to buy itself fishing rights in third countries.
Small-scale fishermen from African countries who are engaged in inshore fishing have expressed their concern at the effect of EU vessels fishing in their waters.
It is true that the modernization of our education and training systems will enable our European society to meet the challenges of the future (the information society, for example).
The European Union's activities should be at this level, focusing on the allocation of substantial financial resources.
I hope that the Commission's action plan really will take account of the needs of local authorities and will not be confined to aid for projects which small or medium-sized communities would not be able to implement within a reasonable time.
Lindqvist (ELDR), Gahrton, Holm, Schörling (V), in writing. (SV) We have voted for the report - Teaching and learning - towards the learning society as it contains favourable proposals and constructive criticism of the Commission's White Paper on education.
In her excellent report, in which many amendments proposed by our PPE Group were included, Sue Waddington presents an opinion on a Commission White Paper which totally omits the social aspects of education.
The European Parliament will support Commissioner Monti in this endeavour.
The foremost task in economic, social and education policy is to fight unemployment at both national and European levels.
Educational exchanges between countries can serve to underline the importance of a close link between professional experience and training received in school.
The White Paper on Education and Training has been generally welcomed and has attracted largely favourable comments.
I too believe that it represents an important stimulus for the education debate that is necessary at European and national level.
I also believe that the role of teachers in the information society must assume far greater importance than is accorded them in the White Paper.
As the main representatives of our society, they must ultimately accept and support the new developments, though without losing sight of the important task of inculcating values.
That would lead to greater understanding between nationals of different Member States without the need for them to acquire fluency in the other language.
On the whole, I am in agreement with the proposals in the White Paper, but I do believe that tangible measures will have to follow soon.
The cloning of human beings, whether experimentally, in the context of fertility treatment, pre-implantation diagnosis, tissue transplantation or for any other purpose whatsoever, cannot under any circumstances be justified and must be banned.
There must be an immediate withdrawal of all EU funding for research or development, whether provided directly or indirectly, for cloning techniques in animals and/or humans and the publication of a list of all such projects which have received EU funds.
We must convene a citizens' conference in each Member State to consider these questions and we must have a Human Genetics Commission to monitor and advise on all future developments.
In a debate provoked by Dolly the sheep, it is unbelievable that the other groups chose to omit any reference whatever to animals and settled for a weaker version of the resolution passed unanimously by this House in 1993 on human cloning.
The interrelationship between human and animal cloning is evident and as the previously insurmountable barriers between the species becomes invisible, we need to have the courage to call a halt to cloning all animals, not just human ones.
It should be a matter of broad public consultation and debate in order to establish consensus in our societies as to the future direction and application of new reproductive technologies.
Amendments to meet these objections have been rejected here today and I have abstained in protest.
The cloning of animals intended for slaughter leads to a further rationalisation of animal production, more far-reaching industrialisation of agriculture and also undermines our aim to change agricultural production in order to achieve an ecologically sound agriculture.
In a debate provoked by Dolly the sheep, it is unbelievable that the other groups chose to omit any reference whatever to animals and settled for a weaker version of the resolution passed unanimously by this House in 1993 on human cloning.
The interrelationship between human and animal cloning is evident and as the previously insurmountable barriers between the species become invisible, we need to have the courage to call a halt to cloning all animals, not just human ones.
It should be a matter of broad public consultation and debate in order to establish consensus in our societies as to the future direction and application of new reproductive technologies.
The idea that humans should be cloned would seem more akin to Hitler's thinking about the Aryan race than any responsible application of scientific progress.
Commissioner Cresson assured us that ethical and moral principles would be respected.
That is why I personally feel very strongly that the European Parliament must emphatically and consistently oppose any attempt to erode this ethical position and must stand together against the cloning of any living being whatsoever and against any research to that end.
What society has felt to be tolerable in order to remedy the infertility of a couple is already, in itself, a violation of this protection of human liberty.
It is a human 'strain' , which then gives rise to two human beings, each with a different personality though with the same genetic material.
The main debate on the social consequences of scientific research established the need for social control over science.
That may raise a conflict between freedom of research and other social values, but no-one should be scandalized.
Science is part of the praxis and its economic and social consequences in today's world are immense.
The regulation of scientific activity implies its integration into the social framework generally.
Only the law can reliably ensure the principle of freedom of research.
Having said that, it is important to forestall confusion about the current debate on control of techniques and cloning.
A careful distinction must be made between cloning human beings and cloning cells and animals, which is an essential tool in biomedical research.
Renault factory Mr President, my explanation of vote comes at an appropriate time following the serious incidents and manipulations that have just taken place in this Chamber.
The decision by Renault to close an industrial site at Vilvoorde should have been an occasion for careful consideration of the chain of causes and apparently irresistible forces that drove this reputable company to act in such a manner.
I have heard speakers saying that the only solution was to integrate the social protocol into the Treaty and establish a social Europe where decisions would be taken by majority voting.
I was also sorry to hear from certain quarters in this House, including some on the Right, calls for the demand to be supported by the restarting of the Structural Funds, a solution which amounts to stripping the tax-payer to dress the consumer, and even calls for job-sharing, a solution which again usually amounts to stripping the tax-payer, as always, but this time in order to dress the worker.
I also heard speakers on the left casting doubt on efforts at budgetary restructuring, probably with the implication that it was necessary to be in a position to subsidize Renault in order to retain jobs.
For all these reasons the public are well aware, without needing to be told, of the responsibilities of Brussels which, throughout this debate, this House has made every effort to conceal.
Mr President, I am bound to say that the fury of the socialists reminds me of Oscar Wilde's phrase about the rage of Caliban seeing his own face in the glass.
I voted against the motion.
Mr President, the Renault workers were in the gallery earlier, but they could well have been preceded by the miners, because the coal mines have also been closed and coal is to be brought in from Australia and Vietnam.
As for reality, Ford understood what reality meant when it paid its workers so much.
The motion for a resolution is a signal of solidarity with workers now being threatened by the closure of this factory.
The strong reaction by European socialists means that we do not go along with policies which entail firing workers against Europe and breaking the social consensus which is the very foundation of the European Union.
Fortunately Renault workers in different countries have understood that their fight to face up to 'globalised' capital has to be united on an international scale and that the solution is not by withdrawing behind national frontiers.
Unreservedly supporting their fight for the right to work, we also wish to say that it is identified with the fight for a social Europe and a policy based on active participation and in the popular fight.
Having due regard to the quite appalling conditions under which Parliament voted on the motion for a resolution regarding the closure of the Renault works at Vilvoorde, we felt we should not take part in the vote.
The European Parliament aims to improve social conditions and employment, but the methods used are doing exactly the opposite.
The fact that a multinational company like Renault has been subsidised by the EU highlights the drawbacks of those company subsidies from the EU which the EU itself actively encourages on a large scale through their own Structural Funds.
Although I would remind opponents of the European Union and of Maastricht that Europe is not responsible for this intolerable situation, it is demonstrating its limitations and its inability to prevent the situation, just as it demonstrated its inability to prevent the relocations of undertakings from one Member State to another.
The way to achieve this is through new European powers, new directives, stronger unionization of Europe and the mobilization of all Europeans who want different European policies and reject unbridled free trade.
The resolution adopted a moment ago on the closure of the Renault factory in Vilvorde is a most important document in relation to European social policy.
It is important because it goes beyond the case in point and reflects the relationship between European Union and industrial policy.
In fact, this restructuring and arbitrary closure contribute not only to rising unemployment but also to creating an economic insecurity that may have a serious impact on the growth of consumption, social conflict and, in short, economic growth in general in the European Union.
It is important because it condemns the use of dismissals alone to resolve the crisis without patiently seeking alternative solutions, which is inconsistent with our attempt to construct a Europe that is more attentive to the problems of its citizens.
But this resolution is also important because everything that is said and written about Renault also applies to all the other identical or very similar situations that have occurred in Europe, even if they do not all come before the European Parliament.
We are now in the process of negotiation and we hope that this very strong resolution will also help resolve the difficulties facing other workers in Europe.
In order to prevent any recurrence of this kind of situation, I hope that the European Union will in future take more effective action and encourage and support solutions which are less expensive in human terms.
The EU has over a long period of time given priority to matters relating to the economy, trade, markets and competition.
On the contrary, these issues should be dealt with by Member States.
The EU can for example set targets for employment while the measures to reach such a target are developed and carried out at the national level.
The closure of the Vilvoorde site is just one more tragedy in a long list of works that have been closed down.
Economic cohesion and social cohesion are indispensable and must go hand in hand.
The European Parliament has been fighting for this for years.
Continuing training measures will also have to be proposed.
Last week's Europe-wide strike is a real gesture of awareness by the workforce in favour of social Europe.
The solidarity of the French and Spanish workers with their Belgian colleagues is something new!
I wish to express my deep solidarity with the thousands of Renault workers who were completely excluded from their management's tragic decisions, and with all those employed by the subcontracting companies which would then have to face the dreadful economic consequences of this closure.
We have voted in favour of the resolution opposing the shutting down of the Renault factory in Vilvoorde.
I deliberately took no part in this vote, to demonstrate my disagreement in principle with this kind of text.
As we in this Parliament, particularly on the basis of Green initiatives, have repeatedly stated, it is high time we ensured that all European and national location grants are linked to long-term sectoral and regional development plans and that they are made repayable in the event of a company reneging on its commitment. (3) The European car industry is heading towards a fairly serious structural crisis, with production capacity about three times too high and neither the European internal market nor the world market in a sufficiently expansive mood to absorb it, quite apart from the question whether that would be ecologically defensible in any case.
Madam President, as one of those who took part in the work of the Committee of Inquiry into the Community Transit System, I too must compliment Mr Tomlinson and Mr Kellet-Bowman on the way in which they did their job.
So I look forward with interest to the report which Commissioner Monti has promised us by the end of April.
Switzerland is a far more serious problem.
Madam President, in the short time available to me I should like to point to the European Parliament's achievements in the context of the Committee of Inquiry's operations.
And first of all, of course, to say that it has justified the idea of those who thought of the idea and undertook the responsibility of setting up a Committee of Inquiry in the European Parliament.
This Committee of Inquiry solved many procedural issues and in essence interpreted the Inter-institutional Agreement in the best possible way.
I must tell you that we were faced by the following phenomenon: on the one hand, we had those mixed committees or groups between Member States and Commission officials concerning customs issues, which always agreed among themselves, but on the other hand, when we received answers to questionnaires from the 15 Member States, we found profound disagreements between the Member States, in flagrant contradiction with what the representatives of those countries had said and declared in Brussels in those mixed committees and working groups.
The European Union and Member States have lost several billion ECU in VAT, duties and excise to the benefit of the organised criminals.
These regulations must be applied consistently by Customs Departments in the Member States.
The Customs Departments in Member States must cooperate as if they were one and the same authority.
The Commission and Member States must actively carry out the recommendations made in the report.
I want to put on record here that that decision was taken administratively, and not politically as such an important decision should have been.
And the extension of the transit system to the Visegrad countries is a clear example of the need to deepen rather than widen.
Computerization must be the first objective in the context of reform of the system, with over 18 million annual transit operations to be handled.
The reform of Community transit ought to simplify operations for businesses as well as find mechanisms for customs and legal cooperation especially in terms of detection of fraud, imposition and implementation of sanctions, and control of discounts and exemptions.
If we ask any smuggler of Marlboro cigarettes what difference he sees between the market in Detroit and our own internal market - and such surveys in depth have been carried out by our committee - he would answer that the only difference perhaps is that in America he pays some taxes, while in Europe he pays no tax at all.
The report has also sketched out the anatomy of the reasons for that situation.
Responsibility for compliance with the tariff list rests with 15 different customs services.
A second point I wanted to emphasize was the question of the 10 % which Member States are allowed to retain for the purposes of setting up an efficient customs system.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our committee of inquiry has proved that the European Parliament intends to fulfil to the letter its mandate to defend the interests of the taxpayers, and our task now will be to ensure that we actually put into effect the results of the excellent work performed over these last 15 months, a task that has to be undertaken together with the Commission and the Member States.
Madam President, I am pleased that I have been able to participate in the work of this temporary Committee of Inquiry; indeed, of having played a small part in bringing it into being.
It was some two years ago, in the early months of 1995 that I collected the signatures of 25 % of the Members of this House to call for a Committee of Inquiry into the problems of Community fraud.
That success has already prompted change in Community transit practice by the Commission, the customs services, transporters and freight forwarders themselves.
The Committee on Budgetary Control must keep hold of this.
The temporary Committee of Inquiry has exercised its powers as it did into BSE as an important new power of Parliament.
These two committees have treated their role differently but in my opinion both demonstrate the value of the new procedure.
I am pleased to see that the Council of Ministers has attended our debate and I thank them for that.
The message, however, is clear to national customs services: we benefit from the single market, we want cross-Community trade to grow, and we want the customs services to cooperate, as it says: to operate as if they were one.
Consideration should be given to a compensatory payment to these countries from the Community budget.
Madam President, I too thank the rapporteur for his excellent work, together with the committee and its chairman.
I want to emphasize one particular aspect raised in recommendations 14-20, judicial cooperation, because there is a very close link between the proposals on this and the more general strategy to combat fraud, a fight we know must be waged and where we are sadly making slow progress.
The recommendations also refer to reciprocal recognition of proof.
A judge who asks a foreign colleague for proof of criminal acts does not receive replies in more than 10 % of cases.
I would therefore call for these recommendations to be flanked by a strategy for putting the renewed fight against fraud at the top of the third pillar during the Intergovernmental Conference.
As other speakers have said, it does show Parliament at its most hard-working and efficient.
I endorse the recommendations in the report and I think the report clearly shows that cigarettes offer the fraudster a huge mark-up between the duty-free price and the actual sale price right throughout the European Union.
Illegal trade in cigarettes in my own city of Dublin accounts for 10 % of the total market.
That is a huge figure, 4 % nationally, 10 % in Dublin.
Finally, I would appeal to those people who buy black-market cigarettes to remember that they are putting money into the hands of ruthless criminals who are possibly also engaged in laundering money from drugs.
Madam President, the problem of fraud in the evasion of customs duties is one of the great unresolved challenges facing the European Union.
This form of fraud costs the EU billions annually.
It is as evident in my country of Ireland as in any other EU Member State.
I hope that this report represents the first stage in a concerted battle against this type of fraud.
The wide-ranging recommendations contained in the report should be implemented, and soon.
However, the most crucial ingredient in tackling this fraud is political will.
The present situation, with 15 different Member States implementing 15 different customs regimes, is not conducive to success.
It is now vital that the EU establish a framework for customs services effectively functioning as if they were one.
There is a key role for EUROPOL in the implementation of this report.
There is no doubt in my mind that the same individuals involved in this trade are also involved in drugs and other such activities.
Madam President, the Temporary Committee of Inquiry into fraud in the Community transit system has investigated thoroughly and produced a very readable report.
What I would say is that in the recent past, partly as a result of the Committee of Inquiry's activities, much has already been done at both Community and national level to combat transit fraud.
In 1995 the Council adopted a resolution calling for computerization of the transit system by 1998.
The presidency will endeavour to get the report placed on the agenda as soon as possible.
It is clear that at this point the debate is looking towards the implementation of the reforms of the transit system and, more generally, the reform of the customs policy.
These aspects must and will take up their rightful place in the action plan on the single market which the Commission will be presenting to the European Council in Amsterdam.
Parliament has clearly demonstrated its commitment in this matter; I hope the Council and the Member States will do the same - and we have just heard an important statement from the President of the Council - by making their political contribution and rapidly adopting the proposals put before them.
For the rest, we will all continue to cooperate fully with the European Parliament.
With those two questions, I thank both the Commission and the Council for their active participation in this debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Albania The next item is the situation in Albania, with Council and Commission statements followed by a debate.
Madam President, partly in reply to oral questions to the Council from MEPs Ahlquist and Bianco, I am happy to report in detail on the alarming situation which has arisen in Albania and the steps which the European Union has taken so far as a result of it.
During the 1996 parliamentary elections the OSCE observers identified irregularities which favoured the Democratic Party of President Berisha.
This prompted the decision of the General Affairs Council on 24/25 February to send a high-level official joint mission of the presidency of the European Union and the Commission.
In talks with President Berisha, Prime Minister Meksi and Minister Sheru and the leaders of various opposition parties, the mission also found the attitudes of both Government and opposition to be extremely inflexible.
The Meksi Government offered its resignation on 1 March, on 2 March a state of emergency was declared, on 3 March President Berisha got himself re-elected by parliament for a new five-year term.
In the light of this further worsening of the situation the European Union has sought, through closer consultation with all the parties involved, to help control the political conflict and create conditions for stability so that the country can resume its process of reform.
Shortly before the EU presidency arrived in Tirana President Berisha and the political parties agreed on a statement.
This pledged support for the restoration of public order and called for people to surrender looted weapons within 48 hours.
During the visit by the Council President meetings were held with President Berisha and representatives of six political parties.
In his talks with President Berisha the EU President emphasized the need to restore freedom of the press, including access for all parties to state television.
The EU presidency urged the President to announce elections quickly, to be held at a time acceptable to all parties.
The OSCE would have to be closely involved in this process of democratization.
The President was then urged to hold prompt consultations with the personal representative of the OSCE President-in-Office, former Austrian Chancellor Franz Vranitsky, who was due to visit Tirana on 8 March, the day after the visit of the EU presidency.
The presidency urged this course of action too.
The opposition, however, believed that by handing in its weapons the south would put itself completely at the mercy of President Berisha's Government which it considered undemocratic.
Given these diametrically opposed positions, it follows that the significance of the aforementioned joint statement of 6 March by all the political parties was not clear.
The presidency told the Government and opposition parties that the European Union was prepared to provide further support for economic and democratic development in Albania, as long as the country made it possible for the EU to do so by restoring order and making internal changes.
The presidency hopes that the progress made in recent days can be consolidated.
This is an important step towards a more lasting solution.
And I welcome the efforts being made by the Italian Government to foster dialogue between the Albanian Government and the opposition further.
The presidency will liaise closely with its colleagues in the EU and the OSCE to monitor the situation and where possible to take further steps to end this serious and unstable situation.
Madam President, Mr President of the Council, Commissioner, I cannot but endorse your appeal for support in your endeavours, at least on behalf of my own group, although I am sure I speak for every other group too.
We really have allowed undiluted capitalism - I might almost say exploitive capitalism - to develop after the dictatorship, in the wake of the most inhuman system seen in Europe in recent times.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Albania is extremely difficult, as we have just heard.
The fact that the local elections in September produced the same results as the elections in March shows how the outcome of the March election is to be judged.
For these reasons, when you speak of the Berisha Administration, you must proceed on the assumption that it is a legitimate government.
The Berisha Government has made considerable progress towards democracy and a market economy, as this Parliament unanimously acknowledged last autumn.
The European Union must help to create democratic structures, to promote education and training, to establish market structures backed up by a genuine system of social protection and to promote investment and thus create jobs.
There is one point on which I am in full agreement with the Council representative: I too am in favour of a thorough examination of the occurrences in Albania.
Madam President, the chaos prevailing in Albania is not new.
At the same time, the government seems increasingly unable to control the situation.
But President Berisha has not appeared out of nowhere!
Madam President, it would take too long - and we do not have the time - to examine the distant causes of the extremely serious and devastating crisis that has hit Albania, the decades of economic weakness and total lack of democratic or even basic structures.
I believe that today Parliament has something to say to the Council and the Commission.
This line involves three demands, that are also set out in the document to be submitted to Parliament tomorrow for its consideration: firstly, a government of national unity, and it seems to me that this has been achieved with the appointment by the President of the Republic of a prime minister from the opposition; secondly, the holding of new elections; thirdly, the undertaking given by the European Union, and by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, to give financial aid to Albania, subject to full respect for freedom of the press, the reestablishment of democratic rights and economic normalization measures in that country.
We believe these three points are fundamental.
In our opinion, at least, they are the result of the policy exercised towards Albania and its people by the governments of some Member States and by the European Union's bodies.
We cannot understand that in Albania there is now a new reality imposed by the people's rebellion, which is already finding political expression.
Finally, I would like to express my complete opposition to any plan for the intervention of international military forces in Albania, a thing which could lead to unforeseen situations all over the Balkan area.
Madam President, we are facing a truly dramatic situation, with the risk of civil war in Albania, a risk caused not only by the collapse of the pyramid investment schemes that we discussed last month too, but also by the reactions of a government, Berisha's government, which has little by little proved to be more a regime than a government, reacting with authoritarian measures to the popular demonstrations by the Albanians and ending with intimidation of the opposition press, a government whose representative, Berisha, no longer represents the people, as we saw from those demonstrations, and which had already shown signs of lack of democracy when we condemned the elections that were held in a manner that was anything but democratic.
In face of this situation we must not forget either that a month ago we as the European Parliament had expressed our serious concern: the day after those elections, which were rigged, we expressed our deep concern about the consequences this could have, consequences which would, to say the least, prejudice the democratic dialogue between majority and opposition.
As early as 8 February 1994, the Member who preceded me in this Parliamentary seat, Alexander Langer, stated that Albania was not yet a normal democratic state, that ordinary democratic life was not yet fully developed, and called on all the European Union institutions to confront this situation, for if we are not able to confront a situation such as the Albanian one, how can we hope to confront all the problems of Eastern Europe as a whole?
The Group of the European Radical Alliance therefore supports the process of national reconciliation agreed upon by the various political forces in Albania; however, this process seems as yet to have failed to convince the Albanian public, which has risen up against the outrage perpetrated against it by the so-called pyramid saving scheme, a demonstration of all the worst excesses of a free economy.
The mistake it makes is always the same: unable to find a united and effective political line rapidly, the Union hopes to make up for its political deficit by opening its purse, but money alone does not help resolve problems and sometimes even exacerbates them.
The events in Albania have shown us how difficult things are in Balkan Europe.
It listened to the countries with experience and a prolonged presence in the area - Greece and Italy - and operated effectively.
That is the kind of information we want, because here in Parliament, as tomorrow's vote will I hope show, at this stage we are avoiding the adoption of positions and any criticism of either side, considering that the situation in Albania is so fluid that the most important thing is to be able to maintain some level of political dialogue.
Mrs Pack is right to call on us not to make hasty or partisan judgments, such as some I have heard in this Chamber.
In the light of all this it is therefore necessary to make the utmost effort to approach this delicate problem in a balanced, calm and unbiased manner in order to resolve the situation and continue the process towards further democratization, paying particular attention to the cultural integration of this important part of the Mediterranean basin.
Anyway, I am glad that the Council President laid it on the line to President Berisha last weekend.
Today, Commissioner, as we speak, they are just 40 km from Tirana.
Madam President, I too regard it as a notable success of the European Union's recent initiative that the majority and the opposition have accepted the path proposed to them, the path of agreement, of national reconciliation in two important points: a more united government and the announcement of new elections.
This aspect must therefore be firmly underlined and brought to the attention of the Commission and the Member State governments.
I believe that the European Union must intervene directly and play a major mediating role, seeking also to make contact with the third force in play, the armed rebels, in order to persuade through negotiation to lay down their arms.
As Mr La Malfa said, economic action and political conditions must go hand in hand.
I agree with Mr Occhetto that there is a third force in play.
I agree with the proposal by Commissioner van den Broek to try to create a minimum of legality, starting from the agreement reached between Berisha and the new opposition government and the job entrusted to a representative of the Socialist Party who, coming from the south, could try to finalize this agreement.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Council, I believe that what has been greeted as a success for Europe, the very fragile truce achieved in Tirana, is nothing of the kind.
I therefore believe that at this point Europe must assume its responsibilities for the future, especially for what was not done in Albania.
Let us follow the example of those who invest in peace, in stability and in human rights!
I agree with Mr Occhetto that we need to take direct measures for the south of Albania, as the Italian government is endeavouring to do through the presence of our ambassador in the south.
I believe that Europe therefore has every reason to attend to this aspect, in order to put an end to the riots and help the country hold new elections.
Madam President, the Members who spoke before me have indicated that the situation in Albania has gone completely out of control.
It is good that the first move has been made to resolve this crisis together so that democracy can finally be given a chance in Albania too.
We very much hope that all parties will now comply with the agreement, but these are all only first steps.
What is more important is that the new Government that is subsequently elected and the new Parliament should also make it their duty to implement democratic and economic reforms.
Although we have concluded cooperation agreements with many countries in the region and even association agreements with some of them, and although we are trying, through the PHARE programme, to give active support to the reform processes in those countries, developments there have repeatedly taken us by surprise.
As this debate draws to a close, the request I should therefore like to make to the Commission is that in future we, that is the Council, the Commission and Parliament, discuss how democratic and economic reforms in those countries can be better and more effectively supported and how we can target the PHARE programme more selectively.
Neither President Berisha nor his government are blameless in the existing situation.
As you know, the OSCE/ODIHR report criticized the recent elections.
There is strong evidence that in the south of the country there are links with the Albanian mafia, with their drug smuggling operations to Italy and elsewhere.
In Kosovo, already a tense situation, over 80 % of the population are of Albanian origin.
Madam President, the European Union's policy in Albania, with its support for Berisha, was a mistake.
If the Council had heeded the European Parliament when Fatos Nano was arrested and had done something about that, if it had listened to the European Parliament after the irregular elections, if it had taken note of the European Parliament's resolution last month and acted immediately, or even if it had kept its distance from the Berisha regime like the United States, things would perhaps have been better today.
And one more question: are the Council and the Commission going to raise with the present Albanian government the issue of freedom for the political detainees, and especially Fatos Nano?
Following my detailed statement I will repeat that the presidency and the Council are monitoring the situation in Albania hour by hour.
Our parallel objective is the restoration of public order in the immediate future and that can only be done if we pursue our second objective: the credibility of the Government must be restored by means of democratic reforms and elections within a period of a few months.
Secondly, it is important for the region as a whole that this most unfortunate situation should not produce a ripple effect.
Madam President, I am happy to echo the words of the Council presidency and would add that in Albania the fuse is smouldering.
The explosive situation there is a threat not only to Albania's own people but also to her neighbours and the whole of the region.
Since that is the only chance which the people of Albania will in fact have in the short term of having a democratic say in how their future should be and also of coming to terms with the past.
Madam President, a number of speakers have referred to the coup d'etat developing in Albania.
The matter was raised by Mr van Mierlo during his visit to Tirana.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, just under 16 months after the Barcelona Conference of 27 and 28 November 1995 and a good month before the follow-up conference in Malta, we are to debate in the House today a report which seeks to evaluate the results of the first Barcelona Conference and to put forward new proposals and requirements for the follow-up conference, which will be held in Malta this time.
I should like to start, Madam President, by saying how delighted I am that today's debate is taking place in the presence of our fellow parliamentarians from the Mediterranean countries with which we founded this special EuroMediterranean partnership in Barcelona.
But I believe that the core element in this domain is the formulation of a Euro-Mediterranean charter for peace and stability, through which dialogue and crisis-prevention are to be institutionalized.
For this reason I believe that, in our debates in the European Parliament as well as in our dialogue in the framework of the parliamentary Euro-Mediterranean forum, this charter should serve as a focal point.
A whole series of other valuable proposals in this domain are on the table.
Migration has always played a prominent role in cultural exchanges between the two sides of the Mediterranean.
Your staff and you yourself have always given us inestimable support.
Madam President, first of all, I too would like to welcome our colleagues and friends from all the Mediterranean countries, who are here with us today and are observing this sitting.
Secondly, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, our dear friend and colleague Yannis Sakellariou, not only on the content of the report he has presented, but for all the efforts and work he has been carrying out systematically for months to make it possible to achieve the result you all have before you.
Mr Sakellariou spoke about migration.
Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on External Economic Relations has tabled a series of very specific proposals - we thank the rapporteur for accepting most of them - which aim to boost the developmental dimension of the Barcelona process, a thing we consider essential for the continuation of that process.
I would also like to join with him in the congratulations to Commissioner Marín for the efforts he has made in relation to this subject.
Also we must not forget the initiative taken by the Spanish presidency which got the Barcelona Conference off the ground.
Clearly in the situation following the fall of the Berlin Wall, where we are looking at security in a broader framework of political, economic and social stability, the Mediterranean initiative is of vital importance if we are to maintain and build the security of the region.
Firstly, there is no doubt, despite all the efforts contained in the Mediterranean process, that unless we guarantee the peace process in the Middle East, everything we do will be undermined.
The key to success in this initiative will come if we attract private finance.
Fourthly, we must intensify the dialogue on human rights.
Freedom is both a political concept and an economic one which is vital for the development of the region.
Sixthly, we must intensify regional cooperation in order to ensure that countries are working very closely together so that they become very much inter-related.
Finally, it is important that we develop greater mutual understanding.
We need to explain what the European Union is trying to achieve with the single currency project and with enlargement to Central and Eastern Europe.
Madam President, I wish to join colleagues in welcoming this report and congratulating Mr Sakellariou.
My own country has been fascinated by developments in Mediterranean policy for many centuries.
Finally, I welcome what might be called the holistic approach of the Barcelona process - its multidimensional nature.
However, I recommend that anyone involved in this process should study the work of that great French historian Braudel and his classic study on the Mediterranean at the time of Philip II.
There they will see clearly laid out the interrelated system of culture and economics that is and always has been the Mediterranean.
Mr President, I warmly thank Mr Sakellariou for his good work.
I believe that it is absolutely essential to shift the balance of European policy towards the south because the Mediterranean area is particularly vulnerable to the emergence of a new wall of incomprehension between north and south, between the Christian and the Muslim world, between the rich and the poor world.
This has to be avoided and in this context the Barcelona process is most important, as is partnership with the countries on the other shore of the Mediterranean.
Mr President, the follow-up to the Barcelona Conference has to be the next step in the dynamic process of rapprochement between Europe and its neighbours around the Mediterranean Sea.
The Middle Eastern peace process is in trouble, and that in turn affects the Barcelona process.
Of course this House must give a lead and ultimately the OSCE model must be practicable and the Euro-Mediterranean stability pact has to be an interesting idea.
Those criteria are valid both for Turkey and for a number of other countries in the region.
All that should be present in the Barcelona process and sponsored in the next meeting in Malta together with three other measures: promotion of cultural understanding between the north and south coasts, introduction of mechanisms to involve the public, and the creation of a permanent interparliamentary forum with powers of consultation and proposal.
Mr President, I want to point out that many of us had expected rather more of the Barcelona Conference, such as a shift of balance southwards of European Union policy, which is all too often aimed rather more towards the eastern countries.
The causes lie in the fact that participation in the system is limited only to 12 African coastal states, excluding Libya, Albania and the countries of former Yugoslavia, that the aim is to promote the free movement of goods while in fact hindering the movement of persons, and that there is no genuine democratic dialogue between all the components of civil society on both shores of the Mediterranean.
However, the Barcelona Conference was a first step, which we cannot dismiss, towards the necessary approach to relations between the Mediterranean countries.
This is a proposal the Greens have always put forward.
We agree on the need to develop the MEDA programme in a positive way and to aim at debt cancellation, linked to compliance with the principles of the declaration, with a view to promoting sustainable development and to achieving that aim by means of renewable energy sources and energy savings.
So we hope the European Parliament will be adequately represented in Malta and that all the non-governmental organizations will be present at a civil forum financed by the European Union.
Mr President, the Barcelona Conference marked a major turning point in the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean pole.
That is why my group will be supporting the amendments designed to strengthen cultural exchanges, the role of civilian society and the heritage conservation policies.
Mr President, the Sakellariou report has the merit of emphasizing the priority importance which we should now attach to establishing close co-operation with all the Mediterranean seaboard States.
The two essential factors for that security, as inseparable as the two sides of a coin, are the economic development of the countries of the southern and eastern Mediterranean, and the control of migration flows.
Mr Sakellariou proposes the creation of a co-prosperity zone in the Mediterranean.
The long tradition of friendly and co-operative relations between some of our countries is a precious asset to the entire Union.
After the unfortunate failure of an initial ambitious attempt at a Euro-Arab dialogue, a new dynamic is seeking to become established on the basis of the Barcelona Declaration.
It produced a final declaration, the fruit of that strange North-South summit that advocated global cooperation, to be implemented at three levels: a more intensive political dialogue, the development of economic cooperation, more attention to the social, cultural and human dimension.
It could be said in general that the Euro-Mediterranean policy has already produced a result because it has affirmed and legitimized the European Union's political role in the Mediterranean and improved our relations with the countries on its shores.
Euro-Mediterranean partnership is based mainly on three fundamental pillars: the political and security pillar, the economic and financial one and the social, cultural and human one.
The European Union must therefore have greater influence in the Mediterranean region and assume a political role which, considering the importance of its financial role, should be a wide-ranging one.
Turning finally to the third, social, cultural and human pillar, it has to be said that this has been subject to considerable delays, both because of the difficulties with the MEDA programme and because of our Parliament's delays, since it has not yet created the forum which should become the ideal meeting place for EuroMediterranean civil society.
In the time between the Malta Conference and Barcelona III, the European Parliament must therefore seek to institutionalize a permanent dialogue between the various civil societies in order to avoid the risk of constructing a Euro-Mediterranean edifice without foundations, without the fundamental and reciprocal awareness and confidence that is needed between two societies that are still suspicious of each other and different.
I am therefore happy to welcome the colleagues from Mediterranean third countries who have come here and the proposal to set up a first meeting between the members of our and their parliaments.
Mr President, I too extend a warm welcome to our colleagues from the Mediterranean region.
There will only be stability and security in this region if human rights are respected.
I am glad that all members of the Foreign Affairs Committee are prepared to consider my proposal that we should adopt the OSCE's model for monitoring human rights in the region.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the fundamental points of Mr Sakellariou's report and my group's support of it, expressed by Mr Bertens, and also with the very positive evaluation of Vice-President Marín's work and results.
Mr Bertens spoke more about political aspects and I want to refer more to economic aspects, given that, for one thing, the delay in approving and subsequently implementing the MEDA regulation has slowed down other projects and dampened the expectations established at Barcelona.
Secondly, I must stress the need to develop projects which really contribute to economic development and meet expectations - above all economic expectations - in the area and which, as has already been said here, are encountering some reticence as regards finance.
However, Mr President, since we are totally at one with the soul and spirit of the Barcelona Conference and perhaps to add another angle to this debate, I want to draw attention here to the great sacrifice and far from beneficial consequences that blindly strengthening Euro-Mediterranean cooperation involves for the industrial sectors of objective 1 regions.
Mr President, as the Barcelona Conference confirmed, Europe is part of the Mediterranean Basin and the Mediterranean Sea is, for all the countries surrounding it, an inland sea - a sea that belongs to us all.
Together, we must guarantee our common security, fight for peace and equip ourselves with specific means for doing so, as the Sakellariou report proposes, through a charter.
We also need - jointly, again - to further the advance of democracy where it is insufficiently established and defend it where it exists, with all due respect for our differences, naturally.
In conclusion, as chairman of the Europe-Israel delegation, I offer my warm congratulations to Mr Sakellariou for the quality of his work and the excellence of his report.
I also call upon the whole European Parliament and European Union to understand that our future, in every area, will depend on our dealings with the southern countries in general, and the Mediterranean seaboard States in particular.
We have done some good work so far, but we must bear in mind that there is a great deal still to be done.
However, there are several essential conditions for achieving this objective.
It is extremely important not to seek to impose a policy from above but to reach appropriate agreements with the individual countries on establishing the specific policies of the three pillar defined in Barcelona.
But there are still very serious weaknesses as regards the entire question of cultural activities, which is also an essential aspect if we want to resolve, not by imposing solutions but through genuine development, matters relating to the closer integration of the Mediterranean countries and if we want to create a stronger sense of identity among all the countries by means of cultural initiatives of which, however paradoxical, there are only two: the usual customary attention to the audiovisual media, given the importance of television, but also, which is perhaps very important, the awareness of the programmes to be transmitted given that this signifies genuine policy-making.
It is urgently necessary for the Commission to set up the Euro-Mediterranean water agency, for it to promote cooperation in energy in the framework of the Energy Charter and for the network of the Innovation Relay Centre which is being extended to the central and eastern European countries through the Fellow members Innovation Relay Centers also to cover the countries on the other shore of the Mediterranean.
Mr President, I want to begin my speech by congratulating Mr Sakellariou on encapsulating Euro-Mediterranean policy in a report which I regard as most opportune, taking stock of our efforts so far and establishing lines of action.
I also want to record that when we speak of Euro-Mediterranean policy we need to be able to face up to our responsibilities; the work we lost for budgetary reasons last year could have converted our commitments into reality.
Finally, Mr President, I think that the great objective of our Euro-Mediterranean policy must be to replace fear, mistrust and conflict with a policy which really makes the Mediterranean Mare Nostrum .
Mr President, I too would like to welcome our Mediterranean friends and colleagues, and also sincerely to congratulate Yannis Sakellariou on his work.
The Barcelona Conference confirmed the European Union's interest in the Mediterranean and the great importance of that area for the whole of Europe and its development.
Europe has understood that peaceful coexistence in the area cannot exist unless the great problems faced by non-Community countries in the Mediterranean Basin are addressed, problems which essentially amount to democracy and development.
It is therefore in the European Union's interest, and at the same time its obligation, to help those countries on the basis of an equal relationship, and with respect for their cultural characteristics.
We consider it to be a very positive fact that great emphasis is placed on respect for human rights and the protection of minorities, because those are among the basic problems of those countries.
For this, we consider it essential to create a mechanism to guarantee compliance with those principles, because, unfortunately, there are countries that took part in the Barcelona Conference but which are failing to comply with what was agreed, and so continually creating tensions and persisting, in contravention of all international law and order, with the occupation of a large section of an independent state.
Besides the necessity to find solutions which will address that issue, we must also understand that the problem cannot be solved in the host countries, but in the countries of origin.
Mr President, first I want to congratulate Mr Sakellariou and everyone here.
Mr Spencer spoke in this Chamber of the need for all the countries of the Union to feel that Euro-Mediterranean policy belongs to them.
But I think we must also try to make progress, looking to the future, in the sense that all the other policies of the European Union should also incorporate the spirit of the Euro-Mediterranean Conference.
I do not need to go to the Commission, I do not need to speak about European policies in support of this, I only need to stay in this House and see the papers we produce.
I also want to say that the ECU 64, 000 million earned by exports in 1995, producing a positive balance of ECU 18, 000 million, speaks for itself in answer to some of the questions raised in this House on the problems Euro-Mediterranean policy may cause to certain European regions.
Mr President, looking at the Sakellariou report and its well-intentioned proposals from a northern or north-eastern perspective, I feel that there are some very interesting dissimilarities between our case, the Baltic Sea region, and the Mediterranean.
The Protestant tradition in the north makes separation of religion and political power easy.
We note the conflict between some government circles in Turkey and the army, the latter representing Atatürk's idea of a lay society.
The little I have seen of the media coverage in the non-EU countries along the Mediterranean showing events in other countries along the same shores is often distorted and one-sided and does not contribute to an understanding of the cultural and political diversity of the area.
Mr President, I too believe that Mr Sakellariou's report is important because it allows our Parliament to review the need for major advances in the Euro-Mediterranean partnership policy decided in Barcelona.
This is a fundamental strategy for the European Union and must be regarded as such so that attention can be directed towards the south, beginning with the near south, and the processes of peace, stability and mutual understanding can be strengthened.
Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
As you know, the Commission has always insisted that Mediterranean policy is a European policy of interest to every Member State and just as it seems to me absurd that Mediterranean policy should be an issue only for Portugal, Spain, Italy, Greece and France, I also think it is wrong to regard the policy on the countries of central or eastern Europe as of interest only to the Benelux countries or the Germans.
And in fact, the major review we are carrying out presupposes continuous and increasing consolidation of the idea that Mediterranean policy really is a policy for everyone and must be understood as such by all the Member States.
It is very interesting to have this report, Mr Sakellariou, on the eve of the second Euro-Mediterranean Conference which will take place in La Valetta in April.
Barcelona is only a baby.
So this policy must of necessity be a long term policy and like all long term policies it must gather momentum, taking increasingly firm steps.
Consequently, the Commission's fundamental strategy for the Malta meeting will be to consolidate what we are doing year by year, so that this long term policy goes on producing results.
Peace, stability, shared prosperity, and establishing a dialogue between cultures and civilizations, continue to be interdependent elements and they can only progress, as all of you have pointed out - and I am delighted at the consensus - to the extent that the three Barcelona objectives go hand in hand.
I think it is a sufficient because a year and a half ago it was unthinkable - given the events that have occurred, for example, in the peace negotiations in the Middle East - that it would be possible at least to draw up a EuroMediterranean charter on peace, stability and security.
We have a basis, ideas which you have introduced in the political and security areas, for working on much more substantial issues, with the aim of establishing a kind of Mediterranean OSCE or security plan.
We have been able to introduce a certain degree of new dynamism and a number of points suggest that we are at least on the right road: the list of measures with guarantees that have already been approved, the communications network between the 27 countries, the Institute of Foreign Policy network, the draft mechanism for prevention of natural disasters, and the action plan for political and security dialogue which is already being debated.
The second pillar, or the second part of Barcelona, consists of economic policy and the association agreements.
Perhaps that is the most brilliant part - I do not say that for my benefit, but for the benefit of my Directorate General - because in a year and a half we have already succeeded in negotiating and signing four association agreements: with Morocco, Tunisia, Israel and, recently, the Palestine National Authority, and we can certainly conclude the agreements with Egypt, Libya, Jordan and the Lebanon before La Valetta.
But from Barcelona to La Valetta, our work has been fundamentally geared to consolidating the network of association agreements, because this is the platform, the legal, economic and financial basis, viewed from the free trade perspective, which will allow us to continue consolidating the various aspects of cooperation.
I repeat, this is a long term process.
We cannot expect the classic problems in the Mediterranean to disappear as if by magic between Barcelona and La Valetta, in barely a year and a half.
But there is already a significant network of agreements which will allow us to continue our work.
I believe that forum will be created after you have held that meeting here is Strasbourg.
So I want to ask you and those who have been invited to join the Commission in convincing all the foreign ministers, all 27, that this forum must be consolidated.
And if that comes into being it will be another step towards establishing a political debate between parliamentary representatives of both sides in the longer term, and I believe that continues to be very necessary.
Thank you, I have gone on too long, but on the plus side I think I have at least given you a broad outline the results this Euro-Mediterranean policy is producing.
The debate is closed.
We also know that we have reached a very delicate point in the history of European integration, on the 40th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome which was celebrated this morning, and that we have been faced, especially since 1989, with problems on an entirely new scale.
In its resolution it highlights three essential questions.
So here we call for the involvement of the Community institutions, a specific role for the European Parliament, a specific role for the Court of Justice.
We must point out - as I pointed out to those governments that referred to the possible division of Parliament - that the European Parliament is a parliament of the people and not of the states and must therefore remain indivisible.
This debate is occurring as we reach a crucial stage in the negotiations, that of defining the Intergovernmental Conference's exact position on the main points on the agenda: citizenship, employment, internal affairs and justice issues, common foreign and security policy, reform of the institutions and enhanced cooperation.
And without a doubt, the 40th anniversary celebrations of the Treaty of Rome should serve both as a reference point and a moment to look towards the future.
And above all they should serve as a touchstone of political will to progress the process of European integration in an effective and democratic way.
The Conference sitting of 25 March in Rome should have a significant impact as it will be - it must be - an occasion which provides genuine political impetus at a critical moment in the development of its work.
This will be in terms of the life and history of the institutions up to this moment, principally in relation to peace, development, and something I particularly stress because it seems to me essential, the safeguarding of our cultural model.
The Member States would never have achieved these results separately and we can only safeguard our model of society jointly.
And on institutional issues, our effort should concentrate essentially on the maintenance of the balance between the States and the institutions.
I think balance is almost a magic word in the process of European construction, and therein perhaps lies the great wisdom of the founding fathers.
Just a few days ago it also presented a review of the current role of the Commission, its composition, its legitimacy and the strengthening of its dual link with the European Parliament through the College and its President, whose responsibilities it proposes to increase.
The other fields should embrace the idea of qualified majority because we know unanimity paralyses Community action.
And the Commission is also considering the possibility of a change in the weighting of votes on the Council.
It also envisages Parliament having confidence in its president and being more pro-active in nominating the members of the College and ensuring the consistency of their work.
The procedure laid down in the treaty for the Commission to take the legal and political initiative is its main reason for existence.
That monopoly of initiative is a condition of the proper functioning of the Union.
It is likewise a condition of effective work in the Council and of responsible proposals to the European Parliament.
And monopoly of initiative does not mean Members of Parliament and Member States have no right to take political initiatives - articles 100 c4, 138 b and 152 guarantee that right.
But the Council and the European Parliament must have no more than a formal proposal on the table: different sensitivities need to be taken into account and there must be political negotiation of the Community type and not of a strictly intergovernmental nature.
The Commission maintains its position on this point, and I personally have done so in all the discussions of these issues throughout the Conference, because we are convinced this is vital to the success of the Union.
The very most we could accept, if certain third pillar matters are transferred to the Community system, is the possibility of a short period when each State could also present legislative proposals for decision.
The Commission's position on enhanced cooperation is also clear.
The proposal for this cooperation, to be put to a vote by the Member States, should come from the Commission.
In representing the general interest, the task of the Commission is to try to bring action incorporating all the Member States to a satisfactory conclusion.
Here I identify very closely with Parliament's draft resolution.
But in our opinion it does not make sense to prevent the Commission making proposals on such matters.
As regards the last question, ' communitarization' of justice and internal affairs is intended to allow decisions in this area to be adopted in a democratic and legally controlled way, but also in an effective way.
The next meeting will be on 25 March, the day of the commemoration, and then we have three meetings planned for April and four for May.
But I have to tell you we have great faith, in this whole enterprise, in the stimulus received from the European Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, forty years of the European Community represent both a historic success and a present obligation for us.
If the Intergovernmental Conference is to achieve satisfactory results, the European Parliament, in accordance with the Dublin Document, must now formulate its position on controversial issues during the current negotiations and before the treaty is drafted in May.
We need that success, because 40 years of a European Community based on supranationality and solidarity could not, for example, prevent the Renault affair.
It is also the very basis of democracy in Europe in the 21st century.
In a few months' time this Intergovernmental Conference will reach a conclusion and the Dutch Presidency is committed to presenting its draft at the beginning of May, just a month and a half away.
That is why, Mr President, we in the Committee on Institutional Affairs thought it was the right time to consider the issues on the conference table through the questions put to the Commission by the chairman, Mr De Giovanni.
And I want to add that, in the draft resolution we passed in the Committee on Institutional Affairs by a large majority and which the House will vote on tomorrow, we sought to uphold two things: continuity and consistency with previous resolutions of the European Parliament.
Continuity, because the European Parliament has expressed its position on all the questions of this Intergovernmental Conference in the Bourlanges-Martin and Dury-Maij-Weggen reports and in the Dublin Resolution, which analysed the Irish Presidency's document.
One of the issues on the table at the moment is the third pillar.
I also want to say, Mr President, that expectations about 'communitarization' of the various sectors of the third pillar have currently dimmed a little.
I think the resolution Parliament is going to approve leaves matters very much in line with previous resolutions.
We are going to include terrorism as an objective for 'communitarization' in an amendment my group has presented, Mr President.
Before getting into the detail, we are going to defend the philosophy of this Parliament, which is the extension of qualified majority in the Council and co-decision in Parliament.
In the second place, enhanced cooperation should not be the 'gadget' of this conference.
Enhanced cooperation - let it be clearly stated - is just a necessary instrument to avoid progress being blocked by a Member State which is causing deadlock.
And I shall end, Mr President, by saying briefly that our resolution establishes the conditions under which enhanced cooperation will be possible.
I am sure subsequent speakers will address other aspects of this resolution, which I hope will be approved tomorrow by a large majority.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when the Intergovernmental Conference on the revision of the Treaty began in Turin on 29 March last year, the participants assigned it three tasks: to equip the Union with efficient institutions with a view to enlargement, to provide Europe with a genuine ambition in the fields of diplomacy and defence, and to improve the organization of the third pillar - justice and internal affairs.
The intention was that all this work would take us into the Europe of the 21st century, a closer-knit, more democratic, more mutually supportive Europe.
The Eurobarometer poll of February 1997 showed that the fight against unemployment was regarded as a priority by all our fellow citizens, and should be the main objective of the IGC.
Yes, the time has come to define a genuine European social model, as President Chirac said at the opening of the IGC.
It is true that there are public expectations regarding security, the fight against drugs and against organized crime.
Our motion emphasizes the requirements in this area.
Our resolution clearly shows that.
The mad cow crisis has shown the need for a common public health policy; the Vilvoorde case has shown the need for a common industrial policy; the transit problem has shown the need for a common fiscal policy.
Furthermore, it is also necessary to change Clause 23 to specify that a civil foreign policy within the framework of an pan-European security system is needed and that all decisions should be unanimous.
Unfortunately, I have to exceed my time by saying that I am dissatisfied with how this resolution has been dealt with by the Committee on Institutional Affairs.
Mr President, the forty years that have passed since the Treaty of Rome was signed can be divided into two periods in terms of the evolution of public opinion.
For my group, the essential cause is the way Europe adopts objectives which are very far removed from what the public expects.
And this gap itself arises from a lack of national control over the European institutions, a lack which is far from accidental but is an integral part of a system which has specifically adopted the objective of bypassing national sovereignty and is now, as it were, being hoist with its own petard.
On this fortieth anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, the Intergovernmental Conference must see it as its task to re-establish the conditions that will enable the Union to regain the confidence of its citizens.
That is also, Mr President, why my group has tabled a counter-motion based on the principle of strengthening national control over the European Union and developing the flexibility needed to adapt the Union better to the needs of its citizens.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr De Giovanni's excellent resolution gives me an opportunity to introduce an important point into this debate, relating to something which could seriously jeopardize European development.
As a consequence of the pressure to achieve rapid economic integration, the development of this Union necessarily implies security cooperation and the need for closer cooperation in the domain of internal security.
The freedom of movement we all desire for Union citizens as well as third-country nationals in the European Community is discussed in depth in the context of Community law but also as an area of intergovernmental cooperation, for freedom of movement goes hand in hand with certain aspects of internal security.
These aspects of internal security, reflected in Europol, in the European information system, in the convention on the crossing of external frontiers and in the Schengen information system we discussed yesterday, all entail close cooperation among Member States in areas in which the Community, though operating on an intergovernmental basis, still encroaches very systematically on civil liberties.
I need scarcely mention here that I personally, along with many of my fellow Members, would prefer this to happen within the framework of Community law and under the control and legislative jurisdiction of the European Parliament.
Mr President, forty years after the Treaty of Rome was signed, we are now debating its third review in an atmosphere which is, unfortunately, melancholic.
President De Giovanni gave a good account of the more general reasons for our concerns.
The most probable result of Amsterdam or Luxembourg is still at this time, in my view, a minor embellishment of the Treaties and not any decisive progress.
I say to Mr Marcellino Oreja that one cannot have equality between Commissioners of first and second rank in the name of a supposedly more effective Commission.
Addressing this hemicycle, I have in mind the idea that in forty years it should have been possible to do more for European construction and do it better.
I should like you to know that I, too, am concerned with the effectiveness of the European Union.
When we pass votes so that in the year 2057 our descendants can commemorate the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Rome, I too would like to go along with that vote.
But I would like to honour those who before us thought of Europe, who acted in order to transform it and who entrusted us with the task of continuing it, and this means fair recognition of the fact that taking things slowly has always been the reason for its success.
Mr President, it strikes me when reading the proposed resolution that I live in two different realities: a political reality in Sweden and on the Committee on Institutional Affairs.
The greatest problem of the European Union is not the Third Pillar or flexibility but the lack of a democratic legitimacy.
This is why it is so serious that the Intergovernmental Conference does not appear to be doing enough in this area.
It is not a matter of turning the prayer wheel over and over again; what we must do is to reflect on the political instruments with which, in the final weeks and months before the crucial meetings of the Intergovernmental Conference, this Parliament can actually step up its pressure on the Conference to a far higher level.
This morning we celebrated the 40th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome.
As many previous speakers have said, and as the Commissioner knows, the Treaty of Rome - and the Treaties of the Communities, born of the Treaties of Paris and Rome - are distinguished for establishing an innovation in international law: the creation of supranational communities, in which relations between the States are not governed by traditional international law.
At this moment, I fear that the Council of Ministers is on the point of making a great discovery - we would describe it in Spain as 'belated discovery of the Mediterranean' .
Well, the Council is on the point of discovering international law.
In other words, a Community based on Community law is about to be transformed into a Community under international law, like the United Nations Organization.
That will be highly entertaining and we will have great fun with it, but as I said before, I am afraid the rediscovery of international law by the Council will kill off this Community we founded 40 years ago.
Agreed if it is the condition for unblocking impasses, but not if it is a way of liquidating Community goals and economic and social cohesion, or for fragmenting institutions, for dodging parliamentary controls or giving in to selfishness, enabling each country once and for all to make progress separately, as the North-South quarrels over the single currency sometimes seem to suggest.
We thought, on the contrary, that the democratisation of institutions would be one of the first concerns of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Since Maastricht, European citizens said that they did not want more Europe but more democracy.
Yet the minimum of this democratisation would consist in enlarging the European Parliament co-decision-making powers to all non-constitutional first pillar types.
We cannot complete the market but leave democracy half done.
The culture of stability of the single currency calls for a parallel culture of stability in terms of security, through the transnational market which by definition markets separately are no longer able to ensure.
In other words, the people are going to see in the market and the currency more of a threat than a positive conquest.
Otherwise we shall be caught between the expectations for a 'Maastricht III' or for another Europe which still has to be thought up.
We are definitely worse off today than we were yesterday and we are going to be even worse off tomorrow, on both institutional matters and political and social matters.
There is a fear of consolidating, or giving powers to, the most responsible, most democratic, most representative institution in Europe, which is the European Parliament, but there is no fear of empowering the officials and bureaucrats who are populating the Europe of today, a Europe which is pure democratic deficit.
Mr President of the Council, Mr Commissioner, Mr President of the European Parliament, we are going to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome just by saying 'more democracy for Europe' .
Mr President, today should really be a day of great celebration, because the Rome Treaties produced many good things.
Mr President, it is not a day for celebration.
And then there is the fight against international crime.
The obvious political inability to tackle the problems linked to enlargement and the lack of definition as to progress towards the single currency, through an effective deepening of political and social integration in Europe, has led the governments to turn into decisive subjects internal security and strengthen co-operation.
But how can we understand strengthened co-operation without first of all having guarantees in the Treaty of extending qualified majority voting, specifically to prevent blockages which stem from the right to veto?
In the face of known proposals, it only makes sense to demand that we enshrine strengthened co-operation so that it cannot lead to an à la carte Europe and so that it guarantees institutional political unity, equality between the Member States and economic and social cohesion.
The worrying tendency of the proposals coming out of the IGC to regress to methods of intergovernmental decision with reductions in the European Parliament's own powers, would only worsen the democratic deficit and the deficit of citizenship which exist at the moment in Europe.
Mr President, in backing this motion for a resolution we wish, above all, to oppose, for the sake of democracy and solidarity in the European Union, the plans for breaking up the Union by these most unwise proposals.
Secondly, we have for several months been refusing to approve the agreement with Turkey because of the human rights situation there.
Thirdly, we are told that progress is being made in the area of the third pillar.
In these circumstances, my questions will be addressed not to the Commission, since we are in agreement, but to the Council.
I shall ask the Council: what are you really defending in the interests of advancing democracy?
Thank you, Mr President.
Without genuine institutional reform we shall be placing the European project in jeopardy.
Majority voting must become the norm, and in future there must be no more European legislation without the exercise of full codecision rights by the European Parliament.
If no breakthrough is achieved on either of these two questions during the remaining three months, the Intergovernmental Conference will not have been a success.
This in turn will put the start of accession talks with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe at risk.
As an Austrian, I firmly believe that there is a place in this united Europe for our Eastern neighbours too.
Mr President, the Intergovernmental Conference must create fresh opportunities for new internal security within the Community.
Without openness, democracy, majority resolutions and constitutional control of the courts under the rule of law based on the constitutions of the Member States, no effective judicial area can be created at European level.
Consequently what I do want to tell you is that the role of Parliament is very important at a time like this.
I think you can have a decisive impact if you do everything possible to set out your positions clearly and as you know, the great majority of them are shared by the Commission.
And after those speeches I have always made clear the degree of consensus that exists.
We are on the eve of 25 March, but we are also on the eve, in practice, of the Amsterdam European Council.
That would not make sense and that is the position we have expressed, both in our report and, very particularly, in the speeches I have made in the Intergovernmental Conference.
Forgive me if I share a personal confidence: I remember that when I started the negotiations for Spain's membership of the European Communities, a central role in that College of Commissioners was played by Commissioner Natali, who was responsible for all enlargement issues, but he did not have a portfolio.
And in this connection, we have made clear the European Parliament's role in the election of the President and in the recognition or investiture of the College of Commissioners.
So I want to appeal to Parliament at this critical and significant time, on the eve of 25 March, and above all on the eve of the conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference, to keep us continuously in touch with Parliament's thinking so that we can move forward in the right direction.
The principle of non-discrimination has been accepted in relation to this matter and should appear in the treaty, which represents a step forward because, for me - and this is the position of the Commission - a central idea is that everything affecting citizenship - and citizenship is human rights - must be governed by non-discrimination.
As regards actual description, one of the questions which some members of the Intergovernmental Conference have raised is whether or not this means - specifically in relation to people with disabilities - recognition of a legal basis and, as a presumption of that, whether there would be common policies.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I should like to begin by sincerely thanking the relevant committees of the House for their cooperation in producing the guidelines, and I am also grateful to the Commission, which is represented here today, and indeed to the Dutch presidency, for the climate of openness in which the negotiations on the guidelines have so far been conducted.
I believe that these will form a sound basis for proceeding with the discussions on the 1998 budget.
The aim must be to contribute to job creation and social and economic development in the Union, and at the same time to support the Member States in their efforts to meet the convergence criteria for economic and monetary union.
As general rapporteur, I am proposing the following priorities for 1998: combating unemployment by focusing European resources on investment and job creation; using innovative credit arrangements to support small and medium-sized enterprises which are creating viable jobs for the future; beginning the process of preparing applicant countries for accession to the European Union; developing a suitable instrument to facilitate the inclusion of these countries in all the policies of the Union, while at the same time initiating a process of adjustment to EU policies to take account of the specific problems which enlargement poses for the Member States; supporting existing youth and education programmes which have a clear multiplier effect; and getting the cultural programmes moving once again.
The Commission and the Council must appreciate that with an overall budget increase of 3 % - leaving the Structural Funds untouched, in line with the decisions taken in Edinburgh - and zero growth in the other categories, they will still have to find ECU 2.3 billion from agricultural spending if they wish to move towards zero growth.
Turning to category 4, the priority which I am proposing in my capacity as general rapporteur is as follows: the most important element will be the creation of a pre-accession instrument that will provide for structural changes in the Commission's services in 1998 and a programme for the pre-accession phase, as well as the requirements which will then emerge.
We expect the Commission to bring forward appropriate proposals to this effect in time for the first reading.
Mr President, the guidelines motion for the 1998 budgetary procedure for the other institutions is very clear.
We talk very clearly there about the need to honour our interinstitutional agreements to keep below the ceilings of the financial perspective and we point out that the suggested 3 % increase in appropriations should not constitute a target to be reached, but a guideline not to be exceeded.
Some of that has been related to posts linked to enlargement, but the most important paragraph is paragraph 10, which points out quite clearly that the Committee on Budgets commends to this House the view that as in 1997, no new posts should be created in 1998 for the other institutions overall.
Of course this is a report that covers all institutions, but as we are mainly parliamentarians here, I take a parliamentary example.
There are very clear recommendations about the need to get consistent standards in our information policy, in our information technology policy, and not only in relation to them, but in relation to those imaginative projects which are so imaginative that not all Members of the House fully understand them, such as the Epicentre.
The key to the solution is in the hands of our absent friends, our friends from the Council who have chosen not to be with us here this evening.
Mr President, Parliament's Agriculture Committee expects to co-operate well with the Committee on budgets.
Finally, regarding the fisheries agreements, I would remind you that, during the May part-session, we were asked to vote upon the Crampton report on the development of international fisheries agreements.
Those agreements are a source of employment for a very large number of structurally sensitive maritime regions.
I would also remind you that these fisheries agreements assist the development and stability of a number of less favoured States where fisheries can represent an important resource, and that those States include a number of our ACP partners.
I would therefore ask the rapporteur to retain intact the line of credits corresponding to these important agreements.
Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy I wish to make two points - one on research and one on energy.
It is therefore all the more disappointing that the Council of Ministers is being so unambitious in its proposed funding for research.
As you are well aware, we were expecting to have the fourth framework programme enhanced by a sum of about ECU 700m.
It seems to us that ECU 100m is totally inadequate for increasing the competitiveness of the industries in the European Union and hence employment.
My second point is on energy.
The problem here is the long-standing and widespread problem of a lack of legal base.
However, when you have 135 amendments and 11 committees giving an input into that guideline you are bound to end up with something far more than the short, succinct document we all wanted.
You will notice that the text does not refer to an austerity budget, as it did last year.
The reason is quite simple: last year Parliament went along with such a strategy in the hope that the Council would reciprocate by helping us solve some of the problems we have to live with, such as the problems of a legal base on a lot of the lines, and the problem of getting an agreement on classification and expenditure, to name but two.
Our group is not prepared to go down that route again.
We are prepared to play our part in Parliament in getting the best budget we think is achievable and we are prepared to do that in good faith with the Council.
I say that because when you see our amendment to paragraph 3 you will understand our concerns.
The same feeling is displayed in paragraph 4 of the rapporteur's guidelines where we expect the normal dialogue we have with the Council to be improved.
Parliament's budget should reflect Parliament's political priorities.
If the Council had been here I would have addressed the following point to it directly, and I hope the message gets back to it.
We want it to be honest with us and to say that it thinks it is a procedure that Council and Parliament have to go through to come to a conclusion about agricultural expenditure and the problems that exist therein.
It would save us time, it would save our effort and we would not be making fools of ourselves by going through this joke of a procedure - which in my view is what it has been over the last two years.
Therefore, I would hope that the Council can take it far more seriously and I hope the Commission will relay that to the Council.
While we are talking about Category 1, I would say to the rapporteur that my group will be supporting Amendment No 11 tabled by Mr Rehder and others.
On Category 2, our group has no plans to follow Parliament's action of last year which we voted against when ECU 1 billion in payments was removed from the structural funds.
It may well be the fault of the Member States, but we have to make it abundantly clear to those who are concerned about this that if we want to create cohesion, prosperity and jobs, the structural funds should be utilized to their fullest.
On Category 3 our group has, as in the past, seen TENs and research and development as essential vehicles for future job creation, as it does when we give help to SMEs.
Also in Category 3, not just under big programmes but on those smaller lines which Parliament considers to be priorities, such as youth, education and culture, we will also be giving our full support.
On external action, the Commission really does have to take heed of paragraphs 27 and 28.
Mr Tomlinson has involved as many people as possible.
I would like to thank our own Secretary-General and the Director-General for Personnel and Finance for taking part in this debate, for being part of this gathering tonight and for showing such an interest in these guidelines.
We all know that he is a forward-looking man, rather like Batman visiting his website, and we like to know that he is well ahead of us in these information technologies and making sure that Parliament will be well provided.
We understand that the presidency does not take quite so much interest in such a day-to-day process as the annual budget procedure is now becoming.
In the 1997 budget we focused on maintaining our commitments under the inter-institutional agreement, which we did not wish to see disappear then, nor do we wish to see it disappear during this budget procedure.
Our second plank was to go for zero, or almost zero, growth in the 1997 budget, as the European Union is preparing for the single currency.
The position this year will be somewhat altered in so far as the way the Council is prepared to enter into dialogue with the Parliament as part of the budgetary authority is concerned.
That leads me to make three specific points regarding the preparations for the 1998 budget.
The Group of the European People's Party would like to make sure that those projects which have a multiplier effect, giving real value for EU money, are not dismissed simply because the Commission or the Council in its input into the guidelines would like to see certain projects which are dear to Parliament dismissed.
We want to make sure that we get value for money and we will insist that there is clarity in the way in which the analysis is done on the particular lines.
Finally, the most important part of this budget - and I think my group will share this view - is the pre-accession strategy.
As too often happens, it is not one to arouse the enthusiasm of the multitude, because all we see here are the same faces as usual: the members of the Committee on Budgets, Commissioner Liikanen and the administrators of the Committee on Budgets.
But, as all these people have eventually come to know me quite well, I feel sure that none of them will demand my exclusion, and that I shall be able to express my group's opinion, seriously and calmly, on the budgetary guidelines and on the reports by Mr Tillich and Mr Tomlinson, whom I congratulate on their efforts.
I think something needs to be added to that, to set in motion the ideas put forward just now by Mr Wynn when he said that we want the best budget achievable: the best budget achievable is not the biggest budget achievable but the budget in which best use is made of the appropriations.
On agriculture, our group is still firmly committed to the principle of compulsory expenditure, and I say yet again: the agricultural budget is not a budget, it is an instrument of market regulation which should be thought about in economic terms and not in budgetary terms.
Regarding the utilization of the appropriations, it is clear that the considerable shortfall in take-up of the PHARE and TACIS appropriations should make us seriously consider redeploying those appropriations which are not used.
I think it is unacceptable to find ourselves with ECU three billion that have not been used and are going to be returned to the exchequers of the Member States at a time when we are facing desperate situations in other sectors.
We shall also be asking tomorrow for a separate vote on the end of paragraph 16 of Mr Tomlinson's report.
Secondly, 1998 is very important because it will show whether or not budgetary powers which actually exist will be taken away.
I am happy that all colleagues participated in this point.
My group will plead for something like PIMs for countries which, at the present time in the European Union, need to reorient themselves because they will be under special pressure.
Finally, agriculture remains important.
The ad hoc procedure last year was a failure because of interinstitutional issues - I hope we can resolve this - and also because of extra-institutional issues.
Again I would like to ask the Commission what it expects the absent Council to do on this point?
We are saying this because we still remember the experience of last year and, in particular, the fact that we think that a fundamental contradiction has been maintained; a contradiction which stems from the existence, on the one hand, of compromises which have been translated into regulations, binding on everyone - and obviously I am referring to what was decided in Edinburgh and the financial perspectives set in the framework of the Inter-institutional Agreement - and on the other hand, a certain tendency to try and reach a rather more restrictive means , circumscribed in the guidelines adopted for a single currency, which have as their main motivation enlargement and which, in particular, concentrate on certain budgetary areas such as the structural activities.
For our part, we wish to assert, on this score, the following, very clearly: we are aware of the need to find answers to the problem of enlargement, but we are fully opposed to sacrifices in terms of cohesion and other objectives which we think are priority ones for the Community in order to reach this target.
The restrictive option seemed without significant reservations, before even the presentation of the Commission's preliminary draft, leading to negotiations with the Council and on the point of evoking the principle of subsidiarity.
Apart from the disagreement which their content merited, these proposals also placed the European Parliament in an institutionally delicate position: the European Parliament was totally bereft of power in the negotiations to be held with the Council, which have gone on becoming worse, probably because of the bad example of last year.
We feel that the votes which took place on Monday in the Committee on Budgets would help significantly to change, in a positive way, the initial proposal.
It is usual to state that history never repeats itself, but the facts should make us be very cautious not to repeat such a cliché this time, especially as we heard the declarations made today by Commissioner Fischler to the Committee on Agriculture, according to which - exactly as happened a year ago - a clear link was established between cuts in agricultural spending and cuts in the Structural Fund.
Of course I must also praise the two rapporteurs.
I think it is inconceivable for Parliament to tackle the budgetary procedure in a rigorous manner and in the context of a zero-growth budget without regard for the outcome of the Amsterdam Conference and what might happen if, please God, the European Union finds means of responding concretely to the challenges which we have discussed so often and so seriously: unemployment, etc.
This timid approach to things, saying that as from March we do not intend to increase the Community budget by a penny, do not intend to increase the staffing by a single post, while the other institutions are to acquire more powers by virtue of the Amsterdam Conference - the Commission could have more powers, the Union as such could acquire responsibility for new policies - this timidity which forces us to calculate, as though this were our priority, the number of annual leave cases where the place of origin is outside the European Union - I certainly do not regard this as an encouraging start.
I really hope Parliament restores it so as to introduce a minimum of logic into the subject of our debate.
Thank you, Mr Dell'Alba.
Thank you both for your intervention and for your words of encouragement, but please rest assured that this Presidency has great staying power.
If you wish to test it out, you may do so on Friday morning, when I shall still be in the chair.
The sum was easily done: a 3 % increase in the general budget, a 0.5 % increase in the agricultural budget, an 8 % increase in the Structural Funds.
In a word, a cut in the agricultural budget relative to the guideline, on the pretext of non-utilization of the sums appropriated to the EAGGF for several years, and an increase for the Structural Funds even though it is common knowledge that we do not use 70 % of the sums appropriated.
Your proposal for agriculture, coupled with the Commission's, puts us - and will put us - in serious difficulties before the 1999 international negotiations.
If these proposals are accepted as they stand, Europe will be committing a serious strategic error by reducing these payments for the major crops.
In the light of this situation, our group proposes two simple amendments whose common objective is to safeguard the future of our agriculture.
I cannot believe, Mr Tillich, that on this fortieth anniversary of the Treaty of Rome you failed to take account of the great success of this Common Agricultural Policy by condemning it.
Mr President, although I am opposed to the Government of my country, I find the position of the Council of Ministers more logical than those of the Commission and this Parliament.
The proposed 3 % increase in expenditure seems to me excessive.
Consequently, genuine austerity would not be to increase expenditure by 3 % but, at the very least, to leave it unchanged.
Parliament would do well to follow that example, the more so since the increases proposed to us are essentially being justified by the 8 % increase in the Structural Funds.
The justification offered for this expenditure on the Structural Funds, and on other lines, especially social policy, is the justification of employment - the struggle against unemployment.
Unfortunately, the Structural Funds do not create jobs.
What could create jobs in Europe is different trade policy, different relations with the rest of the world, but not the Structural Funds.
The Structural Funds contributed to this job creation in southern Europe.
And yet, in this case too, what we have is not expansion but regression: the trade-off is the closure of the Vilvoorde factory, which will probably persuade Europe, through the Structural Funds, to make appropriations in order to compensate for the job losses.
The social policies for combating unemployment are ineffective, or at best they try to make unemployment more bearable.
its aim is to guide the Council, to provide a course to be followed, to inform the Council that these are Parliament's priorities.
The next piece of advice from the European Parliament to the Council is that this House is very clear about where its policy priorities lie, about where emphasis should be placed, and the most important matter is the fight against unemployment.
A result of this openness has been that no fewer than eleven parliamentary committees other than the Committee on Budgets have formulated amendments to these budget guidelines: 39 of the 134 amendments tabled come from these committees, despite this not having been an easy task.
Unemployment is a terrible scourge in Europe.
There are already nearly 20 million unemployed and unfortunately no end to the growth in unemployment is in sight.
The concern expressed in the report about the large discrepancy between commitments and payments in the structural funds is partly justified.
Mr President, my group cannot settle for the report before us as adopted by the Committee on Budgets.
The Commission must be told that we want to subject ourselves to the same climate of austerity as is being imposed on all the Member States, and that climate must prevail in every sector of Community spending.
I do of course support the comments made by my colleagues Mr des Places and Mr Souchet regarding support for farmers' incomes.
I should like to add two further points that explain my group's hostility to the report.
The first relates to information policy.
Here again, in an austerity context it would be appropriate not to spend too much on selling the citizens of the various countries of Europe what is going to look increasingly like pure propaganda.
I also believe it is fundamental not only to sustain our training policy but also to include in the financing of this chapter the objectives listed in the White Paper on education and training.
Today Parliament voted on a report that specifically evaluated the White Paper.
I would ask the Commission to continue with the work it began in 1996 on monitoring the utilization of the European Social Fund and establishing more systematic relations with the Member States in this area.
Mr President, at this stage it is most important that we should have a clear view with regard to the agriculture budget of what the contribution of the European Parliament must be to this important section of the budget.
Only very close co-operation between the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Budgets can ensure that we play our proper part as Parliament and improve the quality of the budget as a whole.
I think that this way of operating farm policy is not conducive to creating confidence amongst the producers concerned.
It is therefore obvious that it will be difficult for the House to exert an influence if the rapporteur's principal concern is not to achieve broad consensus on the document in question.
I am in total agreement with the priorities the rapporteur sets out in point five of his report, provided we do not forget the amounts set in Turin.
Mr Tillich, it is difficult for us, via an annual budget, to attempt to condition programmes which have already been approved - utilizing EAGGF expenditure is not the best way to influence the environment.
Whether we go up or down a percentage point or two will not in any perceptible way affect the ability of any national government to achieve the Maastricht standards.
Yet in spite of the smallness of the budget that we spend there are, generally, quite a number of voices talking about reducing spending.
This certainly would be bad faith and bad politics because the reform of the common agricultural policy in 1992 was intended to take us up to the next round of GATT agreements.
Mr President, the European Parliament has tonight debated its priorities for the 1998 general budget.
The role of the Commission at this stage is to listen.
The institutions will have a first discussion of their positions in the trialogue on budget priorities on 9 April this year.
This procedure is one of the first innovations to strengthen financial management in the Commission and it has fulfilled the expectations.
The Member States are continuing their often painful efforts to get their public finances in order in the run-up to economic and monetary union.
These questions will be discussed in more detail after the Intergovernmental Conference but a smooth transition to an enlarged Community will only be possible if the remaining time is used for the required adjustments.
In its budgetary orientation debate the Commission also decided on a new method to re-establish budgetary rigour.
It would be simply impossible to explain such budgetary generosity at Community level to the citizens and taxpayers of Europe.
The Commission has therefore adopted a new approach to reflect on a justifiable overall growth rate first and then to discuss the priorities within such a framework.
The discussions on the appropriate growth for the 1998 budget should not be overshadowed by preconditions which are, or could be, beyond reach.
Mr Brinkhorst asked me a question about the willingness of the Dutch presidency to contribute to a mutual understanding of these issues.
I cannot comment on the results but I have to say that the Dutch presidency has shown a lot of interest in the budgetary issues.
The Commission objective of 3 % is not only inspired by the expected developments in the Member States.
It also appears to be a reasonable compromise between the imperative of rigour and respect for the existing commitments of the Union.
At the level of the financial perspectives this concerns in particular the commitment appropriations for structural funds.
The decisions of Edinburgh imply a growth rate of some 8 % compared to 1997.
However, unless there is an agreement in the Council and Parliament that the inter-institutional agreement should be modified - and I take it from the draft Tillich report that Parliament will not be party to such an agreement - the Commission will respect the spending objectives for commitment appropriations in Category 2.
The Commission has not taken a position on the balance between the categories but it is obvious that a rigorous outcome can only be acceptable if all the institutions live up to their responsibilities for different parts of the budget.
Thus the Commission adopted a proposal last week for the agricultural price package for 1997 and 1998 which is compatible with its overall budgetary strategy if - and this is crucial - the Commission proposals concerning adjustments in the cereal sector or equivalent savings are adopted.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
North/South cooperation to combat drugs The next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading (A4-0059/97), on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to the adoption of a Council Regulation on North/South cooperation in the campaign against drugs and drug addiction (C4-0630/96-95/0167(SYN)) (Rapporteur: Mr Liese).
We wish to see the expression of a political will to get to grips with drugs in those countries with which we cooperate: in particular, national legislation on money laundering must be put in place and suitably monitored.
Mr President, let me first compliment the rapporteur, Mr Liese, on the excellent work he has done over the past months and on succeeding, with the cooperation of all of us, in getting the Committee on Development and Cooperation to express a unanimous view for the second time running.
The development of cooperation in fighting drugs and drug addiction is an objective that Parliament set itself a long time ago and does indeed represent the search for an intelligent response to a problem that affects the life of millions of people in the world, in both northern and southern societies, which pollutes political, social and economic relations at international level and which is today the main source and principal means of support of the most profitable forms of international crime.
In the field of combating drugs and the spread of drugs, development cooperation also acts as an important example of international solidarity and cooperation with third countries and is an intelligent, preventive and more effective method of confronting and resolving problems that directly affect our societies.
From that point of view, reference has rightly been made to the central role played by education to increase the awareness of the populations concerned, but even more important is to associate development and anti-poverty policies in the efforts to combat the production of drugs.
Mr President, I read this Council of the European Union common position through with great interest.
They have not yet touched Peru because they have not had much cooperation.
And then I see that all this great work which is to take place from 1998 to the year 2000 is going to cost ECU 30m.
Alternative development opportunities for producers of drug-linked crops in developing countries are too often jeopardized by unfavourable macro-economic policies imposed directly or indirectly on those countries.
Second, Amendment No 4, which seeks to ensure that criteria for deciding a country's eligibility for EU support and for evaluation of the projects will be defined in dialogue between the Community and partner governments or organizations.
Not only is the long-term value of forceable eradication questionable, but eradication driven by conditionality is provoking serious social instability in countries such as Bolivia and Colombia.
All of us in this Parliament are united in our determination to combat the drugs trade.
But this regulation should recognize the practical measures which are required if the EU's policy of joint responsibility for the drugs problem is to be realized: respect for genuine cultural differences, an anti-poverty focus and a framework of fair trade can succeed where repressive measures have failed.
The use, production and illegal trafficking of drugs are, together with money laundering, problems which a large number of countries in Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Asia have to deal with.
The illegal production of drugs is tending to become internationalized - this is no secret, and you state this in your report - and it is no longer just a few developing countries which are cultivating and converting coca crops, opium poppies or cannabis in Latin America, Africa, the Middle East or Asia.
Industrialized countries and other developing countries have, unfortunately, also begun to produce so-called designer drugs, or synthetic drugs.
However, we should not forget that, principally in the Mediterranean - specifically in the case of Morocco - or in Latin America - Bolivia and Peru - a considerable part of the cooperation programmes currently being implemented is essentially aimed at promoting alternative crops.
Allow me to pass on some information about Bolivia: alternative crops in the Chaparé region in Bolivia are being financed by the European Union.
To be sure, if, in its report, the European Commission were to include all the national budgets of the 15 Member States - all the expenditure for Scotland Yard, the French Gendarmerie , the German police, the Spanish Guardia Civil and Italian customs officers - the amount spent by the European Union to combat the drugs problem would also be an impressive figure.
It will not come as news to anyone that this specific budget line could hardly be more modest.
Yet, let me give you all a warning: the European Parliament, namely you yourselves, in the 1996 financial perspectives decided to reduce the already modest sum of ECU 11 million by one million.
However, I say again, a large part of development cooperation programmes targets such problems.
As for Amendment 3, you will be aware that the Commission is not, as such, an integral part of international institutions.
This report is valuable and offers guidance, but I still have misgivings about its lack of a global character, particularly in budgetary terms, as such a character would lend credibility to this interesting drugs-related policy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
In the hope of creating those feelings, I shall not go back to basics because Parliament has already declared on several occasions that it favours support for population policies in the developing countries - support provided by the Union which respects the humanistic values of individual freedom of choice while at the same time serving as a vector for the better development of health services.
At second reading, we might share the sense of satisfaction Mr Liese referred to earlier at what we might call a statistical level, because I believe that 26 of the 40 amendments tabled at first reading were retained in the common position.
The first of the amendments on which we should like to insist concerns a reminder of certain financial commitments entered into on behalf of the Union, especially at the Cairo conference in 1994.
The Union had announced its intention, between now and the year 2000, of increasing its financial aid to population policies in the developing countries to ECU 300 million.
The second amendment, which is something of a formality, relates to the problems of commitology.
The Council having declared itself in favour of a regulatory committee, our own committee, conventionally, asks that responsibility for verification and monitoring of the policy be entrusted to an advisory committee.
Once again, they relate to very slight differences of standpoint, with the exception perhaps of Amendment No 8, the adoption of which, as such, would be likely to raise practical problems of implementation in certain difficult or urgent cases.
However, setting aside the debate which this amendment might cause, I think I can conclude by saying, Mr President, that we should close this procedure with the same sense of satisfaction as in the previous debate.
I should therefore be grateful if the other groups could signal their willingness to accept Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5 in particular.
Mr President, in tackling this problem I should also like to say that the demographic problem, although it is not the single cause of the problems of developing countries, is nonetheless a problem which cannot be overlooked.
In any case, the demographic problem affecting developing countries is a problem which calls for a very serious effort in terms of training and prevention.
There is a set of policies which ought to be developed and, consequently, we must very seriously bank on public health policies and also the development at the appropriate level of policies on sex education, which are compatible with any positive approach to this problem.
We must concentrate on committees such as the FED, MED and ELA, because it is by means of information, hearing and continuous consultation that this problem can be dealt with in a proper and positive way by the European Union and be developing countries themselves.
Thank you very much, Mr Nordmann, for your report which sets this evening's debate against an atmosphere of mutual understanding between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament regarding a matter as important as demography, covering both population aspects as well as health and production worldwide.
Thirdly, we wish to make a contribution to developing or reforming health systems in order to increase access to them and the quality of reproductive-health care provided in the case of men and women, including adolescents of both sexes, thereby significantly reducing the level of risk to the health of women and children.
I would like to make the following comments on the amendments endorsed by the Committee on Development and Cooperation: the Commission is in favour of Amendment 2, which relates to the use of Committees; as regards Amendment 1, on increasing Community financial support for population policies and measures by ECU 300 million by 2000, the Commission - I have to point this out to you - will not be in a position to introduce this possibility on purely technical grounds, since the Regulation - or the legal base of the Regulation we are discussing this evening - will enable a legal base to be attributed to a budget line, aimed at demographic matters, which also consists of a very modest sum: barely ECU 8 million, aimed at financing pilot projects.
Population policy does not come under solely that particular budget line, because if you take together all the policies we implement - Latin America, Africa, Mediterranean and Asia - and what is done under bilateral programmes with various States receiving our aid, the sum of ECU 300 million is exceeded with interest.
Yet again, as happens with the Community budget, we come up against the form that matters should take: if we were to look at population policy-related expenditure contained in the Lomé Convention, in Latin America, the Mediterranean and Asia, you may rest assured that ECU 300 million would be exceeded.
If an attempt were made to set up a budget line of over ECU 300 million applying only to population matters, we will have the same problem as we have with the 'drugs' line.
Amendments 5 and 8 we regard as unnecessary because the criteria relating to these amendments are already sufficiently contained in the recitals of the common position.
However, I would like to give you an example of something that is being done in the population field, namely the three most recent decisions we have taken under the terms of a bilateral cooperation project, to demonstrate that we are well above ECU 300 million.
The first piece of evidence is this: the ECU 200 million subsidy for the family welfare programme in India, to support the implementation of a new series of policies to be centred on family planning and also on global harmonization of reproductive-health measures.
In India alone, in terms of family welfare, we are already spending ECU 200 million.
To finish, a further bilateral example: in the Philippines, there is an ECU 19 million mother-andchild programme which will help to reduce the risks facing pregnant women and women in labour or who have just given birth, thereby reducing maternal mortality rates.
I wanted to mention these examples - India, ECU 200 million; United Nations family-planning programme in Asia, ECU 25 million; and the most recent decision regarding the Philippines, ECU 19 million - to demonstrate that if we add together all we are doing on various bilateral cooperation programmes, the Committee on Development and Cooperation should have no trouble in confirming that, in this specific case, we are meeting its requirements - our presentation, however, is, of course, different.
Thank you, Mr Marín.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
Our message is relatively simple.
Nonetheless, I hope that this debate and, in particular, our disagreement with the Council of Ministers will at least send out a small signal.
I know that ECU 100 m or ECU 200 m is only a fraction of Europe's annual spending on research, but it could serve to point the way ahead.
I regret very much the apparent absence of the Council of Ministers, although I may be wrong, from this important debate.
Therefore it is all the more bizarre that the Council of Ministers and the Member States that compose it wish to repatriate money where it does not have that added value.
We in the Committee on Energy, Research and Technology wish to express our very warm thanks to the Committee on Budgets for its support.
It expects some sort of recognition for its efforts from the Council and the Commission.
In any event, I am convinced that for the future of our research policy, we must find a form of financing which does not entail debating budgetary changes in the middle of the framework programme.
Mr President, the common position presented to the Council is a step backwards compared with Parliament's first reading.
At this historic moment, when the importance of research is increasing day by day, I believe it is wrong not to give more coherent funding to this programme, which would enable the European Union to improve and develop coordinated research, so that the Member States can act together in the common interest.
The increase proposed by the Council gives more precedence to its own financial priorities without taking account of the proposals made by the European Parliament in the 1997 budgetary procedure, when it decided to set up an ECU 100m reserve for research.
Finally, I hope the Council will do the necessary to amend its own common position and that negotiations will begin as soon as possible to remedy this situation.
Mr President, my Group is unhappy that the original increase of 700 million ECU for the fourth framework programme has been cut by the Council to just 100 million.
But, Mr President, Parliament now finds itself lumbered with the problems which the Commission and Council themselves brought about by failing to react to the BSE crisis in time.
My Group is not in agreement with that.
Only if the Council is willing to increase the budget to 200 million ECU will 35 million ECU for BSE be acceptable as a proportion.
If the Council will not do this my Group, using the criteria of the Committee on Budgets, will again seek to have 100 million ECU set aside for research prior to the 1998 budget.
Secondly, we are concerned at the surreptitious introduction of the concept of 'Task Forces' as a vertical philosophy as opposed to the horizontal philosophy of successive framework programmes, and it introduces what I believe is a worrying new aspect into preparations for the fifth framework programme.
If we look at what the package actually contains, there is aeronautics, fingerprint technologies and industrial engineering with a view to economizing on water use: that accounts for ECU 60 million already, by my calculations.
In the programme as a whole, ECU 147 m is devoted to research on socio-economic issues, and this in a society which is undergoing radical social and environmental change.
As the rapporteur pointed out, and as other honourable Members have also pointed out, it was indeed the Committee on Budgets which, in the course of the 1997 budgetary procedure, managed to snatch the hundred million with which the Commission is making us a proposal today.
The broken promise was broken by the Council, because, in the course of the negotiations on the fourth framework programme which we conducted with Rolf Linkohr and a few other colleagues, the Council did indeed undertake to provide 700 million of refinancing.
And what a display of weakness by the Commission which, having come up with an ambitious initial proposal - and all credit to you for it, Commissioner - based on 700 million suddenly caved in completely after what was said at the subsequent Ecofin Council in Florence: ' no 700 million, we'll try to find you something' .
It was Parliament that found the 100 million, and will find another 100 million in the 1998 procedure.
That makes 200 million.
It is clear that this will raise problems for the Council, which had difficulty in reaching agreement on the content of the supplement.
As the rapporteur also points out in his explanatory statement, it took the Council over six months, after the European Parliament's first reading, to achieve the necessary unanimity to adopt a common position.
The Commission will be unsparing in its efforts to achieve an acceptable compromise.
It has thus adopted an essential amendment from the European Parliament's first reading.
It is encouraging that it has been supported by both Parliament and the Council, both in principle and as regards the total appropriations, based on the analysis submitted by the Commission in its action plan last November.
In this context, incidentally, the Commission expects to allow, in its provisional draft budget for 1998, a sufficient margin to enable the budgetary authority to go beyond the ECU 100 million already shown in the 1997 budget.
The fifth framework programme is already in preparation, and the Commission expects to submit its formal proposal next month.
Thank you, Mrs Cresson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
