Resumption of session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 11 April 1997.
Thank you very much, Mrs Malone.
Mr Habsburg, may I remind you that, as is the custom, our agenda was adopted in Strasbourg.
In its proposal of 19 March 1997 the Commission accepted the notification submitted by the German Federal Government and submitted it to the Council of the European Union on 24 March 1997 for further consideration.
At the same time, the Commission proposal was also forwarded to the European Parliament for its opinion.
On the other hand, it is clear that in a region that... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, there are three reasons why we should oppose this urgency.
Thirdly, if we take seriously our work in this Parliament as an overseeing body on state aids and competition policy, we should at least give ourselves two or three weeks to look at this matter and produce a proper report.
If the Christian Democrats vote in favour of urgency, they can never again complain about state aids or competition policy in this European Parliament.
Thank you very much, Mr Wijsenbeek.
Membership of temporary committee (vote) The next item is the proposal for a decision on the setting up of a temporary committee of inquiry instructed to monitor the action taken on the recommendations made concerning BSE.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of my group, on two of the amendments which are being presented on this text.
The first is Amendment 1 of the Group of the European Radical Alliance, which I would like to withdraw.
As for Amendment 2, presented by the Group for a Europe of Nations, in accordance with Article 124, point 5, I would like, on the contrary, to take it over.
If you will allow me, I will quickly explain to you why, and I do so in the presence of President Santer, who knows well that this temporary committee will monitor closely the very important work which awaits the Commission and the Parliament.
The proposal of the presidents' conference includes twenty members, excluding two of this Parliament's groups, while the Committee of Inquiry envisages the presence of all groups.
Following agreements with the various groups, only the Group of the European Radical Alliance would, in reality, remain outside this committee.
Mr President, this issue was ultimately contested in the Conference of Presidents.
My group has 214 Members and only 8 places on this temporary committee to oversee the implementation of the recommendations.
I made that clear in the Conference of Presidents. (Mixed reactions) As I also said in the Conference of Presidents, it is quite inappropriate that this House should be constantly adopting ad hoc procedures for setting up committees.
If that is the case, then let me ask you, Mrs Green, you are not taking the same line as in the case of the Committee of Inquiry into BSE.
He has his figures wrong. (Mixed reactions) I put the proposal for a decision to the vote. (The Parliament adopted the decision) Equal opportunities for men and women The next item is the Commission communication on equal opportunities between men and women.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate relates to the problems of women, but I hope that the men will also want to pay attention.
I am very happy to continue the practice which we instituted last year, by having an exchange of views today on Community policy in favour of equal opportunities for men and women.
And this follows 8 March, International Women's Day.
A day like 8 March indeed makes it possible to take stock of the work accomplished, but also to discuss the road which is yet to be travelled.
And this seems to me an excellent opportunity to look at the progress of the Commission and of Parliament.
More than two years' experience of the Community show me that we can only move forward by establishing relationships of trust, without attempting to deceive our interlocutors.
And this year's diary will be full, I think in particular of the Intergovernmental Conference and the new Treaty to be adopted in Amsterdam, as well as the start of negotiations towards expansion.
This is not an easy task, because do not forget that only 49 % of European women think that Europe is a good thing, against 57 % of men.
There have been too many initiatives for that.
The policy followed by the Commission during the past year falls under the fourth programme of action for equal opportunities, which covers the period from 1996 to the year 2000.
Mainstreaming means the integration of the dimension of equality into all Community policies and initiatives, whether they are directed outward or towards the staff of the Commission.
The very notion of mainstreaming remains rather obscure for many.
The Commission took up the challenge committing itself both to defining its approach to the subject and to setting up an operational structure for implementation by means of a communication adopted in February 1996.
In this context, I attach particular importance to mainstreaming in the structural funds, which constitute a major financial tool, since over six years, they amount to 145 thousand billion Ecus.
The Commission also wanted to pursue the implementation of the fourth programme on the ground.
Currently, we are supporting more than 60 projects spread throughout all the Member States, which involve a huge range of active parties, such as national, regional, and local authorities, NGOs and social partners.
Firstly, the proposal for a directive on the burden of proof, on which you gave your opinion on 9 April, in a direction broadly favourable to the Commission's proposal.
We now hope that a common position may be adopted under the Dutch presidency.
Secondly, the proposal for modification of the directive on equal treatment presented by the Commission, following the Kalanke ruling, which was the subject of many debates during the last 'social matters' Council of 17 April last.
Moreover, a certain number of new proposals, as provided for by the fourth programme, are currently being put together, in particular concerning respect for the dignity of women and men at work, and the domain of reponsibility and services relating to children and other dependants.
Amongst other things, it emerged from it that if, for the majority of Europeans, the fight against unemployment remains one of the priorities of the Union, it seems that the improvement of the situation of women passes through the better distribution of chores, housework, children, in the sphere of private life, and to a respect for masculine and feminine identity.
Just a few, words, now, Mr President, on the policy pursued within the Commission.
I am delighted with the results which our administration has already achieved.
In particular, the objectives of appointment and recruitment of female staff for Category A have broadly-speaking been achieved in 1996.
Half of the young civil servants recruited from the new Member States are women.
The exact rate is 49 %.
For my part, Mr President, I will not resist the satisfaction of telling you that half my own cabinet is composed of women.
And I have always thought that women have an extremely important role to play in the integration of the Euro into people's everyday lives.
The second major deadline is, of course, the Intergovernmental Conference.
The conference tackles this hot issue in three ways.
At the moment, three objectives are being targeted: making equal opportunities a specific task of the Union by including it in Article 2 of the Treaty; equal pay for work of equal value by formulating thus in a more appropriate way the current Article 119; competence for the Union to take measures relating to equal opportunities beyond remuneration; and a provision authorising positive discrimination by Member States, intending thus to respond to the Court ruling in the Kalanke case.
The fact that equal opportunities are being taken into consideration should also enrich our approach to the major economic and social issues of Europe.
And employment first of all.
So, I attach great importance to the negotiation which is under way between the social partners about part time work as well as the Green Paper on the organisation of work which was adopted last week by the Commission.
I would still like to say that a great debate on social protection took place this quarter; I will perhaps have the chance to come back to it later.
Mr President, as regards the first question put by the honorable Member, I would like to say, as I did earlier, that the Commission has made proposals and has set itself targets to achieve regarding the recruitment of civil servants in its own departments.
We have reached, and even passed the targets set for 1996, but we still have work to do because, for the moment, obviously we are talking above all about the recruitment of civil servants relating to the new Member States, where equality has been achieved: 49 % for women, 51 % for men.
As regards the second question, relating to equal opportunities for men and women, particularly in the use of modern technology if I have understood correctly, in the context of information policy, I can tell you that the fourth programme of activity which we have set in motion to promote equal opportunities contains a certain number of proposals aimed specifically at achieving the objective which you are proposing yourself.
Mr President, I share entirely the opinion of the honourable Member, which is that, in the fight against unemployment, priority must be given to women, who are the first to be affected because they are worst hit by part-time and short term work.
The Commission has indeed finished drawing up a strategy for the integration of the dimension of gender into all its policies.
As is the case for inter-departmental cooperation, reference lines should be introduced for evaluation of the impact of policies on equality between men and women, as well as a follow-up system and suitable training for staff.
Mr President, once the Intergovernmental Conference is completed, and I still hope it will be in Amsterdam though I do not rule out the possibility that it may be in Wasserbillig, the accession negotiations with a number of Eastern European countries will start soon afterwards.
I am wondering whether President Santer or the Commission has already begun to analyse the legal and social position of women in these would-be Member States.
Mr President, like the honourable Member, I hope that the Intergovernmental Conference will conclude with a Treaty of Amsterdam.
Within the framework of these opinions, we must take account of certain criteria which have been set by the European Council of Copenhagen in 1993.
We have also, with the Phare programme, suggested a certain number of programmes to these countries, but I agree entirely with you that it is an important criterion, not only with regard to women, but in a general way.
Mr President, I agree with the Member in saying that much progress has been made, but I would add that this progress has not been sufficient in view of the size of our task.
In all its activity, the Commission will aim to eliminate inequality, to promote equality between men and women, to apply, and I think this is very important, a general clause of non-discrimination, in particular on the basis of sex, and to extend the scope of application of Article 119 of the Treaty.
Another point, which I mentioned earlier in response to a question, relates to the policy of mainstreaming, which consists in integrating women's policy into all our policies, and not making of it a policy on its own.
Mr President, this question follows the one which was asked earlier by one of your colleagues, to which I replied by indicating the objectives we are setting in the Treaty.
You are right in saying that the current Treaty, the Treaty of Maastricht, does not lend enough attention to objectives aiming at equality of opportunity for men and women.
I recalled the objectives of the Commission, which tie up with the proposals which Parliament itself presented at the time of the revision of this Treaty.
I will not repeat it, but I consider it essential that, in the Treaty itself, certain objectives aim more specifically at affirming that equality for men and women will constitute one of the Community's missions.
Secondly, one result of the Eurobarometer shows that more men than women trust the European Union.
Your final remarks are very encouraging for me in favour as I am of the cause of all women.
From this point of view, may I make a request of you, which is at the same time a question: could no completely new path of hope exist for the vitality, economic as well as social and cultural, of our various countries in Europe, in recourse to research, as was demanded at the conferences in Copenhagen and Peking, to evaluate the unwaged work of women at home.
I think that this could be a breakthrough for a redynamisation of the whole of life in our countries in Europe.
I would like to thank President Santer for his declaration, and salute the many initiatives he has spoken about.
But I would like to ask him whether the Commission means to follow up in a more concrete way the resolutions made and positions adopted by the European Parliament, particularly these: we requested modification of the 1979 directive regarding equal treatment of men and women in the legal systems of social security to provide this equality in relation to age limits and survivors' pensions.
Finally we proposed that the 'decaffeinated' directive of 1986 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women exercising independent activities, including their spouse, be strengthened, and in February our Parliament demanded a real legal status for these invisible workers, the spouses of independent persons, and independent social security for them.
I know the subject well, as the author of a proposal for reform of social security along these lines, in my own country.
This is a very delicate subject for many Member States, but the Commission is trying to make discussions progress as far as possible.
I think therefore that we must aim in that direction and I hope that the communication on the future of social welfare is a good starting point from which to deepen these rather difficult discussions.
As far as the 1986 directive is concerned, regarding equal treatment of women, for independent women, the Commission has committed itself in its fourth programme on equal opportunities to examining the possibilities for strengthening this directive which, as the honourable member points out, does not currently include any particularly effective measures.
Two round tables have been held with those most involved, in which, if my information is correct, members of this Parliament have also participated.
I ask this because there is a disproportionate disadvantage to women in the unemployment figures and the small business sector is, of course, most fertile in terms of producing jobs.
Furthermore, within the framework of the European Social Fund, an initiative exists, the NOW initiative, which also has this objective.
It is further in this direction that we must go in order to respond to your own concerns.
As you know, social policy falls within the competence of Member States themselves.
The Commission as such, or the Community as such, therefore has no particular competence regarding social policy, neither does it have regarding economic policy.
That does not prevent us, nor dispense us from seeing how we can use the instruments within our reach to make our contribution to the achievement of the objectives you have described.
Last year, the social partners, within the framework of social dialogue, came to an agreement on a formula, which does not go as far as the Austrian formula, I agree, but which proposes a conciliation between professional life and family life, by means of parental leave, etc.
We have taken up this formula within the framework of a directive, but if we have taken a social directive, it belongs to Member States to transpose it and apply it.
I think that, from proposals modelled on systems such as that of Austria, or other systems existing in other Member States, reflection can be started at Community level, to see how it is possible to grant a particular social status to women who work.
This is still not enough, but I think that certain indicators, or as one says today, the benchmarking system, may also constitute an essential instrument for seeing how, little by little, equal opportunities for men and women are approaching.
Thank you very much, Mr Santer.
Economic policy and excessive deficits The next item is the Commission communication on the broad economic policy guidelines and excessive deficits.
On the basis of this encouraging observation, the general orientation is aimed, as your Chamber recommended in its Annual Economic Report, at giving new impetus to the economic strategy of the European Union.
Growth should rise to 2.4 % in 1997.
We had predicted 2.3 % in the Autumn.
In 1998, economic activity could increase by 2.8 %.
This renewed growth will permit the creation of two million jobs over 1997 and 1998.
The level of unemployment should start to drop, sadly not far enough, from 10.7 % in 1997 to 10.3 % in 1998.
There will be no substantial reduction in unemployment without strong and lasting growth in the medium term.
To achieve this, the Commission recommends three means.
The vast majority of Member States have set themselves the target of public deficits of 3 % in 1997.
I recall to mind the fact that the average deficit of the Union has fallen from 6.2 % of GDP in 1993 to 4.3 % in 1996.
The Commission predicts a figure of 2.9 % for the whole of the European Union for 1997, with thirteen countries on or below the reference level of 3 %.
In the vast majority of Member States, these recommendations have already been followed by results in 1996.
We must persevere in this way if we want to create more jobs in the future.
Secondly, better operation of the market in goods and services is necessary.
Thirdly, reform of the employment market is necessary to increase the job content of growth.
The contribution of the social partners is, in this respect, exemplary and necessary.
It is also necessary to work at a reasonable adaptation of salary structures, in line with differences in productivity at regional levels.
This renewal of investment must involve private investment - 85 % of the total, I recall - as a priority, and in all its forms: physical investment, investment in intangibles, investment in people.
But the Commission also recommends that public expenditure on investment be maintained.
It is essential to give the Union potential for lasting growth in the medium term.
In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to inform you that the Commission has just proposed to the Council that it abrogate its decision on the existence of excessive public deficits in the Netherlands and in Finland.
If the Council adopts the recommendations of the Commission, the number of countries which are no longer in a situation of excessive deficit will be brought to five.
These results confirm both the efforts at stabilisation which the Member States of the Union are making and the coherence of our European economic policy.
Confident in finding, Mr President, the full support of the European Parliament for the implementation of these recommendations by the Member States, the Commission, as it has endeavoured to do for the past two and a half years, will continue to associate your Chamber as closely as possible with its work, as it does unceasingly, for the introduction of the Euro within the framework of the conditions and timetable anticipated by the Treaty.
Mr President, I would like to ask Commissioner de Silguy, at this fateful moment of choosing the countries which will participate in the third phase of the approaching EMU, that is Spring 1998, and independently of the conclusions of the Dublin summit, whose shaping was largely the raison d'être of the 'ecofin' Council of Nordwyck and which we are taking for our own, how the question will be asked, for certain States in the Union, about the public deficit in 1997, in that some will not fulfil the conditions of the qualification criteria.
I would like to know whether the Commission can share with us its future recommendations and its attitude on this matter.
In other words, if the deficit is 3.1 or 3.2 %, in countries which have demonstrated that they have followed the correct path, does the Commission actually think that it could accept this slight overshoot?
Mr Giansily, the decision will be taken next year by the Heads of State and of government, at the end of April, or the beginning of May 1998.
The decision will be based upon a recommendation by the Commission, which will be the central element, as the Commission will play a central role in this process.
This recommendation will be adopted at the end of March 1998, in order to take account of the real figures for 1997.
In other words, it will be a question of making sure that if, in 1997, the conditions of budgetary stabilisation are correct, this stabilisation will continue throughout the coming years.
Indeed, may I remind you that when the single currency is in place, the figure of 3 % will no longer be an objective, but it will become a limit.
Mr President, I will reply to Mr Imbeni that all States are dealt with in exactly the same way, on the basis of the same pattern of reasoning, in defining the conditions.
These predictions are based upon macro-economic aggregates which take into account, in particular, assessments of growth.
What I do note is the fact that this reduction in the public deficit is the largest ever recorded in Europe for fifteen years.
Regarding your comment on the problem concerning recommendations, honourable Member, I have here a text, to which we have made changes this morning in committee, to take account of exactly that, the particular sensitivity of the problem.
In other words, it was not, and is not, a matter of changing the figures which have been drawn up by the Commission's departments, because the figures must be credible, that is, they must not be subject to any political pressure.
Be that as it may, in the presentation, and you will see, in the latest version which you perhaps do not yet have, account is taken perfectly of this difference in appreciation between what the government thinks and what the Commission thinks.
I think that it is necessary to see that wages depend on collective negotiation.
It is not a matter therefore of interfering in this process.
The need to pursue efforts at reducing public deficits in the medium term is an imperative of the Treaty which has been recognised as such by the Member States.
All the same, slipping over the 3 % is laid down explicitly as requiring sanctions.
That is the Treaty.
I would add that, for my part, I hope that these penalties do not have to be applied.
To put it another way, these penalties are the deterrent valve which complements the preventive valve.
Firstly I would like to make the point that public deficits have never created jobs.
If deficits created jobs, we would know about it, we would see it, and in view of the level of public deficits in Europe, we would be in a position of overemployment.
Historically, I observe that the reduction in public deficits, the restoration of confidence, growth and the creation of jobs generally go hand in hand in Europe, and not only in Europe.
The United States will have a public deficit of 1 % this year, understood in the Maastrichtian sense of the criterion, and to my knowledge they are given as an example when it comes to the creation of jobs.
So consequently, there is no contradiction between the need to develop investment - I am speaking of private investment, since 85 % of investment is private - and the pursuit of the policy of budgetary stability which has borne fruit in Europe.
What I have said is that, in the context of assessment, at the level of businesses, but also at the level of the States, it is appropriate to see how far we should now concentrate our efforts, taking account of room for manoeuvre where it exists, on seizing the opportunities and renewing investment which will be a factor for growth and the creation of jobs in the future.
Mr President, I would like to return to a topic that was raised once directly and once implicitly by two other colleagues.
However, if one reads the report, I would put it to the Commissioner that the plainest message that comes from the report in respect of Italy - and this is the major sensitive political question for next year - is that it gives a clear economic policy message that the one-off adjustments in the budget are masking the need for further economic policy change.
I think that the principal message, when you compare the figures, between 1997 and 1998, is that you realise that the figures for 1997 are in general obtained because Member States have taken isolated measures for stabilisation or one-off measures , in English.
The very clear message which emerges from these forecasts, from these recommendations, is that, where additional measures must be taken for 1998 within the framework of the lasting nature of convergence, it is necessary that these measures are structural and not just one-off.
Mrs Randzio-Plath asks three questions.
It is as necessary to define a stable framework within which to conduct economic policy as a community, as it is that at the level of structural measures, social measures, and a number of measures, I am thinking particularly of the employment market, this definition comes under the specificity of the individual nations, of social dialogue and of contact between the various partners.
The programmes of budgetary adjustment, as I have said and as I repeat, must be credible and socially balanced.
There should be no attempt to oppose budgetary stability to jobs, or budgetary stability to social welfare.
I think that, for a number of months now, it has been patently obvious that the effort which has been made in terms of economic policy has permitted a relaxation of monetary conditions in Europe and that interest rates in Europe have not been so low for a number of years.
Policy mix is a good thing, but the relaxation of monetary conditions is only and will only be possible if budgetary consolidation is sufficient.
This appears to me to be an essential element for the future.
Secondly, is it reasonable and possible to reduce the timescale from 1999 to 2002?
But we will not have more jobs without more growth and we will not have more growth without balanced and stabilised public finances.
And if we create the Euro, it will be to give Europe an economic framework in which we will have more growth and more jobs.
To make the Euro and to live within the Euro it is necessary to maintain stable public finances.
I remind you all the same that half of household savings are used today to finance public deficits and that this money would be better used to finance private investment or consumption.
So more growth is necessary, and the Euro will give us more growth in Europe.
All of these reforms are under way, and sometimes it is hard to apply them, as it is with others still, in particular reform of the labour market, which must be conducted hand in hand with the social partners.
Commissioner, since Thursday, as you know, in Italy there has been talk only about Commissioner de Silguy's figures and in particular this 3.2 % which would put Italy in a corner, while many other international institutions list the same figures for other countries, one of which you know very well and which is facing an election campaign after which nobody knows what sort of policy will be pursued.
So, the first question I would put to you is this: why this possible difference in approach?
There is no difference in approach between Italy and the other Member States in the work carried out by the departments of the Commission as far as the predictions are concerned.
Secondly, I am prepared to support the comparison, with the results in my hand, on the predictions made by the Commission and by the other international institutions.
Generally, experience tends to prove us right.
Once again there are differences in analysis at the same time on the impact, in 1997, of the finance laws which were adopted at the end of 1996.
There is also a difference in terms of growth.
Furthermore, there is a difference in terms of total quantitative efficacy over the year of the measures which are being taken by Italy today.
Regarding inheritance tax, the Italian government thinks that, in 1997, as the legislation has changed, revenue will be 50 % higher than it was last year.
I think we should remain very vigilant.
Secondly, inflation is still at 2 %.
Our target of 2 % is not at all incompatible with, or in contradiction to, our figures regarding employment and what we should do with respect to the fight against unemployment.
I think when all is said and done that we must continue to keep on course, if we want, indeed, to ease the conditions of monetary policy in order to make the policy mix more flexible.
We must not start to get involved in policies which involve playing with fire and reintroducing price rises or inflation into the economy, when one never knows how this kind of policy is going to end up.
Thank you very much, Mr de Silguy.
However it is necessary to take into consideration the explosion in its use, because, in less than five years, several million citizens have connected themselves up to it.
This development has given rise to two major consequences.
Secondly, before such possibilities, the lawbreakers have moved more quickly than the good and the list of infractions of national and international laws is considerable.
The difference lies in the content of electronic information which is harder to police.
Mr Pradier rightly talked about setting up a code of conduct.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as this report emphasizes, the Internet is extremely important in terms of citizen participation in public life.
The primary purpose of the Internet is not to disseminate illegal and harmful material.
In my view, the Commission's communication contains too few practical proposals and defers possible solutions to the distant future of global international agreements.
However, the report before us sensibly stresses that the European Union, as an economically strong and technically advanced region, can act as a forerunner in the world.
The European Parliament must follow carefully developments on the Internet, but must also be aware of its role, which is to support and facilitate the development of the information society, not to regulate it out of existence.
When this subject was discussed in committee there were calls for a variety of regulations such as registration of Internet users and a ban on electronic encoding.
There is no doubt that both access providers and service providers are responsible for exchange of illegal information and material.
Finally, thanks to the Internet, a vast range of economic and cultural sectors are being transformed, and a range of new opportunities are offered to small and medium-sized businesses.
The Internet is a huge world-wide network of computers providing a picture of the information and thinking which exists in our society.
Censorship of the Internet constricts freedom of expression without giving people real protection against illegal content.
Furthermore, censorship restricts the free movement of services in Europe.
Madam President, the opportunities which the Internet offers in the area of communications are unimaginable.
The information superhighway would blaze a trail towards a new social order.
It will also be difficult to make legislation on freedom of expression on the Internet different from legislation which already exists for other forms of communication such as the written word, TV and video, though the Internet can penetrate people's lives more easily.
In our view this opinion strikes a sensible balance between the different interests without making too many demands on the providers.
Madam President, we in the European Parliament have always agreed that the protection of human rights and fundamental rights must be the top priority in all social and political areas and that these principles must apply even when we face new social phenomena, which can be quite frightening for some people.
But nor can we, as some earlier speakers have pointed out, get round the need at least to establish minimum common criminal law norms in Europe, in order to create a good point of departure for global negotiations.
Madam President, in an interview on this subject our rapporteur described himself as an old liberal - in the sense of old-fashioned - and not an excessive moralist.
He is right, because President Clinton's social programme mentions two universal ages: the age at which American children should know how to read and write, and the age - twelve, I think - at which they should all know how to surf the Internet.
Even a multimedia police or cyberpolice will not be enough: we know how much time and money will have to be spent, and we also know how quickly a network can be re-established after discovery.
Madam President, what characterises Mr Pradier's report is hypocrisy.
Secondly, because we remember that the basis of the Internet is electronic mail and, unlike some totalitarians, we are attached to freedom of correspondence, including electronic mail.
In this area as in others, we are saying no to the global big brother which some are trying to impose upon us or would like to impose upon us.
My professional life has been in broadcasting and that in turn gave way to what in English is called 'narrow-casting' subscription cable and things like that, and there was the person-to-person communication via the telephone.
I would like to be able to take a robust first amendment position on this as has been upheld in the courts in the United States.
We all know that groups which indulge in sadistic and paedophilic practices mask their activities and hide behind other forms of identity.
We have to make sure that the access-providers as well as service and content providers recognize their responsibilities in this matter, firstly, for the identification of each service and secondly for the classification without which filtering will not be possible.
Filtering in itself will be for the responsible people who know a great deal about this system.
There are many other people at risk on the Net today and we have to be mindful of their needs as well.
This communication has been greeted with much interest in all Member States, in the Council, the OECD and the Council of Europe and is a good preparation for the various international conferences in which we are taking part.
This distinction is most important because there are various measures geared to the various problem areas.
Towards the middle of the year we will be taking part in a conference in Bonn at which the G7 countries - and I hope also the USA, which has so far been hesitating whether to take part - will draw up binding rules on the responsibility of the providers, on the possibility of penalization even in countries in which these providers are not represented but which receive their material, and so forth.
A fight of this kind is always more or less successful and in this fight it is important not to forget that this new technology also offers positive content.
But that too has been said and I am glad, Madam President, that the Commission is able to seek solutions to this question jointly with Parliament.
The debate is closed.
We are always talking about the need to create employment for the 18 million unemployed people, which the European development model has created, without finding a solution, which results from the fact that this is a complex problem, and the need to develop multiple types of action and have a structural character.
In 1995, there were about 16 million small enterprises in the European Union accounting for more than 40 million jobs.
In the last five years, 60-80 % of all new jobs in the private sector have been created by small enterprises, the micro-enterprises being the most dynamic.
A survey published in 1996 under the patronage of the Commission demonstrated that whilst the average percentage of job creation in the 500 most dynamic SMEs was 158 % in the last five years, it was 1035 % in the enterprises with less than ten employees.
However, even recognising the important role of the craft industry and small companies in job creation, there is a manifest incoherence in Community policy when it comes to implementing actions and support programmes which are frequently of diminished value, delayed or suspended.
This problem of filling in forms is a vital one.
The second problem is one of credits and delay in payment.
The third problem is to do with the tax system, which penalises work and favours capital.
In all Community countries, the majority of those paying direct taxes are workers whereas others get off scot free.
The level of vocational education of most of our businessmen is very low.
Mrs Torres Marques's excellent report deals with a conference which took place in 1994.
That is a pity, because a properly thought-out co-ordination plan would have been very helpful to all those involved and particularly small businesses at which after all the operation is ultimately aimed.
Not because they are sad, not because they create jobs, but because their very nature prevents them from taking part in the single market.
Madam President, we have long been discussing small and medium-sized enterprises and viewing these companies as the solution to many of the problems of the European economy.
We are talking about eighteen million small and medium-sized firms, which directly employ seventy million people, 70 % of the European Union's current labour force.
This means facing up to tomorrow's challenges today: harmonizing VAT between the various Member States, simplifying credit relationships between companies within an individual Member State, and increasingly between different countries, given that tomorrow there will be a real single market.
The sectors I refer to are primarily in the tertiary market, and greater attention should be paid to establishing particular synergies between small firms and small professionals; synergies between tourism, retailing, the craft sector, and small local industry, so that local production, typical of any individual country, is again given room and attention in a global market of 370 million consumers, to be united by a single currency from 1 January 1999.
We thank the Commission for the important work that has been done - I refer in particular to Commissioner Papoutsis who has revitalized the small and medium-sized firms sector, especially in retailing and tourism - and in the circumstances we call in this proposal for the rapid expansion of the DG XXIII structures, particularly for tourism and retailing.
I have given special emphasis in my report to two or three points which I put forward as specific proposals to give small and medium-sized entrepreneurs the tools and space they need.
Remember, the 1997-2000 programme can provide acceleration for all sectors: a small firm today may be a large firm tomorrow.
The initiatives it contains are commendable.
However, at the top of the Commission's agenda should be the deployment of DG XXIII's slender resources to vet legislation and programmes which are brought forward by other directorates-general for their beneficial or adverse affect on Europe's small firms.
For example, there are the huge structural funds which are used to favour SMEs throughout the Union, including my constituency of Cheshire West and Wirral in England.
I applaud Mrs Torres Marques' call to encourage a culture of risk-taking as part of education programmes.
Mrs Peijs rightly recognizes the distorting effect of differential VAT rates on Europe's small businesses.
Following on this, Mr Garosci pertinently highlighted the tourism industry as a potent element of the SME sector.
It is very much to be regretted that the Philoxenia programme has been stalled but the Commission knows only too well that two of its babies in DG XXIII - SMEs and tourism - properly nurtured could grow into Europe's biggest job generators.
And jobs are what we want.
Madam President, the report discusses the second European conference in Berlin.
The basic aim was to issue recommendations to the Member States on how to make small and medium-sized undertakings more efficient.
Another conference of this kind is being held today and I believe it is urgently necessary to involve the European Parliament in the preparatory work of that conference and in setting its objectives.
The SLIM group is carrying out an important analysis here and perhaps the institutions could also consider involving the Economic and Social Committee more closely in this activity in future.
The second question the European Parliament is currently considering is the fiche d'impact .
We must also reinforce training and further training.
Let me point out that calling last year the year of lifelong learning was a very important step because it raised people's awareness of the importance of lifelong learning and showed that learning can be an enjoyable pastime.
Research and development is an important area, not just product research but also market research.
Madam President, I very much welcome the report on SMEs and join with other Members in congratulating the rapporteurs.
When one takes into consideration that SMEs are responsible for up to 80 % of new jobs created over the past five years, this highlights the potential for job-creation in small to medium-sized industry and also the need for Parliament and governments to create the economic environment for their continued growth.
The fact that half the new projects fail within five years surely indicates that we have neglected to provide their promoters with assistance in the research, market development and management skills which are so essential for their survival.
However, we should not allow such a high failure rate to discourage us in our efforts to create new jobs in what has been a much neglected area up to now.
From my work in rural development and the number of new jobs created in programmes like LEADER and other Community-based enterprise schemes, I am of the opinion that in the past we have ignored the potential of our human resources, our people, to play a meaningful role in the generation of wealth.
As legislators, we have overregulated their lives and reduced their natural inclination to become entrepreneurs.
Time does not permit me to elaborate on the many aspects of SMEs which require our urgent attention, other than to say that SMEs should now receive greater priority in national and EU programmes for job creation.
Member State governments must put in place a favourable tax regime which will encourage and reward enterprise, bearing in mind that a tax concession which encourages enterprise is far more cost-effective than the payment of social welfare to the unemployed.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to highlight the importance of this debate which demonstrates the interest shown by both the European Commission and the European Parliament in SMEs, which are decisive for the proper operation of the European economy and have a major impact on levels of employment.
The three reports which we are examining in this joint debate and which the group of the European Liberal Democrats and Reform Party supports - with some reservations concerning the odd aspect, as we shall see later - deal with and expound a number of aspects which it will be impossible for me to discuss in detail in this short speech, but I should like to point out five of them, in particular.
First of all, the proposals made in the three reports show that we need greater coordination in the European Commission and, in particular, DG XXIII, and we hope that the creation of Directorate C will improve the level of coordination and the application of the European Commission's own actions.
And finally, my fifth point, is that SMEs must be given easier and improved access to international markets.
In fact, craft and small enterprises have accounted for 60 to 80 % of the new jobs created in the past five years.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, once again we are debating a subject which keeps appearing on our agenda in this assembly: the creation of employment and stimulating the activity of SMEs.
Fortunately, the countries of the European Union have been pioneers in the creation and maintenance of a system of social protection which protects people from poverty and abandonment and therefore has helped tens of millions of Europeans without jobs.
As far as this situation is concerned, everyone with anything to do with running public life in the European Union is responsible.
Most of our youth have their eyes set on a job in the public administration, they all want to be the civil servants and, although we know that civil servants are vital for a properly run public administration, we have to accept that they do not create wealth.
In this rather wretched context, I would like to add that the proposals which we are discussing, and which my group will support, will not be enough to change things.
Against this background, the authorities must accept the idea of positive discrimination in favour of SMEs.
These reports by Mr Garosci, Mrs Peijs and Mrs Torres Marques on the small- and medium-sized business sector make it plain that the European Parliament is keen to shift European employment into top gear.
We wonder why 50 % on average of small and medium-sized firms go bankrupt in the first three years of business.
Despite this, small and medium-sized firms represent 99.8 % of all Union companies and their ebullience stimulates them to create jobs and boost the economy of the whole of Europe.
Madam President, a year or so ago in another debate on SMEs I quoted a slogan which says that SMEs are not big companies in pocket format, but have many features which are specific to them and they need a policy designed specifically for them.
The Maastricht criteria have forced governments to rationalize their budgets.
Let us now introduce the idea of small businesses as the norm in order at last to find solutions to all the various problems which previous speakers have mentioned.
To be fair, we should say that there has been some progress in European policy on small businesses as a result, for example, of the EASDAQ facility for small businesses and the SLIM project.
Madam President, Commissioner, SMEs account for 70 % of employment.
Therefore, we think it is fundamental to make a proposal, and the Commission really should bear in mind the difficulties which are currently facing small enterprises.
Firstly the number of them, since they account for 99 % of all businesses, then their economic power, since they employ almost 65 % of the Union's workforce.
Starting from this observation, in the perspective of a policy of employment and maximum growth, it was essential to grant SMEs a special place, in terms of interest and aid, and an attempt has been made to do this since the integrated programme of 1994.
This programme has now been extended by the 1996 programme, which takes up the same methodology again - multiannual programme, concerted action with Member States, other actions in favour of SMEs - but redefines the objectives in the form of five priorities: simplifying and improving the financial, fiscal and administrative environment, helping SMEs to internationalise, enhancing competitiveness and promoting entrepreneurship.
We consider this programme demagogic in the sense that it is obvious that it is necessary to consider the importance of SMEs in the European economic scene, but is this the best way to do it?
It is easy to make grand declarations in favour of the creation of jobs by means of support for SMEs.
But suppose these measures were actually put in place, what would the real cost be?
In Italy, for example, the limit is 250 employees.
The activities of craft industries may - and in many cases do - have characteristics of a cultural nature, the respect and transmission of traditions.
They may be - and in many cases are - activities of resistance in which craftsmen continue to be very closely linked to their tools and means of work, and this is not always compatible with a business activity such as it is presented in these reports.
Madam President, the special quality and strength of the European economy lies in its structure, which relies so much on small and medium-sized enterprises.
But this small-scale structure also creates vulnerability and disadvantages in a world moving towards globalization.
So any measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises are of long-term benefit to this major branch of the economy, which unfortunately still has no legal basis in the EU treaty.
Madam President, everything has been said about small and medium-sized firms by now.
There is never a debate in the European Parliament about the huge employment crisis which does not favour consolidating already existing small and medium-sized firms and the possibility of creating new ones.
There is a need to cut bureaucracy, and simplify administration and tax procedures; there is a need to promote access to innovation and to Community policies for small and medium-sized firms.
The Commission will shortly be publishing an invitation for the submission of proposals with a view to providing support for European initiatives embarked on by such bodies.
That percentage is even higher in the Objective 2 areas, in the areas which are in industrial decline, that is to say, and in the Objective 5b areas, the rural areas, where the average is between 15 % and 20 %.
Our main goals are the improvement of access to other Community programmes and more effective coordination with related horizontal Community policies.
Turning now to Mr Garosci's report, I can say that I believe that the 1995 report of the Commission on the coordination of activities in favour of SMEs and the craft sector provides a complete picture of the Community's horizontal measures for these businesses.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, the report on the adjustment of the financial perspective pursuant to paragraphs 9 and 10 of the Interinstitutional Agreement is a document that comes up again every year in the course of the budgetary procedure.
The Committee on Budgets unanimously approved the Commission proposal.
But the European Parliament cannot endorse the Council's wish to transfer another ECU 1 billion of commitment appropriations again from 1998 to 1999, after they had been transferred to 1998 from earlier years, not least because the Commission notes in its proposal that following the inadequate use of resources in 1994 and 1995, the situation improved considerably in 1996.
The Council emphasized that this 1 billion had to be transferred again from 1998 to 1999 in order to achieve the zero growth rate of the 1998 budget.
The European Parliament too is well aware of the Member States' endeavours to pursue a careful budgetary policy and to satisfy the criteria for monetary union.
But it is also aware of the Edinburgh decisions on the structural funds, on the financial perspective, and it is well aware of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 1993.
The aim of the European Parliament is to remain faithful to the guidelines adopted in January for the 1998 budget and to adopt a budget that reflects a responsible expenditure policy in all its headings and that economizes in areas where the same situation recurs every year of money being transferred back to the Member States.
We want to leave the remaining ECU 500 million of commitment appropriations in the 1998 budget, to enable us in autumn this year, thanks to more precise predictions, to adopt better forecasts of agricultural expenditure in the 1998 budget.
This is entirely in line with paragraphs 9 and 10 of our guidelines and the Dutch presidency agreed to this compromise at the trialogue last Monday.
As general rapporteur for the 1998 budget I took over the burden of pressure of the last budgetary deliberations on the 1997 budget.
Madam President, the Tillich report is bone dry, I agree, but frankly its importance is such that there is no excuse for this debating chamber to be virtually deserted.
May I repeat what the rapporteur said and remind you of the situation: in accordance with the Inter-institutional Agreement of 1993 - a subject on which I was rapporteur - the Commission is meant to make the necessary proposals to adjust the financial perspective at the beginning of each budgetary exercise.
On one hand, on the basis of Article 9, it must notify any adjustment of the agricultural guideline and the amount of the other categories of expenditure in ratio to the change in GDP and prices.
This is a technical and automatic adjustment and the budgetary authority must be forced to accept it.
On the other hand, here I come to the heart of the matter, on the basis of Article 10 of the Inter-institutional Agreement, it must propose an adjustment to credits for Category II, the structural expenditure, in accordance with its execution so that unused appropriations are not lost.
In the light of this, the Commission has presented a new proposal for a compromise which we can accept - and which we are going to vote for - in order not to lose the 562 million ECU earmarked for the more explicit machinery of solidarity and fighting unemployment in the Community budget.
However, as the rapporteur has pointed out, this cannot be a precedent and I should like to add that only good political will is preventing us from considering this procedure as a covert revision of the financial perspective.
The Socialist Group will support the rapporteur, whom it congratulates on a difficult task well achieved, emphasising that we would like to see appropriate payment credits earmarked, focusing on operations in Objective 1 and 2 areas, as the rapporteur also suggests.
When the European Parliament committed itself to an austerity budget policy, for a budget which represents less than 2.5 % of the Member States' public spending and only 1.2 % of the Union's GDP, what is this war all about?
That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we socialists, fighting for a fairer Europe and for a more effective policy of solidarity, are going to support this compromise measure.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the difficulties which the Commission's original proposal met along the way are a very clear example of the difficulties which are going to crop up in the budgetary debate over this year.
Tomorrow, the European Parliament is going to approve a Commission proposal on adjusting the financial perspective which is different from the one originally presented by the Commission.
If this consensus is not finally reached, there will be a major inter-institutional conflict in which the Parliament will have to support the Commission against the Council, all of this just a fortnight away from the presentation of the preliminary draft budget presented by the Commission for 1998.
We note a reduction of 500 million ECU in the amount of credits earmarked for 1998, an amount transferred to 1999 on the basis of a statement by the Commission, which says that it will not be possible to execute more than 600 million ECU in the 1998 budgetary year.
Mr President, honouring agreements and guarantees for fulfilling agreements reached within the European Union is the very cement of our credibility and the vital pillar for our political co-habitation.
From this point of view, we accept the Commission proposal in that - and this should be made very clear here - the genuine political debate will come about when we see what the Council makes of the Commission's preliminary draft budget.
The vital agreement on the growth percentage for the 1998 budget, compliance with signed agreements remaining fully in force and maintenance of the figures for payments credits, will very much condition the possibility for the three institutions to reach an agreement over the budget.
Furthermore, the European Parliament must accept that it will have the final say on non-compulsory expenditure in Category II and that it should negotiate for all it is worth on Category I.
By obliging net contributors to contribute from their national budgets the billion in question starting in 1998, we would be showing that we give little credence to the concept of durability, by this giving the feeling that, for our House, only 1997 counts.
That does not seem to me a good policy.
The South could find evidence in this to illustrate the evil designs which are sometimes attributed to the countries of the North.
It is this proposal which is the subject of the report by our colleague Mr Tillich and which, I sincerely hope, will have the agreement of the qualified majority of our House and of the Council.
Indeed, it seems to me that 500 million in 1998, which actually generates a saving of 300 million in payments for the same year, and a commitment of 1.62 billion for 1999, is a good solution with, the same year, recuperation of the difference in payments.
And I share the opinion of Jan Colom i Naval: a sum of one billion Ecus deserved a Chamber which did not look like a desert.
More than 18 million people are unemployed in the EU, and unemployment continues to rise.
From our point of view, it is also possible to accept the suggestion made by the rapporteur, a suggestion made by myself, according to which guarantees will be made for the full inclusion of these appropriations in the budget, including the payments for the years 1998 and 1999.
Apart from other aspects, this situation is very closely linked to the guidelines and measures which are being adopted at Community level with that objective in mind, but on a different pretext.
But these are aspects which we shall have to leave for a future debate.
Mr President, nobody should be under the misconception that the 1998 budget is not going to be a very difficult one and so it is extremely important that we all make every effort to reach agreements and make sure that they are as wide-ranging as possible.
We all know that agreements are to be honoured, and that is why the European Commission can count on our support to reach an overall growth rate of 3.3 % so that we honour the Edinburgh agreement, and that we shall also achieve an 8 % growth rate in Category II.
Therefore, given all of these efforts it is inconceivable that the Council should have tried to stand in the way of a wide-ranging agreement.
For us the compromise solution for Category II in 1998 is not the most satisfactory one but at least it should avoid confrontation which makes it valid in itself.
Therefore, Mr President, it is vital that we should adopt the Tillich report by qualified majority tomorrow.
We know which are the two arms of the budgetary authority and the European Commission is neither of them, but it would not be for me to recommend - in the hope that the preliminary draft budget for 1998 will be published - that we ignore the European Commission and its proposals on payment credit in Category II, given that the Commission is in the best position to know what is needed because it is the Commission which carries out these proposals.
Indents 18 and 21 of the Inter-institutional Agreement are quite clear when they say that credits must be sufficient to meet commitments.
Mr President, under paragraph 10 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 29 October 1993, the Commission presented a proposal to Parliament and the Council for the adjustment of the Financial Perspective to take account of the conditions of the implementation.
The proposal was to transfer to 1999 the allocations for the structural funds and the Cohesion Fund which were not used in 1996 - a total of ECU 562 million.
The excess of available allocations in relation to implementation capacity would be about ECU 500m.
In addition to the transfer of ECU 562m from 1996 to 1999, the Commission also proposes to transfer ECU 500m from 1995 to 1999.
It would actually facilitate full budgetization before the end of 1999 of the allocations for the structural funds provided for the period 1993-1999.
Finally, I have just received the news that COREPER has also accepted this proposal this evening.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report in question is on a proposal for a Council Directive setting up a harmonised safety regime for fishing vessels of 24 metres in length and over.
However, because there were an insufficient number of ratifications, the 1977 Convention never entered into force.
In 1993, the International Maritime Organisation, the IMO, proceeded with a revision of this Convention by adopting the Torremolinos Protocol.
However, it is only obligatory for vessels of more than 45 metres.
This proposal by the Commission is therefore necessary, as of all the vessels of 24 metres and over, 85 % are vessels measuring between 24 and 45 metres.
The Torremolinos Convention therefore currently applies only to 15 % of vessels.
In taking up the provisions of the 1993 Protocol again here, a harmonisation of standards relating to the construction and equipment characteristics of vessels in the European Union has been undertaken, which guarantees a higher level of safety.
The fisheries sector, in its various sections, is an extremely sensitive sector.
Indeed, the difficulties associated with their sector have not been aggravated despite the introduction of these new technical requirements.
Thus, because of the economic impact which the application of these safety measures would have on existing fishing vessels, it has been proposed that only the measures initially provided for in the Protocol for existing vessels should be applied to them.
These standards should cover the whole of the Mediterranean and all coastal countries.
When it comes to third countries wishing to fish in internal or territorial waters of the European Union, or to land their catch in the port of a Member State, the situation is a little more complex.
Anyway, this proposal could be considered a first step on the road to a coherent safety regime applicable to the fisheries sector.
Indeed, following this, it will be a question of looking at how far it will be possible to apply these new standards to fishing vessels of less than 24 metres in length.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, safety at sea is a matter for all of us and this report on the safety of fishing vessels, which I have the honour of presenting to you, enables it to be guaranteed.
The draft directive calls for the extension of the technical provisions of the Torremolinos Protocol to all new boats measuring between 24 and 45 metres fishing in European waters and not only boats flying Community flags, but also boats belonging to third countries fishing in Community waters or landing their catches in European Union ports.
I would ask Mr Kinnock - and I apologise for the lack of notice - briefly to comment on that dispute and to see how we can best work together to ensure the free movement of people and goods in the future.
I appreciate the efforts he and colleagues in other committees have undertaken to consult with the different parties in the fishing industry and I am pleased to note that their response has been almost unanimously positive.
The Commission will readily respond to the specific request that this House be regularly informed on any amendments and any alterations adopted through the committee procedure and we will certainly comply with the Commission's commitments to the European Parliament on transparency.
The Commission also shares the concern expressed in the report that different levels of penalties in the Member States could lead to distortion of competition.
It is precisely to avoid such problems and to ensure full transparency that the provisions of Article 13 require Member States to notify their systems of penalties for breaches of national provisions that are adopted on the basis of this directive.
May I conclude my response to the report by thanking the House for facilitating the early adoption of a common position on this important measure which will promote the safety of fishing activities in Community waters and, in particular, the protection of the lives of European fishermen to whom we all as a Community owe so much.
I hope there will be little delay in securing the re-establishment of the freedom of movement in compliance with the legal requirements of the Treaty and, indeed, the legal obligations of individual Member States.
The debate is closed.
Vessels carrying hazardous goods The next item is the debate on the report (A4-0073/97) by Mr Novo Belenguer, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a Council Directive amending Directive 93/75/EEC (COM(96)0455 - C4-0544/96-96/0231(SYN)) concerning minimum requirements for vessels bound for or leaving Community ports and carrying dangerous or polluting goods.
The maritime disasters which have recently occurred in Community waters only add to the huge importance of this Directive and the need for all Member States to take measures with the same purpose.
This is not a question of imposing safety standards on packages but providing necessary information to Community port authorities in respect of goods being transported, adopting technical appendices and altering the activities of the relevant Community committee in order to up-date Community legislation and bring it in line with international standards.
We can consider the objectives set out in this proposal to be positive and worthy of the European Parliament's support.
However, in my opinion, there are some loose ends which are not tied up by this Directive.
First of all, the safety measures contemplated in it do not affect boats transiting through Community waters, without docking in a European Union port.
Thirdly, Appendix I - which according to Article 6 of the directive should be notified to the relevant authority of the State affected in cases of accidents - does not consider the need to notify the number of crew on board when a boat is involved in an accident.
On the other hand, Mr President, I should like to point out that the amendments tabled and approved in committee have helped to improve the shape of my report.
Amendment 7 strengthens the obligation on destination States to convey information received to all Community States along the route to be taken by the said boat.
Amendments Nos. 10 and 11 are designed to offer all of the necessary information to emergency services on radioactive cargoes and the procedures to be carried out on board in the case of accident.
Finally, Mr President, Amendment No. 12 on communicating the list of passengers is vital.
Furthermore, in accordance with the draft directive by the European Commission on this matter, published on 25 November 1996, this subject is to be discussed by the European Parliament during the 'mini-session' next May.
Mr President, Mr Kinnock, the Socialists support Novo Belenguer's report.
The rapporteur rightly pointed to the importance of this directive, but also to the importance of regulating ships that sail through our waters without calling at any European port.
The Group of the European People's Party will therefore support all the amendments, in order to make the transport of dangerous or polluting goods even safer, give coastal regions lasting and effective protection against pollution or even destruction and ensure the maximum level of safety for the crews of vessels.
So I want to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
Help us, so that we can find a good solution to all these questions, even if we do not manage to do so now with this report.
Mr President, the Green Group also believes the Commission has acted positively in presenting this directive incorporating Directive 93/75 which is designed to improve the system of preventing accidents at sea involving vessels carrying hazardous and harmful substances and mount appropriate rescue operations, and which is now extended, through this new directive, to the transport of radio-active material.
But we think account should also have been taken of the fact that Directive 21/95 on control of ports and other international standards have been issued in the meantime.
Mr President, first of all I would like to say that we welcome this report.
We feel very strongly about this issue in my constituency with last year the experience of the Sea Empress and the impact of that on the local environment.
The thrust of the Transport Committee's position is to ensure that legislation applies to ships passing through EU waters, not just ships which are docking in EU ports.
I am very glad to note that on this proposal there is a common understanding and an endorsement of its main objective which is to strengthen and to improve the existing directive for establishing notification requirements in order to improve prevention and intervention in the case of accidents at sea to vessels carrying dangerous or potentially polluting goods.
The Commission welcomes Amendments Nos 8 and 9.
We share that concern but I think it worth reminding the Parliament, without any complacency, that 80 % of these ships that are transitting in European waters are in fact bound for Community ports.
The Commission cannot accept the amendments that Parliament has entered.
Mr Ferber anticipated me in his remarks - not for the first time, always a sensible contribution - and we are obviously already engaged in undertaking exactly the tasks that he sought.
It is also applicable to Amendment No 2 on compliance with IAEA regulations and on Amendments Nos 10 and 11, which would add a number of safety requirements issuing from the INF code to the annexes of the directive.
The Commission is, however, considering various initiatives to strengthen the existing regime applicable to the transport of radioactive materials, including, if necessary, binding legislation for all ships calling at a European port and carrying radioactive materials.
As far as the other series of amendments are concerned, those related to the extension of reporting requirements to ships in transit, the Commission considers that Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 6 are already reflected in the proposed Council directive for a European Ship Reporting System, the so-called EuroRep, which was adopted by the Commission in December 1993, and is still before the Council.
It would be inappropriate and confusing if the Commission was to accept the inclusion of such provisions in Directive 93/75 while discussions could resume at any time in Council on similar requirements as described in EuroRep.
Finally the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 12 concerning the presence of a passenger list.
Summing up, the Commission accepts Amendments Nos 8 and 9, but, while we share the concerns they reflect, we cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11 and 12.
The debate is closed.
Ladies and gentlemen, 90 % of trade between the Community and the rest of the world takes place by sea and the percentage is 35 % within the Union.
The Union's future maritime strategy, as proposed by the Commission, is based on four pillars: safety, maintaining open markets, competitiveness and state aids.
The human factor is basic: 80 % of all maritime disasters are precisely ascribable to the human factor.
The first consequence will be the inevitable loss of the very idea of the Community seaman and the competitiveness of our fleet.
The second will be an inevitable increase in the number of sub-standard ships ploughing our seas, with all the easily imaginable environmental consequences.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when one uses the word 'strategy' , I think one should always be prudent, because if the proposed trajectory is oriented towards positive targets, experience has all too often led us to experience a let-down, to feel that something is missing, and therefore to temper any enthusiasm we began with.
If the Commission presents us with a text intended to shape a new maritime strategy, it is because it is fully aware that the initial measures of 1985, based upon free trade, have not completely achieved what they were aiming at.
The sad figure of 50 % for job losses is striking evidence of this.
It is important to note that global initiatives are required in this sector to improve the training and qualifications of seafarers and to make it less tempting for vessel owners to use cheaper poorly qualified crews.
Regard for safety and the environment places demands on the EU shipping market.
The committee supports the research programme for the sector but would like to see further development of fuel efficient, environmentally sound propulsion systems, more energy efficient vessel construction and the implementation of a broad socio-economic research programme to investigate the social impact of the maritime science and technology which is developed.
Mr President, on behalf of the Transport Committee Mr Danesin has pointed to the great importance of a healthy maritime sector in the European Union.
In the Netherlands it has been calculated that a good 70 % of the value added in the maritime sector is generated on the coast.
Since January 1996 the Dutch Government has granted tax concessions to maritime companies formerly under the Dutch flag or based in the Netherlands.
Paragraph 33 of the Danesin reports says that maritime transport should not be regarded as an industry which exists merely to serve European imports and exports, but as a self-contained industry in its own right.
Mr President, on behalf of the Party of European Socialists I would like to welcome this new approach to the maritime sector from Commissioner Kinnock.
It is vital in our view for strategic industrial reasons, strategic employment reasons and to ensure and enhance the competitiveness of the European Union.
I am sure tomorrow when it comes to the vote we can as a Parliament give with one voice a clear commitment to the future of Europe's maritime sector.
Back in 1970 a third of the world's ships were proud to fly a flag of a European Member State.
In 1994 the figure had fallen to just 14 %.
Two thirds of the whole of the industrial sector maritime industry wiped out.
I would like to give a few examples of why we support this new strategy.
In terms of securing competitiveness, we believe in common action to promote maritime training programmes, research and development, and in particular encouraging young people to the profession.
Europe has a proud maritime past, I believe this strategy, as outlined by Commissioner Kinnock, will lay the foundations for a great maritime future.
The Commission communication on a new maritime strategy is a rather unbalanced text.
For that to happen, and both the Dutch Government and this House have secured this in the trans-European networks, we need to strengthen our coastal transport systems.
I have also said here repeatedly, on the subject of the Sindal report too, that it must also be possible to use the 45-foot containers routinely used in maritime transport for overland transport too.
Port dues must be kept low, but must on no account create a competitive edge at the expense of the environment and safety or a less rigorous or harmonized policy.
Mr President, Mr Kinnock, Rapporteur, as my colleagues are no doubt aware, maritime transport is very dear to me and I would like to point out that we in Europe have neglected the development of maritime transport.
The officers are European, but the crew are from other nations.
We cannot have the shipping companies of other Community states, whose budgets do not allow them to introduce aid measures such as the Dutch ones, suffering disadvantages because one country gives special aid to its shipping and then shipping companies flag out their ships to another country.
They do important work in their own field both at sea and in port to ensure that vessels are in the best possible working order both technically and as regards their crews.
At a time when the European Union is adopting a new maritime strategy and trying to influence world standards, there is every reason to hope that this dimension will be utilized to the full in the further consideration of the subject.
Transport by sea accounts for 90 percent of transport to countries outside the Union.
In recent years, in Swedish waters alone in the Baltic, there have been about 500 oil discharges per year.
I will touch on two points.
My second point concerns the dredger fleet.
The motion for a resolution now before the House shows a real commitment to advancing the work on the maritime strategy paper.
As the House will know, I based my reflections in the strategy paper on the role of the shipping industry in the world, on its difficulties as a global industry and on our common desire to maintain the industry and as many jobs for European seafarers as possible.
Some claim, though thankfully not in this House, that the objectives of competitiveness and employment are somehow mutually exclusive.
I am pleased to recognize that the motion for a resolution supports the new strategy and its three main pillars.
We all agree that this is essential and we all know that the necesssary expertise exists.
As honourable Members will know, and some have pointed this out in the debate, the results have been very negative.
I am pleased to welcome the support for our thinking in the sphere of external relations.
It is clear that in those conditions the Community must pursue our interests, especially since we are an open market so far as third country competitors are concerned.
The third pillar of our strategy linked safety and fair competition.
Finally, Points 7 and 32 of the resolution call on the Commission to undertake or to sponsor an in-depth study on the practices of the International Transport Workers Federation.
I answer very specifically, yes, we do agree, and I hope that neither Mr van der Waal or others, whose interest in this subject is very well known indeed, will interpret any reference in our strategy paper as down-grading or allocating a secondary role to shipping.
I can respond by saying that the Commission bases its specific safety and environmental measures to the largest extent possible on existing international rules.
In this respect the international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships, the so called Marpol Convention, sets standards at international level on prevention of pollution by amongst other things, oil, sewage and garbage from ships.
On this point the Commission's response to a request in the December 1995 Environment Council will be to present a communication on a Community strategy to combat acidification.
I have to say that the dredging industry is not covered, as he said, in the strategy paper, but that does not mean for one second that the interests and the significance of the industry are neglected so far as the Commission is concerned.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my report on the implementation of structural funds in the UK is the result of a very wide consultation undertaken with both users and applicants for EU structural funds.
Over 2, 000 letters and questionnaires were sent out to partners in the regions and I engaged in over twentyfive hours of hearings in nine different places across the UK.
Over 300 pieces of written evidence were submitted to my office.
The groups consulted and involved in this report included a very wide spectrum, chambers of commerce, training enterprise councils, the voluntary sector, economic development agencies, universities, local authorities, rural development councils and interviews with government offices.
Finally, we held a hearing in March in the European Parliament with a senior member of the House of Lords committee of inquiry into structural funds in the UK and the cohesion funds in the EU.
Indeed, they were remarkably similar to the recommendations contained in this report, in particular vis-à-vis the problems of delays and bureaucracy.
I would remind the Group of the European People's Party, and its Conservative Members, that to abstain or vote against this report would be to ride roughshod over and disregard the views of local partners on the ground, although the UK Government is no stranger to that process in its management of funding.
I would like to say how the EU funds have played a vital role in developing economic and social cohesion in the UK.
They have also opened up new opportunities for local communities and the voluntary sector to engage in projects.
There I should like to congratulate the Commission on developing new models of best practice.
The Merseyside pathways initiative, the RECHAR initiative in Sheffield Manor Estate, the East Durham partnership and the Northern Ireland Peace and Reconciliation Programme.
Indeed, the EU funds accounted for half of the single regeneration budget which is the main regional investment fund for our regions in 1995.
There is no transparency, no accountability in the allocation of funding and decision-making bodies are run as government quangos with very little elected representation, although I have to say that the pressures from this House and from other colleagues across the regions has meant that we have made some progress in getting elected members on English regional committees.
I have some examples - in fact I have too many and I cannot give all of them here tonight - of the litany of disasters in terms of delays in the European Social Fund.
If this government cannot make funds of £1.6 billion work, why should they be trusted with public spending of £300 billion in the UK funds.
It is a powerful reminder of the real state of the British economy.
As the cohesion report said, poverty has increased in the UK.
We now have 17.5 % of households living below the poverty line and one in three children live in poverty in the UK.
This, of course, is the position with this report.
To be fair, there is much that is sensible in this report.
So all the more pity that the rapporteur has let her Old Labour instincts loose to run down and attack her country in this way and to spoil this report.
I particularly welcome this report and its emphasis on the regional administration of the structural funds.
From my own experience and my Green perspective, this is a very effective way to deal with these funds and can be more effective than national administration.
Mr President, I should like to welcome the report.
I know she has worked extremely hard over a long period of time to bring this report before us this evening.
There must be more transparency and objectivity as far as regional funds are concerned.
So I am in total agreement with Ms McCarthy on that.
Yesterday morning in my own area people who previously could never have hoped to have any input into European affairs, were greeting me as their European representative and saying how glad they were to see me there.
Rapporteurs should be disinterested and Parliament should adopt this principle in future.
This is a very difficult subject firstly because it is difficult to examine in detail the structural funds in any of the Member States.
Mr President, I welcome Arlene McCarthy's excellent and extensive report.
It is a superb analysis of the role played by the structural funds in creating a quarter of a million jobs in the UK between 1989 and 1993, in helping to offset the serious disparity between rich and poor referred to by my colleagues and exaggerated by the political decisions of the present British Government.
In a time of increasing scepticism about the European Union's effectiveness, it is essential to highlight the positive contribution that the structural funds and Community initiatives have made to economic and social cohesion, to encouraging new partnerships and to job and business development.
The process of submitting applications this year under Objective 3 of the ESF has been fraught with dreadful problems.
The interactive computer discs prepared by the government for applicants were not sent out from the Department of Education and Employment until 14 February with a closing date for applicants of 10 March.
The background document is there for people to see and I hope that all Members of this House realize what a shambles the structural funds are in the United Kingdom and how that money is being manipulated.
In my view this report shows in exemplary fashion what an important role the European Parliament can play in flanking European structural policy by not just relying on information from the Commission services but supplementing this with hearings in situ and the views of the regions.
So this comprehensive preparatory work means that the report and its recommendations carry great weight.
National co-responsibility concerns not just the financial implementation of structural policy but even more the quality of the structural measures.
In view of the great number of points raised in the report, I want to concentrate on a few important questions here, for the other points will be dealt with in the Commission's follow-up to this report and I am sure I will have several opportunities to discuss the questions raised about the future shape of structural policy during our regular meetings with the Committee on Regional Policy and with Parliament in the coming months.
The resolution acknowledges that in the UK the structural funds have contributed a great deal to economic and social cohesion, to economic restructuring and to job creation.
I think the examples you quote, such as Pathways to Integration in Merseyside and the special programme to promote peace and reconciliation in Ireland are indeed important ones, and not just for the UK but for the European Union as a whole; and if I am right, there seem to be no differences of opinion at all among the parties about the positive value of the partnerships in Northern Ireland.
The Commission can indeed offer incentives to improve partnership.
Moreover, during the objective 2 negotiations, the government recently accepted the possibility of including elected representatives in the Monitoring Committees in all the regions.
For instance, on signature of a programme we pay 50 % of the first annual tranche, in the case of smaller amounts even 50 % of the total programme amount.
It is only the final payment for the last annual tranche that is not made until after a full and exact final report has been received.
But inspite of these problems I believe that progress in transparency has been achieved in relation to the programmes for the period 1994 to 1996.
To conclude, let me point out again that I also agree with your call for the European Union's structural measures to be made clearer to the general public and that this also means an obligation to provide information on the part of national and regional authorities and project backers.
So I only hope that the sound and informative report on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, which basically takes a positive view of European structural policy in the UK, despite the necessary criticisms, will be widely disseminated and thus make an important contribution to providing the necessary information on European structural policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to greet the representation of the Joint Committee of the Spanish Senate and Congress, responsible for European Union affairs, who are in the public gallery.
The ultra-peripheral regions of the European Union were defined in the Treaty on the European Union in the Declaration No. 26 appended thereto.
According to that Declaration, the ultra-peripheral regions of the European Union are the French overseas departments, the autonomous Portuguese regions of Madeira and the Azores and the Spanish Canary Islands.
In fact, in the case of France, there was already recognition of the specific features of its overseas departments in Article 227 of the Treaty of Rome.
In the Portuguese case, the special features of the application of Community law to the regions of the Azores and Madeira were made explicit in the Treaty of Accession.
These special accession conditions for what we now call the ultra-peripheral regions have been amended over the years, as the respective accession arrangements have been adapted to the process of integration and construction of the European Union.
But after 1999 the ultra-peripheral regions will face uncertainty, which would be a blow for their development and hamper the process of economic and social cohesion in the terms of Article B of the Treaty on European Union.
Therefore, against the background of the Intergovernmental Conference which is looking at the reform of the Treaties, in numerous resolutions, the ultra-peripheral regions themselves, in the Committee of the Regions, and other institutions of the European Union such as the European Council -in particular at the Madrid, Turin and Dublin summits - the European Parliament has repeatedly come out in favour of the inclusion of an article in the new text of the reformed Treaties granting the ultra-peripheral regions legal recognition, in terms of primary law, which makes it possible to apply specific policies and speed up their development and their economic and social cohesion.
The very title of the report is suggestive, as is the respective resolution, in recommending exclusively the inclusion of an article in the Treaty on European Union to give a specific answer to the special problems of ultra-peripheral regions.
The representatives of the citizens of the 15 Member States, would be focusing their attention on seven regions, some of which are also furthest away from the average parameters of development, finally ensuring that those respective citizens are given a say in European construction.
It confirms that the European Union notes the difference in a movement of convergence in which the regions adapt to the European Union and the European Union adapts to the regions.
The European Parliament once again accepts that it wants a Europe which citizens can see as their own, because at the same time it meets the great world challenges, while paying attention to all of its citizens.
Among other measures, there is a proposal for the effective subordination of all European Union policies and measures to the principle of economic and social cohesion.
Secondly, the inclusion in the Treaty on European Union of an article which provides for modulation of policies and the adoption of measures that actually meet the specific and acknowledged needs of the ultra-peripheral regions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the integration of French overseas departments within the Community is a textual reality which goes back to 1958.
However, in spite of the provisions of Article 227(2) of the Treaty of Rome, then of the Treaty on Union, which provides for adjustments in certain subjects for the application of Community law in these departments, the Court of Justice seems to grant a pre-eminence of legal egalitarianism compared with an essential recognition of the economic and social realities of these regions.
The Treaty on Union, in its Article 130A, demonstrates an unprecedented political willingness in the domain of social and economic cohesion, even if, must I recall it, the four French ultra-peripheral regions, that is, the majority of these regions, recognised today by the Executive Committee as the poorest in the Union, do not benefit from the Cohesion Fund provided for by Article 130B of the Treaty on Union, because they belong to a home country whose overall gross domestic product renders them ineligible.
The provisions formulated in the draft motion and the protocol which have been submitted to us, are intended to correct this ill-conceived integration by a substantial modification of Article 127(2) of the Treaty on Union.
These modifications, if adopted by the IGC, will give these regions a legal regime which will enable the Community authorities to adapt, by means of derived law, without exceptions in terms of subject, all policies on the basis of the specific features of each of these regions.
The Fernandez Martin Report, of which I stress the pertinence, gives us the opportunity to demonstrate our political will to make available to these regions the legal means to ensure their full development within the European Union, while taking into consideration and respecting the specific features associated with their environment.
These are lessfavoured regions, some of the regions with the most difficulties in the European Union.
I hope that the European Parliament will also be able to look at the particular problems facing island regions, which is another subject which really ought to be dealt with.
These ultra-peripheral regions face the problem of a lag in their economic and social development and, in particular, face problems due to their very remoteness.
On this score, it is important that the European Union should take account of the problem which is facing regions in this situation.
But I also think it is a responsibility of the European Union, in terms of economic and social cohesion, to make sure that these regions receive the aid they need.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, over many years it has been difficult, for lack of consensus, to recognise the need for a legal status to translate the permanent disadvantages faced by these regions all of which are characterised by their extreme remoteness, their insularity, their harsh relief and climate, all of which limit and condition their possibilities for developing on the same footing as the remaining territories of the European Union.
It was on this basis that the POSEI programmes were approved, in the launch of which our Group played a decisive role and which, because of legal insufficiencies, had an overall temporary character, incompatible with the permanent nature of the difficulties I have already referred to.
But what will really be decisive and what will really have an effect on public opinion is whether we really can bring about change and that will require practical policies to be adopted in order to tackle any local difficulties which arise.
Mr President, I too find that in this report the rapporteur really has displayed a very strong commitment to the development of the ultra-peripheral regions.
He has described the objective of optimum and sustainable development under these very specific conditions in very great detail and offered many new ideas.
Europe's idea of development was not always the one the local people wanted.
That is why we welcome all the report's proposals that are designed to ensure genuine autonomous regional development in these areas and ask the rapporteur to accept our amendments which are aimed at eliminating single crops in these areas and which support his proposals to that end.
We think it is right for this protocol to discuss the specific features of these areas in detail and believe that is an adequate means of satisfying these regions.
Mr President, the ultra-peripheral regions of the European Union are characterised by deep structural backwardness which is made worse by a set of unfavourable and permanent social and geographical circumstances which means that the average GDP of these regions is among the lowest in the European Union.
That is why it is necessary to include in the Treaty on European Union a whole article dedicated, for good, to the concept of ultra-peripheral regions which makes it possible for the European Union to take adequate and coherent measures in respect of the principle of economic and social cohesion.
As a corollary of the European Parliament's determination to tackle the specific features of ultra-peripheral regions, involving other initiatives, the Portuguese, Spanish and French governments have presented, at the IGC, a joint proposal calling for the inclusion of a specific article in the Treaty on European Union referring to the ultraperipheral regions and the drafting of a protocol to be appended to the Treaty setting out the special conditions for adopting specific measures and derived law.
The amendments which we have tabled and which were approved at the Institutional Committee should strengthen the proposals already presented at the IGC from two points of view.
First of all, making explicit the enshrinement of ultra-peripheral regions, aimed at guaranteeing equal opportunities and economic and social cohesion.
We are speaking in particular about their remoteness, insularity, small surface area, difficult relief and climate, which make them terribly dependent on the outside world and are reflected in the very low per capita income still registered in these regions, despite the very positive effects of POSEI programmes, in particular the POSEIMA programme applied in the Azores and Madeira.
Mr President, the proposals contained in this report cannot be understood without bearing in mind the real problems which have arisen concerning fulfilment of the principle of economic and social cohesion, when it is applied to action taken in favour of the development of ultra-peripheral regions.
These problems have shown the urgent need to work out a permanent specific status which really takes account of the special features of these territories, governing the implemented policies with a fundamental legal support instrument to act as an effective base when specific measures are taken to deal with the special features of these particular regions.
This report has the virtue of solving this problem by proposing that we set up, through inclusion in the Treaty, a legal base which provides for the specific treatment of these regions.
I think that, at this time, the comprehension shown in this European Parliament of the ultra-peripheral regions is very important.
Despite the implementation of specific programmes, despite injections of national and European credits, the economic and social situation there continues to deteriorate.
In the name of harmonisation and the constrained adaptation of the Treaty, certain specific features, in particular in the fiscal domain, such as excise duties and certain dispensations, have been questioned and subjected to very strict control by the Commission.
It is essential, therefore, that in the home straight of the Intergovernmental Conference, the full and complete specific nature of the overseas departments and the outermost regions is recognised statutorily in the Treaty, with a dual objective: to apply specific measures in their favour and to authorise dispensations to Community regulations, for as long as these regions have not caught up with the average social and economic level of the European Union.
Finally, this kind of development would allow the inhabitants of these countries at last, at last indeed, to play an active part in their own development.
The report and the motion for a resolution describe the specific disadvantages facing these regions.
This also applies to the Regis I and Regis II Community initiative programmes adopted for 1991 and 1996, to which speakers have already referred.
For unfortunately we must admit that the Posei programmes are increasingly in question in the absence of a clear legal basis.
For instance, the Commission has discovered that at times the Council finds it difficult, during discussions of proposals for the outermost regions, to persuade the Member States to acknowledge the commitments the Community has entered into under the Posei programmes, as the recent application to the European Court of Justice has also shown.
That is why we have to consolidate this concept and thus give the outermost regions the necessary clarity, legal certainty and transparency in order to strengthen their cohesion with the European Union.
In relation to structural fund measures, I simply want to refer to the concerns expressed with regard to aid after 1999 and emphasize once again that in future too the outermost regions, which are the poorest regions of the Community, will be entitled to the highest level of aid.
The debate is closed.
The reason why these reports are delayed is that the Council had not given us their recommendations as to discharge.
These were finally received last week and I would like to thank the Council for sending them to us because it enables Parliament to deal with recommendations for discharge in April, which is the requirement of the rules.
I want to thank the Court of Auditors for their report.
I am a friend of the Court of Auditors but I want to make two remarks about this report.
I welcome moves by the Commission to try and deal with this situation by carrying out Parliament's recommendation of having part-time financial controllers.
We are quite happy for the Budgetary Control Committee to recommend the House to grant discharge to the Dublin Foundation.
There are two recommendations here, one for 1994 and one for 1995.
We were unable in the Budgetary Control Committee to recommend discharge for 1994, which should have taken place last April, because the Court gave us wind of some rather unusual circumstances whereby the management board and the director had to inveigle staff to transfer from Berlin to Thessaloniki.
I am fed up with the Commission and I think this will be shown by the fact that two amendments have been put down to this discharge report.
Unfortunately, as Mr Kellett-Bowman has said, members of the Council who are the protagonists in the great problem we have with CEDEFOP are not here to listen to our complaints and those of the Court of Auditors on the staffing question.
We have engaged in correspondence on this and to that end, because of a lack of satisfactory conclusion, we have put down an amendment on behalf of both the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European People's Party to resolve this problem this year.
The Court of Auditors quite properly has raised the matter of the appalling contract which was agreed between the Council and the Greek state on the provision of a new building.
This is totally unsatisfactory as far as we in Parliament are concerned and for the budget for 1997 we have put the payment for this year on hold until some progress has been made.
This brings me to my last point.
Without the investigative powers of Parliament, many of the problems with Thessaloniki and other institutions would not have been brought to light.
I call upon the Commission, as a part of the budget process for 1997, to bring forward the harmonization of regulations for discharge for all the agencies, so Parliament can have some control over discharge.
I will confine my remarks to the Dublin Foundation.
For the others, we can find solutions on a case-by-case basis.
Unfortunately the Council unanimously rejected our efforts to find a solution for dégagement in the context of enlargement.
Parliament took a much more favourable view of the possibility of dégagement .
Secondly, I have to say that the Commission trade unions are strongly against the solution of a dégagement which would only apply to one part of the personnel.
Can I ask what solution Mr Kellett-Bowman is proposing?
Fisheries restructuring The next item is the report (A4-0141/97) by Mr Baldarelli, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council Decision on a specific measure to encourage Italian fishermen to diversify out of certain fishing activities (COM(96)0682 - C4-0037/97-96/0308(CNS)).
This consideration was the starting point for introducing a conversion plan which respects the UN directives and the legal approach taken by the European Union in its own regulation setting the maximum length for drift nets at 2.5 kilometres, but also takes account of the very logical debate, conducted in this Parliament and elsewhere, on the danger of these nets to certain species, particularly sperm whales and dolphins.
We think parity of treatment of individual workers is a very important principle.
These measures will damp down a certain radicalism developing in this sector which is adding to the unacceptable social tension.
Mr Baldarelli has done a very good report; it is a balanced report and we should all support it.
Also, let me say that although this report is on the conversion of the Italian fishing fleet or part of the Italian fishing fleet, the Italians are doing nothing illegal.
We accept that driftnet fishing is a bad form of fishing; this Parliament accepted that two years ago in voting on the Fraga report and we still await the Commission bringing forward an initiative to end it completely.
Because we must remember that although we are talking about the Italians now, virtually all the other fishing nations of the European Union use driftnet fishing in some form or other.
So, I support this report.
The Italian fisheries plan we are now due to vote on was negotiated between Italian producer organizations, ship-owners, unions, the Italian government and the European Commission.
The fleet consists of no more than 500 vessels using drift nets up to 2.5 km long for catching tuna and swordfish in the Mediterranean.
Longer nets have been banned in the EU since the end of 1991, under Regulation 345/92.
The costs and means of financing this plan have been worked out in detail.
This measure guarantees the fishermen concerned financial support for restructuring their fisheries practices.
Five draft amendments are included, on the principle of voluntary action, control and discipline in relation to all vessels in the Mediterranean and on support for non-European fishermen on Italian vessels.
In the Mediterranean drift nets are sometimes as much as 25 kilometres long.
The 690 Italian fishing vessels have an average drift net length of some 12 kilometres.
To this end I put down three amendments to A, B and C on behalf of the Liberal Group, and I hope and am confident that Commissioner Bonino as representative of the European Commission will accept these amendments.
To achieve this objective we think an agreement needs to be reached with all the countries surrounding the Mediterranean, especially as the 2.5 kilometres currently in force is not usually respected.
At this very moment - so I am told - fishing vessels can be sighted in the Mediterranean using nets about 8 kilometres long.
It acknowledges that the Commission proposal provides a good basis, lays emphasis on the legal framework of the proposal and accepts socio-economic responsibility for all fishermen who find themselves on the Italian vessels concerned.
But however explosive the question of driftnet fishing is, we must emphasize that we are not concerned today with a general ban on drift-net fishing in the Mediterranean.
We have to keep to the existing legal framework here, which still allows drift nets up to 2.5 km in length to be used.
It is up to the Council to change the existing legal framework, after the European Parliament decided in favour of immediately abolishing drift nets in September 1994, following a legislative proposal by the Commission.
Yet this proposal can still be regarded as a step towards generally abolishing drift-net fishing because the restructuring plan provides for financial incentives for the fishermen concerned to encourage them to give up this kind of fishing entirely and for ever and therefore voluntarily move beyond the existing legislative framework.
That is why the various national and international institutions are usually determined to limit certain fishing activities.
I think Amendments Nos 15 and 16 could improve this approach by making the proposals more flexible and more acceptable to the operators themselves.
Mr President, there is often a fine line between aggressive environmentalism and secret deals.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fishing with drift nets is now turning into a real test for the credibility of Community institutions as a whole.
In any case, of our Committee on Fisheries where a lot of hot air has been spoken about responsible fishing and selective methods.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to clarify why I and six other Italian Members of the European People's Party have not thought it right to sign up to two of the amendments which will be put to the vote in this House tomorrow.
In conclusion, I want to appeal to the Commissioner, Mrs Bonino, to take every possible initiative to find a forum - perhaps the General Fisheries Council for the Mediterranean - where agreement can be reached between the Union and third countries so that regulations and bans the European Union imposes on itself are also valid for others.
Mr President, this report is a result of an agreement between the Italian Government and the European Commission to restructure the Italian fleet which uses drift nets.
However, this withdrawal will give rise to a major social problem in southern Italy, an area which is particularly badly affected by unemployment and low economic activity.
Commissioner, this plan should make it possible to head towards a final solution of the problem of drift nets in the European Union as a whole.
The Italian situation is a very difficult one, with 677 boats involved.
Application of this plan should make it possible to find a solution in the Council of Ministers which also includes reconverting the Atlantic fleet - which comes to less than 60 boats including the British, Irish and French ones.
The European Commission is responsible for presenting a new proposal to the Council in order to reach an agreement on this.
This should achieve a majority in the Council for this set of measures aimed at introducing a once and for all ban on these fishing methods.
I would remind Honourable Members that this is a proposal from the Commission to accept a spadare conversion plan, presented by the Italian government.
Mr President, I want to thank the Commissioner for explaining some of the Commission's wishes, and also for addressing them to the Italian government.
I want to ask the Commissioner if the amendments unanimously approved by Parliament's Committee on Fisheries could appear as a Commission statement of intent when seeking approval in the the Council.
In addition to thanking the Commissioner for her explanation, I should like to put a very specific question to her: does what she said mean that the European Commission is going to change its proposal at the next Council, because it has received a signal from the Council itself, in order to try to achieve a majority in order to bring in a total ban on these methods?
But I will check this procedure and whatever happens I can say here and now that the voluntary plan is explicitly provided for and explicit in the Italian government's plan, and in particular in the second sentence of the fifth consideration of the Commission's proposal.
As regards the new proposal, I repeat that there has been a Commission proposal on the Council table since 1994.
The Council could never approve it because some Member States were opposed.
The debate is closed.
