These contracts were signed in 1993 and 1994 to provide humanitarian aid for former Yugoslavia and the Great Lakes region of Africa.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start off by applauding the fact that the Commission has drawn up and sent the European Parliament this document entitled 'Plan of action to increase the competitiveness of the European textile and clothing industry' , which is the reason for my report, quite apart from its contents and guidelines.
The industry has its own inner cohesion through its 'production chain' and, if it to be competitive either at Member State level or at EU level, we have to look at it in a balanced way and as a whole.
I would also like to emphasize that the other Commissions' opinions have been extremely helpful in enriching our perspective.
The Industry Council of 7 May itself admitted this and, instead of being completed, we might say the process is just beginning in the sense of coming up with a real and necessary plan of action.
It was Parliament's wish to contribute to that Council with its oral question and resolution as then approved, without prejudice to the preparation of this report.
If the plan of action has become a discussion paper, this resolution will contribute to that discussion within the framework it defines.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ribeiro report on a 'Plan of Action for the competitiveness of the textile and clothing industry' , proposed by the Commission, deserves our acceptance to a certain extent.
By stating in the report that the proposal is not specific and lacks cohesion and specific commitments, in terms of both financing and a timetable for implementing it, he gives greater credibility and accuracy both to the conclusions and suggestions contained in the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to those produced by the specialist committees that have been asked to give their opinion on the Plan of Action we are now debating.
It should be borne in mind that in certain Member States, because of the proportion of jobs it provides, the textiles and clothing industry plays a key role in the balance of trade and the economic fabric of some of its regions which depend on the sector.
Despite this, the European Union should specifically enforce the measures its Member States or their most deprived regions are calling for, thus demonstrating true solidarity, and achieving real economic and social cohesion.
In Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire over 48 000 people are employed in clothing and textiles and in one area alone - Ashfield - it represents 24 % of manufacturing.
In the UK nationally we have lost some 25 000 jobs out of 380 000, partly as a direct result of your decision to impose import duties on grey cotton.
In my region we have an action plan using Objective 2 funding, the European Social Fund and RETEX funds worth some 1.8 million over the next three years.
My discussion with local, regional and national companies and organizations representing the textile sector indicates that your action plan is indeed very welcome.
It remains imperative to promote access for EU companies to third country markets and we welcome a programme of coordination and proposals in this area.
I hope that you will take a decision that respects the common interest of the industry at all levels, including finishers, producers and weavers.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report before us on the competitiveness of the European textile and clothing industry sends a clear message.
About 2 million people are currently employed in the European textile industry.
The textile and clothing industry is in a rapidly changing competitive environment.
This applies especially to third countries, where the circumstances are often quite different.
Mr President, the textile industry occupies a key place amongst the industrial activities of the European Union, since it is a labour-intensive sector.
Lastly, I want to underline the very important point in the Ferrer opinion about respecting the EU's agreements and rules with respect to the textile industry in the area of international trade so as to avoid unfair competition which results in an unfair loss of jobs, all for the lack of an adequate basis to guarantee the necessary continuity in the textile industry in a context of international competitiveness.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone acknowledges the predominant position of the textile and clothing industry in the European Union, which is important in economic and commercial terms, but also, and above all, in terms of jobs.
I represent the Nord-Pas-de-Calais region in France, where the textile sector has for some time played a major part in the local economy.
That is why I am taking the opportunity of the debate on this report to ask the Commission to go even further in its proposals, because that way lies the wellbeing of countless businesses, the continuance of a large number of jobs and, ultimately, the survival of individual regions in the Union.
Mr President, I would first of all like to congratulate Mr Ribeiro on his report.
During the period 1990-1996 more than 600 000 jobs were lost and it is anticipated that over the coming years a further 800 000 jobs will go.
When will the European Union draw the obvious conclusions in terms of policy?
The European Union, as a result of the broader policy that it is pursuing, but more especially as a result of its industrial policy, is fundamentally undermining the sector and is reinforcing the tendency for units or centres of production to relocate to countries with low labour costs.
The European Union bears the gravest of responsibilities, because it has not taken care to protect European production, even at the most elementary level, from unfair competition on the part of countries that practice social dumping.
The problems pervading the sector cannot be solved without a more general review not only of competition policy but also of the industrial and commercial policy of the European Union.
If we were to highlight the individual checkpoints in the textile sector, we might first consider the drastic relocations that have occurred and their economic and social consequences not only in Europe but also in certain third countries.
But to achieve this we need the right facilities; for example, we need an enhanced ADAPT programme, or a strategic offensive which would enable us not only to back up restructuring programmes, but also to gain market share and to create new jobs.
All of this is part and parcel of a new more general way of approaching the unemployment problem in Europe, to the extent that after any lay-off, a paid retraining programme should be instituted that does not land the beneficiary in a "parking lot' training course, but results in a genuine job opportunity.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a word about the codes of good conduct established in response to European trade unions for European textile companies investing outside the Union.
On a number of occasions, the European Parliament has asked the Commission to take its responsibility in this respect seriously.
The fact that more than 600 000 jobs were lost in the industry in the first 7 years of the present decade does not bode well for the industry in the next century.
Textiles, possibly more than any other single manufacturing industry in the European Union, can claim to be our traditional industry.
In line with the same logical pattern of cooperation, assistance for a European textile industry dating service would allow for greater collaboration between businesses in the European Union which share similar ideas but may not always have the means to establish such collaboration.
The United Kingdom Members were particularly concerned at the effect the provisional measures regarding unbleached cotton grey cloth will have on the national industry.
Finally, I wish to say to the Commissioner that this is not a sunset industry: this is an industry which has a future but requires the support of the Commission of the European Union to ensure that its future is fully realized.
Mr President, may I first of all congratulate the Commission on this plan of action to increase competitiveness in the textile and clothing industry, my colleague Sérgio Ribeiro on the report he has presented to us today, and the draftsmen of the Committees' opinions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing today with one of the European Union's principal industrial activities, one which on its own accounts for ECU 200 billion worth of trade, but in relation to which the European Union's balance of trade with the rest of the world shows a deficit.
There are 120 000 businesses, nearly all of them small or medium-sized, involved in all aspects of the textile and clothing industry, and of over 2 million jobs the majority are occupied by women.
Knowing that employment is a decisive issue for the European Union, and that most of the unemployed are women, we therefore demand immediate and far-reaching measures in that area, especially because it affects the least developed countries in the European Union, or those in industrial decline, and the regions that are heavily dependent on the textile and clothing business.
In Portugal, for example, the sector is responsible for over 30 % of industrial production.
This sector is vital to employment and production in the European Union.
Mr President, we are now discussing the competitiveness of the European textiles and clothing industry.
Today we have high-quality production, but without the same number of workers.
The newly democratic counties of central and eastern Europe, and developing countries in other parts of the world, must have access.
I support this because I believe that this sector, the European textile industry, has very good conditions.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those who consider that the Commission's communication can hardly be called a plan of action.
After all, the trumps they hold lie more in quality products, new applications and the use of new technologies.
Mr President, in its communication, the European Commission acknowledged that the textile sector has, in recent years, sacrificed a considerable number of jobs.
We all know that the crisis in the textile sector is due mainly to delocalization, increased imports, lower consumption due to unemployment and a drop in incomes, but also to significant delays as regards training, research and equipment modernization.
Nevertheless, the textile industry still represents a promising sector for the future of Europe, as we have seen from the Ribeiro report, which not only criticizes the Commission's approach, but also puts forward proposals to halt the massive loss of jobs and make a positive contribution to the future development of the textile sector.
In its communication, the European Commission committed itself to an approach that seeks to improve the competitiveness of business which, in itself, is not a bad thing, but it essentially wishes to do this by exerting pressure on labour costs and by encouraging flexibility, solutions which have already unworkable.
Neither pressure on wages, nor a reduction of labour costs has prevented continued job dumping and further aggravation of the trade deficit.
So, whilst offsetting the distortions of competition and combating the ill effects of social dumping, we must seek more positive means of promoting a reduction in working hours, developing research, improving training facilities and modernizing equipment by introducing new technologies; we should also aim to elevate purchasing power to boost consumption in the textile and clothing sector.
Unless it is emasculated, or weakened by the adoption of amendments, the Ribeiro report - which covers all these proposals - should be given our full support.
I said the very same thing just a month ago when I delivered my report on European industrial competitiveness and its prospects.
Sérgio Ribeiro's excellent report emphasizes the logic of this approach.
So I am hoping for a strong, specific commitment on the part of the Commission.
And yes, ladies and gentlemen, we must support all initiatives that favour job growth, but not from an ideological standpoint.
We must further the development of new technologies in this sector.
Many of my colleagues have said as much.
We can and must be able to combine new technologies, steps to promote jobs and social development.
To conclude, I simply wish to restate the fundamental importance of the textile chain in European industry.
The textile industry in Europe is a fertile breeding ground.
This is a very important sector for Portugal, where it represents 9 % of production and 13 % of all jobs, and we are particularly concerned that it should have registered a 22 % reduction in employment between 1990 and 1995, higher than for the European Union as a whole.
By way of example, productivity in Portugal rose from 1.43 escudos per employee in 1990 to 2.14 in 1995.
On the positive side, it should be pointed out that even in a world of fierce competition from countries with much cheaper labour, Europe has continued to maintain a strong position.
This is essentially due to high-quality fashion products: all over the world preference is given to our brand names, which is also a kind of recognition of European cultural values, in this case of an aesthetic nature.
If we agree or even wish that our markets should be open to third countries, we must also implement some restructuring measures, which are needed in many cases.
This is happening in Portugal, with the programme of assistance for the textile sector agreed at the end of the Uruguay Round, although we naturally cannot now accept any reduction in the funds presently allocated, which are fully justified and to which we are committed.
Mr President, I first want to congratulate the rapporteur.
Given the importance of this sector from an employment point of view, especially women's employment, and its regional impact, Parliament should permanently monitor developments the sector, and carry on with this work.
That is why it is so important to promulgate and apply the code of social conduct which should also be complemented by programmes of economic and social support in third countries.
I say this because the restructuring process will continue, and diversification in the textile regions should guarantee the preservation of jobs in these areas, especially for women.
Weaknesses in the sector in Europe have long been due to unfair access to markets.
The textile and clothing sector in Europe represents a very important source of jobs for women.
They account for as much as 75 % of the workforce in this sector, which makes it the mainstay of women's employment in the industrial sector and means its future will have a decisive impact on the position of women in European industry.
As regards qualifications, women mainly work in semi-skilled or unskilled jobs.
The average wage is lower than the average manufacturing industry wage, and women's average pay is sometimes considerably less than men's, for example in Ireland or the Netherlands, as described in the 1991 study on "the impact of the internal market on the employment of women in the textile and clothing industries' produced by the Directorate-General for Employment.
Although It has already been mentioned, I think we do have to keep in mind that a further 600 000 jobs have been lost in the last six or seven years.
Hence also the importance of the Ribeiro report, and I would like to particularly congratulate the rapporteur on his report.
I would like to talk in more detail about four points in the context of this plan of action.
There are around 120 000 of them in the European Union.
It is thus a completely different industry from the automotive sector, where in the final analysis we only have ten or twelve large companies.
In other words, we have to act quickly against those countries that operate dumping practices, such as China, India, and Egypt, and above all we have to protect intellectual property as well.
There is a surplus in the textile industry of 5.4 billion but there is a deficit of 22.6 billion in the clothing industry.
Fourthly, the role of management and labour.
I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that I, as the chairman of the textile and clothing committee of the Central Economic Council in my own country, would like to express my pleasure about the action plan and about the resolution that was approved by the Council of Ministers.
Mr President, the debate has clearly shown that the strategy which can and must be developed for the textile industry must be part of our overall strategy.
Mr Caudron quite rightly pointed out that these proposals are tailored to the specific needs of the textile industry, but also reflect what we are doing elsewhere to keep European industry competitive.
But it is also wrong from an industrial policy point of view, because outside its own market an industry like this never achieves the competitiveness it needs to carve a niche in external markets.
We have referred to social measures and we have addressed the other measures which have again been called for here.
This strategy was a response to the situation and for many years, before we began to look at this problem, it was causing considerable job losses in this sector.
And there is also a second factor: as a result of this predicament, in which businesses were seeking to escape high wage costs - and let me repeat it, costs which were due in the most part to wages charges - the industry introduced a policy of rationalization, that is to say mechanization, on a much greater scale than any other industry, and as a result became highly capital-intensive.
Now to some critical comments which have also been made in this respect.
We have held several conferences, some of which were major events, as well as a number of smaller workshops, and the content of the document corresponds more or less to the views of the social partners.
I was naturally hoping that I would be in a position here today to submit a plan of action and to allocate the required amount of money in the confidence that what was said here in Parliament - and all this has to be quantified - would also be put into effect.
It would be wonderful if the people present here today would then to prevail in their political groups and in the Committee on Budgets.
I was a parliamentarian for 12 years and a member of the Committee on Budgets and I know how members of the Committee on Budgets kill off the best ideas.
We will give you relevant budgetary proposals and then we will have the same debate after your decision.
This was a clear case of anti-dumping.
This demonstrates that anti-dumping is strictly speaking an old-fashioned instrument for an old-fashioned trade policy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has today been informed of the Commission proposal concerning the transformation of the Monetary Committee into an Economic and Financial Committee at the start of the third phase of European Economic and Monetary Union.
But since 2 May, things have begun to stir and even actually to move.
But, just for the moment, let us go back to the Treaty on European Union.
It has a weakness in that it only gives us the right to information on such an important subject.
Fundamentally, however, it does envisage substantial changes with regard to the future of the Monetary Committee in terms of its name, its membership and its function.
From this standpoint, the Commission proposal, drawn up in accordance with the guidelines defined by the European Council in Luxembourg, does take us aback somewhat.
In fact, the Treaty does not lay down that each Member State should necessarily be represented by two members elected to the Economic and Financial Committee.
All the same, that is the choice that has been made.
The result is that we have an Economic and Financial Committee which, from the point of view of the national central bankers, will precisely match the membership of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, which is the true decision-making body in the Central Bank.
Yet, it seems to us at this stage that tax and budget experts, economists and experts in economic forecasting should play a part.
We are told that they will be represented on the Committee on Economic Policy.
But that committee has been in existence since 1974 and we have scarcely noted its influence.
We now invite the Council to revise the proposal currently under examination and to reconsider the role of the representatives of the national central banks on the Economic and Financial Committee.
We also call on it to seek a merger between the Economic and Financial Committee and the Committee on Economic Policy.
All that would be a good start, but the change of name should also reflect a change of function.
Many of us are concerned that the Treaty emphasizes monetary matters at the expense of economic management.
The renamed Economic and Financial Committee should tilt the balance back to a proper equilibrium.
The rapporteur's suggestion that new links should be formed with the near-moribund Economic Policy Committee set up in 1974 is good, as too is the proposal that dialogue should be encouraged between the EFC and the Employment Committee created under the employment chapter of the Amsterdam Treaty.
It gives advice upon request or on its own initiative to the Council and to the Commission, studies the economic and financial circumstances of the Community, prepares the work of the Council in a wide range of areas such as exchange rate policy and the coordination of economic policy.
Wim Duisenberg wrote in his response to the written questions of the public hearing in May that inflation is not solely determined by monetary policy, but also by budgetary policy.
Wim Duisenberg has already stated that he sees a task reserved for the European Central Bank in rapping the knuckles of countries which go off the European budgetary rails as laid down in the stability pact.
The Commissioner will recall that during the debate on the content of the annual economic report, in which the Monetary Committee proposed limiting the Commission's ability to assess the economic situation in the various Member States separately, Parliament rejected that restriction.
Maybe that restriction on the Commission's competence will come about after all, if the composition of the Economic and Financial Committee is established as it stands in the current proposal.
I can see an important defect in this composition, because the Economic and Financial Committee would become a sort of alternative Governing Council of the European Central Bank and an alternative Ecofin, so that the overall situation would be controlled but without there being a forum for debate at the level of the whole European Union, able to analyse the economic and financial situation objectively and thus advise both the ECB and the EU institutions themselves, such as the Commission or Parliament itself.
So I think it would be a good idea to review this composition and provide it with a real Community dimension, at EU level.
Mr President, what we are dealing with here is a much more general problem than simply the composition of a committee.
Its function in formulating decisions regarding the coordination of economic policies or defining major economic policy guidelines leads it naturally to consider all economic and social data, with reference to all the instruments of economic and social policy.
In the explanatory statement of the report, the rapporteur says that the countries of the euro-area have dual representation on the Economic and Financial Committee, namely via their own representatives (directly) and via the representatives of the European Central Bank (indirectly).
Because despite the fact that the rapporteur does not think much of the influence of national civil servants within the Economic and Financial Committee, her report is an unmistakable plea for a typical national French hobby-horse: the formation of an economic administration at European level as a counterpart to the ECB, which - in the eyes of the French government - is too much along German lines.
The rapporteur is quite right in referring to this and the Economic and Financial Committee - and here I can only share your hopes and indeed your opinions - must also reflect this new approach to coordination.
We probably even require an additional protocol to Article 103 of the Maastricht Treaty, so that in future we too become part of the real processes of negotiation and decision-making.
Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate seems to be dwelling, above all, on the membership of the Committee.
Instead, the real debate should focus more on the nature of the Committee.
But the Committee as it stands today, as we have seen, is there merely to defend national interests and skim off anything that is Community-related.
Whether it is composed of representatives of the national banks, or representatives of economic and finance ministries, nothing changes and that is the pity.
We cannot change anything because that is how the Treaty has ordained things.
So we must now do something to remedy this mistake and to do this we must allow Parliament to exercise its influence, thereby providing a dimension that this Committee can never offer since, as we have seen and will doubtless see again, it will never do anything in the common interest, it will be there to defend the positions of governments.
So this Committee serves no real purpose.
Certainly, Article 109C, paragraph 3 of the Treaty on European Union does not formally admit consultation with the European Parliament on this matter, but it is quite legitimate that this House should seize upon an issue of this importance.
Moreover, the Treaty does impose a general obligation on the President of the Council to keep the House informed, so it is natural that this should be given some substance.
Along with the Commission, I therefore commend the words of your rapporteur on the membership of this new Committee and I also note with interest everything that has been said regarding its status, which should also be adopted before 1 January 1999.
The Commission will also pronounce on this new status and, at the appropriate time, it will take account of your views.
To reply to the matters raised - especially by the rapporteur this morning - I would like to make two quick comments concerning, firstly, the actual membership of the Economic and Financial Committee and, secondly, its role.
With regard to the membership, Article 109C, paragraph 2, stipulates that the Member States, the Commission and the European Central Bank shall each appoint not more than two members of the Committee.
Now, at the European Council in Luxembourg, on 12 and 13 December last year, the Heads of State and Government, in their resolution on the coordination of economic policies, stated their intentions and I will quote the conclusions of the European Council: The Economic and Financial Committee, which will bring together senior officials from the national central banks and the ECB as well as from finance ministries, will provide the framework within which the dialogue can be prepared and continued at the level of senior officials.
I do not accept this criticism since the text from the European Council defines the natural framework in which the Commission is bound to make its proposal even if, as the rapporteur rightly points out, the Commission has not specified the original administration which is to be represented in the Committee.
The duties of the Economic and Financial Committee have been specified, they are defined in Article 109, paragraph 2 of the Treaty and they focus exclusively on monitoring the economic and financial situation of Member States and financial relations with third countries and other international institutions but especially, and I think this is important, the Economic and Financial Committee contributes to the preparation of Council work at technical level.
As far as the Commission is concerned, the Economic and Financial Committee should be a technical instrument which will help to enhance the coordination of economic policies which, I would remind you, are aimed at promoting growth and jobs.
I believe that there are two sides to the matter of dialogue on coordination: firstly, coordination between economic policy and monetary policy and, secondly, between individual aspects of economic policy.
While we are on the subject of the link between economic and monetary policy, I think that it is the responsibility of the ECB, the guardian of single monetary policy and the Council, which adopts and implements the broad guidelines for economic policies, to ensure that that link is maintained.
With regard to coordination of the individual components of economic policy, as the rapporteur mentioned so pointedly, the Economic and Financial Committee should also direct its work and proposals as part of a genuine spirit of complementarity with the Employment Committee and, at the same time, with the Economic Policy Committee.
The Economic Policy Committee is responsible for structural matters; the domestic market, job creation, competitiveness, state funding and so forth.
The European Council in Cardiff stressed the importance of these structural issues by reminding us that the broad guidelines for economic policies should in future also cover the economic reforms needed to guarantee the satisfactory conduct of Economic and Monetary Union.
As far as the Commission is concerned, it is therefore important that the workload be distributed evenly between the specialized committees, including the Economic Policy Committee.
Nonetheless, let me assure you that the Commission, in line with the wishes of the House, will exercise a coordinating function with regard to the activities of the Economic and Financial Committee, the Employment Committee and the Economic Policy Committee.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12.00.
They are groups of small or medium-sized companies joining together to get themselves an increased profile, increased chances of winning contracts against larger competitors, increased resources to promote their expertise, a legal personality and, of course, increased chances to expand, employ more staff and thereby reduce the number of unemployed in the European Union.
This report on the Commission's communication on the participation of European Economic Interest Groupings in public contracts and programmes financed by public funds addresses exactly that issue.
Where groupings have been formed - frequently cross-border organizations dealing in goods and services - they have shown that the concept works.
The Commission is to be congratulated on the initiative and thanked for the efforts it is putting into the promotion of the interests of smaller businesses across the European Union.
I would like the Commission to promote the establishment of voluntary cooperation panels at EU level, consisting of national and sectoral experts, social partners and, of course, Commission representatives, to help disseminate information and to raise awareness about the possibilities available through this scheme.
Secondly, I would also like to see the Commission positively encouraging Member States to identify or establish centres where good-quality advice and training are available for SMEs wishing to participate in the scheme.
Since one of the aims of this report is to enable SMEs to take a much larger share of the ECU 720 billion procurement market than they currently do, it would be appropriate if the information centres were one and the same.
Since there is a huge difference between publicity and guidance and the sort of training and legal counselling that a national centre could offer, it becomes clear that these would be complementary systems.
National centres would also greatly assist in the monitoring of results.
After nearly ten years of operating, there have only been about 800 EEIGs formed under this scheme.
This will be especially useful when it comes to ironing out some of the difficulties which arise for SMEs during international commerce, especially in dealing with the anomalies created by differing national legislation.
This should be put before Parliament, the sectoral organizations and Member State representatives.
Of the amendments, I can support Nos 1, 3 and 4 but am against No 2.
If Europe is going to be something more than just an internal market and achieve its hope for economic and social cohesion, it must develop services for the benefit of all at European level.
There must be a wide debate on policy guidelines in public services among Member States, the Commission and Parliament.
In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity Member States will decide whether to use private or public companies for the implementation of public services.
Nobody in small and medium-sized enterprises has ever heard of these interest groups, which have after all been in existence since 1989.
That is something that Michael Tappin rightly remarks on in his report.
The Commission writes that 800 interest groups have been set up, 80 per year.
In general, my group can support Michael Tappin's report.
I welcome it as a valuable means of promoting small and medium-sized industries throughout the Member States.
For example, Mr Tappin, I would point out that a small road building contractor in Ireland that wins small-scale contracts from local authorities would find it absolutely impossible to bid for larger-scale construction projects for major roadways or motorways because it could not afford the investment required for the quantity of equipment needed to complete the job.
We must insist that all Member States play by the rules, since capital investment in smaller states will never be forthcoming.
Mr President, it is a pity that such little use is made of the only existing Community instrument for transnational cooperation between SMEs.
This low figure assumes even starker significance when one considers that almost 99 % of European businesses are SMEs and that 52 % of jobs are still to be found in this sector.
The proposals contained in Mr Tappin's report clearly show what is needed, namely genuinely practical information and concrete measures of support.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for some considerable time European integration has been endeavouring to bring transnational forms of cooperation under company law.
For it is through transboundary cooperation between enterprises that we shall come nearer to our goal of a European internal market.
The challenge before us today is just as intense as it was 10 years ago.
It seems to me that to get information on these types of initiatives you need to be a member of the Freemasons.
I must say that since this communication was adopted on 9 September 1997 there has been a swift and unprecedented move to set up new EEIGs: the number has risen rapidly from 800 (the figure at that time) to 966 within in a short space of time.
The Commission is planning other initiatives with the aim of offering more extensive and detailed information on the features and possible uses of EEIGs - and particularly their usefulness to small and medium-sized enterprises.
One of these initiatives will be a communication on the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in public contracts.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12.00 noon.
A uniform electoral procedure for European Parliament elections was provided for in the Treaty of Rome of 1957, through which the European Communities were created.
But a uniform procedure did not appear on the horizon even then, and has not appeared up to the present time.
I judged it advantageous to take a simple, evolutionary and limited approach in order finally to enable the first great step to be taken, after forty years of continuous failure.
The outcome of all these exchanges of view, the deliberations and the search for answers, undertaken on such an extensive scale for perhaps the first time in the annals of the European Union, appears in the report and in the proposals which I have the honour of presenting to the House today.
It permits fair representation of all political tendencies of the peoples of Europe.
And in the case of the European Union, which does not have - at least in the period under consideration - a central European government which needs to rely on majority voting in the European Parliament, the representation of all major political tendencies is necessary.
And Member States will determine exactly what kind of proportional representation they want.
But how acceptable can a system be regarded which, if it had been implemented in France in 1994, would have given the electoral alliance of my friend the Mayor of Toulouse, Dominique Baudis, a total of 87 French seats, with 25.5 % of votes?
We believe that it is necessary for constituents to be closer to their European Members of Parliament and for this reason, as a first step, we propose that the five largest countries of the present European Union, which have a population of more than 25 million, should be divided into electoral constituencies.
This Parliament, which is moving onwards and upwards, slowly but surely, will be judged by the quality of its work, the awareness of its responsibility in fulfilling its mission, and its ability to reconcile the challenges of constructing Europe with unflagging political activity within the Member States and with its ability to represent its people.
However, it has stayed the course and may possibly lay claim to a place in the Europe of 2010 or that of 2020.
And the European Parliament needs to look ahead, to have vision, to break new ground, to be in the vanguard of its age in terms of thoughts, proposals and ideas.
A voting system which brings people and Members of Parliament closer together, which takes account of traditions and which at the same time is flexible enough to absorb new Member States into the European Union.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has tabled concrete proposals to this effect, which are also essentially contained in Mr Anastassopoulos's report.
Finally a few words on transnational lists and on the mandate given to MEPs.
I know that the rapporteur is very much concerned about transnational candidate lists as a symbol for the unity of Europe.
We should therefore adopt this list, without any ifs and buts, in the form proposed by Mr Anastassopoulos.
Amendment No 45 which has been proposed by the rapporteur contains a clarification of the MEP mandate.
Last time, I actually approached you when you were in the chair to tell you that I did not want to say that during the sitting, so as not to delay the vote and not to frustrate the President, because I have a great admiration for the way you chair sittings.
Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, and after consultation with Mr Lehne, as rapporteur, I wish to table the following amendment: on the basis of Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure I request that before proceeding to the vote we refer the report and the amendments back to committee.
We therefore request your approval for the report to be referred back to committee.
However, I also wish to make some critical comments on this amendment, plainly and simply because this is now, I believe, the third time this week that a report from the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs is being referred back to committee.
But in this case, I just wanted to add that, it would possibly also be very useful to hear from the European Commission what it thinks of amendments which have been tabled by our parliamentary committees.
It would be very useful for the continuation of our discussions, and this can naturally also be done actually in committee, for us to hear what the Commission, or the responsible Commissioner, thought of the points of view we have jointly adopted and that have been tabled in the form of amendments.
Mr President, I wish to speak against the amendment and to respond to Mr Lehne by saying that we certainly did do our homework.
The efforts being made to keep families together, which you have criticized, are in keeping with what the European Parliament has readily accepted in other reports, namely in the report on equal rights for gays and lesbians and in the report on human rights - and whether it suits you or not, this was supported by the majority of this House - which stated that there should be no discrimination based on a person's sexual orientation.
You say that the electoral rights of third-country nationals in municipal elections go far beyond the rights of EU citizens.
EU citizenship gives European citizens the right to vote and to stand as a candidate at European and municipal elections, and there are now calls to extend this to third-country nationals - which incidentally is fully in keeping with what Commissioner Flynn called for in the Year against Racism.
It would have been nice to be voting today on a report which laid down rules for immigration and the rights of immigrants. (Parliament decided to refer the report back to committee) Mr President, whichever way the final vote on this resolution goes, I would like in any case to address a comment to Commissioner Gradin, who yesterday, after the reading of my report, responded with a number of policy plans which boiled down to adopting all the policy proposals I particularly value and which I think that almost everyone supports, except possibly the extreme right of this Parliament.
This is because we believe that the status of religions is a matter for national authorities, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, and that, therefore, it should not have been presented before this Parliament.
Consequently, in accordance with our rules, I call on the sitting's services to note the presence of those of my colleagues who are here, but who will not take place in the vote.
We have today voted in favour of the European Parliament's approval of the proposal by the Commission on the arrangements applicable to agricultural products and goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products originating in ACP States.
ACP States are, of course, among the poorest in the world, but there are equally other countries needing to export to Europe.
Our group has of course voted in favour of the Commission's proposal which is intended to implement the agreements on preferential treatment for imports into the European Union of agricultural products originating in the ACP States which are covered by Annex XL of the Fourth Lomé Convention, signed on 4 November 1995.
However, in this explanation of vote, the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations regrets that it has taken the Commission three years to make this proposal, which will come into force retroactively, with effect from 1st January 1996.
This is a minimal concession amounting to ECU 10 million per annum in reduced customs duties and ECU 2.7 million in increased costs of export refunds with regard to products originating in ACP countries which the European Union re-exports to third countries.
Dybkjær report (A4-0231/98) Our group is in favour of developing a specific Europe-Asia cooperation strategy in the field of the environment and environmental protection.
Our group recommends an alternative which may nevertheless be compatible with the first solution, in order to repair the damage caused by the current situation as quickly as possible.
This means implementing specific clauses guaranteeing compliance with social, environmental and health principles within the framework of the COM.
Mr President, I am voting for this report as we must not lose sight of the need to preserve the environment in Asia despite the preoccupation at present with that region's economic troubles.
I am glad that my own Deputy Prime Minister was able to play a key role in those negotiations and that this year my own country hosted only the second ever Asia-Europe summit meeting.
Having played a major part in the Kyoto Earth Summit agreements aimed at making economic progress environmentally sustainable, we are practising what we preach in asking those whom we assist with our public's money to use it in environmentally friendly ways.
I am sure the rapporteur was well-intentioned but this bizarre report came over as though fixated with the Islamic religion.
The debate held in this House, far from clearing our minds, has simply sown further confusion, since no-one can agree on the definition of fundamentalism, a word that is sometimes used in the sense of fanaticism, sometimes extremism and often applied to areas outside the religious fold.
Whereas Voltaire regarded the Jesuits as his bête noire , the Voltaire network seems fixated on the Opus Dei group, but as a writer Voltaire at least had talent and style.
So the entire debate has added nothing new to the subject.
So this is a report on religious fundamentalism that dwells heavily on Islamic fundamentalism.
This is a major problem because it leads us to the question of the integration of Islam in societies that understand the concept of the separation between things spiritual and things temporal; "render unto Caesar that which is Caesar's and unto God that which is God's' is not a precept that prevails in Islamic societies.
With regard to the Oostlander report, I would like to say that I too am vigorously opposed to Islamic fundamentalism, as I am to all forms of fundamentalism, whether religious or otherwise.
Therefore we must fight them all without fear or favour.
Now, as your rapporteur rightly stressed, religious fundamentalism of a violent nature will not be welcomed in the European Union.
Similarly, it would be beneficial if, in this area as in many others, foreign policy were more consistent; but we should concentrate more assiduously on the ends to be achieved in this respect.
For these reasons I will be voting against the report.
For me many of the positive aspects of this recommendation are common to all questions relating to Community foreign policy and the need for a preventive approach to this subject.
This is one of the reasons why the Members of the Freedom Party voted against this report, both in the final vote and in many of the detailed votes.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted against a report that is primarily concerned with Islam as a challenge to the European legal order.
We also support calling on Member States to take preventive action against fundamentalism by following a deliberate policy of integration to strengthen the position of Muslim groups in the labour market and in the education system.
We are directly opposed to this report.
I have voted against this report because of its implied view that all Muslims in Europe are susceptible to Islamic fundamentalism and that Islamic fundamentalism always manifests itself as violence.
I will be voting against this report as although it does condemn all forms of racial hatred and fanaticism, it concentrates far too much on the Islamic varieties and seems to forget the many other types of extremism which exist in Europe.
Of course we must combat violent extremists, as our governments already do.
However, we would like to stress the importance of setting up a similar programme for the Barents Sea area.
Ribeiro report (A4-0224/98) Many of the reports we discuss here in Parliament argue for the creation or maintenance of European centres or organizations.
You hardly ever see a report which proposes that an organization or centre should be closed.
We think, however, that an in-depth analysis of the sector is in itself a first step towards a policy to be implemented in the short term.
The special importance of the European textile and clothing industry is patently obvious, both from an economic and social viewpoint and also as regards the development of some of the European regions that have the biggest problems.
The basis of our support is centred on the rapporteur's criticism of the Commission's plan of action to increase the competitiveness of the European textile and clothing industry.
It is true that there is a need for such a plan, because of the precarious current situation of this important sector, which employs more than two million workers throughout the Union and involves more than 120 000 companies.
So the Commission should produce a new plan to make good these deficiencies and place the emphasis on training, innovation, technological development and anti-dumping measures.
In order to safeguard businesses and jobs, it will in future be even more important fully to guarantee internal market conditions.
However, this delocalization, particularly in favour of labour-intensive production, should not benefit from additional support in the form of subsidies or even EU funding.
The Ribeiro report raises the important issue of competitiveness in the European textile and clothing industry.
According to the principle held by our late Chairman, Sir James Goldsmith, delocalization enriches the wealthy in poor countries to the detriment of the poor in both rich and poor countries.
Restoring the principle of Community preference is the most valuable and effective support the European Union could give in the battle for jobs.
We should not stay silent on the use of child labour in other parts of the world today in sectors such as textiles, just as our forebears in Europe rightly campaigned to outlaw child labour in our own factories.
On one issue, however, I must state my disagreement with this report.
Despite the industry's proud past, many of the people who work in its most advanced companies today face an uncertain future due to the protectionism of some in the Commission and in the European cotton production sector.
Its marked concentration at regional level, especially in the least-favoured regions of the EU, mean that the textile industry is of the greatest economic and social importance, in countries such as Portugal.
What is needed, therefore, is a new plan to promote innovation and the use of new technology in the sector and to strengthen interaction between all agents in the production chain, supported by a wide, dynamic professional technical and management training scheme, and economic, financial and fiscal support measures for small and medium-sized enterprises, to provide employment incentives in the sector.
Berès report (A4-0264/98) Because Sweden is not going to participate in the introduction of the euro in 1999-2002, we have chosen to abstain from the vote on this report.
The report appears to champion the further institutional consolidation of a two-speed Europe.
Council decisions with regard to the Economic and Financial Committee are to be taken following consultations with the ECB, while the European Parliament is simply informed.
In other words, the bankers - who one way or another will participate in the Committee - take an active part in the process, while the elected representatives of the people of Europe can not have an opinion on a committee which will play a decisive role in the directions and the decisions taken by the Council in the process of multilateral surveillance, in the event of excessive deficit and, more generally, in the assessment of the economic and financial situation.
For these reasons, which relate in general terms to EMU and more specifically to the role of the EMI and the Economic and Financial Committee which will succeed it, and also on account of the proposals in the report that we regard as leading towards a more reactionary European Union, we will vote against the report.
Tappin report (A4-0196/98) Both the Commission's communication and the report include a number of elements which should lead to a greater participation of SMEs in contract procurement.
We have no fundamental objections regarding the Tappin report and the communication from the Commission on which it is based.
May I begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the work that he has put into this.
It is an issue on which the treaties give Parliament the right of initiative, and Parliament has used that right a number of times to put forward proposals for a uniform electoral system.
The first of these is the election of the Labour Government in the United Kingdom which is introducing a system of proportional representation by regions for European elections.
Mr Anastassopoulos referred to that as a surprising new development.
If we can reach agreement, this will allow us to make progress immediately without needing to go all the way to having a fully uniform system straight away.
One of those problems is the proposal for 10 % of seats to be set aside for transnational European lists.
On a report like this it is necessary to get a very large majority in order for Parliament to speak with authority.
I have therefore put forward a compromise amendment in the name of my group which should give satisfaction to both sides - both those who think that transnational lists are important because they are more European, and those who say you do not need a system like that, and that even federal-type systems do not normally have federal level lists.
Both sides can be satisfied if my amendment is adopted because it says that Parliament will 'examine' a proposal for such a system in time for the 2009 elections but would not make it legally obligatory now by inserting it as a requirement in the act.
Mr President, one of the new features of the Treaty of Amsterdam is to establish the possibility of this Parliament incorporating common principles for elections to the European Parliament.
The first principle is that of proportional representation.
If this Parliament unanimously approves Article 1 of the Anastassopoulos report, it will mean that the rules of the game will be the same in all the Member States.
Secondly, the Anastassopoulos report also has the merit of applying the principle of subsidiarity, for example in the power it gives the Member States to determine the constituencies, according to the specific characteristics of each country.
We are going to try to find a formula with which all the political groups in this House can feel comfortable.
But we must give a clear political signal that we want transnational lists in the future.
The work we do here is important enough.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if today, on the strength of Mr Anastassopoulos's excellent report, we finally agree on common principles for an electoral system for the European Parliament, this will be a quite decisive step - and one which has long been overdue - towards greater electoral democracy in the European Union.
The rapporteur has adopted just the right approach in attempting merely to define the principles of universal suffrage.
This report recognizes that eleven of the present fifteen States have only one electoral constituency.
I do indeed consider that the closer we get to the citizens that elect us, the better Europe will be built.
And, therefore, I myself would give the principle of subsidiarity free rein in that area - a principle which is also recognized and applauded in the report.
Firstly from the legal and institutional point of view: I wonder, and I ask my fellow Members to enquire of themselves as well, whether Article 190 of the Amsterdam Treaty will not perchance be a little cramped by a proposal of this nature...
So far as I am aware, public opinion in the various Member States is not calling for transnational lists.
I particularly agree with the way it gathers together all our national experience; proposes a draft electoral procedure based on common principles, developing the Treaty of Amsterdam; presents the principle of proportional representation as the most important; and the incompatibility of mandates, especially those between the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
But although I agree with all that, and also the transnational dimension of the elections - although I know public opinion is against that in some countries - I have to say that I do not agree with the idea of territorial constituencies, and making them compulsory for countries with a population of over 20 million.
So in countries with a population of 19 million, if any existed, Members of the European Parliament elected in a single constituency would be close to the people, whereas in countries of 21 million inhabitants they are not, and have to be divided up into various constituencies, of approximately 5 or 6 million people.
Of the 200 European regions, only 69 have real regional parliaments.
I will finish, Mr President, by saying that the constituency system in a country I greatly respect - Italy - has not exactly solved the problem of the people being close to their representatives, because political parties can also put forward the same candidates in all the constituencies, which is something this document does not address.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we want people to regard the European Parliament as their Parliament and to see the Members of this Parliament as their MPs, then we need to have universal European suffrage and a common set of rules and principles.
If we do not try to get these reforms going, who will?
The strength of this House also lies in its representation.
A further reduction in the voting age would also be possible, in our view.
I believe that current developments also require us to look at the representation of European interests and to bear in mind the development of European political parties.
Nevertheless, defining the individual features common to all Member States in order to secure a uniform electoral procedure for the European elections is a tough one that calls for a particular degree of tact and skill.
it is in fact the responsibility of the European Parliament, in accordance with the provisions of Article 138 of the Treaty, to submit a proposal to the Council.
We would be failing in our duties if, whilst deriving benefit from a favourable political context, we found ourselves unable to accept our own responsibilities in those areas where the Treaty explicitly accords us the right to do so.
The Group of the European Radical Alliance is especially pleased to find principles outlined in the report focusing on proportional representation, the incompatibility of mandates, derogations in support of special regional characteristics and transnational lists.
Firstly, whilst understanding the arguments of the rapporteur in favour of territorial constituencies, I feel that the decision should be left to each Member State to decide.
Secondly, the list of incompatible mandates should be extended to include any mandate that involves a legislative or executive function.
Finally, in view of its strongly regionalist persuasion, my group would appreciate a strengthening of the Article 4 device, in order to establish the legitimacy of the special provisions to allow for regional differences in firmer ground.
To conclude, I must express a certain regret, Mr President.
Mr President, every Member State is represented in the European Parliament by directly elected individuals.
A certain percentage of the seats in the European Parliament will be distributed across "transnational' lists.
In addition, the rapporteur wishes to take away the right of Member States to organize European elections on a day which fits in with their traditions.
The report suggests electing members of Parliament in all countries simultaneously, possibly over two days.
These two reasons will ensure that the turnout for the European elections will be even lower than the 35 % last time.
The amendments I have tabled refer to this.
The Europe of the year 2000 must be served by parliamentarians able to devote all their time to giving the European parliament all its eagerly awaited and necessary legislative power.
This seems to me to be the fundamental issue, and I therefore think Parliament should strongly support this report, using the opportunities provided by the Treaty of Amsterdam and the result of the English elections to the best possible effect in order to support, at last, common electoral principles for European elections.
I have to say that I am against this idea, not because I am anti-European, but because I think an intelligent and critical pro-European would prefer not to vote here on this absurd proposal, which is not included as a method of correcting deviations from proportionality, as happens in those of our countries where a national electoral constituency is provided to make it possible to correct deviations from proportionality.
Although I do not agree with the rapporteur on all the details contained in it, I consider it important that its central concern is to aim for proportional representation in all Member States of the Union.
The European Parliament has always been at the forefront of this struggle since its election by universal suffrage in 1979.
With regard to Article 3, concerning the transnational lists, Mr Anastassopolous and myself have each tabled an amendment seeking to reflect precisely the terms of Articles 137 and 138 of the Treaty.
In fact, just as the national parliamentarian represents both the interests of his constituents at state level and the national interest as a whole, the European parliamentarian represents the interests of his constituents at European level and the general interests of the Union.
This is the same logic on which the Maastricht Treaty is based, asserting the principle of European citizenship by offering European nationals the right to vote and the right to be elected in all Member States.
Therefore that is where rules for elections, including elections to the European Parliament, should be formulated.
For this reason the Swedish Left Party rejects all proposals to regulate the electoral system at EU level on such matters as constituency boundaries and qualifying percentages for small parties.
Such a system requires functioning EU parties.
That seems to be quite irrelevant.
Portugal is a nation-state, but so is Germany.
Let me conclude by congratulating the rapporteur on his report, which has set us on the right lines.
Mr President, the report by the Committee on Institutional Affairs concerning the procedure for selecting European Members of Parliament, contains two dubious innovations.
This therefore seems to us to be most in line with the concept of a Europe of Nations.
It would be even more inconceivable given that the proposal put forward by the Committee on Institutional Affairs is clearly discriminatory, since it enables countries with less than 20 million inhabitants to retain a representation that reflects their national unity, but which is forbidden to all others.
Perhaps other large countries would benefit more than France in this matter.
The second questionable innovation in this report - the election of 10 % of Members within the framework of a single European constituency - is really just another aspect of federalist folklore.
Finally, we note that the European Parliament would gladly accept the election in a regional context, or even a European context, but the only context that terrifies it is the national context.
This is precisely the context that seems to us to be the most robust, the most realistic principle, the closest to a calm democratic expression of popular will, based on national parliaments.
If we were to opt for just one electoral system, thereby ignoring specific national features, be they geopolitical, sociological or cultural, such a legislative choice would cease to serve the other great objective of the European Union, which is respect for the national identity of Member States.
The proposed international list is certainly a good thing in principle, but it must be given time, and this institution can never be understood in isolation from the parallel development of European political parties.
We do indeed need to have common principles in the electoral procedure for elections to this House.
But there is also a need for all the peoples who make up the European Union, all the national identities, to have the ability to send their own elected representatives to this Parliament.
And where different nations, different peoples, live together in a single Member State - as in the case of the Spanish state where Basques, Catalans and others are all of us nations comprising a state - that plurality needs to be reflected when it comes to establishing the European Parliament's electoral constituencies.
For those of us who believe in a federal European project, it is important that the people should feel that Europe is close to them, as something they can identify with.
Establishing territorial constituencies brings Europe closer to its citizens and the reality of their national and cultural lives.
That is why the report's proposed Article 2 is important, establishing that each Member State shall set up territorial constituencies, with these essentially being compulsory for countries with a population of more than 20 million, the ones where this lack of territorial representation is most apparent.
We do not want a presence in Europe in order to destroy anything, but to build a common European space.
So creating territorial constituencies for the European elections can and should be a step towards achieving a Europe for everybody, in which all its peoples can participate.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important moment in this session of the European Parliament.
A very creative idea was put forward in the De Gucht report, namely that a uniform system does not mean that the same electoral system has to be established in all Member States down to the last detail, but that all Members of the European Parliament should be elected on the basis of the same principles, that is to say chiefly in accordance with the principle of proportionality.
Mr President, I also acknowledge the work Mr Anastassopoulos has put into this, even if I think that his report is not entirely appropriate, because Amsterdam is not yet in force and, in particular, because changes are being made to the electoral system of the Member State at which reports of this kind are usually directed.
We consider, furthermore, that the diversity of electoral cultures in our countries should lead us to be extremely careful in our approach to these matters.
The emphasis given by the rapporteur to the principle of proportionality therefore deserves our acceptance.
And we could say the same about the principle of non-accumulation.
For these reasons we think this report is in fact inopportune at the present moment.
It is good that the Treaty of Amsterdam creates a framework for the harmonization of elections in all Member States.
Our European Union has 15 Member States; we currently use 16 different electoral systems to choose our Parliament.
We use 16 because one Member State - my own - uses two systems: a fair one in Northern Ireland, where injustice would lead to armed conflict in a province which has seen far too much violence; and an unfair system in Great Britain, where the minority has limited itself to passive protest.
Great Britain is the only country which uses a non-proportional system of voting to elect Members of this House, and that has rightly been condemned: not simply because it is inherently unjust but also because it has skewed the balance of power between the political parties in this House.
I am the first Liberal Democrat from the United Kingdom ever to be declared elected to this House.
I participated in three election campaigns - in 1979, 1984 and 1989 - which saw not a single Liberal Democrat elected despite, on one occasion, one voter in every five having cast their vote for my party.
The two Liberal Democrats elected from my country in 1994 should, by rights, have 12 colleagues in this House.
The United Kingdom Government has introduced a bill in Parliament to right the wrongs that have hitherto persisted.
But so long as procedures for election to this House are a matter for national governments, we cannot guarantee a continuation of the principle of proportionality and that is why this report is so important.
However, we Members of the European Parliament are set apart from each other by the way in which each of us was elected to office.
For the same political reasons the qualifying threshold for being allocated seats must not be prohibitive and, in my view, must not exceed 3 %.
Next, given transnational lists and the opportunity to be included in those lists, minority groups throughout the Member States could gain representation in the European Parliament.
Finally, there is the question of whether to build a Europe of nations or a federation, which is once more the issue at stake in this debate.
The Anastassopolous report recommends proportional representation, which is the fairest and I commend it, but it does put the burden of creating territorial constituencies on individual Member States.
But others have not.
The French government, which would like to see such reforms in the balloting procedure, has been forced to retreat because there was not a sufficient majority in favour.
I suspect there are few individuals or political groups in this House who would support every part of it.
The European Parliamentary Labour Party has a particular problem and is fundamentally opposed to the proposal that 10 % of the seats be elected in a single constituency comprising the whole of the European Union.
MEPs elected on a transnational list would have no contact with their constituents and would be either independents or the creatures of very remote transnational parties.
This proposal to set aside 10 % of the seats for a transnational constituency would reduce that still further and consequently further remove the MEPs from the constituents they are supposed to represent.
With that caveat we would welcome this report, but we cannot support the 10 % proposal.
Mr President, the report quite rightly favours the principle of proportional representation.
But this is totally at odds with the proposed provision of supranational Members of the European Parliament.
This would not be in accordance with the EU's current state of development, nor would it take account of different regional and national characteristics.
I hope that in the year 2004, each group will jointly put up its key European candidates for election in all Member States.
It is an area in which there are divergent national situations and political viewpoints, and he has given us a basis for debate.
In any case, I think that 5 % is too high a threshold.
The third point relates to preferential voting.
Of course there are parties that elect their candidates on the basis of a vote by its members.
However, there are also parties in which the candidates are chosen on the basis of the preference of the leader of the party or his or her entourage.
The fourth point I would like to make relates to supranational Members of Parliament.
I also want to remind you that the procedure provided for in Article 138(3) leaves the legislative initiative in this area in the hands of the European Parliament, and it will be the Council which establishes the relevant provisions, acting unanimously after obtaining the Parliament's assent.
So on behalf of the Commission, I want to acknowledge the importance of the rapporteur's efforts during the last few months to facilitate an agreement in Council as quickly as possible.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the plenary is now invited to cast its vote on the conciliation agreement we concluded with the Council, on 23 June, on the subject of the European Voluntary Service action programme.
But the Council knew this.
We had no choice because it is an excellent programme, precisely because young people write and tell us how interested they are in being able to extend their horizons beyond national boundaries, learning a new language in a neighbouring country, able to cement their projects through direct action.
A lack of agreement on conciliation would have deferred, or even cancelled out the positive effects of European Voluntary Service, particularly by fragmenting the impetus generated so far.
So, after long hours of debate, we have managed to wrest ECU 47.5 million from the Council for the period 1998-1999.
Finally, on the ever thorny problem of the comitology procedure, we have at last reached agreement on an honourable solution regarding the basis for a modus vivendi .
In view of this package - according to the formula adopted - and the vital need for the European Voluntary Service to be operational as soon as possible, your rapporteur proposes that you approve the joint text.
But I fervently hope that the success of the programme in the coming months will prise open the budgetary corset in which the Council has stuffed it, as has been the case with other Community mobility programmes.
Mr President, we have finally arrived at the final stage of the long and laborious process that will result in the adoption of the first multiannual programme for European Voluntary Service for Young People.
We know that this programme will cover only the years 1998 and 1999, but it will nevertheless be of fundamental importance in determining the nature of the new Youth programme that will continue the same work from 2000.
I would also like to thank Commissioner Cresson for the active role played by the Commission throughout the negotiations.
As far as the legal status of European volunteers is concerned, we obtained an important declaration from the Commission, but no firm commitment by the Council, to try and draw up common legislation governing legal, fiscal, social security and health insurance aspects for European volunteers.
With regard to the programme budget, we did not succeed in obtaining more than ECU 47.5 million for two years, a sum that falls far short of our proposals.
Mr President, it appears to be a platitude to say that European development depends on the youth of Europe.
The training and education of young people is an essential matter.
In today's world, young people have to be able to operate in an international atmosphere.
Exchange programmes are a suitable means of familiarizing the youth of Europe with the cultural diversity within Europe.
This provides a basis for us to be able to satisfy the demands of the increasingly globalizing labour market, in other words knowledge of different languages and of different cultures.
We have a number of successful exchange programmes for students, and now, with the European Voluntary Service action programme for young people, we finally also have a programme for working and in many cases for unemployed youngsters who are not or are no longer students.
What I have just said does not represent anything new or startling.
The Council of Ministers has demonstrated in two areas that it does not take improving the mobility of young people in Europe seriously.
In the first place, Council is making too small a budget available.
A budget of ECU 47.5 million will only enable a few thousand young people to use the programme.
The contribution per person is too small to allow everyone access to the programme.
In the second place, Council was not prepared to guarantee that all obstacles to mobility arising at administrative level would be eliminated.
Recital 13 is a poor apology for what the Parliament proposed and the Commission's statement on the matter is only a sticking-plaster on the wound.
In practice, Parliament has been unable to play much of a role in this matter.
That did not come from the heart, but only because the youth organizations involved in this work asked me to.
The Council will have to realize how important education and culture are for the future of Europe, especially when it comes to young people.
Mr President, is a voluntary service still a valid proposition in our society?
Thus, many young people aged between 18 and 26 years can participate in the work of NGOs, they can enter problem areas, they can perform humanitarian services for others once they have acquired the rudiments of the language of their host country.
So, the fifteen Member States of the Union decided to cooperate in offering young Europeans this citizenship opportunity, but Parliament and the Council failed to reach agreement on all the procedures to be implemented.
If I abstained from voting during the conciliation, it was because the ECU 47.5 million allocated for 1998-1999 is totally inadequate to satisfy the expectations of the ever-generous young.
But this programme must go on.
I also think it is important for this programme to be open to participants from countries in central and eastern Europe.
Mr President, I agree with the previous speakers that the European Voluntary Service for Young People is a well thought out and important programme, but, as Mrs Fontaine has said, its future is uncertain as a result of the political short-sightedness of the Council.
I support Mr Pex and Mr Vecchi, who have explained that although some of the well-founded proposals put forward by the Parliament have been adopted, it has unfortunately proved impossible to introduce specific regulations in line with our proposals on legal status, social status and, more generally, the elimination of legal and administrative obstacles to access to the programme.
A positive point, certainly, is that the programme is open to third countries.
Mr President, I would like to speak a little about the European Voluntary Service.
I hope that this will now be a programme which will break down the barriers among young people across the continent, giving an opportunity to help foster European integration and gain some valuable experience.
The very fact that we have reached this point means that both sides have had to compromise.
We are still unhappy about the resources available for this programme because funding will in effect be cut in future years.
However, we believe it is a programme worth keeping.
But this is particularly relevant in the case of the European Voluntary Service.
We will be monitoring the implementation of this programme very carefully.
In order to make the programme attractive, there must not only be a good range of projects but also good pastoral support.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you can imagine, my colleague, Mrs Edith Cresson, would have very much liked to be here to thank the rapporteur and, like her, to recommend the adoption of the result of the conciliation procedure.
Of course we understand the disappointment expressed by all the speakers about the funding of the programme, but as is often the case, the Council is not in a position to fulfil what Parliament and Commission propose.
In the Council, economy measures of this kind are always more popular than the most well-intentioned programme, and the interest of the young people who have already registered as a result of the pilot projects shows that this programme could have had a major impact.
On behalf of my colleague Mrs Cresson, I would also like to assure Parliament once again at this point that, as with Youth for Europe, no decisions about individual projects will be submitted to the Committee.
With the proposed funding of ECU 47.5 million, the Commission can ensure programme access and the quality of the measures during the remaining 18 months.
Recent experience has shown, however, that the interest of young people in the European Voluntary Service is already very great and is likely to increase further.
I should also like to thank Parliament generally for its support and its sympathy for this project, without which we would not have made as much progress as we have.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Without a standard regulation on additives, the principle of mutual recognition leads to a great deal of uncertainty amongst consumers and to major shortcomings in the monitoring and labelling of foodstuffs.
I think that technical need should not be recognized simply because one manufacturer demands it when all the other manufacturers demonstrate that another approach is entirely possible.
On such important issues as allergy labelling, in particular, there is obviously little movement in the Commission.
A very important principle for us must be transparency, which means that we must put an end to secrecy, that is the use of additives in food ingredients.
The Commission said that it could not agree to the amendments because they were in the wrong place.
The same applies to the labelling of loose foodstuffs.
On behalf of my group, I can say that we are in agreement with the common position.
The amendments which have been proposed, in the main by the rapporteur in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, were adopted by a majority there; however, we cannot vote for them.
I would also like to draw attention to my speech at first reading, in which I pointed out how unintelligible this directive is in its full form, in spite of the fact that many citizens would be extremely interested in its content.
I would also like to remind you of the subsequent questions to the Commission and the Council on the possibility of simplifying the directive without necessarily altering its content, and I would like to remind you of the answers given.
I believe the choice is a bad one and I will give you two examples which, in my opinion, are glaringly obvious.
First of all, several Member States, including the German government, have voted against the common position.
You know very well that indirect effects are possible and, indeed, quite probable and that in the case of many additives, it is exceedingly difficult to take circumstances into account.
The Commission has proposed to amend the directive in the light of recent scientific developments.
The existence of a standard community additive authorization system will certainly benefit the consumer.
With specific reference to Amendments Nos 1 and 2, we are against the use of additives that are classified as flour treatment agents in Annex 1.
The labelling system should in any case provide information on all relevant indications and contraindications.
I want to confine myself, therefore, to just three of them: Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 7.
I come to Amendment No 4 first because I tabled it and it was passed in the Environment Committee on reconsideration.
We are not actually told that in the small print which accompanies its decisions.
It is always the case, and it is one of the problems as we reach the second reading, that one knows a good deal more about what the Commission will approve than what it will not.
My last point concerns Amendment No 7.
The views expressed by Mrs Jackson and especially Mrs Schleicher correspond broadly with the Commission's position.
Mrs Breyer, I am constantly surprised that you want to regulate everything at every opportunity, despite the logic that you usually apply.
The number of allergies triggered by foodstuffs is to my knowledge actually very low, as Mrs Jensen has said - far lower than one would generally assume.
Secondly, Mr Bangemann, I cannot agree with your view that the issue of labelling loose foodstuffs should be a matter for regulation in individual Member States.
The point of this directive is, after all, to achieve harmonization throughout Europe.
After all, we have already dealt with a range of points which would fall within the labelling directive if we agree on what you say.
My final question, then, is when you intend to put forward a new draft or amendments to the labelling directive so that these loopholes and these requirements which have emerged can then be closed or covered?
It is just that we have a special provision which means that Member States can exempt themselves from this requirement in the case of loose foodstuffs.
Unfortunately, there are various different viewpoints in the Commission as well as in the European Parliament, and an extreme viewpoint, which was initially also expressed here in the Parliament - I do not know if it is still upheld now - is that everything must be labelled, whether or not it is sensible or appropriate to do so.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon. (The sitting was suspended until 5.30 p.m.) Question Time (Commission) The next item is questions to the Commission (B4-0481/98).
Commissioner, as things stand, IT piracy is doing great harm not just to the European institutions but to the whole of society in general, both in the form of the installation of illegal software onto the hard disk before a computer is sold, and by means of the production of imitation software or direct copies via the Internet.
We note that the Council recently approved its common position on the legal position against radio piracy.
Let us not forget that the United States is ahead of us here too, since the extent of the piracy which Europe suffers is still 43 %.
Mr Liikanen, I invite you to reply to Mr De Coene's question.
The volunteers worked for more than five months in local host organizations in those cities and towns where the matches were staged.
In addition to this, the volunteers for several weeks helped in the organization of the World Cup Games.
Mr President, as with other part-funded pilot projects, local host organizations tended to be connected with the social work sector, culture, physical education or the environment movement.
But our joy at that result should not overshadow the fact that there were many serious problems in the organization of the World Cup, some of which one of the Commissioner's colleagues is currently looking at.
The Commissioner needs to investigate what the status of the CFO is in the Commission's view and whether the use - or abuse, as we believe it to be - of this system in supplying assistance to the CFO merits investigation.
Thank you very much, Mr Liikanen.
So as the author is not present, Question No 46 lapses.
There is a Catalan poet, Joan Brossa, who says that silence is so important that it should only be broken for matters which are even more important.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in its response to Questions No 380, 384 and 385, the Commission has advised you that it is aware of the difficulties associated with the implementation of the LEADER-II programme.
These difficulties are attributed, inter alia , to the need to adhere to the convergence criteria in respect of Economic and Monetary Union.
This problem is delaying the implementation of the programme and should be resolved, bearing in mind the interests of the affected local action groups, within the framework of the partnership between Member State, autonomous community and the Commission.
The Commission is also in agreement with the amendment of the financial plans in order to ensure that the reduction in the contribution from the Spanish government can be balanced out by an increase in other contributions under the regulations on cofinancing of Community initiatives.
It is clear that any change in the original decisions may lead to a delay in the implementation of the LEADER initiative.
However, this is no reason to speak of a freeze on the LEADER-II programme in Spain, as Mr Izquierdo Collado has done.
But why is it blocked?
Mr Fischler, you have the floor to reply to Mr Izquierdo Collado's supplementary question.
It is also clear that cofinancing is required and that this cofinancing must be provided in accordance with the regulations governing the LEADER programme.
In principle, it is also possible - and this is an internal matter for Spain - for other public bodies to provide this cofinancing.
The local action groups were selected in 1995 - under the previous Spanish Government, by the way - and they were selected badly.
As regards the central administration's contribution, in 1995 and 1996 the relevant headings were not provided, perhaps because people were mistakenly awaiting the accumulation of aid.
Thank you very much, Mr Fischler.
Cofinance can also be provided by the competent regional bodies, and private cofinance can also be added, which is also signed by these local action groups.
I think the important thing is to open up the budget line but perhaps the funding is a bit low, because it is extremely important for the development of rural areas IN all the Member States of the European Union, of the Europe of the Fifteen.
Thank you very much, Mr Fischler, for your presence and your replies.
These questions, which the recent proposal for a corrective mechanism supported by Austria also recently shed light on, will be included in a planned report on the own resources system.
At the same time it must be stressed that the Commission's proposals contained in Agenda 2000 and reforms in EU policy might have a considerable effect on common expenditure among the Member States.
The Commission intends to examine these matters thoroughly in its report on its funds and resources.
Secondly, whether the Commissioner is aware that in the Dutch coalition agreement includes a reduction in the contribution of NLG 1.2 billion.
Fourthly, whether the fact that the United Kingdom received a reduction is being taken into account, which is in any case a net limiting factor, and that this should also apply to other Member States, and whether it can already be considered that a like-for-like treatment now applies.
Secondly, the report will also provide a basis for the Member States to assess their expenditure.
There are areas where it is easier and areas where it is more difficult.
Not all the conclusions have been totally uncontested by the different parties but this report is a basis for further discussion.
At any rate, the Commission report will respond to the debate on the position of net contributors which has been taken up by four countries, in particular - Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and Austria.
Mr President, I think that Agenda 2000 is a particular challenge for us all, especially in the accession strategies of the candidate countries.
Of course, in all these programmes, especially in the programmes which are connected for example to INTERREG and PHARE, it is very important that the border areas get particular attention.
It is usually where the difference in standards of living is highest that political and economic tension is created.
Question No 49 by Eva Kjer Hansen (H-0720/98) Subject: Implementation of democracy programmes How does the Commission intend to implement the planned democracy programmes under Chapter B7-70 of the Budget following the European Court of Justice's decision to freeze appropriations for programmes which have no legal basis?
Mr President, regarding those sections of the budget dealing with the funding of action in the interests of human rights and democracy, the Commission proposed to the Council on 24 July 1997 a regulation for the purpose of developing and reinforcing democracy, the principle of the rule of law, human rights and basic liberties.
These lists are publicly available and are intended for debate today by the Committee on Budgets.
As for the sections of the budget devoted to greater democracy and the protection of human rights, regulations on regional programmes of cooperation have been agreed as alternative legal bases for sections of the budget in respect of the following areas: central and eastern European countries, third countries in the Mediterranean region, countries of the former Soviet Union and Mongolia, former Yugoslavia, and developing countries in Latin America and Asia.
Finally, I wish only to add that we have a trialogue between Parliament, Council and the Commission on Friday 17 July, and we will do everything possible to achieve a long-term solution there.
In other words, has the Commission planned its information strategy?
I am looking forward to following up this debate in the Committee on Budgets, but I would like to ask the Commissioner to clarify whether or not the democracy programmes will be able to proceed unhindered.
I fully agree with the honourable Member that we must be careful to inform all the parties concerned, especially the NGOs.
The General Affairs Council has mandated the Committee of Permanent Representatives to try and find a solution to the problem this week.
But I hope that the seriousness of the situation, about which many NGOs throughout Europe have expressed their great concern, will also put pressure on the Council to act more rapidly to get the proposed legal basis accepted.
I have listened very attentively both to the questions and to the answer given by Commissioner Liikanen.
You are still referring to the necessary legal basis for the payment of loans in the budget of the European Union.
In the case of significant actions, we have no choice but to follow the decision of the Court.
But there are areas where there is more scope for interpretation.
It is important to try to find a solution within the budgetary authority and to arrive at a definition of non-significant actions.
So they cannot be permanent support schemes.
I think I understood you correctly, Commissioner, but I would like to ask whether the issue of the Office for Minority Languages which was initiated by the European Parliament in 1982 is thus secure or whether you take the view that such a long-term project still has no legal basis, and how, in your opinion, this legal basis can be created.
It would be quite scandalous if we were to end a programme which has proved its worth within the European Union over the last 15 or 16 years and cut its budget line.
The Commission has not proposed a legal basis, so we cannot blame the Council for the lack of action.
We are continuing to study that issue but there is as yet no solution to this matter even though we have been able to find one in the majority of cases.
There are many activists in different countries who have contacted us on this matter.
Mr Flynn, I welcome you and invite you to reply to Mr Carlos Carnero González' question.
However, in some situations Community law lays down rules which prohibit the dismissal of an employee on certain grounds, such as nationality, gender, the taking of parental leave, transfer of an undertaking or a worker's refusal to transfer from full-time to part-time work or vice versa.
If a dismissal does not fall within one of these categories, the issue falls entirely within the responsibility of the Member State concerned.
That is the unfortunate thing: that there is no Community legislation in this area, because there is no doubt that the matters we are talking about should be the central focus of a social Europe - the chance to have, alongside the single currency, rules to guarantee workers, for example, the opportunity to exercise all their rights, and even more so in the case of their trade union representatives.
He is quite right, and it is clear that there is no Community legislation which lays down detailed rules on the protection of workers' representatives against dismissal.
Question No 51 by Bernd Posselt (H-0645/98) Subject: Family policy studies Further to my suggestion at Question Time on 31 March 1998, has the Commission already hired an external consultant to carry out a study on provision for old age for persons who devote their lives solely to bringing up their children?
Mr Flynn, I invite you to reply to Mr Posselt's question.
The Commission has considered the situation in the Member States as regards enforcement of Directive 79/7 relating to equal treatment between men and women in statutory social security schemes.
The directive applies only to the working population, so people who devote themselves to bringing up their children fall outside its scope.
The Commission proposed an amendment to the directive in 1987 to fill the gaps in equal treatment in the social security field.
The matter is still pending before the Council.
Within the next couple of months the Commission intends to replace the 1987 proposal with a new proposal to amend Directive 79/7.
As regards carrying out studies, I am afraid that the point made by my colleague, Commissioner Liikanen, applies specifically here, too, namely the budget line problem, insofar as the family policy project line is currently blocked.
Question No 52 by Anne Van Lancker (H-0648/98) Subject: Transfer of unused ESF appropriations from Objective 4 to Objective 3 At the beginning of the current programming period, there was a shortage of appropriations for Objective 3, while it was barely possible to allocate the appropriations for Objective 4.
Members of the European Parliament asked the Commission to allow the Flemish Community to transfer Objective 4 appropriations to Objective 3.
In its resolution of 4 December 1997 on structural policy in Belgium, the European Parliament observed that Objective 4 appropriations were under-utilized and reiterated its call for unused resources to be transferred from Objective 4 to Objective 3 when undertaking the midterm evaluation.
The programmes for Objective 4 are therefore directly in line with the development of an active and preventive labour market policy in accordance with the European employment strategy which was just recently put in place by the European Council at the Luxembourg employment summit, and subsequently in employment guidelines which have been adopted for 1998.
The national action plans for employment have now been drawn up by the Member States to put all these guidelines into effect.
Given the importance that the European Council, as well as the Belgian authorities, attach to prevention of unemployment, to lifelong learning and to active labour market policy, the Commission considers a reduction of the available budget to Objective 4 through a transfer to Objective 3 as inappropriate.
I have to agree with the honourable Member I am well aware of her particular point of view and her very supportive attitude towards both the employment strategy and the preventive approach.
I am aware of the difficulties of long-term unemployment in the Flanders area.
The key thing is how to make best use of the money, to cater for the very problem that the honourable Member mentions.
Taking that into account together with the possible situation over the next couple of years, I am reasonably satisfied at this time that this expenditure can be applied for the purpose for which it was intended and in support of the very point of view that the honourable Member put forward.
Commissioner, I invite you to reply to Mr Lomas' question.
They were refused service in a bar in Brussels.
The Commission and the House deplores this incident.
The fight against racist incidents is first and foremost the responsibility of Member States and complaints must therefore be addressed to the competent national authorities.
The body responsible for such matters in Belgium, the role of which is very similar to the Commission for Racial Equality in the United Kingdom, is Centre pour l'Egalité de Chances et de Lutte contre le Racisme , that is the Centre for Equality and the fight against Racism.
Since the Commissioner may have a little more influence than me, I wonder if besides me taking the matter up, the Commissioner could advise this body - I know it can do no more, it cannot interfere - that a Member has raised this matter and that the Commission is disturbed about it.
We are launching a wide debate on Article 13 as you know.
I would hope that with our Action Plan we can provide ourselves with a legal framework as to how we can combat racism better in Europe.
When the survey was carried out in Belgium, 22 % of the people interviewed regarded themselves as 'very racist' and 33 % regarded themselves as 'quite racist' .
Therefore, 55 % of the total population of Belgium was quite or very racist.
The figure for Europe was a whole was 33 %.
Thank you very much, Mr Flynn.
It is the Commission's opinion that the amended common fisheries policy for 2002 should retain the current system governing access to the 6/12 mile zone.
The response the Commission received to its recent questionnaire on the amendment of the common fisheries policy confirms the Commission's view that current provisions on the 6/12 mile zone should be upheld.
Certainly, any decision by the Council of Ministers to overrule the present system has to be taken by a qualified majority.
Decision making is in the hands of the Council of Ministers and it can overrule the arrangement by a qualified majority.
I wondered whether, given its wish to take notice of consultation with the industry and to work with it, the Commission might bring forward a proposal to extend the limit, say, to 30 nautical miles rather than the 6/12 miles at the present moment?
Mr Teverson, you know very well that the current system is already a derogation from the Treaty.
I should like to thank the Commissioner for her usual frank and forthright way in dealing with these questions which sometimes prompt alarmist comment.
Perhaps she would like to give an assurance, via this House, on both these issues, that the Commission is behind the fishermen and against the scaremongerers?
Mrs Bonino, I invite you to reply to Mr McCartin's question.
It is very likely that the measures will be more or less the same as the measures adopted for swordfish, that is to say they will involve payments for owners of fishing vessels and fishermen who give up fishing altogether or who continue fishing for tuna using other methods.
Parliament will naturally be consulted on the proposal as required by Article 43 of the Treaty.
I cannot work out whether there is a proposal to provide new moneys to compensate the displaced fishermen or whether the Commissioner is saying that the governments of the States concerned - be it France, the United Kingdom or Ireland - should propose a compensation programme using the resources already provided and no new money and resources are available.
The answer is yes.
There is no new money, but there is a possibility of using the money currently available in the Member States, of rescheduling the present funds.
Again, the European budget provides 50 % to some Member States, and 75 % to Ireland.
Question No 61 by Birgitta Ahlqvist (H-0644/98) Subject: Salmon-fishing in the Torne river basin The Finno-Swedish Border Rivers Commission has banned salmon-fishing in the River Torne despite the fact that all waters in the area are privately owned.
Mrs Bonino, I invite you to reply to Mrs Ahlqvist's question.
If nothing is done about it, it will grow into a very, very big border dispute.
Thank you very much, Mrs Bonino.
Madam President, today we are seeing the fruits of work that has been going on for 2 ½ years, and I would like to begin by thanking the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for their very active efforts.
Neither the Council nor the Commission had much time for our amendments.
The new Member States will have to respect regulations already in force and those pending, and we have ensured that the Community will assist them in this major task.
Let us look on the revised Fifth Community Action Programme on the Environment as a step towards sustainability.
With this persistence and great wisdom they persuaded the Council to be open to Parliament's ideas and to accept the proposals on a far broader basis than we could have hoped at the beginning of the negotiations, and in particular at the beginning of the first reading.
It is clear to all those involved with environmental issues that this programme can only be the beginning of sustainable development in the European Union.
For this reason I am particularly pleased that the objectives of this Fifth Action Programme already state that still more progressive priority objectives and measures will be necessary beyond the year 2000, so that the Community action does not lose its momentum and, of course, so that we can succeed in including the applicant countries in this environmental process.
It is particularly important that environmental policy is included in agricultural policy, and I am very grateful to the Commission that this additional statement on the common agricultural policy has been included in the decision by the Conciliation Committee.
This is particularly important as, in precisely those places where we can integrate environmental protection very well, in operational processes and other processes, this integration of a system of green accounting into general accounting has many advantages and is excellent for transposing environmental provisions into national law.
Many of us concerned with globalization and international trade issues see how much more difficult it is if environmental and precautionary aspects are not dealt with adequately within the framework of the WTO.
The joint text by the Conciliation Committee notes that the new Member States - Sweden, Finland and Austria - are not required to lower their environmental standards.
A classic case of jumping to conclusions.
It is very important for Parliament's monitoring of compliance with Community legislation to be tightened up.
I am also very pleased that the Commission, with the support of Parliament, has made its intentions clear with regard to the integration of environmental objectives into the common agricultural policy.
This is of great importance to a sustainable future for Europe.
I shall myself be making concrete proposals in the context of the budget to integrate environmental objectives into the common agricultural policy.
Madam President, Parliament received the text on the review of the Fifth Environmental Action Programme in February 1996.
We are very happy with the contents of the joint draft text.
Of course, we have Agenda 2000, where a lot of scope has been built in in terms of environmental policy, but we still have to await its implementation.
We are very happy about the priority given to better enforcement of environmental legislation.
The Commission seems to have been getting more interested in this recently, but things could still be improved.
Just make the Member States come before the Court a bit more often, to explain why it is so difficult to implement laws, and perhaps then they would get a bit more of a move on.
When the three new Member States joined, it was agreed that the EU would amend its legislation to fit in with that of the new Member States, in which case this transition period would not have caused the new Member States any grief.
There is really still a great deal of work to be done in this field.
The European Parliament has done much to put matters on the right track, and a good example of this is this achievement on the part of the Conciliation Committee.
Madam President, the disappointment is obvious to anyone reading the final report of this conciliation procedure.
They tell us that we have switched from a proposal for sustainable development to a proposal aimed mainly at preserving the status quo.
Madam President, without intending to do so, this report raises two problems.
Specifically, how can the Member States develop a policy of sustainable development in a global commercial context in which free trade would like to prohibit our countries from inspecting the quality of imports from third countries?
And I refer here to products manufactured under frequently deplorable social and environmental conditions which, in the absence of compensatory taxation, is slashing prices in Europe and nudging unemployment figures upwards.
If this happens and we permit only those products to enter our Community which respect human beings and the environment, third countries would certainly work more quickly to raise their standards.
In this context, I think that aiming for higher standards seems a particularly difficult objective.
Madam President, I would like to congratulate Parliament on the outcome of the conciliation procedure pursuant to the resolution on reviewing Community policy and action in connection with the environment and sustainable development entitled "Towards Sustainability' .
I can only confirm what I have said many times in response to questions and debates in Parliament: in my view, standards for the three new Member States should not be lowered.
The debates we have had on this clearly demonstrate what an important issue it is.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, because of the grave, sometimes mortal threat to the people of the European Union from communicable diseases, in April 1996 the Commission proposed the creation of a Community surveillance network to respond more effectively to recurrences of such serious diseases.
Nevertheless, the Member States' response in the Council to this initiative was very disappointing.
In its common position adopted in July 1997 the Council seemed to be doing its utmost to restrict effective action, that is, action which could be taken at Community level, by retaining as many as possible of individual Member States' prerogatives and by having decisions in every case taken not at Community level but at the discretion of each government.
In a series of official and unofficial negotiations with our delegation and its chairman, Mr Ken Collins, we fought a hard battle in the course of which we secured the essential guarantees.
In selecting the diseases which might be covered by the network, we have managed to avoid establishing arbitrary criteria and we have raised recognition of the need to record not only the clinical but also the microbiological characteristics of the diseases in question.
In conclusion, the joint text we now have may not be perfect, but it would be difficult to achieve more given the current state of the European constitution.
Your parliamentary delegation recommends, therefore, that Parliament adopt the decision in accordance with the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee.
That is good for our citizens; it is good for their health and it is good for their democratic rights too.
The adoption of this decision will be a major step forward in the fight against diseases.
I am pleased to acknowledge the key role that Parliament has played in shaping this decision and the requirements that will accompany it.
The debate is closed.
There are a large number of proposals included which do not lie within the powers of the European Union, such as national authority concerning abortion.
For all these reasons, my group requests that the report be referred back to the Committee on Women's Rights, so that we can present the Commission with a short, concise report as quickly as possible in September or October.
She has a lot of good reports to her credit, and I will personally help to ensure that the reports come back to the plenary soon, but in a shorter and more concise form with clear priorities.
There are, however, many amendments which we simply cannot allow in the report because they have nothing to do with the issue of women's health.
Madam President, I refer to Rule 112 on the quorum.
You cannot request it alone; you need the support of 29 Members of the House.
We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion of referral back to the committee. (The matter was referred back to the committee responsible) I was disregarded earlier.
I beg your pardon, but you must read your Rules of Procedure very carefully.
In any case, the vote on referral back to committee was passed successfully.
Thus, this agenda item is closed, as the report was referred back to the committee.
Mrs García Arias wishes to speak on a point of order.
Mrs García Arias, the debate is closed.
The Members have voted, and the vote was very clear.
Madam President, this report has given me with a lot of interesting work.
However, this reasoning means that there are great difficulties in introducing any environmental taxes at all.
The Committee regrets that no advances were made in the Treaty of Amsterdam with regard to taking decisions at the EU level on the question of introducing environmental taxes.
A restructuring of taxes would increase the competitiveness of European industry and make Europe more competitive in a tougher world market.
There is, in other words, a large degree of freedom for the Member States.
Because of this, all the legislation in the EU is lagging behind in this area, while consumers and companies are clamouring for change.
Madam President, I think this move towards imposing environmental taxes throughout Europe is an important one.
The fact that a harmonized approach to environmental taxation in different countries is now being considered and must be considered, will mean that those countries that have already voluntarily imposed environmental taxes will no longer have to bear the pressure that presently comes from industry, which claims that they are freely giving away a competitive edge to their competitors.
There are various possible ways of tackling these problems.
Of course, we must now ask the general question: why are environmental taxes and duties not much more widespread in Europe and in the world, in our Member States and at Union level?
I believe that here in the Chamber too there is broad agreement on this report.
They actually suggest that environmental taxation might be decided on the basis of Article 130 of the Treaty, which would certainly also facilitate the decision-making process.
In cases where environmental charges threaten competition between the Member States, tax concessions could be an acceptable alternative.
It is important for environmental charges to be set in a proper way and to be based on solid factual foundations, such as in the form of life-cycle analyses.
This situation guarantees slavery in China and unemployment here.
However, I said that the approach may be a fiscal one.
But wait - not in terms of additional taxes, but by looking at tax in a fresh way through a far-reaching fiscal reform which combines social and environmental dimensions within the very bases of fiscal calculations.
A country must be free to introduce higher environmental charges to demonstrate that it is possible and to show the positive effects this step can have.
Our aim must be to reduce the burden on our citizens in order to have to take away as little as possible of their wages.
The Commission is somewhat lacking in vision in this area, despite many years of discussing with us the need for external aspects to be given consideration in fixing pricing levels.
The report is sympathetic to the need to provide scope for political intervention in the market, if we are going to save our environment.
However, I think the Commission should await the findings of studies into the efficacy and effect of environmental taxes and charges before pursuing initiatives to introduce such charges.
The Commission has repeatedly advocated increased use of fiscal instruments to promote an environmental policy that would have greater impact while also being more cost-effective.
The communication on environmental taxes and charges addresses the legal framework applicable to Member States, together with the possibilities and limitations on the use of environmental taxes and charges in the single market.
Thus, the communication could serve as a kind of guideline to Member States.
The reactions to the communication that have come back to us demonstrate that it is a useful instrument for political decisionmakers in Member States and applicant countries alike.
I note with pleasure that all Member States are, in fact, considering increasing the use of environmental taxes and charges.
I share Mr Olsson's conviction that society would benefit from a green tax reform both in terms of employment and in terms of the environment.
With regard to specific proposals, DG XI has already begun studying the potential for introducing EU-wide levies on pesticides.
As regards drawing up further guidelines, this is more difficult, because Member States have quite extensive powers in this area.
I fully agree with what the report says regarding the desirability of a more effective EU decision-making process in this area.
However, we are all well aware that fiscal matters require unanimity in the Council.
I would like to touch on point 2 of the motion for a resolution, because it is alleged here that we failed to take account of the ramifications of the proposal on energy charges.
I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity to emphasize the importance I attach to the Commission's proposal for a framework directive on water, which is already before the House.
Water charges for the purpose of ensuring that costs are fully covered are an essential element of this directive, and I hope I can count on your support in the debate on this subject that we can expect to have with the Council.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon. (The sitting was closed at 10.35 p.m.)
