Are there any comments?
I tabled a question on working time specifically addressed to Commissioner Kinnock.
It states that Pauline Green, London North PSE, requested the House to delay the vote on the motions for resolution scheduled for voting on Wednesday at 12 noon.
Mr President, the Commission's proposal is designed to enable those who are unemployed to spend longer than the three months currently allowed looking for work in another country without losing their entitlement to unemployment benefit.
You have to have savings behind you, because looking for work in another country means that you will get the lowest rate of benefit for the shortest period of time.
This is good news, and is something which the European Parliament and I myself called for in the 1995 report by the Committee on Social Affairs.
Hitherto, when employed persons who have always resided in another Member State have become wholly unemployed in the Member State of employment, there has been a problem in defining their rights.
While frontier workers have automatically been subject to the legislation of the Member State of residence, other types of worker - in particular, seasonal workers - have been able to choose between the systems of the two Member States concerned.
And, on the other, this situation represents a major obstacle to the completion of the internal market, in particular the establishment of the free movement of workers.
In this context, the Commission proposal seeks to extend the possibility of choosing between the unemployment systems of the Member State of employment and the Member State of residence to frontier workers.
I therefore welcome this proposal, which will bring about a significant improvement in the circumstances of this group of workers.
But it is also true that this proposal represents a major step forward for a large number of European Union workers; and you have the honour, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, of having promoted and fought for those workers' rights.
Payment of those benefits will be made on behalf of the institution of the competent state by the institution of the Member State in which the unemployed person is looking for work.
I should like to end, Mr President, by congratulating the rapporteur and underlining the fact that this report represents a major step forward in the promotion of workers' rights - promoting the mobility of EU workers - and in the completion of the internal market.
The regulation under consideration today guarantees real freedom of movement for workers in the European Union, by ensuring that social benefits will be continued and social security schemes will still apply.
But this text is now inadequate, given that unemployment has become an inescapable reality.
Someone seeking work in another Member State must be able to obtain social benefits in kind without any difficulty and, above all, must have access to health care.
I should like to thank the rapporteur for her text and, on behalf of the UPE Group, I fully endorse this report.
The Parliament shares the Commission's opinion that unemployed persons should be able to spend more than three months as currently foreseen looking for work in another Member State without losing their entitlement to unemployment benefit.
Mr Pompidou made particular reference to this matter as well.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we are about to deal with an issue today that ought to have been back on the European agenda some time ago, and I am glad that the Commission has provided us with a very useful discussion document.
On the other hand, while I have a great deal of sympathy for Amendments Nos 27, 28 and 29, they are unrelated to my report, and in fact belong in another context.
Demands are being placed on us in terms of changing social structures and the need for measures to accompany new patterns of work in Europe: for example, atypical conditions of employment - not only part-time employment, but the many and varied individual forms of atypical employment conditions that now exist in Europe.
And demands are being placed on us - and this is the nub of the matter - in terms of working together with regional and national bodies to combat unemployment, because we all know that unemployment is the main cause of the financial problems in our social security systems.
That is also the reason why we have asked for an employment chapter in the revised Treaty.
We wish to pursue the debate with the Commission, the Council, the social partners, NGOs and welfare organizations in the Member States.
Ladies and gentlemen, in my report I have put forward a package of proposals.
I would therefore ask you to vote in favour of my report.
Mr President, I should like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak to Parliament on this very important subject which is before the House today.
At the same time, we all realize that the process of actually putting these key objectives into practice is still in its infancy.
The White Paper on growth, competitiveness and employment, the Delors White Paper, is still extremely relevant to the further development of our ideas on this point.
We organized a conference entitled 'Social policy and economic performance' at the end of January in Amsterdam, where we attempted to see social policy not just as a social desideratum, but also as a production factor for generating growth, employment and prosperity in the Union, in order to have a clearer view of the synthesis between social policy and economic performance.
This should also make it possible to accelerate the convergence of labour market and employment policy, as a further important element of economic and monetary integration.
The second subject we intend to discuss at the informal Council meeting will be the need felt by almost all the Member States to bring labour costs down and thereby make it easier to integrate job-seekers with low skill levels in particular.
The Commission rightly points out in the report on the economic situation in the Union that the substitution of capital for labour and the low level of investment in the Union are the two main causes of the negative employment balance which has evolved in recent years and which urgently needs to be corrected.
Flexibility from the workers, so that they can be genuinely available on the labour market in a way which will benefit economic growth, but also greater social security and pension security, so that the employers too help to create a motivation to work, which is also important for meeting the second condition I would like to mention: creating a higher level of work productivity.
These conditions must be created irrespective of the level of affluence in the Member States.
However, the challenge we are facing today is how to modernize Europe's social protection systems and how to adapt them to a new situation in a rapidly changing world without abandoning the core values of solidarity and cohesion.
Because of the complexity and uncertainty, I proposed at the end of 1995 the launching of a new initiative on social protection which I called the framework for a European debate on the future of social protection.
The idea was that each Member State should find its own set of solutions to satisfy its own particular systems.
The discussion here today reminds us of two things: firstly, the future of social protection is a complex question; secondly, the debate is an essential one and one that cannot be ducked.
In that framework for the European debate on the future of social protection, the communication from the Commission has analysed a lot of the common challenges that are facing us: how to make social protection more employment-friendly; how to improve the financing of the social protection systems and how to cope with the ageing of European societies, especially as far as old age pensions are concerned; and how to better manage health care systems.
In 1992 the Council outlined in a recommendation on social protection what it saw as the common objectives which would determine the reform of these national systems.
The Weiler report states in Part V of its explanatory statement that today the aim must be to continue that debate, and I agree with that.
First of all, Mr President, I should like to welcome Mr Melkert to the House of which he himself almost became a Member some time ago, but the selection committee thought he was too young and needed more experience at national level, a recommendation which he has more than fulfilled.
One of the most controversial issues in the debate on this report in the Committee on Social Affairs was the question of convergence.
Article 17 of the Treaty, which the United Kingdom also signed, makes it quite clear that the common market is to promote the harmonization of social systems and free trade, and is to combat unfair competition.
I hope that this will encourage all UK Members in the vote tomorrow to stop complaining about such issues.
And, if possible, in the course of time, harmonization of the social protection systems, something which is demanded, in any case, by the philosophy of the single market.
Mr President, there are currently several challenges facing our systems of social protection: a demographic challenge resulting from the ageing of the population, an economic challenge due to unemployment, and a social challenge, not least because in Europe we must preserve the concept of solidarity.
Faced with these challenges, it is not enough for us in Europe merely to adjust the present system by introducing rules designed to remove obstacles to freedom of movement; the EU must also square up to its responsibilities.
However, I believe that social security schemes should certainly not be reformed in a rigid way, but must be adapted to new conditions of employment, particularly with regard to flexibility and mobility, as a number of other Members have pointed out.
I would also add that this notion of solidarity is compatible with greater personal involvement, with more individual responsibility on the part of our citizens.
I think that to individualize social security schemes in this way would in fact be detrimental to the cohesion and harmonious development of society.
The Minister said that he wants a dialogue with Parliament, on which I believe him to be sincere, and I think he has put forward some very good proposals on the convergence of the social labour market and employment policy, and on employment policy indicators.
Mr President, when we speak of the future of social protection in Europe, we are at the same time speaking about the whole future of Europe.
It is therefore important to ensure that common minima can always be exceeded if a decision in favour of this is taken at national level.
This applies both to society and to enterprises.
If we wish to guarantee the security of Europe's citizens, the answer lies rather in improving social security and social services than in stepping up policing.
Mr President, the Commission's document, which formed the basis of Mrs Weiler's report from the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment on the future of social protection, was meant create a framework for debate and to establish a basis for joint discussions.
This applies equally to social security benefits.
On the other hand, I do think that coordination is required and also a number of minimum levels of social protection agreed between Member States to avoid social dumping and to satisfy employees' rights and promote free movement of people.
The requirement for the regulation of unsocial working hours is also an important point in the report as is our amendment proposal on financing social systems.
Mr President, the Weiler report is an extremely important one and has come at just the right moment, in my view.
What I mean is that 40 or 50 years ago, it was quite reasonable for social security to be mainly financed by contributions from labour, since it was a period of high employment.
In my country, for example, the difference between a worker's gross wage and what he actually receives is reaching surreal proportions.
One of the central paragraphs in the Weiler report is paragraph 9 on alternative methods of financing, which I think presents a very useful and fair proposal.
Since each of our countries has its own social traditions and social history, it would be more advisable to retain and restore the most advanced national schemes, and to develop the others.
It is in fact the responsibility of each state, nationally, to take clear steps to safeguard and further develop a system of social protection which guarantees everyone health insurance, unemployment benefit and a pension, but also a system that will promote and support the family.
I would also say to our colleagues that if they wish to maintain effective models of social protection, Europe must turn its back on its ultra-liberal, free-trade, internationalist economic policy, the main effect of which is to produce unemployment in Europe.
Opening our borders to international competition is totally irreconcilable with preserving our social security schemes, and the lack of social clauses within the WTO is criminal for our economies and social systems in Europe.
The one-track approach, which now seems to permeate and contaminate everything, insists on reducing reality to the market-place, deregulation and individualism, denying any role for the public sector, politics or the State in the structuring of society.
Some years ago, when we in Spain were seeking to join the common project of European integration, we did so because Europe meant freedom, but also because it provided a reference point for a society which had adopted the principles of the welfare state: indeed, in difficult times, it was the European social model that provided the backbone for our society by institutionalizing the social rights of citizens.
The common Europe which we champion as social democrats is built on the defence of human rights, pluralist democracy and social protection.
In the face of the challenges now before us, which are addressed by this excellent report - defending social protection, an issue closely linked to that of employment - we cannot act timidly or stay on the back foot.
Defending flexibility and security is a commitment, just as making progress towards social convergence - and making the same efforts to achieve it as we do to achieve economic convergence - is a commitment too.
Hopefully this report - which, I repeat, is a good one - and this debate will serve the cause of progress and construction, and not that of destruction - although for that we have to continue to believe in politics, the public sector and the role of the State, to believe in ideas and values.
Mr President, it is no exaggeration, in my view, to say that the existing levels of social protection in the European Union today are by far the highest in the world.
Over the last few years, many people have accused the European social protection system of being responsible for the loss of competitiveness of European industry.
They have tried to create a dichotomy - which in my view does not exist at all - between social protection and the competitiveness of our economies.
The reasoning put forward by those who uphold this dichotomy is as follows: in an increasingly open and globalized world economy, products manufactured in Europe have inevitable added costs which those manufactured in Asia, for example, do not.
It is true that the existing tax burden on employment in the Member States is making it difficult to achieve a level of competitiveness that will enable us to maintain market share in competition with other countries.
But we all know that price is not the only factor to determine the competitiveness of a product: there is also quality, design, innovation, and so on.
Mr President, the subjects dealt with by the Weiler report are very complex ones, because changing demographic realities in the Union are characterized by a general increase in the average age, a fall in the birthrate and - we must not forget - an increase in the age at which young people enter employment.
All this inevitably results in a state of crisis in the present social protection system, further heightened by the increased globalization of markets and the resulting need for greater competitiveness on the part of enterprises and of the entire European economic and production system.
This report provides a solid basis for argument.
Finally, I would like to emphasize one last point contained in Amendment No 29, where it is stated that it is necessary for multilateral agreements to include environmental and social clauses based on the model of an international labour organization.
Mr President, a secure social welfare system is an important part of a democracy but it is primarily the responsibility of Member States.
Mrs Weiler's report is very positive in many respects.
But the fact is that people are so concerned with other things, with other areas which they see as national when in fact they are transnational, that very little attention is paid to the questions of social protection in Europe and its future, in what really should be the subject of a Europe-wide debate.
Any position based on Article 2 of the Treaty of Rome, which the Maastricht Treaty did not alter, defining the general objectives of the association of the Member States, and on Article 117, which Maastricht also did not change, or undermine, clearly imposing the principle of political orientation, almost appears strange since it is becoming increasingly necessary.
The principle of social equalisation in progress represents or should represent the cornerstone and philosophical basis of the construction of a Europe forming a mosaic of different national situations and the product of cooperation and solidarity between and on behalf of its people.
We must congratulate Barbara Weiler on emphasising this legal basis and, in particular, the progressive characteristic of a dynamic which seems perverted because all that is mentioned is technical and nominative harmonisations, and divergencies or negative convergences are confronted on the social plane.
I only have time to make one particular remark, and I would like to draw attention to point 21 in the proposal as the subject for debate which has to remain open in terms of evolutions in employment, working time and free time.
It is undoubtedly too soon to move towards complete harmonization in the fields of social protection, pensions, family policy and health.
I see three major challenges in terms of modernizing and harmonizing our social security schemes.
The first, and by no means the least important, is unemployment: 20 million people are unemployed and 50 million marginalized!
Once our countries use the euro, in other words when they all have the same exchange rates and interest rates, they will be left with only two weapons for attracting investment: one fiscal and the other social.
The third challenge is the funding of our social security schemes, which are too heavily based on income from employment.
Mr President, will it be possible in the future to maintain the diversity which exists among the social systems of the different European countries?
The Commission's report on social protection in 1995 does not give a clear answer to this question.
But that is not exactly the question asked by the Commission.
It would seem more logical to us for diversity to be maintained, so that each country keeps the right to govern itself in accordance with the real needs of its citizens.
However, this diversity will of course have to be accompanied by a regular exchange of ideas and experience at European level, and must also preserve freedom of movement for workers through mechanisms for the transfer of acquired social rights from one country to another.
The Commission does not seem entirely satisfied by this type of answer, however, since it is raising other arguments.
Secondly, the Commission expresses concern about the distortions in competition which could be caused by diversity in social security systems, since companies in countries where social protection is generous might be put at a disadvantage.
Mr President, Commissioner Flynn, Mr President-in-Office, the invitation to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to approve a motion for a resolution on the two documents transmitted by the Commission - the communication on the future of social protection and the report on the state of social protection in Europe - confronted the rapporteur, Barbara Weiler, whom I congratulate on her efforts, with the task of clarifying the term 'social protection' , which is not to be understood simply as social security, in the sense of collectively arranged insurance, but also as including social protection provided by the government and schemes resulting from collective insurance arrangements as well as private ones.
First, it is necessary to clarify the role of the European Union in the field of social protection, which must be more active and provide for schemes organized in consultation with the Member States, and support the gradual convergence of social protection systems in those States, developing a set of joint minimum criteria and preventing competition from causing a steady erosion of social protection.
Secondly, and I find it difficult to go into more detail here in the two minutes available to me, some agreement will have to be reached both with the Commission and with the rapporteur on the fact that the social protection schemes will have to be adapted to the changing needs of the labour market.
The national parliaments must give more debating time to social security, bearing in mind the need to encourage and sustain a high level of employment.
Nearly 20 million unemployed people in Europe can tell us about that.
To those who support this kind of modernization, I would say this: a very interesting study has been published in Belgium, commissioned by the OECD, on the links between poverty, the labour market and social security.
I would call for a European convergence strategy which takes full account of subsidiarity and involves at least the following: firstly, urgent measures to refinance social security.
I would urge the Dutch presidency to force a breakthrough in this extremely important area - there are already proposals on the table.
I hope that this debate on the Commission communication will finally lead to effective European action in this field.
The fact is that we must overcome the difficulties which have emerged in Europe's various social systems as a result of rising unemployment and the growing proportion of elderly people in the population.
It is important to discuss these issues at European level.
Under Article 117 of the Treaty, progress should be made towards harmonizing living standards and working conditions as we move forward.
Earlier today, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten delivered a report on this aspect.
Perhaps, Minister, it is not too late for you to express a view on that report.
Coordinating social protection systems at European level will not be easy.
The rapporteur has done an enormous amount of work.
Finally, it must be said that the economic strait-jacket that Maastricht is tightening around us is threatening to lead to social disintegration in many countries, and this too is a lesson that we really have to take on board today.
This can be viewed as a problem or as an opportunity.
I have already mentioned the most important which is that we must reduce unemployment to reduce costs and increase employment to bring in a higher income to be able to finance the system.
But from a long term point of view a balanced budget is good for the social system as well.
Mr President, I believe that the high level of participation in this debate bears witness to its timeliness and importance.
It is rare that so many Members speak on an issue of concern to us: in this case the future of European social welfare systems, which have many points in common - as previous speakers have pointed out - in the sense that all the Member States have some kind of state and collective provision for social protection and income support for those citizens who need it most.
That is the harsh reality, therefore; and it is a harsh reality which the European Union has to face.
Well, then, I believe that the notion that budgetary discipline and monetary stability are sufficient to survive in the world of economics is a senseless one.
The single currency and the Stability Pact, in the form of straitjackets and without a similar pact for development, will not motivate Europe; without a pact for development and without a social Europe, Europe cannot stand on its feet.
Mr President, it seems to be becoming politically fashionable now to say that we cannot afford to maintain the European model of social protection.
Barbara Weiler says quite clearly and, in my opinion, quite correctly, that we cannot afford not to maintain that system and that we should not even want to.
It would be morally wrong to remove or reduce the support that we offer to people when, for whatever reason, they are in need, be it as a result of age, disability, health or unemployment.
Hiving it off to the private sector will be less effective in terms of meeting people's needs and also inefficient in purely financial terms - it is more costly.
Apart from being morally wrong to abandon the social protection model that we have in Europe, it would be a huge mistake in practical terms.
The most important point in the Weiler report - and this focuses on the real problem, the real reason why our social security bills are so high - is that we are faced with such a high proportion of unemployed men and women, so the real challenge to all of us here in the European Union is to create a Europe of full employment.
Mr President, I should like to say at the outset that I fully endorse the excellent report by my colleague Barbara Weiler, and the Commission's report.
I would draw your attention, Commissioner, to the fact that our social protection as a whole will be at great risk unless we guard against a trend, in a growing number of countries, towards a reduction in health cover, on the pretext of making savings, improving management or giving beneficiaries more responsibility - all of which are valid arguments - and towards a transfer of risk from compulsory schemes to top-up schemes.
You will remember, Commissioner, the unfortunate experience of the Blue Cross foundations in the United States, which were so full of life 50 years ago, but which are now dead and buried.
Mr President, I have listened to the debate with great interest, and I think it has shown that there is now greater support for more detailed discussions on the whole issue of social protection in the Member States and coordination at European level.
The suggested opposition between economic independence and support for the special situations of families need not exist if men and women have greater freedom of choice both on the labour market and in bearing responsibility for the family; any suggestion of a conflict of interests here will simply lead to unnecessary polarization.
It will also be doing justice to the visionary work of Jacques Delors in his White Paper a few years ago, which showed us exactly how greater cohesion and reliance on partnership should form the basis for the Europe of tomorrow.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on the indication of the prices of products offered to consumers has a very lengthy history.
The new proposal which the Commission put forward in April 1995 followed Parliament's recommendations, which we were pleased to see.
This has meant deleting some provisions from the Council text because they were superfluous or likely to be confusing.
The directive can deliver it and I hope will do so.
But it has to be able to deliver mindful of the concerns and worries that have been expressed, not just in my country, but in other Member States as well.
I am glad to say that I believe that the British loaf, and other items cherished in my country, can be appropriately indicated in terms of price notification.
This is a very difficult directive for the European Parliament to consider.
Amendment No 5 is a very curious amendment indeed.
Amendment No 7 is a crucial one where the report seeks to delete the exemption for small firms.
Amendment No 10 deals with the question of the one-year period by which time the Commission shall review the directive.
Mr President, this directive - and the rapporteur, whom I thank for all the work she has done - have set themselves two ambitious objectives.
Regarding Amendment No 24, our group is in favour of this.
Price marking is a technologically poor solution if each individual item is to be marked, whereas price indication can be displayed on the edge of a shelf or in some other position.
We must ensure that this directive facilitates technological development in the retail trade, both for large and for small enterprises.
Mr President, Parliament adopted a number of amendments at first reading, some of which the Commission has incorporated in its amended proposal.
The procedure proposed by the Commission in the new Article 6, requiring the Member States to produce lists based on the common nomenclature, seems particularly long-winded.
Fortunately, Article 7 offers scope for this requirement to be waived for a number of products.
One of the issues which should be raised in this consumer campaign must relate, as has already been mentioned by the rapporteur, to the introduction of dual pricing in our shops and supermarkets in euros and in punts.
The time frame for economic and monetary union has been set out and, as we all know, those countries who will be the first to join the EMU will be selected in 1998 on the basis of the 1997 economic statistics.
That was initiated, of course, almost ten years ago by former Commissioner Ray McSharry as Irish Minister for Finance.
This has, of course, put Ireland in the solid economic position which it is in today to meet the convergence criteria of EMU.
The central banks of these countries will then converge under the auspices of the European Central Bank in 1999.
However, we must not make the same mistakes that surrounded the introduction of decimalisation in Ireland in 1972.
I am confident that the Irish and European consumer organisations will support this proposal and that EMU will become a reality in the near future despite the apprehensions of certain members of the Union.
I did not quite understand whether Amendment No 24 had been withdrawn.
The situation in a town with many small shops in Greece is entirely different from the situation in the Netherlands, for example.
Mr President, the second reading on the proposal for this directive on the indication of the prices of products offered to consumers gives me the opportunity to say how happy I am with the very favourable attitude of the European Parliament to consumer protection and information.
The few amendments that we cannot endorse - Nos 9, 15 and 16 - concern the dual pricing in national currencies and euros at the time of introduction of the single currency.
Amendments Nos 23 and 24 relate to the detailed rules of application of price indication and the Commission considers that the Member States are in the best position to determine them.
I hope that, thanks to the proposed amendments, the remainder of the legislative procedure concerning this proposal for a directive on price indications can advance now rapidly without any hitches.
If I could just add one more comment, I had some very detailed discussions with the officials from the Commission on Amendment No 9, the fifteenth recital, and the article on the euro.
Then there is Amendment No 25.
Amendments Nos 23 and 24 make it easier for small retailers to apply the system, and I would urge you to consider them.
The debate is closed.
We are voting today on three - and only three - amendments which have been the subject of a negotiated compromise between the rapporteur and the Commission.
I would therefore ask you, Madam President, only to put the last three amendments to the vote, all together, partly because they have already been approved by a large majority in the Committee on Agriculture.
In Recital F, on page 4, last line, after 'rate of unemployment' we read: ' which is 21.3 % in the south, compared with 7.1 % in the north and 10.2 % in central Italy, the national average being 12.2 % (ISTAT figures - December 1996) and the community average 10.8 % (EUROSTAT figures - September 1996)' .
Madam President, I do think it is probably incumbent upon this House to produce up-to-date reports but I would also insist that the statistics are checked not only by national or regional indicators, but with Eurostat, to make sure that we have the latest, up-to-date figures and not figures which some Members may wish to insert to make their case look worse in terms of their structural funds.
Mrs McCarthy, I can assure you straight away that it is the Eurostat figures which are referred to in this oral amendment. (Parliament agreed to the tabling of the oral amendment) - On paragraph 4 Madam President, I asked for the floor merely to point out that paragraph 4, in the last few lines, provided for the verification of certain data which could be done on 31 December 1996.
So, Mr Podestà, you are proposing to delete the final part of paragraph 4, following the phrase you quoted from the Italian text.
In other words, you would like the ARE Group to propose an oral amendment to its own amendment.
Madam President, my group does not have a copy of this amendment, nor does it exist in the actual amendments which have been tabled.
It seems to me that the situation really is very confused.
I shall therefore put the amendment to the vote in the form in which it was tabled by the ARE Group, and as it now stands.
Mr Podestà asked the group to withdraw it.
The Commission really must take this matter up with the Member States, and the European Union must bring forward rules which are in keeping with our principles and our Treaties.
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of the European Parliament's report on the Commission's proposal to extend by three months the period in which an unemployed person moving to an EU country other than his homeland is entitled to receive unemployment benefit.
The Danish Social Democrats have a positive attitude to an extension of the existing three-month period in which an unemployed person is entitled to seek employment in another Member State.
This new system, which will replace the old system of giving only the package price, without referring to the unit price, will provide consumers with more information and increase their ability to compare and choose.
In seeking to protect its company, Chiquita, the United States - for some inexplicable reason, since it does not produce any bananas itself - decided that two million tonnes, with a customs duty of only ECU 75 per tonne rather than ECU 825 per tonne, was not enough.
At last, thanks to Mr Santini, we have arrived not at a half-way position, but at a moderate one.
We support those proposals which favour the import of fair trade bananas which have been grown under approved ecological and social conditions.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations was opposed to the adoption of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, but supported the final resolution contained in Mr Santini's report.
It is also a question of protecting those producers who have opted to apply much higher social standards than many others.
Matikainen-Kallström report (A4-0041/97) The thinking behind this Energy Charter protocol is positive and the proposal contains many good suggestions and views which we support.
Well, in a situation of budgetary rigour, in a situation where Italy and its government are asking the Italian people to make sacrifices to secure entry into Europe, the fact that one of the founding States of the Community is in serious structural difficulties, not to say incapable of administering these funds correctly -so that we are constantly having to ask for delays and extensions, and then the national authorities are forced to step in to remedy the shortcomings of the regions - is absolutely intolerable.
I would have hoped that the European Parliament would be more critical, providing more of a spur to the Italian government, not by way of intervening in its internal affairs but simply in the interests of the proper functioning of the institutions.
Mr President, the European Parliament's right to set up committees of inquiry was laid down in the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 and developed further in an interinstitutional decision of 1995.
The committee's work took around five months, and its results, like those of all work carried out under pressure of time, will no doubt present some difficulties.
In the course of our work, we received several kilos of documentation from the Commission, the Council, government bodies, and national and international scientific institutions.
The Committee of Inquiry is now presenting to Parliament part A of its report, which consists of the results of the inquiry, recommendations for the future, and the minority opinions.
A number of the members of the Committee of Inquiry went to the United Kingdom and visited the plants in question; they found that what had been happening was that animal remains - many of which were probably infected with other diseases - had been used in the manufacture of animal feeds and allowed to enter the food chain, without any kind of control.
I believe that this is a totally unacceptable system, which violates the constitutional principles of all our Member States, and that it will be unacceptable if the Intergovernmental Conference results in these executive powers being retained by the Council.
The Committee of Inquiry could have restricted itself to recording these contraventions or cases of maladministration, but it seemed appropriate for it to make some kind of recommendations based on its experience and what it had learnt.
Our recommendations cover a range of topics, but one of them is, of course, aimed at increasing transparency throughout the beef sector.
I believe that with this report, Mr President, Parliament is making an important contribution to the development of the Community institutions and the improvement of the welfare of the Community's citizens.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this committee of inquiry has spent six months on the trail of madness, in every sense of the word.
This has been a new experience for all of us, and it certainly also involved testing out a number of grey areas in the interinstitutional agreement on the right of inquiry.
In accordance with the mandate given to us by the House and on the basis of that agreement of 19 April 1995, to which all the institutions have committed themselves, we have tried to find out the truth and determine any responsibility for negligent and culpable behaviour.
Despite our limited right of inquiry, there is now a wealth of facts and evidence which make two things clear.
Firstly, this Parliament is in a position to use the right of inquiry as an instrument of control at any time, and it can be applied in other cases too.
We also need a commitment from the Commission, the Council and Parliament that the relevant precautions will be taken, through appropriate initiatives and legislative proposals, including budgetary policy.
The details of this strange and alarming mixture of ignorance, mismanagement and misjudgement are very well documented in the report through many examples.
Many of the measures adopted and implemented in 1996 came several years too late, and practical errors committed in the past are still hampering us in combating BSE today - and not just in the United Kingdom.
There was an inability to make preventive consumer protection a central issue within the internal market, and a lack of interest in doing so.
I very much welcome the ruling by the European Court of Justice of 12 July 1996, which gave internal market case law a new quality in terms of health and consumer policy.
We are naturally aware, Mr Santer, that in many areas, the Commission can only be as good as some Member States allow it to be.
Even if no one has suffered harm because of this decision and this toing and froing, Mr Santer, do you really think that our citizens can understand such stage management and see it as a credible policy?
That was a strategic mistake. (Applause) And presenting this appalling press release of 16 December at the end of the investigations, as if this committee of inquiry had never existed, struck me as an insult. (Applause) The same applies, I am sorry to say, to the fact that at the end of the proceedings, the full set of documents requested from the meeting of the BSE Subgroup of 8 January 1997 was not forwarded to us in good time, but only selected items.
I think you were badly advised in this respect, Mr Fischler and Mr Santer.
Some very clear and strict recommendations were made in this respect by the Committee of Inquiry: the question of reorganization; the question of responsibility, including disciplinary measures; the question of a joint body to solve the animal meal problems once and for all; and also the legal basis, Mr Santer.
You should likewise see the text of this resolution, Mr Santer, on which we shall be voting tomorrow, as an invitation, as an opportunity to improve matters.
But if things are not changed satisfactorily and we see serious shortcomings, then in the coming months there will have to be a very serious debate and some very serious initiatives will have to be taken, including the question of applying Article 144 of the Treaty.
The Commission is well represented, and I am grateful to it for that.
You are strangling at birth the Europe of our children, and all because you refuse to assume your political responsibilities in respect of the extremely serious affair - if ever there was one - of BSE.
Tomorrow, the Members of the European Parliament will be called upon to vote on a resolution stemming from the Committee of Inquiry's report.
On Thursday, I shall call on all the Members of the European Parliament to imagine, leaving aside partisan divisions or whatever interests they may have, that tomorrow, in a year, in five years, in perhaps ten years, their son or daughter is afflicted by the terrible disease known as new variant CJD.
Mr Santer, you have the choice between staying with dishonour and resigning with honour.
The report is extremely critical of all the main players in this affair, including the Commission, and reading it shows the need for a series of measures to be taken to rectify the shortcomings and failings that clearly exist, as well as raising questions for the future.
But I would also point out that a series of measures designed to prevent all risks to human health were taken at both national and Community level from 1989 or 1990 onwards.
I would add, in this context, that a number of Commission proposals aimed at strengthening the health dimension of the internal market did not come to fruition.
As for the Commission, I would stress the fact that it has never fallen short of implementing the scientific recommendations in full.
On many occasions, it has gone beyond what has been recommended, with the aim of preventing any risk to human health.
Like Parliament, I would have liked more research to have been carried out, and in particular more research results to have been obtained.
The Commission has put forward proposals to this effect.
Thirdly, has the Commission handled this crisis well or badly?
I would agree that the operation of the Commission's services has left much to be desired, including under the present Commission, and I would join with the rapporteur in deploring the absence of specific checks on BSE between 1990 and 1994, whatever reasons are given for this.
As your report makes clear, there is an urgent need to review both the organization and the functioning of the Commission's services and, more generally, the system for preparing and taking decisions.
I wish to give a clear answer to this question, since the Commission's decision to provide for a conditional lifting of the embargo on gelatine has been portrayed in this light.
Political representations were certainly made on this issue by a national government - as they are on many other dossiers - and that is quite normal.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to focus on the specific lessons that I have drawn from this affair, and set out some proposals which, I hope, will correspond to your recommendations for the future.
For the sake of our citizens and consumers, the measures to be adopted must serve to remedy the shortcomings highlighted in your report.
In future, all the relevant scientific committees will be placed under the authority of a revamped DG XXIV, which will therefore also deal with consumer health.
The formulation of scientific opinions and the drafting of legislation will be clearly separated.
Mrs Bonino will be contacting Parliament in the future, with a view to discussing all these issues before the proposals are finalized.
Thus, the Veterinary Inspection Office in Dublin will report to DG XXIV.
I continue to believe that the creation of an independent agency, as proposed by the Commission, represents the best solution, and I would urge the Council to reconsider its present negative position on this matter.
The Commission will do everything necessary in its areas of responsibility, but it will need the support of this arm of the budgetary authority - Parliament - when it proposes a supplementary and amending budget.
The Commission is already working on proposals for the reform of the CAP, which it will present following the conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference, in the context of the financial package for the future and with a view to enlargement.
This is not always a foregone conclusion in the different Member States.
We shall all need courage and determination, but that will not be the end of it, since the questions raised - questions which, in truth, affect the whole of society - require answers which go beyond the purely agricultural sphere.
In this sense, I am in favour of systematic and compulsory labelling, and I also believe that we should consider setting up an independent agency which is geared to the Community's specific needs, drawing on the positive aspects of the US Food and Drug Administration.
The answers to these difficult questions - which have ethical, scientific, social and economic aspects - must come from the whole of society.
In this context, I am proposing that the Commission and Parliament organize together a major interdisciplinary conference on the subjects of food and health.
The first is to involve the European Parliament in the decisionmaking process to a far greater extent in future.
Under the present Treaty, and in line with the thinking behind the Commission's internal reorganization, we shall in future be favouring the use of Article 100a for all proposals whose main subject is veterinary or phytosanitary matters.
And I am expecting them to have the courage to apply this principle to the CAP as well. (Applause) The second imperative, Mr President, is to grant the Community genuine powers and responsibilities in the area of health.
Yesterday, the Commission tabled a specific proposal for a substantially revised Article 129 at the IGC.
This proposal provides for three major improvements: firstly, improved coordination of the Member States' policies; secondly, the implementation by the Community of the necessary harmonization measures in the public health sector; and, thirdly, codecision on all health matters.
I believe, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the time has come to create a Europe of health.
The whole Commission is committed to making its contribution to this process, for the sake of Europe and of its citizens. (Applause) Mr President, the Socialist Group welcomes and endorses the report and recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into BSE.
This Parliament is today demonstrating that we take our role of monitoring and controlling the unelected institutions of the European Union very seriously.
I wish to make clear that for my group at all times the paramount concern has been the health of the people of the European Union.
It is this kind of cynical, opportunist behaviour which destroys confidence in Britain and the rest of Europe and demonstrates that the British Government does not put health and consumer safety - let alone economic good sense - at the top of its agenda.
It succumbed to pressure from the British Government; it watered down Commission proposals in the Agriculture Council and generally used the elite club of the Council to look after national interests rather than those of the people of the Union.
It reinforces the view of my group that the Council, when acting as a corporate body, hides behind the members' individual democratic legitimacy and acts together in a secretive and unacceptable way.
If the reforms are not genuine, appropriate or fast enough to deal with the recommendations of the committee of inquiry, then my group will join with others in tabling a motion of censure on the Commission at an appropriate time in the months before or during November of this year.
Finally, my group will not support the motion of censure on the European Commission before this House today.
Our group endorses the findings of this report.
Between 1990 and 1994, veterinary BSE inspections were suspended in the UK.
As you know, Article 5 of the Treaty sets out the principle of loyalty to the Community.
However, the Council is also to blame for the passivity and delays in fighting the epidemic in the UK, for taking wrong decisions and providing poor coordination in protecting public health, and for the disinformation of the public.
We think that Commissioner Fischler should take the opportunity in this debate to explain the two errors which he is accused of making in the report.
However, as the Committee of Inquiry said, the political consequences of this inquiry will be felt in the changes of structure, policy and personnel which have to be made in order to repair the serious omissions and errors of the past.
The Commission's political responsibility now lies in carrying out these fundamental reforms, because, as the Medina report says, this will serve the Committee of Inquiry's purposes better than simply dismissing the Commission outright.
Our group therefore confirms that it has confidence in the Commission to implement these reforms.
It needs to take urgent action to restore the credibility of the European Union by giving public health and consumer protection precedence over economic interests.
It is quite obvious that the Commission has a clear legal basis here for exercising its powers under Article 129 in the field of public health and Article 129a in the field of consumer protection.
Furthermore, this lack of transparency allows national or private lobbies to prevail over the Community or general interest.
These lobbies have virtually taken over some Commission departments, as well as the extraordinary advisory scientific committees, whose variable geometry is determined by the particular interests that are being pursued in them.
If we wish to restore the confidence of Europe's citizens in the Union's institutions, there is an urgent need to take action.
Should this take the form of imposing a political sanction, through an immediate vote of censure on the present Commission - which undoubtedly bears some of the responsibility for the failures identified, although a much smaller share than the British authorities - or on the previous Commission, whose President we would have liked to give evidence to the Committee of Inquiry?
For my part, I believe that if we wish to be effective, we must enjoin the present Commission to take all the measures within its remit proposed by the Committee of Inquiry, as a matter of urgency.
It is a question, above all, of establishing transparency in the decision-making process - something which is fundamental to all democratic activity.
But on 20 March 1996 the British Government admitted that it could not be ruled out that the disease could be transferred to humans.
Finally we come to the question of confidence and loss of confidence.
Madam President, the members of our group have signed the motion of censure after reading the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry.
The previous Commission failed to ensure the necessary veterinary controls, and it is clear that absolutely no checks on BSE were carried out in the United Kingdom between May 1990 and June 1994.
As for the present Commission, there is the unacceptable lifting of the embargo on gelatine, and its attempts to conceal the truth and shift its own responsibilities onto Parliament when the latter decided to carry out this inquiry.
The European Parliament must fulfil its obligations and exercise the powers of control conferred on it by the Treaty.
The European Parliament must be a friend of the Commission, but a friend of the truth and Europe's citizens even more.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of Inquiry has carried out its task.
And all this justifies a vote of censure against the Commission.
You have made an excellent speech today, and it is somewhat difficult to send you packing after such a speech.
Through this committee of inquiry, Parliament has gained a new degree of self-confidence.
We shall no longer allow an arrogant administration - which is still in place and of which you are now the political leader, namely this Commission - to think that it does not need to take any account of the proposals and initiatives of the European Parliament.
These have always been our demands.
If we proceed in that way, we shall not experience another crisis, but benefit the people of Europe, do our job properly and assume our political responsibility.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, when, despite strong resistance, Parliament decided to set up a committee of inquiry into this affair, I did not expect the facts revealed to be so serious.
The final report, which is an excellent piece of work, is utterly damning.
More than other people, perhaps, I am strongly affected by these aberrations, since the similar - though less serious - tragedies which I had to face when I was France's Minister for Consumer Affairs, from 1981 to 1984, have left their mark on me.
Unfortunately, however, the Treaty provides us with no means of imposing sanctions on the government of a Member State.
Certainly, I endorse the recommendations put forward by Parliament with a view to improving the way in which the Commission is run.
It goes too far, in the sense that it will allow Parliament to pursue its recommendations to the extent of interfering in the Commission's areas of competence by leaving the constant threat of censure hanging over it.
The report also reveals the damage caused within the Commission by this culture, by this productivity-driven approach geared solely to the market, in which the protection of consumer health is pushed into the background.
Clearly, this need to assume responsibilities applies equally to Parliament, which must adopt the motion of censure, since failing to do so would make it seem inconsistent.
Yes, mistakes were certainly made.
I thank you, Madam President, very much for your patience and I want to make it very clear that I will not, in any way, be supporting any motion of censure against the Commission.
We know their names - Caillot, Glon - but we do not talk about that.
Mr Happart alerted it to the problem in a number of oral questions in the House.
Mr Vasco Garcia drew up a report on the subject, and Parliament said and did nothing!
The Castille note, which 'Libération' published in 1996, had appeared in the consumer magazine 'Que choisir?' as early as 1990.
There was silence between 1990 and 1994 because the Messiah - the single market, the Maastricht Treaty - was coming.
But if in 1992, the people of France had known that cattle were being fed the remains of sheep that had eaten the remains of infected cattle, the French President could have bleated all he liked about his prostate: the Maastricht Treaty would never have been ratified in the referendum of 20 September 1992!
You suggested that we should remain silent once again, because this time it is the single currency which is at stake!
What is now at stake, ladies and gentlemen, is the credibility, the legitimacy, of the European Parliament.
The Committee of Inquiry's report reveals maladministration on a breathtaking scale by the main players in this affair - the British Government, the Commission, and also the Council.
I should like to draw four conclusions from this inquiry and report.
Firstly, the very existence of this document is an inescapable fact for the Commission, as well as for the Council and the British Government.
The Socialist Group will not join in this game.
But the Member States must also stop protecting senior European officials who were appointed from their national administrations.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing today is not just another of those political and technical problems, some important and some less so, that normally occupy us, but a matter which has almost certainly cost the lives of 16 people to date and has plunged the single market into the deepest crisis it has faced since the day it was first set up.
That was the principle which motivated the work of the Committee of Inquiry, and the results presented to Parliament today bear witness to that.
The basic conclusion which I am sorry to have to draw from those results is that both the United Kingdom and the Commission and Council of the European Union, which bear the main responsibility for what has happened, have in essence attached more importance to commercial interests than to the protection of animal health and, above all, human health.
This will allow matters to be handled less secretively and more efficiently in future, which is essential if the citizens of Europe are to regain confidence in their institutions.
All the initiatives I have called for here are included in the reforms promised today by the President of the Commission, and that gives us cause for optimism.
Madam President, anyone rising to speak after two hours of debate obviously has a problem in finding anything new to say.
So I shall begin by asking the President of the Commission to apply Article 169 of the Treaty, whereby the Commission over which he presides may call upon the United Kingdom to make some form of reparation - not merely moral reparation, I hope - to Europe's citizens as an appropriate penalty for the harm caused to the other Member States.
And I also call upon him to draw the attention of Europe's citizens to the content of Article 215 of the Treaty, which tells them how to take action against the European Commission and the other institutions to obtain compensation for damage they believe they have suffered because of the malfunctioning of the European institutions.
The result of this would be a more appropriate and controlled application of Article 175, by the terms of which the European Parliament can bring an action against the Commission for its failure to act and indeed may do so precisely because the Commission has not invoked Article 169.
One of the things that has struck me particularly during this hearing is the situation between 1990 and 1994 when the BSE crisis was at its height.
The UK Government passed the correct legislation in good faith but then failed to make sure that it was implemented properly.
The Commission neglected its legislative and monitoring duties during much of the period in which the disease was developing, placing political and economic interests before the protection of public health and giving rise to serious human, social and economic consequences.
Moreover, in their appearances before the Committee of Inquiry, the Commission's representatives sometimes acted in bad faith, concealing information and often preventing the committee from carrying out its work effectively.
The Commission is a collective body, and the principle of continuity within the institutions makes it responsible for all its actions, regardless of the particular composition of the College of Commissioners.
It is argued that not all Commissioners bear the same degree of responsibility, but the collegiate nature of the Commission makes its responsibility a collective one.
The fact is that the extent of the committee's recommendations was made necessary by the scale of the responsibilities incurred by the Commission, the Council and, of course, the British Government.
But while my group offers to cooperate fully in ensuring that the committee's recommendations are implemented, I should like to draw attention to certain factors that are inherent in a motion of censure.
A motion of censure can be tabled to call for responsibilities to be assumed that were incurred in the past.
The Commission must fulfil its role, but not under the threat of a vote of censure or any other means of coercion.
Moreover, I do not believe that it is Parliament's role to exert this kind of pressure.
With regard to this matter, Parliament must not engage in considerations of political expediency.
Mr Santer, you made a slip, at the end of your speech, when you said that the time had come to create a Europe of health.
Madam President, as well as being highly damning of the UK authorities and the Council, this report also proves that, through its failure to act and its negligence, the Commission played along with the ultra-liberal system which is at the root of this crisis, without regard for animal or human health.
Let us not confuse the past and the future.
What is done is done.
Let us not disappoint the European citizens in our countries, regions and constituencies, whom we represent.
They must be able to believe in us, so that they continue to believe in Europe.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, a few hours before the vote on the motion of censure, my personal opinion today - harking back to Mr Castille's personal opinion, to which you referred last July - will be a positive one.
On 16 July 1996, in view of the information that he had in his possession, Mr de Villiers threatened to table a motion of censure if a committee of inquiry was not set up.
That same day, despite numerous reservations on the part of some colleagues, the decision to establish a temporary committee of inquiry into the handling of the BSE crisis was taken.
Undoubtedly, Mr President, the Commission made some serious mistakes in its handling of the BSE affair.
Mr Medina Ortega's report is undoubtedly damning for the Delors Commission, but I would also point out that, at the beginning of June 1996, you yourself authorized the lifting of the embargo on gelatine.
Some people are already calling on the Commission to support their bid to obtain codecision powers in agriculture at the Intergovernmental Conference.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Alleanza Nazionale delegation fully endorses the conclusions reached by our Committee of Inquiry.
But this relates to the past acts of the Commission, and only the learned authors of the Maastricht treaty could do worse than this Commission.
The worrying thing is that these negligent attitudes, in spite of the verbal assurances from the new Commissioners of their complete availability have been repeated at least in the behaviour of some of the Commission's officials and services, who have supplied only some of the documents requested and have given testimony designed more to defend the personal positions of their colleagues than to help uncover the truth.
Ladies and gentlemen, in this predicament what is at stake is our credibility - the credibility of a European Parliament whose prerogatives, powers and representative status are unknown to the European public, or at least not seen by the public in their true light.
If the present Commission - which clearly has no political responsibility for the acts charged against the previous Commissioners - were to fail to censure, in decisive terms, those of its officials who have not only committed culpable and criminal errors in the past but are still, even today, persisting in a conspiratorial and perverted attitude, then this House would suffer grievously in the eyes of European public opinion.
The Alleanza Nazionale delegation, then, condemns the performance of the previous Commission, considers that a motion of censure against the present Commission would be inappropriate and excessive, but proposes that the European Parliament should - if the Commission disregards the content of the Medina Ortega report - set in motion a whole series of measures, including obstructive measures, designed to block and scale down the prerogatives of the Commission in the field of Community legislation.
Mr President, the media have often referred to the subject of today's debate as the 'mad cow business' .
The handling of BSE under both your predecessor's and now your own leadership, at least as regards the lifting of the gelatin embargo, has shown how fragile that impartiality - which is enshrined in the Treaty - really is, and the extent to which it yielded to political pressure exerted by the British Conservative Government, in the name of that Realpolitik of power relationships which, when you meet at the Breydel, should be kept strictly outside the doors.
But the Commission too has failed in its duty, and that is a serious matter, Mr President.
But problem number one is the problem of decision.
Impressive documents, from Madrid to Cork, but once again no action to follow.
The chairman understood my position.
I have submitted a minority report which sets out the chronology of the action taken in the United Kingdom since 1986.
However, at the end of the day I was confronted with a text which was so blinkered in its approach, so faulty in its assertions and, it has to be said, so unfair in its criticism of the efforts that were made in my country at all levels to combat BSE that I felt I had to put the record straight.
I cannot summarize that report now because there is not enough time but I wish to make one or two points.
Never in the history of agriculture - and I have been there for quite a long time - have so many healthy animals been destroyed and in such a short period of time.
Mr President, concern for public health must the overriding consideration for everybody associated with the food industry.
The Committee of Inquiry has made an important contribution to the debate and in this regard we must congratulate the rapporteur, the chairman and the members of the committee.
My colleagues, in my group from Ireland, will not be voting in support of the censure on the Commission.
However, while I agree with the general thrust of the compromise resolution, I would like to express my reservations regarding paragraphs 4 and 5.
The link between meat and bonemeal and BSE is clearly established.
The enforcement of the ban is central to the elimination of BSE.
At the outset of this debate I advocated an urgent research programme into the safe use of this material.
I believe that all of us who are committed to resolving this issue now have a profound responsibility to work together in a cohesive manner, with the interests of the consumer and producers in mind.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate not only the Committee of Inquiry but also all the national parliaments, including the House of Commons in the UK, for ratifying the Maastricht Treaty which made this committee of inquiry possible.
I naturally also share the view that public health must always take precedence over market interests.
Finally, we have seen that the non-public decision-making procedures in the Commission, on the CouncilCommission circuit, in the management committees and so on were not enough to prevent the most major crisis imaginable in the beef sector in Europe from occurring.
The only solution is to have more openness, which means greater codecision powers for the European Parliament.
During your hearing, Mr Santer, you took cover behind scientific opinions in an attempt to justify your decisions.
That is why our group has used the procedural means available and joined with Members from other groups in tabling a motion of censure.
The main blame lies of course with the United Kingdom, which allowed meat-and-bone meal to be produced under extremely dubious conditions.
The recommendations in the Medina report will be an excellent test here.
Its calls for the codecision procedure to apply to the CAP would certainly increase Parliament's powers, but have nothing to do with the BSE problem.
My concern is the fact that the Commission has assumed de facto responsibility for legislation, without ever securing democratic legitimacy from the citizens of Europe.
Only in this way can the European Parliament live up to the image it seeks to have.
Considering that from tomorrow, as is to be hoped, the sword of Damocles will be hanging over you and your Commission in the form of a vote of censure, I found what you said to be no more than a speech of advance notices.
You said for example that there will also be redeployments in positions of responsibility within the Directorate-General for Agriculture, involving individuals who have held responsibilities in the past and who are still working.
You have often said this.
These are all specific things which you could have said.
Momentous, in terms of its unusualness in this House - since this debate is being followed throughout the European Union, as it concerns human health, and that is an extremely serious matter.
Because sometimes, Mr Santer, you have to lose a battle in order to win the war.
And the war, in this case, is a war for the credibility of the European institutions - and more particularly the Commission, which as a result of this sorry affair is losing its accumulated stock of credibility and giving ammunition to the critics of European integration, whose numbers have understandably increased as a result of the Commission's lack of sensitivity in some of the policies that it presents.
They have raised all kinds of arguments - that there was a government vacuum in Europe, that the market has been given preference over people's health, as we all know that the Commission could have defended both the market and public health, in the same way and at the same time.
The truth is that when Commissioner MacSharry - who is also in the dock now - prevented countries from blocking the sale of meat, the countries could have done it themselves.
I have no wish to play down the serious operational failures on the part of the Commission's services during the period when it was headed by Jacques Delors.
Furthermore, the Commission is making amends for its past mismanagement and implementing a series of internal reforms designed to prevent a repetition of the mistakes that were made in its assessment of the seriousness of the crisis and in its handling of it.
I am confident, Mr President, that in similar circumstances in the future, the imperatives of human health will take precedence over any other considerations.
This call to order as regards the priorities which must always be observed is a fine victory for Parliament, which has essentially won its case.
We hear today, on the grapevine, that £9.4 million is being spent in Northern Ireland.
Five months ago, the same Lord Lindsay had the effrontery to tell the Scottish farmers that Scotland can lead the UK out of the beef export ban.
Mr President, in the absence of Mr Paisley which is duly noted, may I say that this is an important day for Parliament and for the institutions we are building.
Things have changed since April 1996 and rightly so.
Indeed, scheduling the vote for Thursday afternoon seems to me to be particularly provocative, when we know that the majority of Members leave Strasbourg after voting time at 12 noon on Thursdays.
He deliberately put the BSE dossier under wraps for at least two years.
Mr Fischler, you are of the same political persuasion as me.
I believe that the European Union has failed in its duty to protect public health and its citizens.
All of Europe knows it.
And that is why, Mr Santer, I shall do you a favour and support the motion of censure.
Mr President, perhaps this is a dream.
Thank you, Mr Bébéar.
This may happen, but I have seen no conclusive evidence of it so far in this debate.
The main culprit in this affair is undoubtedly the British Government.
The BSE crisis was caused firstly by the criminal negligence of the British Government, which only acknowledges the existence of Europe when it wishes to promote its own interests.
Sanctions must also be imposed on those Member States which connived in the trafficking of British meat-and-bone meal, especially Belgium, which was at the hub of this trade, as revealed by the Mattei report to the French National Assembly.
Mr President, as we all know last night in the House of Commons the British Agriculture Minister, Douglas Hogg, survived a vote of censure by the skin of his teeth.
As was stated in yesterday's Financial Times, for 11 long years the government continued saying that British beef was completely safe, despite the contrary evidence which was emerging.
Mr President, one of the most important roles of the European Parliament is the monitoring of the actions of the Commission.
The monitoring by the European Parliament's Committee of Inquiry of the various aspects of the bovine spongiform encephalopathy affair, involving the United Kingdom, the Council and the Commission, has been assiduous, despite the shortage of time and the fact that certain circles in the Commission were not always helpful, principally with regard to the furnishing of important documents, some of which have still not been made available.
The Committee of Inquiry has carried out its monitoring without bias, and the results are clearly stated in its report, which presents the facts, attributes responsibility as appropriate and makes recommendations to prevent the same sort of thing and the irregularities in the workings of the Commission happening again.
I believe that the chairman of the committee and its members and the rapporteur have performed a similar, herculean, task.
Acceptance by the European Parliament of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into BSE will entail, of itself, the attribution of responsibilities as between the United Kingdom, the Commission and the Council and, also, to senior officials.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to concentrate on three points.
But you will be judged on whether you do two things now.
And these are my second and third points.
That has always been the case, but the principle has not been observed.
The British Government stands at the head of the chain of cause and effect in this failure, and the Commission has failed as well.
When we come to tackle a reform of the agriculture policy - and not just here in Europe - I shall be reminding them of what has been said here in connection with BSE.
Unless the EU, with its strong market and from its general position of strength, also uses international agreements to try to change this way of producing agricultural goods, then not only will BSE have been a painful and unpleasant warning, but there will be worse to come, since if we go on behaving as we have done up to now, worse things are guaranteed!
The British Government was found to be responsible for starting the disease, for taking inadequate steps to prevent its rapid spread and, up to very recently, to eradicate it.
Whatever savings in fuel were achieved, this reckless change in standards has now cost consumers, taxpayers and especially farmers several million times more than any possible savings.
Worse still, it allowed contaminated meat and bonemeal to be exported without restriction, thus contaminating herds in neighbouring EU countries.
It allowed contaminated meat and bonemeal to be traded freely throughout Europe.
The report from the Committee of Inquiry incorporates a number of amendments which I tabled because I believe that BSE spread outside Britain mainly through exports of contaminated meat and bonemeal.
I have therefore included in the report a call for legislation to ensure meat and bonemeal is never again used in ruminant feeds and that ruminant feeds cannot be produced on any premises where meat and bonemeal is present.
Moving to the future, for the future we must double our efforts to eradicate the last remnants of this disease and restore public confidence in the high quality of our food products.
The Commission must implement all the recommendations in our report and this must be done efficiently and immediately.
Mr President, the report by the Committee of Inquiry gives a clear picture of the major problems underlying the BSE crisis, the events which led to the problem and its causes.
According to the report, the previous Commission underestimated the BSE problem and concealed its seriousness.
The Commission neglected its duty to monitor compliance with veterinary rules in the internal market.
The appearance of the disease did not perturb either the authorities or the agri-foodstuff industry, which regularly dismissed any thought of a crisis and, in particular, any risk to human health.
Lastly, the UK Government brought unacceptable pressure to bear on the Commission not to carry out any inspections, and even when, in spring 1996, the BSE crisis turned into a public health catastrophe, the Conservative British Government displayed an incredible lack of good will in its implementation of the measures to eradicate the disease.
The Commission at first opposed the imposition of an embargo on British beef and meat-and-bone meal.
Then it lifted the embargo on gelatine.
I was listening to what you said earlier, Mr Santer.
Finally, let us not forget that the Council of Ministers also bears a share of the responsibility.
Mr President, given that Parliament, through Maastricht, has acquired the right to use a collective vote of censure as a parliamentary weapon, every Member of this supreme representative body within Europe should handle it responsibly.
In the vote on the Medina report, 16 members of the Committee of Inquiry voted against the limpest of motions from the Socialist Group, so that the report which is now before the House was adopted without the planned recommendation for a qualified vote of censure.
The motion in question amounted to an even more toned-down vote of censure, no time for it being set and the date of December 1997 being deleted.
Those who threaten to use a vote of censure - of whatever kind - from the very beginning of an inquiry, and then in the end produce only the limpest forms of words, are damaging not only themselves, but Parliament as a whole, since everyone can see the reason for the lack of enthusiasm which has been mentioned: most of the Commissioners who would have to go would be from the ranks of the social democratic group!
However, should this not be carried through within a reasonable period of time, contrary to expectations, in other words by the end of this year, then we should not just raise a warning finger, as was the case with the vote in the Committee of Inquiry, but would really be obliged to hold a vote of censure pursuant to Article 144 of the Treaty.
Without mad cow disease it would have been more difficult to incorporate animal welfare as a key principle in the new EU treaty.
The EU must have transparency in its administration, and mad cow disease helps to illustrate this need.
Without mad cow disease there would not have been the same drive in favour of a real consumer policy.
What is more, the mistakes which caused the problem to escalate are not the fault of today's Commission, but of the United Kingdom, previous Commissions and the Council, whose presidency is conspicuous by its absence here.
The main responsibility for the BSE crisis rests with the British Government.
The previous Commission also bears a large measure of responsibility for the cover-up and for its indifferent management of the affair.
Now it is necessary to carry out quickly the measures which Parliament's Committee of Inquiry has recommended.
In future it must be possible for Community decisions on human and animal health and the required Community legislation to be based on scientific knowledge which is as sound and impartial as objectively possible.
The subsidiarity principle must not mean that one Member State has the right to deceive the others and to ignore Community legislation concerning human health while at the same time expecting the others to display budget solidarity, so that it is the others that end up having to pay.
The Committee of Inquiry has clearly demonstrated the inability of the authorities in question to take effective measures to combat the disease.
The European Parliament is therefore calling for a full right of codecision in all areas of agriculture policy, since effective combating of disease must involve animal marking, clear guidelines and certification in the production of feed, and also strict controls.
The internal market can only function with appropriate legal bases.
You now have the chance, Mr President of the Commission, of doing precisely this in conjunction with Parliament.
As the rapporteur makes clear, it was not so much a question of a lack of standards or legislative provisions, as of a refusal to abide by the rules of fair and open cooperation which must govern relations between the Member States of the Union.
There was a widespread lack of coordination between the relevant Commission departments, and a failure to attach sufficient importance to the protection of public health in the Union.
And the second concerns the need to ensure the transparency of the debates of the advisory scientific committees and, in general, to reform the rules governing their work in such a way as to safeguard their independence and advisory function.
We are pleased to see that the European Parliament, as the representative of our citizens, is gaining increased codecision in matters of health, consumer protection and agriculture, and also that at the Intergovernmental Conference, Article 129 will be amended so that our citizens' health will take priority over all other interests.
Mr President, the development of the European Union will depend on whether its citizens espouse the idea of European integration because they feel that their interests are being represented.
Mr Santer, you have spoken of a health union today and announced many changes.
I therefore expect that the green paper on the future of food - which was announced a year ago, and to which several of my colleagues have referred - will contain these necessary reforms, since otherwise there is no point in discussing it.
Mr President, as we near the end of the debate, I should like to say that, on the whole, we have had a discussion which has taken due account of the seriousness of the crisis, and of the results of the Committee of Inquiry.
Firstly, Mr Santer - and I very much welcome the fact - you have already adopted a number of absolutely essential reforms and, secondly, you have made some important announcements.
I would make it very clear: we could have saved ourselves two months of work in the Committee of Inquiry if we had been given the whole truth in September in the initial answers on gelatine, in that phoney debate.
No part of this Community has a traceable system like the system in Northern Ireland.
Yet we find that part of the United Kingdom is sinned against not only by the British Government, but also by this Community.
Thank you, Mr Paisley.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this debate, which for me has had four distinguishing features: it has been a very clear debate, a very constructive one for long periods - I would even say the most intellectual debate I have experienced since I began attending Parliament - and an extremely exciting debate.
At the same time, this policy provides the answer to most of the questions which have been raised.
Mr Böge himself said in his speech that there had been a phoney debate on this issue.
In the meantime, however, the state of knowledge has changed.
Therefore, until all the new questions which have arisen have been clarified, the de facto export ban remains in place.
I entirely agree with that in substance, and I would even stress that much more is at issue here than just the question of BSE.
Let me mention some of the principles which I regard as crucial for the future.
Firstly, in my policy I am building on the alliance between the consumer and the farmer.
I am pleased to say that several of these proposals were also received favourably by Parliament, and I am counting on further cooperation in the future, as has indeed been called for.
I have a further comment in this context on BSE.
A reform of the advisory committees for agriculture is now imminent, and controls in the health sector have also been proposed, as Mr Santer mentioned.
One thing must be clear: to do this, we first need the expression of confidence which you have given us today and, for my part at least, I shall do all in my power to do that justice.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be quite brief at the end of this debate, since today I mainly wish to let you know my feelings, which are that there are no miracle solutions, and we must all be aware of that.
The challenge which the Commission and Parliament must take up is enormous: we have to invent a European model of public health monitoring and protection.
I am also wondering about the legislative process, since it must result in overall coherence: it is not enough just to transfer the departments of DG VI to DG XXIV.
We must summon up all our energy, capacity for invention and sense of responsibility.
Many of you have experience in this field.
I consider it my duty to drawn on everyone's experience, whether at the level of consumer associations or ministries - as you will already have observed.
It would therefore be wise for us to agree on an appropriate model of health monitoring and protection for our fellow citizens.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the numerous speakers in this important debate.
Commissioners Fischler and Bonino have responded to a number of observations and let you know their feelings at this stage.
Over and above its political differences, Parliament as a whole is concerned to ensure that, from now on, considerations of human health are taken more into account in the framing of Community policies.
I said so earlier, and I indicated the practical measures to be taken in my speech.
As for the Commission, in the light of the committee's conclusions, it will do everything it considers necessary, in accordance with its institutional prerogatives and its sense of the general European interest.
Mr President, I said in my speech that I wished to assume the responsibility of the College of Commissioners - and I take that word seriously.
All the measures we have taken since the British Government's announcement of new scientific data last March have been guided by that principle.
May some good come from this disaster, and may Europe become a better place to live for its citizens: that, ladies and gentlemen, is my most fervent wish.
Thank you, Mr Santer.
The vote on the Medina Ortega report and the eight motions for resolutions will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The Commission is aware of the matter raised by the honourable member.
The Commission's services have received numerous complaints about the problems encountered in France by teachers coming from other Member States.
As far as teachers are concerned, in fact, the applicable directive is 89/48/EEC, which relates to a general system for the recognition of higher education diplomas gained as a result of professional training courses lasting a minimum of three years.
The basic principle of that directive is that the host Member State must permit a Community citizen to carry on a profession within its territory even if he is not in possession of the national diploma required for that purpose, provided that he is in possession of the diploma required in a different Member State in order to embark upon or carry on the same profession.
This recognition confers upon the migrant worker the right to embark upon or carry on the profession in question on the same conditions as a holder of the national diploma.
The French authorities can, furthermore, require migrant teachers to undergo a probationary period on the same conditions as French citizens.
They may not, however, require Community citizens who are already teaching in another Member State to take the French training course in order to earn the diploma required in France.
That is the background, and the conclusion drawn from that background, given the circumstances, is that the Commission has instituted proceedings for infringement against France, pursuant to Article 169 of the Treaty, with regard to its failure to apply to teachers the Community rules on the reciprocal recognition of diplomas.
Her mistake was to marry a Frenchman and go and live in France where she has been refused employment as a teacher despite having considerable experience of teaching.
There are currently two infringement procedures under Article 169 of the Treaty and, if necessary, the Commission would not hesitate to bring the matter before the Court of Justice.
But it might be the same in architecture or any other profession.
I will provide a general answer by saying that this is indeed a key aspect of free movement of people and of effective citizenship in the Union.
Finally, the third aspect of our action is finding out whether any further legislative action is needed.
The Commission has to comply with the Council decision abolishing - from 30 June 1999 - duty-free sales within the Union.
The Commission does not consider it appropriate to undertake a study of this matter.
In any case, the Commission regrets that, hitherto, the sector of activity concerned has not taken advantage of the lengthy period available to it to prepare a strategy for adjusting to the abolition of the tax advantage deriving from these sales, even though five years have passed since this decision was adopted.
I may add that the Commission is convinced that, since a study is not necessary, the mere fact of announcing it would send a distorted and inappropriate signal to the industry concerned, which could further delay the adjustments required for that industry to adapt to the decision adopted so many years ago and due to take effect on 30 June 1999.
I must make it clear to the honourable Member that the decision under discussion is a binding decision, that all the facts relevant for the purposes of taking an informed decision were taken into account at the time, that the existence of intra-community duty-free goods was considered incompatible in principle with a single market, and that, as often happens in economic affairs, while the existence of the duty-free system offers advantages for some there are very serious disadvantages for others: for example, the general retail trade is certainly damaged by the existence of duty-free sales in certain locations.
The duty-free system, for example, distorts competition between modes of transport, and so on.
But sometimes reality is in conflict with principles.
The reality to which my attention is drawn is a reality in which, today, certain jobs in specific sectors are certainly assisted by the existence of duty-free.
But we have to remember that those jobs have to be set off against the non-existent jobs in other sectors, in other modes of transport, in commerce at large, by which I mean the retail sector, outside the duty-free industry.
So it is precisely the need to have a workable single European market that obliges us to eliminate these distortions that make it less efficient, among which I must certainly include the distortion represented by duty-free sales.
North of Stockholm, there is only line operating all year round between Sweden and Finland, the line between Umeå and Vasa.
This argument is often put forward, namely that tax-free sales constitute a source of funding for transport infrastructures, or for certain forms of transport, in particular through the fees - often quite high - which the operators of sales outlets have to pay in order to pursue their activities within these infrastructures - airports especially, but also others.
As regards tax-free sales on board ferries, for example, there is no doubt that these represent a not inconsiderable part of shipping companies' revenue, enabling them to offset their running costs and even to maintain unprofitable routes.
Mr President, I should like to consult you on a point of order.
As the honourable Member may recall, I said during the Committee on Transport and Tourism meeting on 18 December that the Commission attaches the greatest importance to maintaining the very highest level of safety that is usual in rail transport.
Finally, the Commission is not aware that the United Kingdom has refused to supply information as suggested by the honourable Member.
As the author is not present, Question No 50 lapses.
Standard forms and documents for the application of this directive were established by a Commission decision in October 1993.
I am grateful to the honourable Member.
On the whole question of transit shipping, a proposal for a Council directive setting up a European ship reporting system - so-called Eurorep - was adopted by the Commission in December 1993.
However, in the absence of a political agreement in Council on the Commission's text, Eurorep is still on the table before the Council.
The imminent ratification by the Community of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea gives a stronger legal basis to our proposal with regard to international law and hopefully that will allow a re-opening of the discussions within the Community on the proposal.
Question No 52 by Florus Wijsenbeek (H-0030/97) Subject: Aid to a Walloon transport undertaking Does the Commission consider it consistent with the objectives pursued as regards both combined transport and equal conditions of competition for the Walloon government to grant aid amounting to Bfrs 200 million to the TTS (Bierset) road transport undertaking for the purchase of oversized rolling stock for the transport of motor-vehicle parts from Germany?
On the basis of the full information provided in the answer the Commission may decide to raise no objection to the aid or it may decide to raise no objection to the aid or it may decide to open proceedings under Article 93(2) because of doubts or because of lack of information.
So I would like to have the Commissioner's view on whether or not he deems this kind of support to be valid.
It is difficult to accept that in providing a full and factual answer on the whole procedure of state aids, the Commission should be accused of providing non-answers.
The Bothnia line is not presently included in the trans-European transport network and its inclusion was not requested by Parliament or by the Council during the procedure for the adoption of the trans-European network guidelines.
I am grateful to the honourable Member.
The Atlantbanan line is included in Annex I of the Decision on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network as a project of common interest.
The southern section of the line is also included, as the honourable Member will know, in the Nordic Triangle, which is one of the fourteen priority projects endorsed at the Essen European Council and in the legal decision that has been presented to and accepted by this Parliament.
As a project of common interest, the Swedish part of the line could benefit from Community financial support under the TEN budget line but as yet the national authorities concerned have not requested any Community contribution.
Consequently I hope that Member State governments will bear in mind their responsibility for making initial proposals and do so in the context of the existing legislation and the nature of the trans-European network priority projects and, indeed, the whole philosophy of the network scheme.
The action plan for a European education initiative relates to primary and secondary education.
Therefore, it includes as a target group all pupils attending schools at these levels, including handicapped children.
It is clear that the new information and communications technologies, adapted for educational purposes, can make an effective contribution to the learning process for handicapped pupils, in particular those who have physical difficulties in attending school, but also those with cognitive difficulties.
As regards Socrates, the European Parliament and Council decision adopting this programme provides for the special needs of the handicapped to be taken into account within its various sections.
In keeping with the new Community strategy on handicaps, adopted by the Commission in its communication of 30 July 1996, and in particular its concept of mainstreaming, and in view of the Council resolution of 20 December 1996 on equality of opportunity for handicapped persons, the implementation of the action plan for a European education initiative will certainly incorporate the needs of the handicapped.
This aspect will also be taken into account in the follow-up to the Green Paper on the social aspects of the information society.
Yes indeed, and what is more we encourage any progress that can be made in this field.
The present text of the 1997 Socrates handbook refers to teaching languages in the participating countries, without specifying these languages.
The Commission's services are currently taking the necessary steps to ensure that - in addition to the 11 official languages of the European Union - the 1998 handbook will expressly mention other languages such as Catalan, Galician and Basque, with a view to promoting cooperation between universities.
I certainly hope that your promise, namely that the 1998 handbook will make reference to what was established in recital 11 of the Socrates programme, will have a better chance of being kept than the reply which you gave me approximately a year ago, in February 1996, when you made a similar promise to me that the 1997 handbook would include that reference, whereas it does not.
That is why the Commission published in 1996 a Green Paper on obstacles to transnational mobility in education, training and research, with a view to provoking a wide-ranging public debate and devising courses of action to remove these barriers.
Firstly, there is the legal status of trainees and the question of the transparency and recognition of vocational diplomas.
The fact that the right of residence for EU citizens in another country, without a residence permit, is currently limited to three months represents a barrier to mobility, in the sense that priority should be given to longer placements, which are of course more worthwhile and of greater value to the young people concerned.
For this reason, the Commission is to make proposals with a view to improving the conditions relating to the right of residence, social security and taxation.
As for promoting the recognition of vocational diplomas throughout the Community - by implementing the 1985 Council decision on the equivalence of vocational diplomas - the lack of any real progress in this field is, to my mind, extremely worrying, and I entirely share your concerns.
Leonardo is thus fully playing its role as an innovative experiment, which will enable us to announce a specific proposal on the form of the European status of trainee.
I must confess that this problem is an extremely complex one, however: it is much more difficult for young people to move around the European Union than for goods and capital, even though Europe came into being for the sake of its citizens.
Many problems are being encountered in connection with Leonardo and trainees, but also with students and, for example, unemployed youngsters who no longer receive their benefits if they go abroad; there is the barrier of low wages being paid, the problems of young people who go to another country on placement, and those of young researchers - all these are very widespread problems.
I think that Parliament should indeed lend its full support to the fact that the mobility of our citizens, and in particular of young people, is absolutely crucial for developing an awareness of European citizenship.
It is therefore very difficult to persuade the Member States to accept satisfactory measures.
I think that the problem you are raising - if I have understood correctly - is that of recognition by companies of the period of time spent, and the work done, by a trainee in another Member State of the Union.
So we are starting to explore this whole issue, which affects traineeships but also lifelong learning for workers.
As far as clinical trials at European level are concerned, since research on cancer - as well as several other diseases - requires a multidisciplinary approach, it stands to benefit in particular from research carried out through multi-centre clinical trials in Europe.
Such trials have, therefore, always played a major role in the Union's medical research programmes.
Multi-centre clinical trials should continue to represent an important aspect of medical research activity under the fifth framework programme.
They should be included both in the key action on viral and infectious diseases and in the research work on the treatment of degenerative illnesses, provided for in the programme on discovering the resources of living beings and the ecosystem, one of the six major programmes set to constitute the fifth framework programme, as outlined in the communication adopted by the Commission on 12 February.
The problem of harmonizing the rules on clinical research in the Member States is different in the case of drug trials from that of trials involving other treatments, such as surgery, radiation therapy or the various combinations of these methods which are widely used in treating cancer.
That is not the case for other types of clinical trials, which the Member States are responsible for regulating.
Since the Commission cannot intervene directly here, all it can do in this case is encourage the Member States to align their respective rules in the context of cooperative research work on cancer and other serious diseases; the Commission provides a good deal of support for such work through the framework programme.
Ethical assessment of clinical trials is governed by different laws or regulations in each country, and it is true that this area falls within national competence.
What I would point out, in an attempt to move our thinking forward in this area, is that an international conference on clinical trials and ethics is to be held in Brussels on 9 and 10 September 1997.
It will deal in particular with problems linked to the ethical assessment of research protocols for clinical trials.
Of course, the task is one for the industry itself in the first instance, but obviously a range of accompanying measures is needed, including in particular social measures, measures in relation to external trade policy and also, where necessary, programmes to generate new employment.
We agreed with the industry two years ago that we had an overcapacity of some 19 million tonnes of hot-rolled steel.
Since then, capacity has been reduced by around 11 million tonnes, and a further 5 million tonnes are still to be shed.
There have been no more job cuts, and today the industry is operating, by and large, at a satisfactory level in terms of prices and volumes.
This may not be true of each individual company, and in the particular case of the Greek steel industry, it may well be that certain companies face more serious problems than those experienced by companies in other Member States.
We will naturally help in such cases, and we are already looking at conversion to other possible forms of production through the RESIDER II programme.
The fact is that in many of these cases of illegal practice, we are simply talking about a more competitive industry in another Member State or - from my own experience - in a third country such as Switzerland.
I have already explained that we began by agreeing with the industry, including the Greek industry, that we had 19 million tonnes of overcapacity.
I know that Mrs Jackson is right - indeed she is always right.
To put it another way: the study that we commissioned gave us no useful indication of how to proceed, or of what strategy we need for implementing this.
It sounds as if I could get two salaries here - one as a Commissioner and one as a Member of the European Parliament.
Under Article 8 of Directive 94/36, it is stated quite clearly that the Commission will undertake a programme of public information.
By the way, Article 8 says that the Commission has to launch a campaign in conjunction with consumer bodies, the European Parliament, the Member States and the food and retail industries in order to inform consumers about the evaluation and authorization process of food additives.
At the beginning of my political career I was an activist because that paid off but at the end of a political career you feel you should do things in a more reasoned way.
Mr President, what Mr Donnelly says is quite right: not only in the case of the Internet but also with regard to other infrastructures, we shall only succeed when providers of content, and particularly service providers, assume their proper role.
The problem of making contact with this industry arises from the fact that it does not yet present a uniform front in the way that the hardware producers or operators do, for example.
The report of the working party was mentioned positively in the Council decision of 28 November.
However, Mr Donnelly was quite right in saying that we need additional formal contacts in this area, and in particular contacts with the European Parliament.
I hope that when we are in a position to submit the report that we are preparing on illegal and harmful content, the House will have an opportunity of saying more on these issues, in particular self-monitoring, liability, filter technology, evaluation systems, etc.
The German Government has also offered to hold a conference on these questions in the summer.
The Commission is cooperating with the German Government, so that we can use this conference to evaluate ideas on how to solve this problem.
First of all, we have always identified the area for creating jobs in the information society as being through the service providers.
I know also from my own experience, thanks to invitations from active Members of Parliament - I did not say Labour Members of Parliament, I said active Members of Parliament - that in Great Britain there is very positive activity in this field.
Mr President, I should like to remind the House, briefly, that this is a document which the Commission drew up back in July 1995 and whose purpose was to extend Regulation 1107 of 1970, on the granting of aids for combined transport by rail, road and inland waterway, to the years 1996 and 1997.
I would also recall that it was stated in that document that transport prices reflect social costs, which in fact was detrimental to combined transport by comparison with road transport, thus resulting in the urgent need to extend the mechanism for providing support to the intermodal services.
Parliament, first in the Committee on Transport and Tourism and then in plenary session, in fact agreed that it was a matter of urgency to try to reach approval on this proposal for a regulation: in fact, at the end of 1995 the Transport Committee approved a proposal, with various amendments, which were accepted in February 1996 by a plenary sitting of the European Parliament.
These two amendments were incorporated into the joint proposal, but other amendments which I as the rapporteur had tabled and which I believed to be of significant importance, were not incorporated, in particular one which endeavoured to highlight on the unique aspects of transport through mountainous areas, as in the case of the Alps, though these problems are well known.
This amendment was not incorporated into the joint proposal; nor, more significantly, were those amendments which related to the problem of whether to delete or retain Article 4 of Regulation 1107 of 1970.
In view of the genuine urgency, and in view of the very quick decision taken by the European Parliament, we found ourselves discussing that provision again a year later - at the beginning of 1997, in other words, when the objective was to extend the period to include 1996 and 1997.
Now, it is in this context that the problem of whether or not to retain Article 4 arises.
Although it is true, as has been stated, that Directive 91/440 caused Article 4 to lapse de facto, it is also true that Article 4 relates to aspects which do make these aids to the combined transport system possible.
Eliminating Article 4 of Regulation 1107 of 1970 - without having replaced it with a different provision - in fact makes it difficult if not impossible to continue with those aids in the near future.
I favour this provision, but I felt it appropriate, specifically in order to prompt an answer from the Commission, to reintroduce certain amendments, in particular in order to understand what procedure is envisaged in the near future regarding aids to the combined system.
Mr President, my group is happy to comply with the Commission's urgent request to approve the common position.
The Regulation 1107/70, as amended in 1992, sets out the mechanism for aid for combined transport for last year and this year so it is indeed timely that, in the month of February, we are nonetheless looking at this extension of the regulation.
My group endorses the Commission proposal setting out the categories of aid which are legitimate with the aim of overcoming the particular handicaps experienced in the development of inter-modal or combined transport.
It is understood that the aids will apply in the short term and will have a positive and beneficial effect on the development of combined transport.
The proposal to extend Regulation 117/70 deserves Parliament's support since it is just this type of aid to combined transport which we believe is in line with the European Union's future transport policy.
At the very least, until such time as the level of competition between the different modes of transport is reflected in the reality of grants and proposed harmonization conditions, these aids are a modest means of providing compensation in the interests of a sustainable transport policy.
I am delighted that the Council, in adopting a common position, has incorporated two key amendments from the European Parliament and on that basis we should now approve the common position and I have therefore great pleasure in commending it to the House.
Market forces will not take care of this problem by themselves.
We on the Christian Democrat side of the House support the common position and hope that the Commissioner will table a proposal for a followup regulation without delay, so that we do not find ourselves in 1999 discussing the follow-up regulation for 1998.
I should like to highlight two points in particular.
We also agree with the second concept in the common position and the Commission proposal, that of simplifying the way that aid is monitored in this sector.
It is my fundamental political conviction that providing conditions for free trade and free competition is also the best way of resolving Europe's various transport problems.
Now that we have reached the second round of discussions on this matter and have a common position from the Council of Ministers, I believe that we can say that this has all the makings of a good decision.
For this reason, the most important decisions that we can take for this sector, to encourage both the railways and combined transport, are not the decisions which we are taking today but those which are still to come.
The result of these efforts is to underline again Parliament's strong commitment to promoting combined transport and that, as ever, is welcome.
With that specific purpose in mind, my services are currently working on a report on the current state aid practices of Member States based on the answers they have given to a Commission questionnaire.
The result of this work will obviously provide an informed basis for the revision of Regulation 1107/70 in exactly the way Mr Castricum was seeking.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Thanks to you, the Council adopted many of Parliament's amendments at second reading.
As you know, Mr Monti, we urged you to include this amendment right up to the last minute.
I should in any event like to thank Commissioner Monti for the role which he personally played in achieving the compromise with the Irish presidency.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for ably piloting this legislation through the three readings in this House and through the conciliation procedure.
It protects small savers and small savers' savings.
So this piece of legislation is absolutely essential both for the prosperity of Europe as a whole and for the prosperity of the individual families concerned.
I thank the rapporteur and the Commission for putting this protective directive before the saving consumers of Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know the problems that are currently confronting social security systems throughout Europe.
The most important concern is to protect small savers.
Small investors must be able to deal with branch offices of companies selling securities in the Community, or receive securities services in the context of the international trade in services, with as much confidence as when dealing with domestic companies.
That is why investor compensation schemes must be in place in all the Member States, to ensure that small savers at least have a uniform minimum level of protection in the event of a securities firm being unable to meet its obligations to its investors.
The rapporteur has already discussed this point in detail.
The Council fears that the market will be disrupted if the branch offices of securities firms can offer better cover than a securities firm licensed in the country where the securities are bought.
To put it plainly, the European Parliament sees the arrangement which the Council is proposing as a ban on the export of services by securities firms based in countries where the system offers a higher level of cover than that of the country in which the branch office is located.
It represents a significant contribution to the completion of the single market, and that is why my group recommends that the compromise should be adopted.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to begin by thanking the parliamentary delegation, and in particular the rapporteur.
The adoption of a directive was urgently required to facilitate the free movement of capital under Article 7a(2) of the EC Treaty, and it was necessary to make the legislation compatible with the directive on bank deposit guarantees.
The main problems were the objections to the need for a directive, given the principle of subsidiarity, and the question of the export ban.
The very fact that the latter has been a bone of contention is, in my opinion, the best argument in favour of the directive.
The proposal that the export ban should apply only until 1999 allowed an acceptable compromise to be reached on this point too.
The debate is closed.
