Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 20 November 1998.
However, the following changes have been proposed: Wednesday: The report by Mr Tillich and Lord Tomlinson on draft supplementary and amending budget No 1/98 concerning Section III - Commission, which it was decided during the last part-session to include on today's agenda, will not be taken because the Council has not adopted the draft budget.
Mr President, I should like to make a suggestion on behalf of my group concerning the first item on the agenda for today's sitting.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome this proposal.
We should have had a proper debate! (Applause) - According to my information, Mrs Theato, the document in question was only adopted by the Commission this morning.
What we cannot do is depart from normal procedure and replace the committee's report, any amendments and the ensuing debate with an improvised debate held here and now, in which each of the political groups would be allowed three minutes.
Since my appointment in 1995, the Commission has repeatedly been asked to inform Parliament first about the decisions we take on Wednesday mornings.
Pursuant to Rule 97, the Council has requested the application of urgent procedure for the draft Council Regulation laying down the requirements for the implementation of development cooperation operations which contribute to the general objective of developing and consolidating democracy and the rule of law and to that of respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms (9581/98 - C4-0507/98-97/0191(SYN)).
I must stress to you and to all our colleagues that the Torres Couto report is important.
We also believe that its adoption is urgent in terms of the policy guidelines of the European Union.
Thank you, Mr Galeote.
I put the request for urgent procedure to the vote. (Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure) Pursuant to Rule 99(2), I have received an objection from 31 Members to the Porto report being dealt with under the procedure without debate.
These are the future of UCLAF and the discharge procedure for 1996.
All the more reason then for us to ensure an atmosphere of confidence between the institutions and to manage our relations with each other in a responsible manner.
I myself want to help re-establish an atmosphere of calm which is conducive to achieving our common goal of a Europe looking resolutely to the future.
Firstly, the future Office will have the sole task of carrying out investigations both in the Member States and within all the Community institutions and bodies.
If the political will exists, the decision could be adopted within six months.
I was encouraged by the very positive reception given to my statement on this issue by the Heads of State and Government at Pörtschach.
I am also sure that this House, which has made the fight against fraud affecting the EU's interests one of its main objectives, will make every effort to ensure that this crucial issue moves forward.
In its resolution adopted on 31 March this year, Parliament made the discharge for the 1996 budget conditional on a whole range of conditions, some connected with that particular year and others of a more general nature.
There are still two or three controversial points on which I cannot accept Parliament's requests.
I am in favour of as much openness as possible but this must be compatible with the law and the proper handling of cases.
However, we must distinguish between the situation in which Parliament's general right to information must prevail in the interest of effective scrutiny and the situation in which individual cases need to be handled confidentially.
I would also remind you that the chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the rapporteurs were able to consult the full document in situ .
The discussions on the 1996 discharge have been going on for months.
ECOFIN set out its position on 9 March, in the context of the provisions of Article 206 of the Treaty, which provide for a recommendation from the Council.
I am thinking in particular here of improvements in financial management and the checks on the use of public funding in the context of SEM 2000 - the System of Sound and Efficient Financial Management.
In this respect we have, for example, established a clear distinction between decision-makers and financial managers.
This is something of a first in our organisation.
I must also mention the MAP 2000 programme - the Modernisation of Administration and Personnel - which was launched in 1997 and which is increasing the autonomy which the Directors-General have over the structure of their departments, appointments and management.
I have actually come to the conclusion that this type of reform should have been undertaken a long time ago.
The structures must be adapted to cope with the dramatic growth in the number of tasks.
This leads me to the third point on the future of the Commission: internal management, in the broad sense of the term.
In this context, I must draw your attention to an important point.
I expect to be able to draw the necessary conclusions from this process in the first half of 1999, which will include amending the Staff Regulations where necessary.
After the reform of the Treaty, the introduction of the euro, the employment strategy and Agenda 2000, I hope to tackle this other major challenge successfully.
I am doing this because action needs to be taken, because I believe in the central role of the Commission and because I am confident in the future of the European civil service.
I have accepted my responsibilities as President.
Mr President of the Commission, you were complaining of too much pressure from Parliament.
We also decided yesterday in ECOFIN on the external representation of the euro.
This is our Europe of the future, one which can establish its predominance at international level.
This is precisely the aim of our proposal for a new UCLAF.
My second point is this: the central provisions of your proposal are contained in Article 3 on the office's right of inspection.
And we are here to answer them, since they raise a number of fair points which we have also considered.
Firstly, the European Parliament, like all the other institutions, is a full member of the Administrative Board and if you read the other provisions in the proposal - which you must have done because you are quoting them - the final paragraph of Article 9 states that the Administrative Board, including Parliament, draws up an annual report and sends this to the institutions.
Clearly, this new office, its director and its various departments will be available to Parliament and all the other institutions which are also required to carry out checks and investigations.
The Commission remains politically responsible for referring cases to the Anti-Fraud Office and for monitoring investigations.
You can be sure that we wanted to respond to the objective set out in the Bösch report of a fraud prevention body with real independence and autonomy.
I cannot therefore see any difference in attitude between Parliament and the Commission.
It was a unanimous decision which transposed the directive in 1991 and you approved it.
The Commission cannot do anything else in this respect.
I can tell you quite honestly that I have never in my life - and I have been in politics a long time, I became a member of my government in 1972 - thought that any Member of Parliament was stupid.
Mr President, I spoke in German so that there was no need to translate.
I must say that I myself have never criticised the operation of UCLAF.
I have great respect for the difficult work carried out by the Commission officials and I must say that, if certain investigations have been discussed within Parliament and also in the press, then this is because, thanks to UCLAF, certain incidents of fraud have been detected, dating back to before the present Commission.
Mr Santer, the Bösch report to which you have referred is not the one I wrote, because what you have made of it has nothing to do with the Bösch report adopted by Parliament.
Commissioner Gradin promised us in July that Parliament would be involved in a comprehensive reform of UCLAF.
I can answer these questions very easily.
However, the independence of UCLAF will never be guaranteed if it remains a department of the Commission, managed by Parliament.
This is not viable and cannot be considered either legally or institutionally.
So you can see that the majority of the investigations involve the Member States.
The Council and all the other institutions must therefore be integrated into the new body and I cannot see any connection between your question and our proposal which encompasses and exceeds your objective by placing it in an interinstitutional framework, thus increasing the confidence of citizens in the supervisory bodies.
I really believe that in this way UCLAF and its independence will be strengthened.
Neither Commissioner Papoutsis, who was responsible for the body in question, nor Commissioner Liikanen, as head of personnel, have been able to persuade the director, who has refused to apply the vote of this House.
In other words, are you ready to sanction incompetence, because, in this specific case, I trust in the personal honesty of the commissioner in question.
I regret that I cannot answer the question about the appointment of a deputy director.
With regard to the refusal to give discharge to the Commission, I would say that the discharge procedure is taking place as stipulated in the provisions of Article 206 of the Treaty.
This article says that Parliament gives discharge to the Commission on the Council's recommendation.
Therefore, ECOFIN, which knows what it is talking about, has already made a recommendation to Parliament.
Well, no national parliament would have ever accepted a report with asterisks or censorship from a bureaucracy to a directly elected parliament.
This applies in all countries.
Mr President, I must return to the document submitted to us on the Anti-Fraud Office - OLAF - as there is some uncertainty and confusion about this.
Also, with regard to confidentiality, I am concerned that the present UCLAF, in my opinion, has failed to respect this confidentiality in many cases and that some case files have been disclosed.
Could you tell us what exactly are the measures used to guarantee that UCLAF itself ensures the confidentiality of investigations?
Mr President, this is a precise question to which I will give a precise answer.
Mr President, you told us that you take your responsibility seriously as the President of the Commission and we want to take our responsibility seriously as a parliament.
We have tried to take all this into account in our proposal.
Mr Santer, I read with great interest the discussion paper distributed under your authority and entitled 'The Commission of Tomorrow'.
I noted on page 4 the Commission's intention, in future years, to concentrate more on the main policy areas of external relations, the single currency, internal security, the single market, economic and social cohesion and common policies, in other words the powers of a government of a sovereign state.
My questions in this respect are: what powers will the national governments still have and does the next paragraph, which says that consideration should be given to greater delegation of simple management tasks, actually apply to these national governments?
Mr President, this document sets out the future of the European Union as a whole.
I will gladly make a statement on this and in fact I have already done so in the debates on the Union.
The euro will also be a powerful factor in political integration as it will give Europe and the internal market a European identity.
For all these reasons, the euro is a powerful factor in our integration.
That concludes this first item on the agenda.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in just over a week the Austrian Presidency of the Council will culminate with the European Council meeting in Vienna.
This European Council is also important to all the Member States of the Union, in view of the major issues that are currently being discussed and negotiated in all the Union forums; but first and foremost, these issues are also of major and direct importance to the citizens of our countries.
But the introduction of the euro certainly does not nearly complete our task, because however enormous the achievements of the Union and its Member States, of which we are rightly proud, people today still tend to have confused perceptions of our common future.
The international economic landscape is changing day by day.
In my view, this process of reflection has resulted in two distinct approaches.
The challenges facing us call for more rather than less Europe.
These considerations will also influence the preparations for the Vienna European Council on 11 and 12 December this year.
Employment remains the first priority.
The coordination mechanism agreed in Luxembourg has therefore passed its first test.
The general assessment of the implementation of the national employment plans shows that the governments are making great efforts to genuinely achieve their projects.
The Union's future employment strategy should be based on three pillars.
One very important aspect of economic policy is the external representation of the Union in questions of economic and monetary union.
The introduction of the euro also makes it all the more necessary to coordinate tax policy more closely.
The finance ministers will also be submitting a report on the reform of the international financial architecture to the European Council.
Europe has an important contribution to make in this respect.
Of course, Agenda 2000 is a central area of the presidency's activity.
In my statement to the House on 18 November, I reported on the progress achieved here.
This morning, I myself held talks with European Parliament representatives on the pre-accession instruments, with a view to intensifying the dialogue and the exchange of information between the Council and Parliament, as we had agreed in the trilogue.
Clear trends have also emerged from the agriculture ministers' report adopted on 23 November, which means that agreement should be within reach by March 1999.
At the foreign ministers' conclave on 6 December, we shall endeavour to make further headway in clarifying the key elements and in this way to create a good basis for the European Council's deliberations in Vienna.
The Commission's report on the applicant states' progress contains an open and sound analysis of the degree to which the Copenhagen criteria have been fulfilled, and both the Member States and the applicant states viewed it positively.
We wish to give a clear signal of the Union's commitment to successful enlargement, a signal that encourages our partners to pursue their reform efforts in a positive and active manner.
Other questions will concern implementing the integration of Schengen into the EU Treaty and providing impetus to strengthen cooperation in the field of migration policy.
The Vienna European Council will consider important foreign and security policy issues, such as the situation in Russia, the peace process in the Middle East and developments in the western Balkans.
In this context, I also wish to express my personal thanks for the good cooperation with the European Parliament during the Austrian Presidency.
I hope we will also manage to adopt the EU budget for 1999 in good time, before the end of the year.
I am convinced that will also be the case now, on the threshold of the new millennium, and I hope the European Council in Vienna will play its part.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the Vienna European Council will conclude the six-month term of the Austrian Presidency.
The presidency was marked in particular by the informal Pörtschach meeting, where the Heads of State and Government succeeded in coordinating their views on the future of the European Union more closely.
On 21 October this year, I concluded my statement to the House on the Pörtschach summit with the following words, and I quote: 'As always in the history of the Community, the main challenge is to translate ideas on Europe's future into action'.
The Council will examine the Commission's first report on the progress made by the applicant states, as requested by the Cardiff European Council.
The Commission's analysis also shows how the situations differ in the various countries.
It points to the dynamic nature of this enlargement process.
The Council will point out that all the applicant states must make sustained efforts towards achieving the goal of accession.
Alongside this, as you know, the negotiations on Agenda 2000, have begun to progress, thanks also to Parliament's cooperation.
We are about to embark on an important stage along the road which will lead us, before the end of the current legislative term, to the adoption of all the measures proposed in the context of Agenda 2000.
The Cardiff European Council and the Heads of State and Government at their informal Pörtschach meeting have stated their political resolve to conclude the Agenda 2000 negotiations at the special summit next March.
Of course, the conclusion of a new agreement that satisfies both arms of the budgetary authority will form an integral part of Agenda 2000.
Mr President, I hope this European Council will provide a good point of departure for the discussions that are due to be concluded under the German Presidency.
The national action plans form part of a medium-term strategy, but it is important to give the process new impetus.
We are pursuing our strategy for a more entrepreneurial Europe, with a pan-European risk capital market, which will give our undertakings the same advantages as American firms and make up for our delay in harnessing information technology.
As regards the area of freedom, security and justice, as you know we decided at Pörtschach to hold a first special European Council on the subject on 15 October 1999, under the Finnish Presidency.
That decision reflects my determination, ever since I was appointed, to give priority to this question.
With the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty and the entry into operation of Europol, we shall be able to register real progress in cooperation on judicial, police, asylum and immigration questions, all areas where the people of our countries have high expectations.
The practical problems relating to asylum, immigration, police cooperation and extradition cooperation that have faced us in recent months make it clear that we must approach these problems at Community level; and I hope the action plan the Council and the Commission will be submitting in Vienna will represent a milestone in the preparations for the Tampere summit.
The advent of new governments in some Member States and the acceleration of the international financial crisis after the events of August in Russia have sparked off an intense debate on economic, financial and monetary policies, at both European and international level.
Firstly, I note that following the debates on interest rates, we have agreed that all the conditions have now been fulfilled for having low interest rates as soon as the euro is born.
The dialogue that has already been conducted with the European Central Bank has shown that budgetary rigour would facilitate a monetary policy which, apart from the priority objective of price stability, could take account more generally of the economic situation.
It seems to me that since the most recent discussions among the Eleven, there is now broad agreement on this policy mix, and I am sure this dialogue will move forward in a satisfactory way once the euro has been established.
Secondly, I have noted a general desire for closer coordination of economic, financial and social policies, and I feel that real progress is being made in this regard within the group of Eleven, as well as at Council level.
The discussions this autumn also drew attention to the importance of infrastructures to the economic fabric, and to the role of public investment in that context.
However, some ideas emerged from the discussions on the instruments that could influence investment and I am pleased to be able to tell you that, this morning in fact, the Commission has adopted a document on the subject, which we will of course be forwarding to the European Council in Vienna.
After the success of the Amsterdam special action programme, I believe the Bank could enhance its role by broadening its range of instruments to promote infrastructure projects and, in particular, the trans-European networks.
This could take the form of a special system by which the Bank could, in various ways, encourage risk sharing between the private and the public sector and thereby encourage them to take more part in financing infrastructure projects.
In the same context, it would be advisable to broaden the European Investment Fund's eligibility criteria, which would increase the Fund's impact on the development of infrastructure in the broad sense of the term.
Within the general Agenda 2000 framework, our proposed new draft financial regulation for the trans-European networks is currently under discussion.
I am thinking in particular of the idea of introducing multiannual budgetary allocations, the idea of using risk capital funds, and the possibility of cofinancing up to 20 % of the total cost of projects instead of the current 10 %.
Turning to the international situation, there is now broad agreement that with the advent of the euro, the Union will bear a greater responsibility with regard to the international financial situation and will have to speak with a single voice.
Lastly, I am thinking of the functioning of the international financial institutions as such, and of our responsibility as the largest donor of development aid.
With the new impetus provided by the euro and the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Union cannot remain silent in the face of a world that is waiting for a response, the response of a Europe that speaks with a single voice.
Mr President, these are the main points that we will certainly be discussing in Vienna.
Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the Austrian Presidency on its excellent work in recent months.
Any other problem pales into insignificance against 10 % unemployment, that is, almost 20 million people out of work.
As we in the Parliament see it, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, there is a danger of aiming for less Europe rather that more Europe because of the financial outlook.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our opinion the recent informal summit in Pörtschach demonstrated, regrettably, that Europe is still in search of an identity.
Several countries have referred to the need for a dialogue with the European Central Bank.
We would now ask the Council whether this is a euphemistic way of covering up difficulties in the relations between the governments and the Central Bank or, as we would hope, confirmation of the resolve to protect the role and independence of that institution.
I nevertheless believe that the European Parliament - the democratic, representative voice of our peoples - also has a crucial, leading role to play in this context, naturally alongside the other institutions.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, you have given us a long list of subjects.
I would ask you to take this matter seriously and to ensure on 12 December that the subject is dealt with in a sensible way and can be removed from the agenda before the elections, for our sake, as Parliament will, I hope, propose tomorrow.
The first priority is the reforms in Agenda 2000 and the future financing of the Union.
It is a reform linked to the enlargements that are to come, and it is vital that it is carried out before any further enlargement, but without being used as a pretext for delaying that enlargement.
The ball is indeed in the court of the Heads of State and Government.
Agenda 2000 as a whole has been postponed, along with the report on own resources, the allocation of funds and external representation of the euro.
The havoc which this ideology has wrought in recent years in South-East Asia, in the newly industrialised countries and in Russia has obviously made little impression.
What concerns them most is unemployment, as the minister said.
That is where we need to take strong action, and even though we welcome the trend towards falling unemployment in Europe, it is essential that we now implement the proposals made in Luxembourg in November 1997, at the summit on employment, which set as a major priority that no young person must remain out of work for more than six months and no adult for more than a year.
In my view, this is a way of banishing the term 'unemployment' from our vocabulary.
Paying benefits is sometimes a necessity, but there is no point in this unless it is linked to a programme of training and reintegration into work.
It is a project that the governments of the Union countries have a duty to support, not just at the Vienna summit but also at the forthcoming European elections in June 1999.
The Europe of the left is making the worst possible start: the amateurism and demagogy of some members of the Italian Government have contrasted sharply with the hypocrisy and cowardice - to quote a headline in the 'Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung ' - of the German Government, which preferred to leave the hot potato, as it were, in the hands of their Italian progressive comrades, even though the judiciary had issued an international arrest warrant for the leader of the PKK.
Added to this, the Greek Prime Minister, Kostas Simitis - whose government had previously, albeit unofficially, refused to take in Ocalan - came out in favour of granting political asylum to the PKK leader but leaving this 'honour' to Italy, a country which, in his words, was 'handling the matter very well'.
Mr President, I should like to return to the real subject, the Vienna summit, and address two points which in my view will decide whether or not that summit is a success, namely employment and foreign policy.
On employment, several speakers have already expressed their views.
The Commission has examined the individual Member States' national employment plans.
I must say that they have been treated very gently, and I also know that the Commission would have liked to deal with some Member States a little more roughly.
I sometimes get the impression that members of the Council and some countries are afraid to have the courage of their convictions.
Either the Council realises that it is important to appoint a representative, and then it must do so - and do so soon, after all the negative experiences we have had; or the Council does not consider it important, in which case it should delete these provisions from the Amsterdam Treaty.
One is the question of financial aspects of the Agenda 2000.
The integration of the Schengen Accord into the EU treaty framework about 16 months after the signing in Amsterdam should now be in place.
The danger is, if we are ratifying Amsterdam and nothing has happened, the result will be that everything will remain in the third pillar.
To add insult to injury, it seems now that in the Justice and Home Affairs Council there is talk of setting up a special committee to monitor justice affairs which is not foreseen by the first pillar.
In particular, on this committee it is quite important that it will be this traditional structure and it will not be the third pillar and in the governmental structure.
It has to be said that the elections which have recently taken place in some Union countries have all reflected a rejection of liberalism and an aspiration towards a more humane society.
I heard everything that Mr Santer said a moment ago, but when I look at some of the employment policy guidelines for 1999 which the Commission is submitting to the Heads of State and Government, I feel a little disturbed.
The Commission is still giving precedence to measures to encourage labour flexibility and social moderation in the name of competitiveness.
Firstly, we must redefine the powers and tasks of the European Central Bank, which must come under the democratic control of the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
Thirdly, the current stability pact must be replaced by a genuine pact on growth and employment.
An annual conference on economic and employment policy could make a contribution here by checking what results have been achieved and proposing adjustments to employment policies, if necessary with binding quantitative criteria.
With Agenda 2000, with the many problems to be resolved - and it would be a good idea for this to be perfectly clear in Vienna - the forthcoming presidency must not forget to do its homework, including preparations for the necessary institutional reforms.
For what is the use of making progress on the agricultural and Structural Fund aspects of Agenda 2000 - even if only on a basis of compromise - and of the negotiations reaching a stage where the accession of new members at some point can be discussed, if the institutional reforms have not yet been carried out?
Parliament will find that difficult to accept, and we know that all our groups argue that the institutional reforms in particular must also be completed before the first wave of new applicants are accepted.
We must determine how the labour factor can be relieved a little more of what is in some Member States a quite substantial tax burden, through a rational, agreed and joint approach to taxation, so that it would be worthwhile to create jobs, not just through investment but also through investment plus the numbers of people in employment.
It should do so as soon as possible, but it should not try to tie up everything that needs to be resolved in the coming months in terms of appointments into one huge package.
I would ask it to think again, and to remember that - thanks to Amsterdam - Parliament really does have a say on some appointments.
The Vienna summit meeting will play a crucial role in setting the agenda for the first six months of next year.
We also need to demonstrate that in Vienna there is a commitment to reconnecting the people of Europe with the project of the European Union.
If we want to engage young people in the European Union project then we have to make sure that we are offering something to them.
Most young people today across the European Union, whether they live in Germany, in Finland, in the United Kingdom, in the South of Europe are concerned about their future and they are concerned about their future job, or their future role in society.
So we hope that when the Vienna summit meeting is concluded there are concrete measures linked to the employment action plans of each Member State that will help to bring down the overall unemployment level, but particularly long-term unemployment and unemployment amongst young people.
We have suffered in recent months and over the last year from the global economic crisis.
With the coming Euro the European Union will be a centre of stability in the global economy.
One of my colleagues mentioned it a moment ago.
The idea that we operate our labour market the way that we operated it ten years ago, or even five years ago, will lead to higher unemployment.
We know that the Austrian presidency has tried to pursue some measures on tax coordination and I also know that the German presidency will be looking at strengthening tax coordination.
I am very grateful that Commissioner Mario Monti has changed the agenda in Europe on this matter.
Mr President, I have just three minutes and so just two comments to make and a question to put as chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs.
Ministers Michalek and Schlögl have always been at pains to consult with us.
Article 6 of the Maastricht Treaty requires us to be consulted on a number of important matters, something which has happened under previous presidencies, but it is not happening at present.
That is a breach of Article 6 of the Maastricht Treaty.
The governments of the Member States have an obligation to get together in Vienna and begin outlining new directions for the European Union.
Thank you, Mr Alavanos.
The country's GNP fell by more than 6 % in 1997 and has unfortunately continued to drop in 1998.
Despite major progress, inflation remains very high and the currency has lost 25 % of its value since the beginning of the year.
It is against this background that we must examine the situation in Romania with regard to the Copenhagen criteria and in the light of the Commission report of 4 November.
There is still progress to be made in the areas of protecting street children, the control of judicial power by the police, the independence of journalists, detention conditions in prisons, fighting corruption, and the situation of the Rom community.
But there is no doubt that the government is determined to do something about these issues and we are quite certain that each year we will see more progress made in these various fields.
This being the case, it seems that Romania ought to work on a comprehensive policy in four areas.
At the same time, Romania must determinedly continue with the structural reform of its economy, in particular privatisation, the reform of the banking system, the restructuring of large conglomerates and the modernisation of farming.
Finally, as I was saying earlier, Romania must pursue its modernisation efforts to meet the first Copenhagen criterion, since in this field nothing is ever completely finished.
We can therefore see in these circumstances that it is premature to envisage opening up accession negotiations with Romania.
Mr President, a year ago Parliament concluded that Slovakia was not sufficiently democratic to join the group of applicants for EU membership with which negotiations could begin.
But yesterday, a year down the line, I was in Bratislava attending a parliamentary debate on Slovakia's ambitions in a newly elected parliament, with a new government which is doing everything possible to make us forget the previous one.
Slovakia's voters voted for Europe and against isolation.
Today's debate on Slovakia is therefore political in nature and must have a political emphasis, partly because of the history of Parliament's relations with this country in recent years.
The new government is now in place and its first actions are promising.
Slovakia has changed course, towards a normal democratic system in which there is respect for the constitution, acceptance of opposition, a directly elected president, a transparent society with a place for every citizen, including the Hungarian minority which is represented in the new government and, most importantly, where there is an attitude of openness towards the European Union.
But I see that this is only mentioned in the report on Bulgaria.
It is important to me that if I agree to that point being in my report, then it should also feature in other reports as well, so as to avoid the impression that we are only concerned about this in the case of Slovakia and Bulgaria.
Slovakia would have liked to see us now recommending to the European Council that accession negotiations should begin.
As I understand it, a vote of confidence in the new government is being held now or this evening in the Slovak Parliament.
I think Slovakia is entitled to a second chance, a chance to sit the exam again.
The new Slovak Government is ready to go the extra mile.
These are the three Baltic states which were brought into the Soviet sphere of interest when Hitler and Stalin divided up Europe at the end of the 1930s through the notorious pact signed by Molotov and Ribbentrop, the foreign ministers from Moscow and Berlin.
The Baltic area is developing rapidly, and this applies to the three countries of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania - all three of them.
As rapporteur on Lithuania's application for membership of the EU, I see no reason for placing Lithuania in a different position from the two other Baltic states, even though these are of course individual negotiations and it is not necessarily the case that they will all join at the same time.
In any event, the debate on Ignalina has now reached a very practical stage.
We were very happy with the Commission's announcement at the beginning of November concerning the reports on the applicant countries and the related proposals for accession.
The challenge now is to implement this reform on the ground without giving the impression that the restructuring is being done on the basis of party affiliation.
Since 4 November the Commission's reports have been the subject of intense scrutiny, notably by the candidates themselves but also by the Member States and the European Parliament.
I welcome this opportunity for a more in-depth debate on enlargement in Parliament.
As you know, it has been announced that we will finalise the update of the 1993 opinion on Malta, I hope by mid-February of next year.
In order to treat all candidates fairly, the reports cover only decisions or measures that have actually been taken or implemented since last year's opinions.
Our analysis shows that the all-inclusive enlargement process remains broadly on track and that the momentum of the candidates towards enlargement is grosso modo being maintained.
The new political situation in Slovakia following the recent parliamentary elections brings that country an important step closer to EU membership.
In consequence, the Commission will recommend the opening of negotiations on condition that its political institutions demonstrate their ability to function in a stable and democratic manner.
It will also be necessary before opening negotiations to verify that Slovakia has undertaken measures to remedy its economic situation and that it also has introduced greater transparency into its operation.
I fully agree with the rapporteur that the political change that seems to be developing after the parliamentary elections gives us hope, as we have concluded in our report, that in the foreseeable future the recommendations for negotiations can be made.
The rapporteur also referred to that.
As far as its economy is concerned, Latvia has made some impressive progress in the past twelve months.
GDP growth is high and inflation continues to fall.
Latvia now comes close to fulfilling the criterion of being a functioning market economy.
As far as the nuclear power plant in Ignalina is concerned, the Commission's general conclusion on Lithuania was not predicated on the situation regarding that power plant.
It has made advances, most notably in the fight against corruption and judicial reform but needs to broaden its efforts further.
It has also stepped up the pace of its preparations on the acquis and made clear progress in the enforcement of intellectual property rights and on financial services, critical points of last year.
Bulgaria does not yet fulfill the economic conditions and still has considerable work ahead.
The government continues to show determination in its commitment to reforms.
I hasten to say that as far as the rights of the Roma are concerned, many of the candidate countries still have to do quite a lot of work to ensure that social exclusion and discrimination is abolished.
However, we must recognise that it is not a 100 metres sprint but a marathon we are engaged in.
Similarly, Latvia has made huge progress, in particular in relation to the referendum on citizenship.
Similarly, Bulgaria has made great progress after a poor start but we noticed a Commission opinion that it is beginning to fall back.
Mr Kristoffersen has mentioned Ignalina.
Talk of expert groups must not be allowed to distract us from that.
I should also like to congratulate the new government of Slovakia and especially the Slovakian people, who elected their government democratically.
The desire of some groups in this House for reports every six months is, to my mind, the result of woolly thinking.
My group is against unnecessary work, and in my view the Commission would be hard pressed to produce a report of this kind every six months.
Nor must we give the impression that being part of group 2 means that applicants are being put on ice.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative elections which took place in Slovakia at the end of September confirmed what I personally never doubted - that Slovakia's politicians, like the Slovak people, were profoundly attached to the rules of democracy and respect for basic freedoms.
On the question of the protection of minorities and, in particular, of the Hungarian minority, I would point out that it has always been represented in the Slovak Parliament in ratio to its numerical size, which is not always the case with minorities in other Central and Eastern European countries.
Furthermore, like the other applicant countries, Slovakia needs to continue to make huge efforts to reform its economy if it is to succeed in making the difficult transition from a state-run economy to a market economy; we Europeans have a responsibility to help our Slovak friends overcome these difficulties.
The gypsies, or Romanies, are a very large minority in Europe.
There is a Romany minority in all applicant countries, including Latvia, which is represented here today, although it is quite a small one in that particular country.
Mr President, Commissioner, it was with pleasure that I read the reports on the five applicant countries which the Commission has placed in the second group for accession, even if, Commissioner, you reject that expression.
These reports emphasise the progress made in at least four of them; the fifth, Romania, is unfortunately still encountering major difficulties.
The progress made means that the differences between the countries in the first group and those in the second seem to be diminishing.
I am glad because I have frequently regretted the way this has been presented, as decided by the Commission and confirmed by the European Council in Luxembourg in 1997, since it risked opening up dangerous rivalries and conflicts and discouraging countries in the sensitive area of Central Europe.
I hope that we can begin negotiations with these new countries as soon as possible even if there has to be a new report in the meantime, as you have requested, Commissioner.
Against this satisfactory overall background the rapporteurs have naturally emphasised particular features in each country - the spectacular economic performance in Bulgaria, where the economy was lagging far behind, the political developments in Slovakia, giving it a much more encouraging outlook, intensive efforts in Latvia to improve the treatment of the Russian minority, etc.
But we should not think that these developments mean that there is still not a lot of ground to be covered, and we would be doing all of the applicant countries a disservice - whether they are in the first or second group - if we confused the progress they have achieved with ultimate success.
We could be equally pessimistic about the independence of the judiciary, a notion that is taking time to sink in in some countries.
Commissioner, could not the Commission channel more aid into social programmes targeting the most disadvantaged groups of the population?
Mr President, following the launch of the accession process on 30 March 1998 in Brussels under the British presidency, EU enlargement is gathering ever greater pace.
However, as the reports before us today show, and as the Commission has indicated in its composite paper and regular reports, not all applicant countries are proceeding at the same speed towards meeting the criteria for membership.
We should recognise progress where this has been made, as the Commissioner said earlier in this debate.
With this in mind, I believe it is right to highlight the progress made by Latvia so that a decision can be made to start negotiations with Riga before the end of the German presidency.
There is nothing more important to Europe's citizens than avoiding another Chernobyl.
A second point concerns Romania.
Mr President, I wish to speak as a member of the joint delegation with Romania in giving my opinion on the excellent report drafted by our colleague, Pierre Bernard-Reymond.
I have to say that President Emil Constantinescu is to be praised for his fierce and constant determination to link his country with the European Union.
In the light of his analysis, the rapporteur concludes that Parliament cannot recommend the opening of accession negotiations with Romania.
For my part I would ask for special efforts to be made in 1999 to find PHARE programme funding for this country.
Moreover, this procedure today is a paradoxical vindication of the European Parliament's insistence that the accession procedure should take place for all eleven candidate countries from a common starting point, Mr van den Broek.
As regards Bulgaria, I am glad to hear confirmation of the European Parliament's support for Bulgaria's accession, as expressed in the Commission's positive progress report.
It is precisely because the decision taken by the people of Latvia was such a complex one that it deserves recognition.
We have given rights and made promises to those countries and we cannot let them down.
This gives further encouragement to the reform process in the other Central and Eastern European countries which have not achieved quite so much.
Their efforts to step up democracy and improve human rights has fostered peace in Europe.
The rapporteur has already referred to the economic situation but, with reference to Parliament, Romania has many difficult decisions to make.
For example, they must be prepared to rescind Article 200.
Mr President, I am very pleased that this report supports Slovakia's accession.
There are two problems, however: Mochovce and Bohunice.
I can also tell you that applicants which have not yet opened negotiations will, in the first quarter of the year, in terms of the screening process too, move from multilateral to bilateral screening and thus into a process which is more akin to that in the first group, if I can put it like that.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
I would like to mention ten points which I feel are seminal to this report, and which I hope you think are too.
Turkey must respect the rights of all its citizens.
I think that in spite of the Ocalan crisis, Turkey can still find a way to resolve its Kurdish problem once and for all, and the European Union should help it to find a peaceful solution to this problem and to combat terrorism.
But we must make it perfectly clear to Turkey that the political and economic criteria have to be met if Turkey wishes to become a member of the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Turkish Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz is obviously making it difficult for us to discuss the development of relations with Turkey dispassionately and to come up with coherent proposals for the European Union sine ira et studio .
I also welcome the Commission's decision to issue its usual annual report on the state of relations between the European Union and Turkey in the same form as the progress report produced for the other applicant countries.
For the European Union this means - as its side of the partnership - fulfilling its financial commitments in the context of the Customs Union, including Turkey in European programmes such as Leonardo, Socrates and Youth, and coordinating policies on energy, transport, the environment and combating drugs.
If the Swoboda report can be used, as before, in a positive spirit to tackle the problems which exist between Turkey and the European Union, assuming that it is adopted by Parliament tomorrow, then we feel able to vote for it as a set of guidelines.
Having seen what happened to Manchester United when they visited Turkey a few years ago, I fear the worst this evening.
We condemn any interference in the decisions of the judiciary in a Member State governed by the rule of law.
We believe that Turkey would make a valuable contribution to the peace and security of our region.
However Turkey must be judged on the same basis as any other country.
We know that Turkey's problem is that the government is weak and the state is strong.
Mr President, first of all may I compliment Mr Swoboda on his balanced, tactful and thorough report.
The Union expects countries expressing the wish to join the Union to take real steps in the right direction, not only economic measures for their own economic structure, but primarily steps to secure the political values which obtain in a constitutional state and a democracy.
They have to be constructive in helping to promote international peace and the rule of law.
Turkey's government must not act as if it can demand membership of the European Union on its own terms.
He opens the door for Turkey to become a member of the European Union and urges that a timetable should be drawn up for democratic reforms there.
That said, what is undoubtedly missing from the Swoboda report is the whole issue of the Council's clumsy treatment of Turkey over enlargement, excluding Turkey for no reason from the list of countries that will one day become members of the European Union.
When there is an agreement you cannot unilaterally delete part of it and only keep the parts that, as we have seen, are beneficial to the European Union.
I am afraid that in Turkey there are many who do not understand what those values mean, and I think this report will help them do so.
This report is a very important one and I hope it will not be misunderstood in Turkey, because it was prepared by people who want to help that country finally move into the twenty-first century.
Mr President, taking up the last point made by the previous speaker, I would say that our intention is to help Turkey move closer to the European Union.
Only through dialogue and conflict settlement can these goals be achieved, goals which the European Union must pursue with determination and by common accord.
The Italian Government did what was necessary, as everyone has acknowledged.
This is Italy's position and that of all the Member States of the European Union.
Turkey has a further problem, over and above those already mentioned: it cannot say that there is solely a problem of terrorism and not a Kurdish problem.
This is why I very much welcome the fact that the European Parliament report clearly addresses this issue and demands that Turkey should explain its position very clearly, because Turkey must be judged by the same standards as all the other applicant countries.
Mr President, from this platform I have repeatedly stressed that if there is one country among the European Union's 15 Member States which would be delighted if Turkey joined the Union, that country is Greece.
If those two countries were to work closely together, given that they occupy sensitive positions at the crossroads between Europe and Asia and between the Balkans and the Mediterranean, that cooperation would be valuable, productive and constructive for the whole of Europe and, I would say, for the security of the world as a whole.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, pursuant to Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, I should like to table a motion for the debate on the this item to be declared inadmissible for three reasons.
The first reason is that the report draws upon the Amsterdam Treaty, which is mentioned in the preamble in recitals B, D and E.
It is an affront to French Members and Senators to apply this text before it has even been ratified, particularly as, only yesterday, they debated the constitutional reform preceding the ratification of this Treaty.
The second reason is that the draft Statute included in this report adds provisions to the Treaty establishing the European Community, to the 1976 Act and to the Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the European Communities - something it does not have the power to do.
The third reason, Mr President, is that this report is an own-initiative report.
It must therefore respect Rule 148, intended as a legal basis, and Rule 50, which applies in accordance with paragraph 6 of that Rule.
Thank you very much, Mr Fabre-Aubrespy.
The Chair believes that the report we are about to debate is admissible as the Council has expressly asked for our opinion on this matter and, according to the Rules, this is a valid way to give our opinion.
It is, however, up to you to ask whether there is a speaker for and against this motion before putting it to the vote, as stated in Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure.
But, in any case, the Chair will begin the debate as it believes that the report is admissible.
I have explained my reasons for this: although the changes to the Amsterdam Treaty have not been adopted in all the Member States, Parliament's comments on future-related matters are valid, and all the more so as the Council has asked for our opinion on this matter.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Members' Statute represents an opportunity for Parliament.
Which brings us to the first problem.
There will always be governments and members of national parliaments who maintain that the Members of the European Parliament must on no account earn more than the members of their own national parliament.
The European Parliament should decide freely, independently and confidently about the remuneration of its Members.
That is the political rationale of this proposal.
That is why we are here.
It represents a success for Parliament, which listed it amongst its priorities when negotiating the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Secondly: this statute is very important for Parliament because it serves as its charter.
The Statute is about much more than just our salary.
It lays down the rules by which we must regulate our conduct, as representatives directly elected by the citizens.
This is why I believe that if we vote for a reasonable text tomorrow, we shall prove the strength of our conviction, the political strength we acquired at Amsterdam.
I want to pay tribute to the two Presidents of our Parliament during this parliamentary term.
This, in my view, represents the last opportunity in this parliamentary term to end, once and for all, this most damaging public vilification.
I for one hope passionately that tomorrow this House will adopt an appropriate package of reforms.
The Rothley report is our response to that request.
If this statute is to have some integrity and credibility it must look at the role of a Member of the European Parliament.
We cannot dodge the important issue of a Member's salary so I propose to deal with it now.
It is simply a fact that Members of this House should be paid the same salary.
It runs counter to all logic and common sense and lies at the base of all our problems.
Mr Rothley's average of the salary of all our national parliamentarians is an ingenious solution.
I have no doubt that such a proposal would be entirely unacceptable to our citizens, our voters and indeed to our governments.
The compromise amendment tabled by my group and the Liberal Group with the rapporteur's active support, I believe, adds even greater transparency and clarity to this issue and I hope that it will command support.
It will then be up to the Council to indicate that they are prepared to give the green light to the next stage, ie detailed interinstitutional negotiations so that a statute can become a reality before the European elections in June of next year.
Consensus on an issue of this sort is extraordinarily difficult to secure.
Let us hope that in Vienna the Council can do likewise.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the past few weeks, the report by our colleague Mr Willi Rothley has caused much ink and many words to flow.
Some colleagues live close to our places of work - Brussels and Strasbourg - and some are even on site.
Others, in contrast, live on the periphery and spend a day or even longer travelling to these places, sometimes having to use several forms of transport.
Every person in this House would sincerely like to see transparency in all expenses payments.
Every one of us has reached the conclusion that only a common statute for Members would let us respond to the demand for both transparency and equality, which go hand in hand.
I hope that, tomorrow, we will vote through a text on which there is the greatest possible consensus and that in adopting it later the Council will at last both accept its responsibilities and strengthen the dignity of our institution.
Mr President, my group attaches the highest priority to this report and to the work done by our colleague Mr Rothley.
Our current system is complex and reflects the fact that the issue was fudged 20 years ago with direct elections.
I hope tomorrow that we will, in a final vote, deliver a very strong message from this House into the hands of our President to respond to the challenge of Cardiff to say we have listened, we have paid attention and the ball is now firmly in the Council's court.
I would also congratulate my own colleague, Willy De Clercq for his role in chairing that.
My group wishes to support the final vote of the Statute, even if there are things in it we would have preferred to see otherwise, because we want to get the message over.
My group will support the explicit salary that is referred to by the rapporteur and the majority of my group will support the European tax conclusion.
Overall we believe in equal work for pay of equal value.
On the question of principle, no Member of this House surely has so little respect for him or herself that they feel they should not be paid a proper salary at a level common to each and every one of us.
The voting list which will be put before us tomorrow has been drawn up in a very unusual way.
So we are not being given the right to determine first whether we agree with the principle or not and vote on all the amendments related to that.
I would ask the services to please ensure that we are given a proper voting list tomorrow morning.
Mr President, when commenting on the report on the draft Statute for Members of the European Parliament, one must first recognise that the rapporteur must have been working against a deadline.
Finally, in connection with the transitional arrangements, I differ because, as I see it, the same status, in this case that of a directly elected parliamentarian, can bring with it different rights.
We are convinced that the European Parliament has an image problem, but we believe the Council must at last understand the necessity of applying once and for all this principle of equal pay for equal work, not least in the case of the European Parliament.
It will need to be more important still in future.
Lastly, it intervened to correct - literally - the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in an exceptional meeting held here last Wednesday at 8 p.m.
In place of this, the draft from the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is a collection of incoherent, outrageous and ridiculous measures.
The incoherency arises from stating, in recital A, that any difference in the Statute for Members on grounds of nationality shall be prohibited, yet it also refers to national systems when these are more beneficial.
No one is forcing Members to stand again and, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist or Social-Democrat Groups, as you claim to be, you are simply trying to obtain something which is denied to employees in companies in your respective countries.
This has been made possible by the Amsterdam Treaty which, although not yet in force, is the frame of reference for our discussion and for the expeditious, enthusiastic work of the rapporteur, Mr Rothley, who is a past master with difficult dossiers.
Full transparency is therefore required about everything, not merely out of defensiveness but because there should be nothing to hide.
Our President does indeed have to take to the Vienna Council a document on which to negotiate.
Yet in this case, as I stated this morning in our group, we have let ourselves down.
That is the legally correct procedure, and you, Mr Rothley, know that as well as I do.
We do, however, have a good opportunity to improve the draft by means of amendments.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are many things in the European Union that are still far from European.
This even applies to the European Parliament.
The work of its Members is still governed by rules that were devised at a time when this House was merely a parliamentary assembly of MPs from the Member States.
Mr President, more than 20 years ago now, the Council undertook to draw up a statute for all Members of this Parliament.
The monthly salary is an altogether different matter.
Mr President, after so many years we have come as far as this evening's debate on the Rothley report, in the sincere hope that we are approaching the beginning of the end.
A common statute for Members of the European Parliament must finally be established.
The basic principle of equal pay for equal work has been and is still being violated in the European Parliament's own house, and our efforts to restore a certain balance have created other problems and exposed us to perfidious and sometimes malicious attacks.
The Council, however, rejected our proposal and since then the problem has remained outstanding.
Some of us have fought for years for this common statute, but it was never our aim to sacrifice everything in order to achieve a common statute at any price.
The Council too should not be misled about this for any reasons, on any pretexts or by any excuses.
Mr President, according to the Treaty, the EU is an association of 15 independent states.
Several times in the course of this debate, I have protested against this type of summary procedure, but to no avail.
Mr President, as we consider any report or legal act, we must bear in mind that this House represents the citizens of Europe, and also that we are a legislative body.
The first of these considerations is particularly pertinent in this case.
I am bound to say that I have engaged in a good deal of debate with the rapporteur, but he has consistently displayed a constructive attitude, even though we have not reached agreement on certain issues.
One might or might not agree with him, but such arrangements are common practice in any major legislative reform like this one.
Mr President, after all the fuss over the expenses and salaries of Members of the European Parliament, tomorrow looks like being a good day.
What has been impossible for years - the same salary for all MEPs irrespective of nationality, plus a rigorous system for refunding expenses which is proof against abuse - looks like happening at last after 20 years.
That is a good thing, because this disparity in earnings and the abuse of expenses has well and truly poisoned the atmosphere in and around Parliament.
Thank you, Mr Florio.
I am not in favour of this system, but I find that to say that bringing Members' salaries into line with officials' salaries would harm Parliament's dignity is an insult to these officials, who help us and who serve everyone's interests.
Thank you, Mr Fabre-Aubrespy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
It should, of course, be the President of the European Central Bank, as there will only be one monetary policy and, this being the case, we may ask what role the governors of national banks can still play in any sort of international body as they no longer have any say in this matter.
The ministers who sit in the Council of Ministers defend their national policy first and foremost.
Fernand Herman's report is a worthwhile contribution on this issue.
Mr President, the introduction of the euro will have a major impact not only for EU citizens but also on the international monetary and financial system.
The introduction of the euro will give the European Community a monetary presence that corresponds to its economic and commercial influence in the world economy.
The proposal for a Council decision provides that for issues relating to EMU the Community shall be represented at international level by the Council and the European Central Bank with the participation of the Commission.
The changes brought about by the introduction of the euro will affect position-taking and representation at international level.
We can support the proposal for a Council decision but my group does not believe that it is sensible.
The Commission must play its special prominent role.
That, however, must be our objective.
In the second pillar, we are desperately seeking to give the Union's foreign policy a single face and a single voice at last with Mr or Mrs CFSP.
A single Euroland needs a single representation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the House for having included this item on the agenda.
The euro will provide Europe with true monetary existence.
Firstly, it is a good agreement and to those who have expressed reservations I would say that, in this case, it is better to leave well alone.
This is a transitional agreement, a realistic agreement, and it has been reached before 31 December, in other words before the birth of the euro, something which seemed far from likely even just a few days ago.
The first aspect is defining a common position for the Union.
The form of representation that has been defined will allow Europe to speak with a single voice, whilst respecting the competences of the institutions concerned.
It is only natural that this voice, in order to be heard, should use several vocal cords, in accordance with the will of the Heads of State and Government as expressed at the Luxembourg European Council last December.
Yesterday's agreement lays down a role for the Council, a role for the Central Bank and a role for the Commission.
The Commission is there to provide help, as is perfectly normal, to provide support and to play a useful and efficient role.
In order to ensure continuity in the representation of the euro and in view of the rotating presidencies, a minister from a G7 Member State will support the President of the Euro 11.
This means, in a very real sense, that the Commission will have access to all the necessary information to allow it to fulfil its role, particularly as regards multilateral supervision.
Lastly, as regards bilateral missions, the arrangements for missions in third countries will be defined by the Presidency of the Euro 11 or by the ECOFIN Council on a case-by-case basis, which I think is simply common sense.
Yet this agreement is still a positive one, even if it is only transitional, and it is nonetheless an agreement which will allow us to launch EMU in full on 1 January under the best possible conditions.
And I can assure you that as far as the Commission is concerned, it will keep you closely informed of developments in discussions, as always, and of the development of the international aspects of the euro.
Thank you, Mr de Silguy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
The Bretton Woods institutions are more than 54 years old; they are not designed to meet the challenges of globalisation.
This institutional reform is vitally important, because we need a political council which will take decisions, which will assume responsibility for financial decisions and which will not pass the buck to the administrative staff when things go wrong.
After all, the market economy has shown throughout the world that economic and financial relations have been unable to function smoothly in practice without a regulatory framework.
That is why we must ensure that the effects of these crises on growth, investment and employment are contained, not only in the crisis-torn countries themselves but also in the newly industrialised countries, in the developing countries and in the industrialised countries too.
For that reason, political cooperation is needed in order to ensure that the European and US trade cycles remain stable and in step with each other, and there is also a need for cooperation between the European Central Bank and the US Federal Reserve.
If these countries cannot dispose of their products in Europe, with its trade balance surplus, where can they do so?
Nor do I see how upgrading the interim committee or merging the committees of the IMF and World Bank could be instrumental in bringing about this necessary change.
Mr President, the world economy is undoubtedly caught up in a significant crisis.
For all our discussion of the global crises, it is worth emphasising that the European Union is the bastion of stability in the world, not least because of the decision to introduce the euro, Commissioner de Silguy.
Firstly, we need transparency at the national and international levels, because the markets could not function otherwise.
Thirdly, we need reforms in the context of the national finance markets.
Mr President, the international financial crisis shocked the world, and many people claim to have been taken by surprise.
Mr Metten says that we must not complain after the event, but we were forced to realise at the hearing of financial experts that there are gaps in our information system.
Those countries which sadly are not yet joining the euro still have a problem.
The market too can have a share in this.
But in the world of finance in particular, Mr Langen, the dialectics of power will always apply.
Thank you, Mr Langen.
Mr President, since my colleague from the Group of the European People's Party made a comment about a German politician, I should like to put on record the fact that my Amendment No 5 is in line with the position of this House on the principles of economic policy, a position which, I might add, was adopted last year by the European Parliament in plenary sitting.
Thank you, Mrs Randzio-Plath.
This latter argument strikes me as the more convincing one, not least because the recent financial events have revealed the need to step up prudential supervision, to improve transparency and the flow of information, and thus to lay down rules which are more in keeping with the new operating environment.
Mr President, at the end of 1996 the Wall Street Dow Jones index hit the 6400 barrier.
Apparently, the world financial crisis took everyone by surprise.
This backto-business or return to greater state interventionism as well as intervention by international financial organisations is quite evident in this report and in this resolution.
In fact, capital flows out but does not flow back in.
Developing countries need capital in order to develop.
But freedom comes with its own demands including, as you highlighted, for the private sector.
Lastly, the third element is vigilance.
But if the real challenges are on a worldwide rather than a continental scale, Europe can play an important part in adapting the international monetary and financial system.
There is a particular need to establish a rapid and safe exchange of information between supervisory authorities and the competent monetary authorities.
It is the source of the communication which was adopted yesterday by the ECOFIN Council for the European Council on strengthening the international financial system.
This communication stresses the central role which the Union should now play in the new architecture of the international financial system, and the strengthening of economic and financial cooperation with emerging and developing countries.
The private sector should be involved in resolving crises and should take its share of responsibility.
However, Europe's real contribution to the international debate is directly linked to the quality of its external representation, but as we discussed this earlier I will not go back over it now.
I will simply say that, this morning, acting on my proposal, the Commission adopted an interesting communication on this matter which, whilst of course pointing out the budget policy line, raises a number of possibilities that Europe could implement.
I hope that we will have an opportunity to discuss this in more detail in the coming weeks.
The introduction of the euro also gives us an incentive to play a more active role in this field.
Thank you, Mr de Silguy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
