If anything said has not been correctly reported in the Minutes that will of course be changed.
I did not see my name in yesterday's Minutes from yesterday, but I was here.
But I can assure you there is nothing excessive.
The Bureau considered a proposal from the Secretary General, without us knowing whether...
We did not get into a debate on the subject, but in my view, my colleagues should be fully informed of the context in which this decision was taken.
Madam President, the decision taken by the Bureau will apply in the future.
Secondly, this is a general resolution affecting all Presidents of this House.
The President of the European Parliament has the power to decide on the admissibility of questions.
In reality, your questions are directed to the Council and to the Commission, and they should have been raised pursuant to Rule 28, but it is perfectly possible for you to restate those questions under the appropriate Rule, and at that point, quite clearly, you will receive a reply.
When Members put a question to the President, they are entitled to an answer and Rules should not be used to obviate that answer.
We must have an answer as to why we have a computer system in Brussels which cannot take CD-roms and on which the main contractor has a three-year warranty, which prevents us using the computers for user-friendly purposes.
Mr Falconer, it appears that your question has been restated in accordance with Rule 28, and you will be receiving a reply.
Madam President, I will not go back to the matter I raised here.
I would just like to mention that I submitted an urgent written question to the Commission on 20 October.
That question raised the matter of the disastrous agricultural policy to which the structural funds were applied in my country.
I know it has still not arrived, and the Secretary General of this Parliament told me it should have been here by 19 November.
The number of the question is 3479/97 and it was submitted on 20 October.
If that is an acceptable procedure in a democracy, Madam President, then I would rather live in a totalitarian state.
Mr Rosado Fernandes, I did not hear the end of your speech.
As a European Parliament we have signalled from the start that we are ready and willing to respect the Edinburgh decisions, especially with regard to the structural funds.
The European Parliament was open to a moderate growth, in line with European reality and reflecting the efforts of the Member States in their national budgets.
On the question of initiating preparations for enlargement, we decided, where the Commission is concerned, on a reserve of 20 "A' posts as a political sign that entry negotiations should start in 1998.
The allocations for those involved, to wit the farmers, still remain unaffected by this; only the overly high estimates in the agricultural budget we normally have every year have been reduced to a minimum with the 1998 budget.
For the first time we have achieved the right to be consulted along with the Council in this area, with amendments from the Committee on Agriculture being taken into account at the Council's second reading.
I would like to remind you that this is the first time the European Parliament has succeeded in launching its own initiative before the Council, and that the European Parliament in contrast to the Council - and I do not mean the current presidency, but the Council on the Yugoslavia question, say, or Meda - has not just formulated one proposal, but has also said that we will find the money, and not just at the expense of other policy areas.
We have - I am pleased to report - secured for Socrates, in concerted action with the Council, a deal involving additional monies being made available to students and young people from 1998 onwards, including ECU 35 million in 1998 and ECU 35 million in 1999.
In addition - and I refer to my statement just now about Meda and Yugoslavia - we have restored the balance in foreign policy, specifically in favour of the priorities of the developing countries and Latin America.
This 1998 budget is more realistic than ever before and puts an end to the myth that money in Europe is only ever wasted.
Yet I believe that the budget for 1998, which will be put to the vote on Thursday, is a good proposal.
For my part, as rapporteur for this House, I would now like to hand over the baton for the 1999 budget to my successor, Barbara Dührkop Dührkop.
I wish to thank everyone most sincerely - the President, the Commission and my colleagues in Parliament who were involved in preparing this budget for 1998.
The recognition of our financial prudence is something that could be learned by some of our colleagues who have been complaining volubly about waste and yet do not participate in any of our discussions about controlling it.
We have done all that and, at the same time, in category 5, maintained a margin of ECU 187 million.
There is, however, a relatively minor problem concerning the revenue amendments referred to in paragraphs 24 and 25 of our report.
So we hope that the Council will start a process of sensible dialogue with us on revenue and that, instead of having this conciliation at the last minute, we can perhaps in the earlier part of next year have a sensible dialogue with the British presidency together with the Luxembourg presidency and the Austrians, so that we can take all these questions fully into consideration.
With those few words, I, like Mr Tillich, thank all the staff, the administration of Parliament, the Committee on Budgets and also the Commission and the Council for their cooperation on the budget.
I hope that this cooperation continues with their acceptance of our minor revenue-side amendments and then a sensible discussion on the revenue side later next year.
Madam President, with the ECSC budget we are dealing with a traditional report which is now of no great interest and regarded as something of a hangover from a far-off and long distant past, and which in the last few weeks has caused an astonishing rumpus, because of the position of the Committee on Budgets.
The financial expression of this solidarity is the levy on all the coal and steel production of our six countries, made under the treaty and handed over to the High Authority.
The same person also said that the enlarged market, where the producer may be subject to competition from a wider range of companies, and in where the consumer knows he can rely on a greater number of suppliers, changes the attitudes of people through changes in the economic situation.
These few sentences were spoken here, in Strasbourg itself, on 20 May 1954.
The Commission's report on the 1998 ECSC budget proposes burying this levy, unnoticed and unmourned, five years before the 2002 deadline, the pretext being that the ECSC has not made any loans since 23 July last.
It does not respect the spirit of the founding fathers, as the levy had not been intended to be made in consideration of anything whatsoever, but to be a system of financial compensation to promote employment.
In 1998, the sector is set to lose 28, 000 jobs.
It is possible, Mr Liikanen, that DG XIX has become an island managing prosperity which is now rare indeed in Europe, the ECSC treasury, which I remind you, amounts to ECU 1.2 billion.
The report on the use of these funds will provide an opportunity for interesting discussion, which will doubtless be an extension of your report for 1998, and we hope you will today be looking at the proposals of the Committee on Budgets, in the full awareness that, in addition to the financial considerations, we are faced with a full-scale problem of political philosophy, which is the reason why the majority of the Committee on Budgets opposes your proposal to eliminate the levy.
Naturally, my group supports the report I have had the honour of presenting on behalf of the Committee on Budgets.
By agreement with the session services, I take advantage of this opportunity to move straight on to our group's position on the report by our colleagues, Mr Tillich and Mr Tomlinson.
While we largely endorse the conclusions of the trialogue, in particular as regards structural funds, reduction of which was not acceptable to the Committee on Budgets in 1998, the penultimate year for the financial perspectives under the Edinburgh agreement, we cannot, on the other hand, accept a reduction of ECU 550 million in obligatory expenditure, nor, in particular, the targeted reduction of ECU 250 million: ECU 100 million for the agri-monetary regime, ECU 100 million for the beef sector support measures, and ECU 50 million for swine fever.
To enter into commitments for expenditure over which we do not have the final say, in a codecision procedure which ends up costing us ECU 500 million, is unacceptable as far as our group is concerned, and that is the reason why we will abstain in the vote on agricultural expenditure.
For the rest, and in particular as regards the reductions affecting European Union internal policy and external actions, we are fully aware that concessions had to be made, so to speak, and sacrificial victims offered up on the altar of monetary union, in spite of the effort already made by our Parliament in 1996 for 1997.
Even so, I repeat that we are fairly satisfied with the agreement on the structural funds, as we have an agreement on the Peace programme for Northern Ireland - my Irish colleague, who will be speaking about this later, is far more competent that I am on the issue - and we are also delighted - I repeat - that measures have been taken in favour of employment, even if the initiative we proposed for the ECSC has not been agreed, and that there is still ECU 150 million for the three financial years, ECU 450 million in total, which will provide us with the finance for the decisions that were taken in Luxembourg.
I would like to conclude, Madam President, by thanking the Luxembourg Presidency of the Council, as I believe that this year, we had far better dialogue than in the previous years with other presidencies, and all these discussions were extremely fruitful, with everything put straight on the table.
Madam President, all the speeches I have made this year on the 1998 Budget have started with my saying that I enjoy excellent cooperation with the Committee on Budgets.
The agriculture budget this year is unique, because if we are to believe the latest estimates of the Commission, we are setting a budget which is certain to be too low.
The Committee on Agriculture nevertheless adopted it and accepted it because it is also aware of all the cuts which have to be implemented throughout Europe in connection with the introduction of the euro.
That condition is more input from this Parliament into the agriculture budget, and for this we would like an extra supplementary Budget and figures from the Commission, if necessary in March or April next year; a positive attitude from the Council and Parliament will be needed.
We welcome the solidarity which has been demonstrated in this Parliament in wanting to reduce the agriculture budget by the same amount as headings 3 and 4.
The agriculture budget - and many people may have thought this - is not safe in the sole care of the Council of Ministers.
Moreover, we are not all in agreement in my group whether this is a sensible strategic emphasis or rather a less sensible ad hoc venture, but the strategic emphasis could take the direction of doing something to alleviate the specific distress, particularly in the coal regions - the steel regions are less affected.
Madam President, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgets on this occasion for the great work that they have achieved in securing ECU 70 million over two years for the Socrates programme.
I know that this is a result of heavy pressure and brinkmanship by our Parliament representatives during the conciliation process which I understand lasted for about six hours.
I would, however, like to point out an anomaly in the system that we have developed as a Parliament in terms of the conciliation process: the Culture Committee was all geared up to start conciliation on the budgetary aspects of Socrates.
The same amendments appear both as having been passed by the Committee on Budgets and not having been passed by the Committee on Budgets.
I would like to thank very much my colleagues on the Budgets Committee for their cooperation throughout this year.
As far as the budget for energy and research is concerned, we need to look at what it can allow us to do, particularly in terms of the agreement reached at Kyoto which, although disappointing, nevertheless requires action from us.
The third thing you can do is use renewable energy and I am disappointed that so far there is no legal base for Altener II.
As far as research is concerned, all of us were extremely disappointed, including yourself I know, Madam President, at the results of the conciliation process where the ECU 700 million we had expected to be added to the Fourth Framework Programme ended up as a mere ECU 115 million.
Nevertheless, I would like to thank the Budgets Committee for their help and cooperation, which enabled us to put some pressure on the Council.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, three months ago, to the very day, I had the opportunity and the honour of setting out before you the main lines of the first reading of the draft budget by the Council.
On this basis, Parliament proceeded to the first reading of the budget in its October part-session.
The Council, for its part, as you know, adopted the draft budget at its second reading, on 27 November.
Here, I have in mind the trialogue of 17 November, and in particular the ad hoc concertation of 27 November on agricultural expenditure provided for in the Commission's letter of amendment.
Essentially, these decisions are as follows.
Indeed, your Parliament, from the outset, told us that it was ready to shoulder its burden of responsibility with regard to expenditure under headings 3 and 4, insofar as the Council was ready to shoulder its responsibilities with regard to expenditure under heading 1, that is, agricultural expenditure.
On this point, I think that everybody has finally kept to their commitments.
The Council considers that in so doing, Madam President, it has very seriously contributed to better collaboration with the other branch of the budget authority.
While in the Council's view the identified expenditure of funds advanced made possible a degree of budgetary rigour in this field, it has given up the cuts in payment appropriations decided at first reading, and has followed, respected, and accepted the position of the European Parliament, whereas we, the Parliament and the Council, know perfectly well that the Edinburgh objectives related only to commitments, and not to payments.
This decision was basically made in the light of our concern for a better understanding with the other branch of the budget authority, that is, with yourselves, Madam President.
It is true that this must be compensated for by real rigour in other sectors of non-obligatory expenditure.
Furthermore, the Council has accepted Parliament's proposals regarding Peace in the light of the Commissioner's suggestions.
Headings 3 and 4, taken together, are expressions of the same budgetary rigour as applies to expenditure under heading 1.
Having said that, the Council - and, I believe, your Parliament as well - is convinced that these austerity measures are in no way prejudicial to the implementation of the Union's internal and external policies.
With regard to the other important points I want to raise, Madam President, I would first like to emphasize the increase of some ECU 70 million in the funding for the Socrates programme for the years 1998 and 1999.
The Council has kept its word and thanks Parliament for this initiative, which will give the decisions taken by the European Council on employment much more convincing legitimacy.
Furthermore, in accordance with our agreement of 27 November, the Council transferred ECU 25 million from Tacis to the Chernobyl expenditure line.
That, Madam President, is what I wanted to say on the essential features of this second reading of the draft budget for 1998.
This 1998 budget, Madam President, is a balanced budget which in practice should give satisfaction and be acceptable to both branches of the budget authority.
From this I infer that the 1998 budget is a good budget.
It is above all the result of close cooperation, essentially based on the principle of mutual trust between the two branches of the budget authority.
I say this because, in the final analysis, Madam President, I have the feeling that if there is an agreement, then the praise for reaching that agreement must essentially go to this Parliament.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, as you have said, this has been quite a remarkable budget procedure.
The general budget for 1998 is a rigorous one which respects the obligations of the Union and reinforces the focus on employment creation and expenditure.
The 1998 budget is a rigorous one.
Its growth rates of 2.4 % in commitments and 1.4 % in payments are below the growth in national public expenditure.
Its margin of some ECU 7 billion below the own resources ceiling facilitates the consolidation efforts of Member States.
The decision on negotiations was taken last week in Luxembourg.
The 1998 budget reserves significant margins in headings 3, 4 and 5 and, for the first time since the system of financial perspectives has been created, these margins in commitment appropriations are real savings.
As the result of an impressive cooperation between the institutions, in particular between the European Parliament and the Council presidency, this budget also concentrates expenditure on programmes which can have a real impact on employment in the Community.
The Commission will adopt its proposal for a single legal base early in January.
Due to the endorsements from the special European Council of 28 November 1997 it should be adopted quickly.
Taking into account the sectoral objectives of the budget it could most effectively be linked to the Community initiatives Resider and Rechar.
It would appear that it could be comfortably financed from other resources without calling into question the long-term proposals which the Commission put forward on 8 October 1997.
The Commission will have an orientation debate on the operational budget for the ECSC this afternoon.
Interinstitutional cooperation has been of unprecedented quality moving from what was sometimes perceived as a dialogue of the deaf, as Terry Wynn very often said, to substantive and serious discussions of priorities, procedures and expenditure in all parts of the budget.
On non-compulsory expenditure, the Council and Parliament have reached agreement on the commitment appropriations for important Community activities such as the Socrates programme and the Chernobyl Shelter Fund.
I hope that the Council - and not just the Luxembourg presidency, because I am sure you do understand it - appreciates how far Parliament has moved on this budget, not just in the sacrifices it has made, but also in the margins that exist.
The fact that in 1997 and 1998 we cut payment appropriations can only be a one-off exercise for the headings concerned.
The process that took place this year with the ad hoc procedure for agriculture must be continued into next year for fisheries and the CFSP.
The Luxembourg Presidency, the United Kingdom Presidency and the future Austrian Presidency need to get together as a troika with Parliament early in the New Year as is planned, to make sure that we can continue in this spirit of cooperation because there are a lot of gaps between Parliament and the Council that still need to be bridged, especially on things like legal bases, on classification, the fisheries sector, and revenue.
Of course the next test is that, when the supplementary and amending budget comes along - if and when it is needed - those payments have to be found, not just for Category 1, but for headings 3 and 4.
Madam President, I must admit I find it unusual at this stage in the budgetary procedure not to be fighting for something.
We are in the process already of congratulation, and rightly so, because this has been an historic budgetary process for 1998.
Like Terry Wynn, I wish to thank those who have been involved - that is normal process - but in particular Stan Tillich and John Tomlinson, as the two rapporteurs on the major reports for this year.
The first, to which the Commissioner has referred, is the way in which we have moved from a process of confrontation in the budgetary procedure to one more like codecision, as if, by magic, we are finding a way of blurring the distinction between obligatory and non-obligatory expenditure without having to go through a treaty revision to do so.
It is indeed remarkable that we have a Parliament today which has kept over ECU 700 million under those areas of its own responsibility in headings 3 and 4 without proposals for expenditure.
I welcome that as a statement but, of course, you, as a long-standing Member of this House, know how we function, and we greatly appreciate what you have done on our behalf in the budgetary procedure.
To me it has always been a question of value for money, because we are trying to see how scarce resources can be utilized.
Parliament has tried to focus attention by the use of the reserve.
The first is the Jet problem, to which Terry Wynn referred.
Secondly, we come to improved management in issues like Bosnia or Meda, where we see that monies are not being efficiently utilized.
Thirdly, in terms of improved management, but where we wish to put a new structure in place - the European information system - that seems to us to be a really important aspect.
Even in this year of budgetary rigour under the new transatlantic agenda, we in Parliament want to ensure that those monies will be effectively utilized and therefore parts of the credits are in reserve.
Secondly, I welcome the idea that the British presidency should bring us all together early in 1998 to see what the guidelines should be for the 1999 budget.
All this underlines the need to continue the excellent cooperation we have developed this year for the years ahead.
The approach has been pragmatic and exemplary.
I would like also to address the President of the Council.
On previous occasions I have always been somewhat bitter and critical but this presidency has shown that it understands the trend for the future which lies in cooperation and in doing away with outdated concepts.
I hope that the British and the Austrians will understand that message.
Secondly, I believe this Parliament has grown up because it understands that only with a vision of the future can you make progress.
For that reason this Parliament has made cuts both in its budget and in agriculture which was not easy.
I think it is very logical and coherent that we should not stop the levy five years before the end of the treaty especially since it is used for useful purposes.
Mr President, on the agenda for discussion is next year's European Parliament budget, which will do little to ease the unemployment problem in Europe.
Furthermore, the achievements of the Employment Summit are very modest in this area.
The most important aspect, however, is that this budget will have an effect beyond its particular year, since it involves institutional changes which will continue into subsequent years.
Winter is upon us, reconstruction is sluggish in many areas, and the Commission has nothing better to do than fail to spend a sum of over ECU 100 million this year in Bosnia.
But now, over this Christmas period, as if by a miracle, we are no longer denouncing the reduction in expenditure under headings 3 and 4, a reduction of up to ECU 500 million; we believe Parliament can accept it perfectly well.
I fully endorse the initiative on unemployment, budget appropriation ECU 91 billion, 150 million annually.
I hope that joy and celebration will be even greater on Thursday.
We are now drafting a European Union budget which, if we continue along this line, will itself move closer and closer to that 0.7 %, the amount which we should have been giving to the developing countries, and never did.
Mr President, our Committee on Budgets, with the laudable exception of my colleague, Mr Dell'Alba, is proposing - without saying so, naturally - that we reduce our spending, but we have not gone far enough.
At the first reading, a majority of this house raised the draft Council budget by 0.7 to 2.7 %, without in any way taking into account the efforts required of the Member States in the field of control of public expenditure.
It took the wisdom of the Council, which proposed making considerable efforts, with a reduction of ECU 600 million in agricultural expenditure, in response to a reduction of ECU 550 million under headings 3 and 4, accompanied by an effort of symbolic importance in reducing structural action expenditure by ECU 300 million, to ensure that the drive to budget rigour should not be made in the direction of agricultural expenditure only.
The two branches of the budget authority have finally come to a compromise arrangement, which is a reduction of ECU 550 million in agricultural expenditure, and an equal reduction in the funding for internal policies and external actions.
On the other hand, it has demanded and obtained a reduction in payments under headings 3 and 4, which are under the budgetary authority of this House.
Having said that, the 1998 budget will not be scaled back to zero growth, contrary to what has been said.
With regard to the ECSC draft budget for 1998, the rapporteur is, curiously, proposing today that we re-establish a levy we had agreed to eliminate.
I heard the quotes from Jean Monnet, but I would have preferred quotes from that great European, General de Gaulle.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, however attached we may be to harmony between nations, we do not underrate the common European good.
From this sum, my fellow citizens know that they receive a benefit in return of around 70 billion francs, 85 % of which is under the EAGGF Guarantee.
The proof is that only the funds under heading 2, that is, the structural funds, have not been affected by the flat budget, which we have had to accept at present, under the Maastricht criteria.
Secondly, this is a budget which misappropriates taxpayers' money.
My colleague, Jean-Yves Le Gallou, last year gave an impressive but incomplete list of the Euro-Global Propaganda Stafel which you are yourselves incapable of presenting to us in full.
The budget is unacceptable in terms of its end aims and objects, its funds are too often misappropriated, and it is ineffectual to boot, as a means of dealing with the real challenges of our day.
We made our contribution to this: ECU 450 million and ECU 60 million for the ECSC budget, that is, ECU 510 million.
This has also been achieved because for the first time we have received a rectifying letter from the Commission after the first reading of the European Parliament budget.
We have shown this, for instance, by providing the Socrates programme, one of the most efficient programmes for the citizens of the European Union, with ECU 70 million.
I would like to thank the Council especially for going beyond the Commission proposal to provide ECU 50 million for two years with its own decision.
This is the first time in the history of negotiations under article 189b that the Council has been closer to the wishes of Parliament than the Commission.
Fourthly, we wanted to aim for a restrictive budget where personnel is concerned.
Fifthly, we have left margins that are greater than all the margins in headings 3 and 4 over the last ten years put together.
Mr Salm says in his letter, and I quote: "therefore I hope that on budgetary matters in the future the cooperation between Council and Parliament will be characterized by this spirit of equal like-mindedness' .
So they should look at their own figures before they criticize the expenditure for Europe, because it should not be forgotten that the growth rate of 1.4 % simultaneously includes growth in heading 2 on the scale of 6.7 % for the structural funds.
Mr President, I thank the Council for its close cooperation.
Mr President, the budget we are now debating has two main features.
It is my impression, Mr President, that we are in for some surprises, since I fear that, if we carry on with this policy over a long period, enlargement will take place much later than is politically desirable, and we, as the European Parliament, must bear this in mind.
Because, if this agreement, which was a summit agreement, is in force, then why did the Council tell us that to prevent the structural funds being affected we must accept a reduction in agricultural expenditure of around ECU 550 million' ?
Because, if it is telling the truth, then why did the Commission accept the reduction of ECU 550 million which, unfortunately, was also voted through by Parliament?
Finally, with regard to the cancer of unemployment, instead of going ahead with drastic therapy, this budget has prescribed aspirins; ECU 150 million for 20 million unemployed.
The reduction for agriculture is ECU 550 million; in other words, agriculture is to get ECU 368 million less than this year.
It is vital that these cuts do not endanger agriculture or bring about a reduction in income for the farmer, as has been the intention previously.
It is always very easy to criticize and more difficult to be constructive.
We all recognize this but this is a constructive budget and I trust it will be the forerunner to even greater cooperation in the future.
It is very important for this Parliament to be able to send the message and encourage people to come here to see the work we are doing.
The priorities set by the budget are generally unsatisfactory, it seems to me.
The total spending on R&amp;D is rated at ECU 3.49 billion, of which only ECU 487 million are apportioned to information technology.
The total spending on olives, sugar and tobacco, in contrast, amounts to some ECU 4.5 billion altogether.
I also want to thank him personally, in my capacity as future budgetary rapporteur, because the standards he has set with this budget can make my work easier next year.
As other speakers have already mentioned, this has enabled progress to be made with the ad hoc procedure for heading 1, allowing the treatment to be more rational, and updating the budgetary forecasts as late as possible.
I think Parliament's attitude should also be stressed.
It is true that Parliament has managed to gain an extra ECU 70 million for two years for one of its priorities - the Socrates programme - but it must be emphasized that this boost for Socrates is due to Parliament's "intransigence' , since despite what the Council said in Amsterdam about giving priority to education, its proposed financial backing for the Socrates programme in 1998 and 1999 was way below what Parliament had requested.
And to conclude I would just like to say, as we do in my country when giving a Christmas list to the Three Wise Men: let us hope they come across!
In regional affairs, we have increased the budget in line with our commitment to double the structural funds, thereby fulfilling our generous commitment to the poorer regions of the Union.
In agriculture, we should point out that we are maintaining global spending, with enough money to provide for the price guarantees and our full commitments in relation to the compensations agreed under the last reform package, in spite of the fact that the number of farmers is being reduced by 5 % per year.
While the average payment to farmers throughout the entire Community is ECU 6, 000, to the United Kingdom farmers it is ECU 15, 000, whereas for the Spanish and French it is only ECU 3, 000 and ECU 13, 000 respectively.
If we, or any group of farmers in any state of the Community, seek to undermine the pillar of free trade, then they are attacking a policy which maintains rural Europe and gives very generous aid to all farmers, particularly to UK farmers.
As the report shows, not only will the ECSC be able to live off its own accumulated income, there will also be significant capital available when the treaty runs out.
I also think it is damaging to Parliament's credibility and the positive attitude we find towards the budget otherwise, because it comes as a great surprise that this question was even raised.
But to show you the extent of this minority view, I can tell you that at the decisive moment in the Committee on Budgets, it was 15 to 13.
It has been said that for the first time we have managed to play a part in the decision on compulsory expenditure, and strictly speaking that is true.
Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that Thursday's vote will confirm the budget which the Council wanted right from the outset.
However, I should just like to say that the Council is not very well qualified to demand stringency, when it was responsible this year for spending more than three thousand million in unwarranted overcompensation in the cereals sector.
Mr President, that is a very bad omen for the interinstitutional agreement we must negotiate between now and the end of 1999.
Mr President, I want to talk exclusively about our colleague Mr Giansily's report.
These three areas are covered until the year 2000 and beyond, so there is enough of a financial margin to be able to abolish the levy.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur proposes that at this precise moment, just when the Community coal and steel industry has managed to regain its competitiveness against production outside the Community, at this very moment, he proposes to maintain a finalist tax which will be used to create jobs outside the sector in which it is to be collected - assuming that a tax can create jobs, which is mere hypothesis.
Mr Giansily must understand that this is not even a question of ideology, but a question of economic logic.
Mr President, after hearing the congratulations given to the rapporteurs, as this morning a great Christmas spirit of cooperation and happiness is felt on account of the agreements reached, I would like to emphasize the role played by Parliament, and Parliament in particular, in this budget.
On the first reading, with a sense of rigour and above all responsibility and a full knowledge of the challenges that lie ahead (the single currency but, above all, the dramatic problem of employment), Parliament has found solutions for this budget to actually give a meaning to employment, a specific role and resources available.
And this has enabled Council, at its extraordinary Luxembourg summit, to take on specific responsibilities with regard to employment which, had Parliament not taken this initiative, would have proved very difficult to assume.
The Commission has undertaken to submit its proposals, and I think Council can only show a sense of responsibility by approving the legal basis.
If Council fails to show this responsibility, then Parliament has taken a measure that remains incomplete, so to speak.
And I am not talking about the consensus we reach so often in this Parliament.
I am talking about the consensus reached on this occasion by Parliament and the Council which, in the case of the Socrates programme, has actually surpassed the Commission's proposals.
We can also congratulate ourselves on the way the jobs initiative has taken shape in the budget: ECU 150 million is not bad as a first step, since directly or indirectly it will help to create jobs, while simultaneously financing the internal policies related to job creation.
The future of the ECSC operating budget is not without controversy or complications.
We have seen that in the opposition from some Members today.
Parliament, the Council and the Commission have put together a package for job creation.
We know also that time is running out, but that is not a reason to stop the ECSC clock ahead of schedule.
The last few years remaining of the ECSC operating budget will be among the most important, perhaps not for the size of the operations carried out under its aegis, but because they are the last chances to do something.
We should not be looking to end existing schemes earlier or reduce the amounts available for social redeployment or research.
To conclude, the ECSC is at the heart of the European Union, but it is not through sentiment that we should be taking these measures now.
Mr President, in an amendment tabled by 34 Members and accepted by the Committee on Budgets, tourist businesses were specifically included in the scope of Community policy in support of small and medium-sized businesses for which the allocations from the 1998 budget were to be made.
May I remind you that the Member States did not include European Parliament proposal for a reference to tourism as an economic sector in the Treaty of Rotterdam.
I am optimistic that, by approving the few things accorded to tourism with the amendment we have tabled, Parliament will give hope to the 10 million people employed in the tourist industry and, of course, give a kind of signal.
Mister President, ladies and gentlemen, the advantage of the two readings which we are having this year, is that during the first reading we were able to step up the pressure on the Employment Conference in Luxembourg, and during the second reading we are able to evaluate this employment conference with regard to budgeting.
It should be obvious, we have always said, that we should arrive at a global evaluation, not only with regard to our own employment initiative - which indeed is a relatively modest in size - but considering the whole package of the measures which have been taken.
Less striking, but no less important are the efforts regarding investments, and investment incentives which were boosted, particularly towards SMEs, for new technologies.
This strikes me as extremely important.
I have already said that the employment summit in Luxembourg was relatively successful, but it was started with modest ambitions.
I think we will have to continue to test Europe's employment policy against Jacques Delors' White Paper which next year will have been approved for five years.
We know that some distance has already been covered, indeed completed at Luxembourg, but it is not enough.
I think that retaining the 11 % levy for the ECSC is not wise.
What we are actively doing is in fact legally suspect, and I think the steel levy in particular would definitely come up against problems in this respect under article 50.
It is an austere budget under difficult conditions in which, nevertheless, commitments are increased by 2.1 %.
However, this budget also supports solidarity.
In an austere year, in which budgetary commitments only grow by 2.1 %, policies directed towards solidarity grow by 6 %.
I only hope that after the year 2000, with the enlargement of the European Union, we will be able to maintain internal cohesion for the Fifteen at current levels, over and above the short-term electoral interests of certain Member States.
This budget also supports employment.
Mr President, this budget is no cause for enthusiasm, but it is reasonable.
The sacrifices have been balanced out between the obligatory and non-obligatory expenditure.
I have heard some people raise concerns about this.
We will not really defend the interests of agriculture by rejecting calm and balanced conciliation procedures between the two institutions, and by hanging onto an absurd system in which authorities at loggerheads try to establish compromises each to its own advantage, that is, make up two halfbudgets drafted along different lines.
It is not to insult the European Council to say that, without the concertation which took place between the presidency and Parliament, the European Council of Luxembourg on employment would have been rather empty, and limited to a few solemn declarations.
My colleagues have been so prodigal in their compliments that I cannot possibly add to them.
This friend of Mr Madelin has discovered the virtues of compulsory levies, and this disciple of General de Gaulle has discovered the virtues of Jean Monnet.
I am delighted about the second point, because I believe that there will only be progress in the European concept in my own country if we reconcile the traditions of both Jean Monnet and Général de Gaulle.
He has proposed us a levy which is useless, as in all truth, one cannot see why there should be any need to make a levy at a time when the Commissioner explained to us that he had set aside the necessary funds in reserves to finance this operation.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 9: 30.
I think we have achieved some positive results from working together.
It covers issues such as the fight against trafficking in human beings, the fight against organized crime, protection of the Community's financial interests, the treatment of non-Community minors not in the company of adults, risk assessment and control of synthetic drugs, the fight against corruption, passport control at the external borders, and an issue extremely important in practice, namely agreement on the issuing of judicial and extra-judicial documents in civil and commercial matters.
This will be the task in the coming period, even if you bear in mind that work in this field is likely to change permanently with the ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty.
And we want to continue to develop Europol into an effective unit, regardless of particular differences, which is subordinate to the control of a European Commissioner, the legal control of the Court of Justice and the parliamentary control of this Parliament.
At the same time we would prevail upon you to assist us, Mr President-in-Office, in view of our excellent understanding with you hitherto! (Applause) Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, we have, in the shape of article K.6 of the treaty, a fine tradition, under which every year we draw up a balance sheet, as part of the third pillar, of our actions and achievements in the field of justice and home affairs.
I would also, Mr President, like to say that I am here drawing up a balance sheet of 1997.
I had asked all my colleagues to act as if the logic of Amsterdam already applied, and everyone has done so.
The Luxembourg and Netherlands Presidencies focused on a number of special areas.
I believe we have done so, and found political agreement on joint action setting up a European legal network.
I must admit that I am extremely disappointed, because our Parliament is right to insist, and constantly and always insist, on the need for a common definition of organized crime.
How can we combat organized crime in the European Union, if we cannot, between Member States, agree on the same language and the same wording, the same definition of organized crime?
We consider, and I personally consider, the adoption of the Naples II convention as the jewel in the crown of the Luxembourg presidency, and I shall say why.
This convention involves cooperation between customs administrations, which should give the customs authorities the necessary and sufficient instruments to effectively combat illegal traffic in alcohol, cigarettes, drugs, psychotropic substances, weapons, munitions, and nuclear material.
This is an instrument which should provide a qualitative leap forward in the cross-border fight against organized crime.
This is the first time that in the area of judicial cooperation in the civil field, we have gone beyond the field of patrimonial rights and extended our competencies to the matrimonial domain.
This is an extremely important development for our fellow citizens, as here we are dealing with divorce, separation, annulment of marriage, custody of children, and decisions which require recognition and performance in all Member States.
Here, too, we finally approved a convention which is of vital importance for the community of law which we aspire to.
I must draw your attention, in the drugs field, to a number of achievements, and more particularly, and this is a first, to the results of the first informal meeting between ministers of justice and ministers with responsibility for the drugs dossier, who have discussed the adoption of a more consistent and pragmatic approach in the field of combating drugs trafficking.
This year was, in my opinion, an extremely useful one in the field of justice and home affairs.
Here, I am talking about our determined fight against organized crime.
The challenges in the area of the third pillar are large within the existing EU.
These questions are very much in focus.
Let me give an example: Trafficking in women and children is an important political question in the EU.
We do not only have common interests, but also a shared responsibility.
It is fundamental for membership negotiations that the applicant countries adopt the Union's "acquis communautaire' , which requires stable judicial institutions.
As far as the fight against drugs is concerned, we have a cooperation which works well with both the European Parliament and the presidency.
I can mention that as recently as last week we took part in a meeting in the Dominican Republic on the implementation of the plan of action to combat drugs in the Caribbean which was adopted in Barbados in May 1996.
Madam President, trafficking in women was the subject of a special debate in the plenary session here yesterday when the Waddington report was on the agenda.
As I said then, we are already in the process of seeing how we can follow up the plan of action.
Quite recently the Commission presented two more multiannual programmes, Falcone and Odysseus.
The Commission is playing an active role in the work on the Union's plan of action for the fight against organized crime.
The Commission did so before the summit in Dublin and continued to do so both before and after the summit in Amsterdam.
Organized crime exploits this situation.
To increase the opportunities for effective cooperation, I have put forward a proposal for a joint measure, the socalled Falcone programme, which is aimed at increased cooperation between those who work in the field with policing and legal questions in this area.
It is obvious that the fight against organized crime and corruption is an important element in the forthcoming membership negotiations with the countries of central and eastern europe.
Several times I have complained, as the rapporteur does, that many conventions in the area of the third pillar have still not entered into force.
I would be grateful if the Members of the House also helped us, as the President said, to at least get Europol in place for 1 July next year.
Cooperation in the area which remains within the third pillar, that is, the police, customs and criminal law, will be developed through framework decisions, among other things.
Thank you, Commissioner Gradin.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are honoured to have with us today in the official visitors' gallery the family of Miguel Angel Blanco, the young town councillor from Ermua in Spain's Basque region who was kidnapped and murdered by ETA terrorists in July of this year. (Prolonged applause) As you will no doubt recall, the death of Miguel Angel Blanco sent enormous shock waves not only through Spain but through the rest of the European Union.
I welcome the conciliation agreement with the Council concerning arrangements for the dual pricing of goods during the transitional period for the introduction of a single currency.
The decision will result in the price of goods being displayed in both the national currency and the euro, including the price per unit, per kilo or per litre as appropriate.
Raw tobacco (A4-414/97) The Swedish Social Democrat Group has abstained from voting on the amendment of this regulation because we do not think that any agricultural aid should be given to tobacco growing at all.
I have voted against this proposal to extend the regulation concerning the common organization of the market for raw tobacco.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted against the Community arrangements for untreated tobacco being extended to cover the automun of 1998.
Instead, we are in favour of shifting production in these areas to other crops and in this way protecting the people who are dependent on this crop at presence, and for whom it is their basis for existence.
Andersson report (A4-313/97) The main thrust of the report on the future organization of work is good.
Issues should, as far as possible, be sorted out in a decentralized way by agreements between the parties in the labour market, so-called partnership by agreement, which means that the parties themselves decide at what level the agreement is concluded.
Nonetheless, I voted for the report.
The clear agreement between the views in this report and the Commission's Green Paper merely confirms my view that the majority of the European Parliament fully share the Commission's views on how the future European labour market is to be organized.
It does not make it any more acceptable that the report refers to the importance of the European partners on the labour market in this respect.
I warmly welcome this Green Paper and the rapporteur's work on it.
I hope that from discussions around this document, concrete actions will emerge.
Having experienced frustration last year when the previous British Government opposed a flexible EU policy on working time, I am glad to say that our new government is playing a leading part in such debates.
British Labour Members like myself are glad to see the rapporteur stressing lifelong learning as a policy to support at EU level as our government does at home.
I hope colleagues will back this report and move the debate on, to generate new ideas and share best current practice on the organization of work.
This can be a useful spur to national governments preparing their employment action plans for the Cardiff Summit next year.
Waddington report (A4-372/97) Madam President, I welcome the Waddington report as a thorough, coherent response to the Commission communication on trafficking in women for the purposes of sexual exploitation.
This makes it all the more important for the European Union to have a coordinated strategy to combat it.
The Commission has estimated that half a million women a year are being trafficked although the true extent of the problem is unknown because of the secretive nature of the trade.
The high profits and the low risks generated from trafficking encourage the perpetrators to supply more and more women for sexual exploitation in the European Union.
Many of these desperate women are poor and vulnerable, marginalized from their own societies, who believe that life in another country will be rosier - an escape, a new start.
However, there is a strong need for increased funding for these initiatives and I call for 1999 to be announced as the European Year against Violence against Women for this will be a further encouragement to increase those budget lines.
Finally it is important that women's status in society today is included in the European Union's enlargement negotiations, especially as the central and eastern European countries have quickly become the new breeding ground and easy access areas for trafficking in women and for women being brought into the European Union.
These unfortunate victims come from Latin America, the Philippines and the countries of central and eastern europe.
The penalty must fit the crime.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of efforts to assist women who are victims of the trade in human beings.
These women are often in a highly unfortunate and vulnerable position.
The report illustrates some of the more dramatic dimensions of the problem.
The same law of the marketplace which acts against the dignity of citizens and workers in our own countries, has transformed other countries, in Europe and the Third World alike, into booty and merchandise.
Mr President, please forgive me for commenting on the order of business at the start of this debate.
To give more weight Mr Schulz's remarks, I would like to say that the PPE strongly supports every word he has just said.
Mr President, I also back up the colleagues who have just spoken.
I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur who has accepted a great majority of the amendments that I proposed in the Commission on behalf of the Socialist Group.
From that point of view - and I shall return to this - there is a yawning gulf between these expectations and reality.
This is what we did when we noted that the Parliament was now better informed and more often consulted, in accordance with article K6.
We also note progress in the choice of decision-making approaches, which are closer to the treaty, particularly in the area of joint action.
Furthermore, as a general rule, we believe that the Council and the Commission do not give the necessary attention to the fields of asylum and immigration.
In short, we note a number of areas of progress, but remain extremely critical on the slow pace of such progress, which does give European citizens the impression that, in these sensitive areas, no progress is being made at all.
The recent reports from our colleagues, Mrs Cederschiöld, Mr Orlando and Mr Bontempi prove that.
Unfortunately, there are few chances of any real changes prior to the coming into force of the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam relating to the new procedures, and this promises many further years of rather uninspiring annual assessments!
Mr President, the Luxembourg presidency has innovated.
In doing this, the Luxembourg Presidency has really served the cause of transparency and democracy in Europe.
The Luxembourg Presidency also wished to innovate in other fields.
It wanted to take important decisions so that Europe should be better able to combat international crime, trafficking in men, women, and children, illegal immigration, the plague of paedophilia, and much more besides.
Although we still have a long way to go in this sector, we think that Parliamentary control over such delicate issues, involving the heart of national sovereignty, so to speak, is of vital importance, particularly with regard to Europol, with regard to the Court of Justice, which we have to bring into operation as soon as possible, and, in general, obviously with regard to personal data on citizens.
It is on these two words - freedom and safety - that the future of Europe depends: the freedom of the citizens, freedom of movement, which obviously cannot be called into question by the very important and increasingly difficult fight against Mafia gangs and crimes of all kinds.
The future of our continent depends on this!
Mr President, progress has been made in the European judicial policy during the past year.
Yes, the Commission, Commissioner Gradin, says informally, we do not have enough staff.
Because too few staff in this sector of the European Commission shows that evidently too little priority is given to this policy area.
In the future there should be a strong coalition between the European Parliament and the European Commission, and in the future we should put pressure on both the European Council of Ministers of Justice and of Internal Affairs together.
Mr President, I conclude by calling on the forthcoming British Presidency to show that Labour can pursue a better European justice policy than the Conservatives.
Mr President, cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs is certainly a delicate subject, as it affects an essential component of the sovereignty of Member States.
In this field of competency, the action of the Union can only and should only be subsidiary, and relate only to criminal actions or public order offences which are really transnational in nature.
On the admission of the rapporteur himself, the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam in the field of law and public order raise difficulties in terms of constitutional guarantees, as communitarization leads to the disappearance of democratic control by the national parliaments.
The European Parliament, which is so keen on safeguarding human rights and constitutional guarantees, should consider the consequences and draw the attention of public opinion to the dangers resident in the Treaty of Amsterdam, with regard to democratic control over European construction.
You can only operate within the framework of the existing law, yet the skill you have revealed in anticipating the outcome of Amsterdam shows that there can be a fruitful and constructive dialogue between Parliament and Council, which helps to break down mutual mistrust and also stabilize the democratic legitimization of Council action.
I want to make a point of mentioning this here: the fact that last week Mr Schleder in his capacity as Chairman of the K4 Committee attended the Committee and gave us as up-to-date a progress report as never before on developments in the Justice and Home Affairs Council is clearly attributable to your initiative!
My final remark: It says under item 10 of the resolution that the European Union should turn its attention to combatting marriages of convenience.
Through that, Mr Fischbach, you have contributed to taking the European cooperation another step forward, for which we thank you.
The plan of action against organized crime and the accompanying pieces of legislation were just right for the new relationship between the Council and Parliament.
In this respect the Amsterdam Treaty is therefore being applied in practice before it has been ratified.
If the Council does not explain its points of view, the debate can come to a standstill, just as the IGC process showed before the decision on the Amsterdam Treaty.
I am quite confident that the steady progress in this area will continue under the forthcoming British presidency.
As more and more people in the European Union live, work, study and spend part of their lives in countries other than the one in which they were born or of which they are nominally citizens, this is going to become more and more necessary.
I want to refer to three points.
Many of the penalties which courts impose on their own citizens are not easy to apply to citizens of other countries.
I would ask you, therefore, to set all possible wheels in motion, while you are still President, so that agencies like Europol can be used as quickly as possible to combat international crime.
Here, I would like above all to thank the honourable members and in particular, the members of the Committee of Public Freedom and Home Affairs, who have, Mr President, always supported me in my work.
If indeed the Parliament had not reacted so rapidly and so directly, the Council would certainly not have been able to make the progress that we have recorded today in the field of the third pillar.
We have proven that we could indeed make notable progress in this extremely sensitive field.
If indeed my conscience pricks me at all on this point, the reason is that, in the final analysis, for once, the proposal from the Presidency was accepted with such keenness by the Council, that I believed that it was preferable to have the matter dealt with here and now, rather than wait for the opinion of the Parliament between now and the beginning of next year.
Mr President, I would also like to say thank you for a very interesting and rewarding debate on the third pillar and what has taken place during the past year.
The debate is closed.
So we should all be in agreement on the procedure for voting.
Mr President, the amendments to the main report - not the Euratom report - are not yet available.
This makes it rather difficult for us to do our work on separate votes and split votes in time.
Mrs McNally, as I stated, we have 171 amendments, which is a substantial workload for our services, and in particular for the translators.
We are very conscious of the difficulties this causes for all of our parliamentary colleagues, but it is precisely for that reason that we are proposing to postpone the vote to Thursday, which will enable us, between now and then, or at least we hope so, to have all of the amendments in all languages, and hence to enable you to take the decisions which are your responsibilities as a political group.
Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the threshold of concluding the first reading of the fifth R&amp;D framework programme which sets the course for sensible research funding for the years 1999 to 2004.
Firstly, we do not want as a Parliament to quit research policy for five years after the second reading of the framework programme.
But as you know, Madam Commissioner, noblesse oblige.
Clearly, we would like to use the JRC as a contractor for the European Parliament.
The Members too need support with the scientific research behind their political work.
The cooperation of both programme committees should obviate frictional loss, encourage coordination and the joint use of findings, and thereby result in joint planning.
We are united in one point: only research and innovation, as the basis for the development of quality products, can guarantee jobs on our continent.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all congratulations to the rapporteur on her global view of this very important aspect of policy for the European Union.
With the fifth research framework programme, which is to run from 1998 to 2002, the Commission wants to create a new concept for joint research policy.
The Commission has come out in favour of new and renewable energy sources.
The Commission is endeavouring here to increase the share of renewable energy sources from 6 to 12 % by the year 2010.
And particularly in view of enlargement eastwards, biomass programmes for the countries of central and eastern europe, and the relevant know-how, should support these new technologies in these countries.
In addition, the Commission should also promote the use of biomass and other renewable energy sources through a minimum and Community-wide standard rate of tax.
The development of innovative technologies in the area of biological processes is equally important for agriculture.
I hope that Parliament can also approve the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which was carried unanimously there.
Like the Commission, we hope we can achieve a majority vote on Council, because this is important.
Coming now to the extremely financial aspects, I believe that the Commission's proposal, which provides for a 3.8 % increase compared with the previous programme, is important, even if we all know that far more is required in terms of the need to develop investments and research: the budget makes us take reality into account.
What we want to emphasize, however, is that, because the future financial prospects are uncertain, we also need to review the overall financing in the light of the new financial prospects; not only, but, in particular, when the new member countries join, the overall maximum amount will have to be reviewed, because we think this proposal is only adequate for the 15 member countries.
It is true that the Commission will make a proposal after our debate, but it is also true that Council should follow subjects as important as those given by a strategic programme such as the fifth framework programme for research and development.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has voted 30 amendments and has certainly made a substantial contribution in quantity.
However, there is one aspect which the Committee on Economic Affairs has pointed out, which is the need to link this Fifth Framework Programme with the new situation which, from the geopolitical point of view, will be established within a few years with the expansion to the East and with the application of the Barcelona Agreement.
This approach emphasizes a need pointed out by the Committee on Economic Affairs that we should no longer plan for five years but for the next ten, twenty and thirty years, because it is only in this context that major investments can be made in research that will be of use to the entire Community.
Such approaches touch on the question of how far R&amp;D policy, based on the principle of first-rate scientific and technological quality, can serve the objective of economic and social cohesion in the EU without watering down or even abandoning their own objectives.
Complementarity between cohesion policy, on the one hand, and R&amp;D policy, on the other, seems hard to achieve as a solution.
Under article 130f of the treaty, the aim of R&amp;D policy is to strengthen the scientific and technological foundations of industry in the Community and thereby promote the development of its international competitiveness.
The policy therefore supports companies, research centres and universities in their efforts to undertake research and technology development of a high quality.
The European Parliament has called for serious integration of the structural funds and the framework programme with its resolution of 28 November 1996 on the perspectives for a European science and technology policy.
Structural policy should, according to this concept, help make it easier for disadvantaged regions to participate more thoroughly in the framework programme, by building up and promoting R&amp;D capacities in these regions.
The joint R&amp;D policy, in contrast, should assist in reducing the disparities that exist between the regions in the area of R&amp;D, especially by the third measure -dissemination and use of findings -and the fourth measure - education and mobility of scientists.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Transport and Tourism of the European Parliament has spent considerable time poring over the fifth framework programme, especially since sector-specific research was integrated into the field of transport in the past.
On the one hand, I welcome the fact that our attempt to improve the situation of young researchers has found expression at two points in the report.
However, on the question of the information society, the majority of the Committee has, in my view, retreated to positions which, it is constantly being claimed in this House, do not form part of the European understanding of the information society.
While the Commission wanted to gear research towards a user-friendly information society, which did not go far enough for us in the Culture Committee -we wanted to broaden it through the criterion of 'substantive diversity' -now there is only talk of information and communication technologies.
I think the two days we still have before the vote should be put to good use correcting certain biasses found in the present draft resolution in the sense I have indicated.
But I also think that it reflects a concern about the resources that are available.
We have had reports from the Commission that national resources are tending to decline.
We know that, as a result of energy liberalization in the UK, for instance, the amount of gas research has declined.
I hope that agreement will be maintained during the vote tomorrow when we seek to increase the amount over that proposed by the Commission.
In my own region I find that companies with fewer than about 50 employees do not always find it easy to get involved.
She has had animated conversations and I think she will have had one or two more by the end of this week.
It lays down criteria for research and development for four years, it has a huge budget - we hope - and it is highly regarded by the scientific community throughout the EU.
Indeed the Amsterdam Treaty, if ratified, makes it clear in article 3 that the European Community in all its activities has to have the aim of eliminating inequalities.
We do not want to risk the fifth framework programme looking like a 'toys-for-the-boys' programme.
It is meant for all citizens, men and women in the European Union.
Speaking for the Party of European Socialists I would like to say that the sum which is being put forward, although it is above that proposed by the Commission, is actually the minimum we think necessary to do justice to the needs of research and development in Europe.
I hope that by Thursday when we vote it can be a massive majority from this Parliament so that we go into the Council negotiations not naked but fully clothed with a very strong position from this Parliament for a very important issue.
Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Affairs emphasises the importance of the social and financial study in its opinion of the fifth R &amp; D framework programme.
The framework programme should also investigate changes in working life developments in the working community.
Good working conditions and a developing working community have an important influence on increased production in industry and, in turn, positive progress in the economy and employment.
EU research must itself promote employment and social cohesion in Europe.
The Committee on Research has not accepted the increase but, in view of the amendments seeking to reduce the financing, has defended and confirmed that laid down by the Commission, in view of the important role played by the JRC as the means of implementing the fifth framework programme and as a neutral and independent scientific body.
We hope, Madam Commissioner, that, after this initial stage, a good dialogue will continue between Parliament and the Commission, with cooperation and transparency, so that together we can finally provide the European Union with an efficient and effective framework research programme that can begin to catch up on the serious European delay compared with the United States which, with their federal organization, have for some time been able to amass substantial financial resources and huge human resources.
The Commission wants to change this through an increase in funds, concentration and greater flexibility.
What we as socialists definitely do not want to see is a reduction in the amount of cooperation and coordination achieved in the area of European research and technological development.
The position reached on the budget is for us the minimum consensus.
The budget should be arranged accordingly.
By proposing an increased budget for the next five years, it acknowledges the central role of research in contributing to public well-being, economic development and European competitiveness.
I would emphasize, however, that so far as the distribution of the funds between the actions is concerned, the degree of over-concentration on the first action is frightening countries like Portugal.
For my country, actions to further international cooperation and better results are still of fundamental importance.
I would like to draw attention to two aspects which I tried to get included in the draft report on the framework programme, one of which was taken up by the Research Committee and the other rejected.
The first, which is reflected in the report, is the importance of including socio-economic research in the first action under the Fifth Programme.
In the face of Europe's problems, which keep on getting more complicated, such as racism, xenophobia, unemployment, sustainable development, bio-ethics and public health, the development of the social dimension of research must take priority in our policy.
I will conclude, Mr President, while on the subject of my proposals concerning the ocean, by reminding the House that with the Union signing the United Nations Convention on the oceans, the work of the Independent Commission on the Oceans, and Expo 98 in Lisbon, I am sure that a climate is being created in which a full-blown European Oceans Agency will fall into our laps one of these days.
Mr President, everyone is aware that the fifth framework programme is the foundation of the research policy of the Union for years to come.
The Research Committee and the European Parliament can only confirm the importance of research as an answer to the growing social needs of the population with regard to health, safety, quality of life, employment and environment.
The decision to promote research in particular sectors, such as ageing and rare diseases, answers these needs.
The same can be said of research for the safeguard and protection of movable and immovable cultural assets, through the use of the new technologies applied to a sector, that represents our cultural wealth and our historic memory.
Moreover, Mr President, the international cooperation with third countries is certainly a winning policy, both for the applicant countries, for which joint research may act as a catalyst in the integration process, and for the third countries of the neighbouring Mediterranean, for which this research will mean employment, development, peace and political relations.
As chairman of the Committee on Research as well, I will conclude with great satisfaction by saying that the European Parliament has shown considerable support for the fifth framework programme through the commitment of all our colleagues and our rapporteur in particular, who has been really fantastic in his efforts and I think we are all truly very grateful to him.
To conclude, Mr President, we all certainly hope that the Council will play its part because research is the launching base for the economy and the basis to solve the serious employment problem.
Despite over 500 amendments, all noses in the Commission were made to point in the same direction as far as structure and substance is concerned.
The sectors in which most employment will be generated in the future, are information communication technology, ICT, as well as biotechnology.
Research and technological development in the sphere of ICT must therefore be given a high priority in the fifth framework programme.
Europe after all is losing a market share in the global market for ICT, and this means loss of employment.
My second point, Mr President, concerns small and medium-sized enterprise within the framework programme, the generator of jobs.
The majority of SMEs does not invest in research and development.
We must stop creating false expectations for this group, but for a number of sectors in SME, such as the high-tech sector, and the transport sector, for instance, with its logistical system, there are excellent opportunities for projects with a European added value.
My last point, Mr President, concerns Euratom.
As long as the nuclear fusion programme does not offer any concrete perspective for delivering even one kilowatt power, not even within the next 50 years now more than ever, we should turn our minds to the development of new energy technologies.
My group will therefore be happy to support the proposal of the rapporteur for a reduction of ECU 100 million in the Euratom programme to ECU 1, 300 million.
Nevertheless, we can see a few problems which I would like to mention briefly.
The Commission's proposal, by reducing and concentrating the research effort, although well-intentioned, in practice can result in this effort ending up in those countries and regions with the greatest resources, the most technology and the best research infrastructure, thereby depriving the rest of the European Community of these resources.
Firstly, with regard to the Euratom framework programme, the promotion of nuclear energy has always characterized this programme and we are long overdue a change of vision, especially with regard to fusion.
They have found a previously unknown pathway by which radiation can subvert living cells.
The instability research from around the world has shown that the effects on the gene pool of this low-level radiation are quite horrifying.
We have to look at ways in which Europe can add value to research which otherwise might be going on or, for that matter, to initiate research which is not likely to take off.
Often it is very small firms, which are literally at the cutting edge of development.
This is going to be invaluable for giving Europe an advantage vis-à-vis the United States and Japan in the future.
We are at present faced with a report which presents a number of difficulties in the field of research and development.
We did, however, get off to a good start, as some few months ago, when we voted in unanimously a resolution on the orientations of the scientific policy of the 21st Century.
Consequently, it appears that you consulted your conscience, and believed that we were all wrong when we voted in the resolution on research for the 21st century.
Clearly, the Commission must be in agreement on this point, otherwise a number of problems will rear their heads.
I therefore think that what this Parliament has proposed is in agreement with this, and so I hope that this structure will be taken over by the Council.
The issue here is the objectives of our research, and this first and foremost strengthens and improves our competitive position in Europe.
The procedure must be altered, to include more periodical evaluation, seeing to it that more resources from third parties are obtained, and in particular ensuring that researchers can work on a temporary basis.
Mr President, our rapporteur has made a considerable effort to bring about coherence, thanks to the concertation carried out with such talent in this House.
I propose therefore to merge Amendment Nos 61 and 81 into a single, transversal amendment, Amendment No 109.
My Amendment No 107 goes in the direction of more integration and harmonization between the various transportation systems.
Finally, scientific and technical cooperation with third party industrial countries, and with the newly emerging countries, should not create a Trojan Horse for our competitors, but should above all lead to balanced cooperation in the interests of the Union itself.
My Amendment No 108 proposes placing cooperation with these countries in a framework which takes account of the interests of the Union and rules of reciprocity.
With regard to the Euratom programme, its aim is essentially to further improve nuclear security and prepare for the reactors of the future, in particular by reducing nuclear waste and increasing energy yields.
With regard to the remainder, the Group Union for Europe supports virtually all the amendments of the rapporteur, and in particular, the breakdown proposed by the rapporteur of the budget of the fifth framework programme for research.
The Union for Europe nevertheless will support amendments whose purpose it is to recognize the role of women in European research policy.
The purpose of these proposals is to confirm the place of research in Europe, by relying on European added value, but also reinforcing the competitiveness of Europe within a world context which is increasingly competitive, on both the scientific and technological levels.
Admittedly, we in the Green Group do not agree with you on all questions, but we think you have done a very good job to be able to keep track of all the 700 amendments which there were on the Committee.
If you look a bit more closely at Amendment No 78, the Committee's proposal on the objective with regard to future energy reads as follows: The objective of this thematic programme is therefore research and the sustainable use of existing sources of energy.
Instead we need a new drive from the EU which can show us how to replace nuclear power with renewable energy sources.
With regard to Amendment No 160 we have added a proposal which is basically that we want to clarify that 60 per cent of what goes to energy for the future should be for renewable sources of energy and 75 % for demonstration.
Investment in research must retain or regain a high, even moral, standing in Europe.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, during the course of the intensive work that preceded the Commission's document, the European Parliament pointed out important and original aspects such as attention to small and medium-sized businesses with an international calling, districts with a high technological density, that are included in a dedicated action, and to technologies on the conservation of cultural assets, included in the context of the city of the future.
To find this additional allocation, we are asking both for something to be taken from the biological sciences and for the total budget to be increased slightly.
To conclude, a word of praise for our rapporteur and in favour of a political commitment to research as a fundamental means of building our future.
Hence, the ship is now starting to list, I feel, and this second pillar - the question of how things stand with risk assessment, sustainability and deliberation, and who has the opportunities in our society under what conditions -has been washed overboard.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is also an important site factor for Europe and for our society.
It is a question of research efforts and, of course, finding money for these research efforts in this socioeconomic area.
It concerns, for example, the question of information and communication technologies, who has access and under what circumstances.
Mr President, we have now reached a determining moment in the process leading to the adoption and implementation of the fifth framework programme for research.
I would like also to thank very sincerely all those who, in the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, contributed through their work with the political groups and by taking preparatory initiatives, to advancing our thinking on the fifth framework programme.
The Commission welcomes the draft opinion of Parliament on the fifth framework programme with real satisfaction.
I note that its amendments go in the direction of the Commission's proposal, and that we are very close to one another on nearly all fundamental points.
Its novelty is manifest in its three major features.
First, a resolute orientation towards the major political, social, and economic objectives of the European Union, beginning with the improvement of the employment situation and the reinforcement of European competitiveness.
Subsequently, concentration of resources on a limited number of themes and objectives, in order to raise the impact of actions envisaged to maximum.
Finally, the introduction of new themes and the definition of new modes of action, the first of which are the key actions.
On all these points, the draft opinion of Parliament supports the proposal of the Commission.
This is the message that the college of commissioners has asked me to send to the Parliament.
The setting up of a new programme on the combined themes of the environment and energy is justified.
As has been shown by the discussions on climate change that have just been completed in Kyoto, the problems raised in these two fields need to be dealt with in a highly integrated fashion.
The Commission will therefore propose a formula which is better adapted to this configuration.
Overall, I am delighted to see that the Parliament and the Commission can agree on the idea that we need a limited number of programmes.
In the Commission's proposal, these two themes had already appeared under the category of generic research activities.
To make them key actions would make it possible, at the political level, to highlight the importance of these questions for the future of the European Union.
The Commission emphasizes that it agrees with the spirit of the amendments proposed on these various points.
On the other hand, it does not agree on a number of amendments introducing modifications in the content or in the allocation of key actions, which would lead to moving away from the integrated and multi-disciplinary problemsolving approach.
The Parliament has emphasized the need to take socioeconomic aspects into account to a very high degree, and the Commission shares this point of view.
We nevertheless believe that the best manner to deal with these questions is to do so, on the one hand, within the key actions context, as regards aspects relating to the field of the major thematic programmes, and on the other hand in the framework of the special activity of the 'improvement in human potential' programme, in respect of general aspects, or other aspects not dealt with in other programmes.
The Commission is resolved to give socio-economic questions an important role in the fifth framework programme.
It nevertheless believes that it is still preferable to do so by using the formula it has proposed, rather than to do so through special key actions in the various programmes.
The draft opinion proposes a fifth framework programme with an ECU 16.7 billion spending allocation, some ECU 400 million more than proposed by the Commission.
In a context of budget restrictions and compressed public research expenditure, when facing up to our competitors from North America and Japan, who are not letting up on their research efforts, the European Union cannot allow itself to cut back or to allow a levelling off of the resources allocated to research at the European level.
In accordance with the provisions of Agenda 2000, the amount proposed by the Commission has been calculated on the basis of the principle of an increase in the resources allocated to research slightly outstripping the rate of growth in GNP in the European Union.
The Commission notes with satisfaction the message contained in the draft opinion of the Parliament.
The Commission furthermore accepts the very useful amendment of the Committee on Budgets, adopted by the research committee, which translates into operational terms the interdependency between the decision to adopt the fifth framework programme and its financial allocation, and negotiation on the future financial prospects of the European Union.
The details of the Commission's position on the various amendments will be set down in the minutes of this plenary session.
Furthermore, the Commission will in the Spring of 1998 organize a conference on women and the sciences.
For my part, I wish to conclude my general comments with two further remarks.
Within the perspectives defined by Agenda 2000, research is indeed at the heart of the political action of the European Union, alongside other policies dealing with learning and knowledge in the field of education, and innovation.
I therefore wish, for my part, to see increased dialogue between ourselves during the implementation phase of our programmes.
Our hope is that it can adopt a common position at the Research Council of 12 February, and this is not guaranteed.
The objective is the formal adoption of the framework programme in 1998 for effective implementation of specific programmes in 1999.
The months to come will therefore still be extremely dense in terms of thinking and in debates.
I would like to express my thanks in anticipation of the efforts that the Parliament will deploy in assisting us to achieve our final aim, which is to place European research at the service of European citizens.
The Parliament's active involvement in the process of decision-making contributes to ensuring that the major scientific and technological choices at the European level are made on a democratic basis.
The debate is closed.
The votes will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Energy policy The next item is the report (A4-0308/97) by Mr Scapagnini's, on behalf of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy on the Commission communication: "An overall view of energy policy and actions' (COM(97)0167 - C4-0205/97).
The European Parliament has for a long time emphasized the need to provide a firm legal basis for actions taken in the energy sector and a place in the treaty to ensure a consistency and a transparency that are lacking today.
In this connection, the Committee on Research considers the reinforcement of the role of the European Energy Observatory to be essential, even with regard to the definition of a reference framework for the major lines of transportation for natural gas and petroleum energy.
The Energy Charter remains the privileged framework of European energy cooperation and the European Parliament points out the importance of ratification by all the signatory companies.
The cooperation and assistance provided for the third countries, within the scope of the aid and cooperation programmes such as Phare, Tacis and Meda or those relating to Asia, Latin America or the ESF, should be developed to take into account the various supply markets and, at the same time, rendered more visible in relation to the past, by facilitating information, control and examination by the European Parliament.
The liberalization and integration of the energy markets is then the second objective of the Community energy policy and a clear requirement in the face of an ever greater internationalization.
Real competition will have to be created between energy producers, offering consumers various possibilities of choice of supply by free trading guaranteed by the states, using the new possibilities of development existing in the energy sector.
The Commission should, periodically, assess the environmental impact of the energy policies in the Member States, providing voluntary agreements and research and technological development as well as the legislative instruments.
Again within the scope of international cooperation, the energy dumping and environmental risks will have to be taken into account for the countries in which the prices are still lower owing to far less restrictive environmental regulations than the Community regulations.
The harm caused by the emission of CO2 and by global warming is a challenge for the Union which, faced with the commitments recently undertaken in Kyoto, should provide a further contribution with the initiatives to promote a rational and efficient use of energy resources, the cogeneration of renewable energy sources and the research and technological development actions.
The Commission should dedicate an appropriate space to the innovative energy technologies, capable of providing an adequate answer to the wish to privilege the renewable sources and to the current demand for natural gas applications and consumption, particularly in sectors such as those of liquefaction, transport and regasification, in view of their potential in relation to the new forms of supply from the more distant geographic regions.
No doubt the local and decentralized use of renewable energies will, together with the liberalization of the energy market, enable the existing imbalances between some European regions to be made good and to quickly favour the development of those regions in arrears, providing them with independent energy capacity for multiple use.
It is no doubt in the interests of the Union, its citizens and the industrial sector that a framework energy policy programme should contribute towards clarifying and concentrating the Community initiatives in the sector to a greater extent, ensuring a multiannual level of financing that will enable significant actions to be carried out, without involving a structural reduction in allocations available.
As you can understand, by your leave and with the backing of Parliament, the European Commission must be present at this great event for the inception of the Energy Charter.
In his report Mr Scapagnini demonstrated that the European Parliament is fully aware of the situation and is ready to support the Commission in this regard.
Secondly, the energy sector plays a leading role in efforts to improve the competitiveness of Europe.
There are a number of environmental objectives which must be reflected fully in our energy policy.
Mr President, please allow me to comment specifically on certain important points raised in the resolution: The European Commission shares the view that it is desirable that a chapter on energy be included in the treaty.
As you know, we recently introduced the White Paper on a community strategy and a plan of action for regenerative energy sources.
Mr President, I would also like to thank Parliament for its support concerning the institution of a framework programme for European Union energy policy.
The framework programme is also necessary for the creation of a clear legal basis for all of these actions.
It is the view of the Commission that the framework programme will not only create better conditions for coordinating the special actions of the energy policy, but will also provide for a better establishing of targets for actions at the energy level, that is, for those actions which are run on the basis of other community policies such as the structural funds and the programmes of external technical assistance.
Mr President, my Question No 76 is on transport of nuclear fuels.
Mr Smith, I will make a note of your concern, but as you know, it is up to the Commission to decide which of the Commissioners respond to the questions which have been raised.
The Commission is aware that the directives on public contracts have not been included satisfactorily by all the Member States and also that, even if included, they are often not applied correctly.
Finally, with regard to the possible improvements to arrive at a better application of the Community regulations on contracts, the Commission has started a debate on its Green Paper and plans shortly to adopt a communication in which it will propose specific measures with regard to the interpretation of the existing rules and possible legislative amendments.
The Commission emphasizes, however, that an effective control of the application of Community law also requires a reinforcement of the controls at national level.
Firstly, I would like to point out that the Commission has actually brought a considerable number of infringement actions against the Member States.
That is why not only the representative, but in my opinion also the Commissioner, should keep a closer eye on things, so that it is not the national firms only who are awarded contracts, but that instead contracts are spread over the entire Community.
Mr Wijsenbeek reminds us that, at times, the contracting authorities have the same difficulties.
With this objective in mind in the next actions relating to contracts, those which, I repeat once again, appropriately consult the Green Paper, the aspect of electronic information will be taken into consideration and emphasized in particular.
Just last week we held a very large conference in Brussels with participants from all the Member States on Electronic Procurement, which is a means of providing a better explanation of the information aspects of the substantial contracts market.
In such a case of temporary stay, the person should obtain an E111 form before departure.
The E111 form may be valid for a limited period only, or it may have no limitation as regards the period of validity.
However, it is clear that a valid E111 form cannot be refused by a doctor or an institution of the place of stay; and whenever the Commission has had to deal with cases where European Union citizens experience difficulties in obtaining medical treatment using the form, we have strongly intervened to have the rules respected.
However it should be emphasized that the E111 form is satisfactorily used by millions of tourists every year.
Moreover, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is also a possibility for persons who have had difficulties in using the E111 form to be reimbursed directly by their competent institution.
In this case, when they are obliged to pay for the emergency medical treatment themselves, they may be reimbursed only after they have returned to the country where they are insured.
I am quite sure that my constituent's E111 was in a better state than this one, which was issued in 1990.
The Court of Justice has been asked to determine whether the current rules are compatible with the Treaty provisions on free movement of goods and services.
The Commission has reacted promptly to the initiatives taken by certain Member States and, in particular, by the Danish authorities in the framework of the Community rapid alert system.
Representatives of the Member States were invited by the Commission to a meeting of the emergencies committee dealing with consumer health in October 1997 to discuss the issue, given its potential implications for consumer health and safety.
The committee decided to further investigate the issue and a working group on phthalates focusing specifically on toys and childcare articles, composed of prominent academics and researchers, held its first meeting on 8 December 1997.
It will deliver its findings in the first half of 1998.
This means that risk assessments are currently being carried out by the Member States which have been designated as rapporteurs in this case, namely the Netherlands, Sweden and Norway, Regulation 793/93 being EEA-relevant.
The first results of these assessments are expected shortly.
The results of the investigations will allow the Commission to propose if necessary the appropriate measures to be taken at European level to regulate the use of these substances in toys and in other products as well.
I thank the Commissioner for his reply.
Only in the last few days the European Consumers Association has issued a statement in this regard.
The Commission and the Member States await the outcome and the opinion of the Scientific Committee, before taking the adequate measures to restrict the use of soft PVC in toys.
There was a misunderstanding here, I feel, because what we are talking about here...
That is why there has to be a short pause between the end of the question and your reply.
I understand that you need scientific evidence, but in the United States they would withdraw the product and then, if the scientific evidence proved the product to be safe, allow it back on the market.
As they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: Question No 30 by Hugh McMahon (H-0872/97) Subject: Removal of age limits in Commission recruitment I congratulate the Commissioner on his recent announcement on BBC Radio that he intends to remove any reference to age limits in recruitment advertisements for Commission posts.
Question No 31 by Bryan Cassidy (H-0875/97) Subject: Equal opportunities for older workers in recruitment to the European Commission The reports of the Commissioner's recent change in view in his intended removal of age limits in recruitment notices for the European Commission are most welcome and we look forward to this policy taking effect in 1998.
Mr President, in January I am presenting for debate the proposal that would abolish age limits in recruitment advertisements for the Commission.
I thank the Commissioner for taking this matter up and for acting so efficiently and effectively.
I think it must be to do with the average age of members of Parliament.
Mr President, it seems to me - and this really a point of order - that a question should be given a response.
For some Member States this increase implies perceptible costs for their national budgets in the form of higher membership contributions.
Mr President, I thank Mr Sjöstedt for his important question.
For example, the effects of freeing up trade on economic growth and living standards are impossible to measure in each individual Member State.
Jacques Santer presented a document to the Ecofin Council on this issue on 13th October of this year.
I thank the Commissioner for his friendly reply.
Mr President, the increases proposed by Parliament will fall into place like the employment initiative in Europe or the Socrates programme.
My question to the Commissioner is: when can all relevant figures be issued, so that the discussion can at least be based on real figures?
Mr President, the document, which was submitted to at the Ecofin Council and is now available to everyone, contains our assessment of the extent to which resources for structural funding or agricultural funding have been divided up among the various countries.
But, as I said, the information relating to structural funding and agricultural funding is contained in the document I mentioned, which is at your disposal.
Mr, President, as I said, this information, which relates to agricultural and structural funding, are in the document distributed by the Commission, which is available to everyone.
The other example is that we often require in our community programmes projects to involve companies or research institutes in at least three Member States.
Maintaining a high level of road safety and the enforcement of driving times and rest periods has particular importance in international passenger transport which normally involves relatively long-distance driving.
I should like to thank Commissioner Kinnock for his enlightening reply.
However, I have to say that the arrangements for the installation of tachographs and the observation of driving times and so on that follows from that appear to have caused no problems in other Member States.
Thank you, Mr Kinnock, but may I remind you that whereas in the House of Commons you use a single language, here we work in 11 different languages.
In view of this, will the Commission state how many people have been killed or seriously injured in road accidents in Sweden and the rest of the EU in recent years, indicate the social cost of such deaths in Sweden and say whether it intends to take the necessary measures to reduce the number of people killed and seriously injured on Member States' roads?
Nevertheless, as the Swedish Government has repeatedly made clear, there is no cause for complacency when in 1994, for instance, the number of people killed in traffic accidents in Sweden was 560 and the number injured was 21, 083.
In its communication last April on promoting road safety in the European Union, the Commission set out in detail its plans to build on the first action programme which ran from 1993 to 1996.
Secondly, initiating and supporting measures that can help prevent accidents, with an emphasis on the human factor and its interface with the traffic environment.
Thirdly, initiating and supporting measures to reduce the consequences of accidents when they occur.
I think that the strategy which the Commission is now putting forward is very sensible in many ways.
Lastly I would just like to put a follow-up question: Does the Commissioner believe that during the next year more concrete initiatives are going to be taken on the basis of this programme?
Thank you, Mr Waidelich.
Mr Kinnock, you now have the floor - in the European Parliament, not the House of Commons.
All efforts to reduce accidents on the roads are obviously worthwhile, not only because of the huge savings that accrue but most of all because every life saved is a tragedy avoided, not only for the family that is bereaved of a loved one, but also of course for the people responsible for causing deaths and injuries.
We are trying in our work therefore to make distinctions within the general definitions that will assist local and national authorities in the design of infrastructure to enhance to the greatest possible extent the safety of road travel.
The Commission is aware of the problems identified by the honourable Member in his question which have been experienced by Poltrein in developing or trying to develop an intermodal shuttle service between Almelo in the Netherlands and Pozna in Poland.
Some of the problems which Poltrein has experienced have been of a commercial nature.
One consequence of that merger would be a modification of the service to run from Rotterdam to ódż in Poland, which should help to make the service commercially viable.
The operator has also informed the Commission of a number of operating problems due to customs procedures in Poland and difficulties with the Polish railways as well as with rail companies in the European Union.
I would like to draw the Commissioner's attention to the fact - and this may be question of translation - that in my question it says in Dutch: "would eventually have to stop' , in other words would eventually have to stop their operations .
Indeed, rail pricing problems are being addressed by us in the framework of the follow-up to our Commission White Paper on railways strategy which we published last year.
I have touched on only some of the multitude of problems that have to be faced by companies in trying to develop international rail freight services.
However, we need a multitude of such developments if rail is really to show what it can do in securing a shift from road to rail transport throughout the whole of our continent.
Mr President, I have no supplementary question.
No, Mr Schmid, that is not a matter for my own free will, but is stipulated by our Rules of Procedure.
This question concerns the closure of Chernobyl and more particularly about the completion of two nuclear power stations which have to serve as alternative energy capacity.
In this context and in accordance with the relevant Euratom procedure the administration of the Commission has taken a number of measures with a view to forming a judgment of the various aspects of the project to enable the Commission in due course to take a responsible decision.
The Commission can confirm that the EIB is at present preparing its recommendation with regards to the completion and the upgrading of the two reactors R4 and K2.
The Commission also confirms that the American firm Stone &amp; Webster is at present conducting an economic analysis of the project as part of the Ukrainian request for a supplementary loan for the R4/K2 project.
Risk analyses have confirmed that the most important risks for the R4/K2 project have been mapped and have reasonably been taken into account in the estimate, including contingencies.
This way the economic and financial analyses of Euratom and EBRD are always based on the most recent data.
It is quite clear that nuclear power can never be the least cost option and the least cost option must be adopted under the memorandum of understanding.
I really want the Commissioner to read the report.
This expert consultancy, which has been asked by the United States to conduct a further investigation, is currently undertaking this, and during the first phase we asked Stone &amp; Webster to continue calculating an economic computer model with different parameters, and this resulted in a report to the bank which was used by the working party of the Board of Directors of the EBRD in August and September 1997.
This report concluded in terms of probability that one unit would probably reach the least cost phase very soon, namely in the year 2002, and that later this might also be the case for the second unit.
The Board of Directors asked the bank to compute this analysis further and Stone &amp; Webster is presently engaged in this.
At the end of January a second report is expected, after which the Board of Directors of the EBRD will discuss it further in February 1998.
Finally, I can inform the respected representative that the question of safety standards will obviously be examined closely, because that is what it is ultimately all about, and that when these two unfinished power stations are completed, it will be done in way which corresponds with safety requirements in the West.
Question No 44 by Heidi Hautala (H-0861/97) Subject: Proposed project for the completion of Khmelnitski 2 and Rovno 4 nuclear reactors (k2/r4) in the Ukraine The President of the European Investment Bank (EIB), in answer to a question of mine in the EMAC Committee on October 28th, stated that EIB employs the Least Cost planning principle in its economic advice to Euratom on nuclear loans, but their advice that Mochovce was not Least Cost was ignored.
The Investment Bank is requested to make recommendations concerning all Euratom loans, and these recommendations will be taken into account by the Commission in the decision process.
As far as the EIB recommendation with regard to Mochovce is concerned, I would like to remind you that the Commission did not take a decision, as the Slovak authorities decided to withdraw their loan application to the EBRD and Euratom before a definite decision was taken.
The Slovak authorities consider it more desirable to complete the Mochovce reactors themselves, and this means that the European Commission is no longer involved in the project, and it therefore cannot give a guarantee that there will eventually be a level of safety which meets Western standards.
I am fully aware of the interest in this Parliament on the state of affairs concerning the closure of Chernobyl, because that is what we are ultimately discussing, and it is also why we are presently having a debate on what type of alternative energy capacity will be installed.
We are trying to arrive at a sensible solution here, which is entirely related to our fear that the safety of power stations in Chernobyl which are still operational will not be sufficiently guaranteed.
I would like to add once again: Chernobyl draws most attention because of the disaster at the time, but we have grave concerns about a number of different installations, also in the accession countries, where we need all the attention we can muster to try and improve their safety.
I later argued that a decision should be taken in July on the basis of scientific recommendations then available.
But no-one should assume that this 3-month postponement offers an opportunity to weaken the decision.
We not only need to refine some technical details of the decision, but must also take account of the completely new scientific discoveries which we have only just obtained, and which further reinforce us in our preventive strategy.
Several Member States have already introduced national measures for specified risk material, and I emphasize that none of them intends to lower the high level of protection which they aim for in this way, quite the reverse.
The United Kingdom had the option of either informing consumers and giving them the opportunity to decide for themselves, or stipulating that meat must be deboned before being marketed.
The British government decided on the second option.
The deboning regulation for beef which is sold in the United Kingdom will apply equally to beef from other Member States and third countries.
We managed to retain our level of protection in the area of public health, and to persuade the Americans, for the first time, to recognize the regionalization principle as the basis of Community animal health policy.
The US Department of Agriculture has not recognized some Member States as free of epidemics like swine fever or Newcastle disease, although these diseases have not occurred in these Member States for a long time.
Following this invitation, a team from the US Department of Agriculture came to Europe last week, to give itself a picture of the measures for combatting epidemics in the Member States.
The USA obviously has a perfect right to take precautionary measures for health protection from BSE risks.
As basis for such measures, the SBS agreement recognizes the regulations of the appropriate international organizations, in this case the IEO.
Moreover, the IEO allows trade with countries in which BSE is present, but the USA has banned all imports from Europe, even from those states without a single case of BSE so far.
As you can deduce from my explanations and the presence of my colleague Emma Bonino, the Commission is guided in these important health questions by a high level of consumer protection, both on the internal market and in trade with third countries.
Now let me consider four points which are important in this context and also create tension between the two scientific bodies with which we are concerned, namely the Scientific Steering Committee and the Standing Veterinary Committee.
The position is that the proposal on specified risk material has been postponed by three months, from 1 January to 1 April.
I also think the decision now made is not a gamble with preventive consumer protection, but gives us an opportunity to correct many things in the well-intentioned panic decision of 30 July of this year, and get things moving in the right direction.
Mr President, it seems to me that the three months we are taking before implementing these regulations - that is, by 1 April 1998 - demonstrate that more cautious decisions are being taken without panic.
These answers are therefore the first we have to find, and I think that, once again, we can find them in Great Britain.
In my opinion, the English scientists, who quickly found an early answer on transmissibility from BSE to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, already know many of these answers.
So, frankness, clarity and decision first, but always towards a single solution: not to promote trade, but to protect public health.
Finally, I should like to ask whether it is the politics of the scientific community or the science of the political community that is holding up the SAM legislation, because every time we delay these things, again we raise doubts in the consumer's mind.
Mr President, I wish to begin by saying how much I appreciate the Commission's presence here in strength tonight.
Perhaps if anything positive can come out of the United States' position, it is that we are now looking seriously at that as an option.
They have waited in vain for a positive position to come forward from Europe and, indeed, from two United Kingdom Governments.
Farmers in the United Kingdom suffer not only from the BSE problems but also from the strength of the pound sterling.
That is, of course, an internal UK problem but it is aggravated by the advantage that exists for other Member States to export into our market.
Mr President, we return to this issue in a very specific context, a context of the risk of a fall in guaranteed prices of around 20 % to 30 %, at a time when we have not recovered from the consequences of the BSE crisis.
The Commissioner acknowledged - he is shaking his head now, but I think he acknowledged - that the UK is not in violation of any treaty or legal obligations in terms of requiring imported meat coming into the country from 1 January - which is when the new provision should have come into effect - to be accompanied by certification that specific risk materials have been removed and also to require that that meat, when sold in the shops, is sold off the bone, as is now the case for United Kingdom products.
Mr President, I would like to begin my brief contribution by again thanking Commissioner Fischler for his openness and frankness from the very moment that this very serious matter arose.
But I have to say that the continuing campaign in Great Britain against the import of Irish beef is and must be a matter of concern for all committed Members of the European Union.
It must protect the interests of all Member States.
Every country has a right to promote its produce, but not at the expense of others'.
Clearly the British Government is using Ireland as a scapegoat for its failure to address the genuine problems of its own farmers.
Mr President, I should like to ask Commissioner Fischler how he can justify the decision to postpone the enforcement of the ban on specified risk materials and whether it is not indeed appropriate that it has been postponed until April Fools' Day.
If the problem is damage to our beef markets and to consumer confidence, is the solution not to take the toughest measures to restore that consumer confidence?
We know there is much less BSE on the continent than in the United Kingdom, but we also know there is some.
All farmers put consumer health first but the British farmer is fed up with being kicked around like a political football.
Can we please be clear about one thing: British farmers are certainly very much affected, but they are affected because a government did nothing for ten years.
Mr Fischler will certainly do the same.
That is surely our understanding of safety, consumer confidence and health protection.
Because we want it to be watertight.
My colleague, Mrs Bonino, will deal comprehensively with the various points of view.
This morning, we received from the British government the last, crucial element of the missing items, which is that it is prepared to set up completely separate slaughterhouses, and is 100 % prepared to take account of the demands of the Scientific Committee.
However, I would like to make three comments.
First, this debate shows how difficult the practice of transparency is.
If you want transparency, that implies that you are sometimes told, ladies and gentlemen, that the situation has changed because the Scientific Committee has changed its position, and we are here to tell you about it.
It was supported by five countries.
There was no other possibility except deferral for three months in order to harmonize modifications so far as possible, and to take a decision relating to finished products, taking account of new scientific advice.
The situation is not all white or all black, and the Commission cannot put pressure on science, I am sure you understand.
It is saying a classification on the geographical origin of tissue and product will be developed as soon as possible, and so on.
But if you think every time we come here we are going to give you a reply which will be black and white at the same time, I am very sorry, because in that case there is no point in transparency.
Mr Martinez, if firing a Commission could have resolved the BSE problem it would have been very easy, you know, because a new Commission could simply have been brought in to replace the old one.
But where disease is concerned, things are a little bit more complicated.
As for political shockwaves, these occurred, but my impression is that this was not nearly so much in the Commission as in public opinion.
And the response of the British government to the problems we put to it only came this morning.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, a question was asked which is of vital importance throughout the European Union, and got no answer.
I understand the importance of this matter but we could take all night dealing with it.
The climate summit in Kyoto made the need for this global attitude clear, at least as far as the effect of energy policy on climate is concerned.
The implementation of the internal energy market guidelines for liberalization and integration of energy markets must be driven forward.
What I would like to see in future - I only want to mention it briefly - would be specific implementation strategies... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, I wish to congratulate Mr Scapagnini on this report.
We are beginning to realize now how wise it would have been to write a chapter on energy into the Maastricht Treaty.
Particularly in the light of the failure of the Kyoto Conference, the problems of our energy policy are becoming much more apparent.
I regret one thing in this report, namely that the Commission appears to have given up on its campaign to introduce rational planning techniques into the electricity and gas sectors.
These techniques would certainly show us the way forward.
First, we have to introduce a major programme of investment in energy conservation in Europe.
So I can only conclude with the words of Brecht: the circumstances are not right, because the Council blocks everything, and as long as that continues we will have no energy policy goals, but go on sprinkling a little everywhere with the watering-can, and putting all our money into fusion, when all we know about it is that it may produce energy in the year 2080 or 2050 at the earliest.
This would make things happen in Europe and give considerable added value to the European Union's work on energy.
It is a very sensible communication.
We ought to have the same basis as for the environment.
The legislation should be subject to qualified majority voting.
The fact is that energy consumption is increasing.
I want to draw attention to a factor which I drew attention to earlier in the debate on the research programme.
It is small companies that have the greatest difficulty in making use of the resources that we have at Community level.
I am talking about companies of less than 50 people.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
So the proposal is to prolong the seventh directive until 31 December 1998.
If the main aim is still to achieve wide global agreements, this is because there is over-capacity of 30 %, and that state aid is therefore a distortion of competition.
The codewords in these regulations must be based on the OECD agreement - whether anything comes of it or not - particularly in terms of research and development.
The aim of European shipyard policy will be to abolish state aid and transparency, and I am thinking here of transparency in terms of other potential subsidies, for instance in the shape of research and development.
It is essential that we do not have a period without legislation in this field.
Mr President, I approve the regulation which is proposed, and the report by our colleague, Mr Sindal, but I am concerned about the recent approach of the Commission.
It is anticipating the application of the 1994 OECD agreement by proposing to ban state aid from 2001.
The United States would not fail to interpret this as a signal from Brussels encouragement not to ratify the OECD agreement.
In the face of social dumping from certain third countries, we have to maintain existing assistance in a system which promotes the acquisition of ships built in European shipyards.
In the immediate future, should we not also renegotiate the OECD agreement, and consider it as null and void if the United States do not ratify it by the end of 1998?
Mr President, until the 1970s my country, Sweden, was one of the great shipyard nations of Europe.
That is also why the OECD agreement of 1994 raised such hopes in Sweden that fairer terms of global competition would make it possible to begin to compete again when new tonnage was to be built.
In my party we have also proposed that Sweden should again be able to give the shipbuilding industry a limited state subsidy in order to be on equal terms with other countries.
I would like to start by thanking Mr Sindal and the committee for the speed with which this report was produced, because we have to make a decision on the prolongation of this seventh directive by the end of the year.
I would like to conclude then by setting a rendezvous for the next debate, and I have already said that I am looking forward to that debate, because I believe the Commission has made a major effort in the proposals it has submitted in order to offer a solution which will mean that contractual government support, that is, operational support, can indeed be abolished in principle in the year 2000 at the latest.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
The report is a response to a Commission communication which quite rightly takes as part of its theme the concept that services of general interest lie at the very heart of the European model of society.
But it is the product and not the process that matters to consumers.
The report recognizes the primary role of Member States in defining public services, with the European Union having a secondary role of fixing the minimal level of service, a universal service, examples of which have already been taken on board in postal services, broadcasting and telecommunications.
It will be the very first time that Parliament has achieved a common position on public services.
I hope that we can do it.
If we do, we will send a clear message to the Commission and the Council that Parliament is united in its determination to demonstrate that this is indeed a people's Europe, a Europe which works to make its citizens' lives better and a Europe which is set purposefully to achieve a fairer and more cohesive future for all its citizens.
Mr President, this communication from the Commission on services of general interest gives an account of the future objectives with regard to the interest in opening up protected sectors or monopolies to competition, while at the same time we want the citizens to have access to services of general interest on the same terms and at reasonable prices, which is good.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, in its statement the Commission advocates an open economic model and marketing dynamics in the production of public utility services.
On the other hand, legislation on public utility services cannot be allowed to preserve service monopolies.
There is a need to improve general services, and their efficiency, in a continually changing operational environment.
The Community could also demand the creation of national principles, and, within them, principles to do with equality among citizens.
The Committee on Regional Policy once again stresses that the liberalization of public utility services, making them competitive on the market, cannot endanger the provision of recognized basic services anywhere in the union.
This means that we have to see universal service for the public in general, and not, as some people think, that public services are there for the employees.
Rail transport is a typical example of how a monopoly leads to obstruction in the internal market.
We then agree with the exceptions to the rule of the best service for the consumer when it concerns peripheral regions and islands, but in any case, we have a long way to go, and a lot to deliberate about before we arrive at genuine service of general interest in Europe within the principles of article 7d of the old treaty.
Mr President, like everyone else here tonight, I have to welcome Mrs Billingham's report.
Whilst the Commission points out in the White Paper that consumers can benefit from the liberalization of public services, the very same process will mean that in some peripheral regions and where there is no possibility of profit in that service, the liberalization might result in services only being available at a price which excludes many consumers, or may simply mean that there will be no service at all.
It is for that reason that the importance of accepting the need, at least in principle, for a universal level of service, must be recognized.
Within the European Union the principle of universal service must be defined in the context of the Treaties, and in particular with regard to article 129.
Mr President, services of general interest in Europe are necessary and important.
These services are also important for a functioning transport infrastructure and a functioning infrastructure in the field of modern communication technologies.
However, what is important for the Community, and in that sense for us all, is that all these services are offered within the economic framework which characterizes our Community as a whole, the framework of a competitive regime which is worthy of the name.
Admittedly we still have some reservations, for example concerning the legal nature of a special charter for such services.
We still have serious reservations about the institutional structure which is mentioned in paragraph 12 of the report, although there have already been clear improvements compared to the predecessors of this report and the draft report.
In addition, this is the final stage of a trend which began in September 1996 with the communication from the Commission.
We have undertaken to put greater controls on liberalization, particularly in the debates and discussions relating to directives on energy, electricity, gas and finally the postal services.
A number of us, possibly even the majority in the Parliament, would have liked to see a slight revision of article 90.2, which appeared to make services of general economic interest the only exception to the competitive market place.
For other reasons, the Commission was far more reticent about the amendment to article 90, which it regarded as an essential article.
Finally, the Treaty of Amsterdam gave birth to article 7.2, which of course does not go very far and is not very revolutionary, but does nevertheless affirm the legitimacy of general economic interests in a manner other than as exceptions to the competitive market.
In that alone, the Treaty of Amsterdam is an important turning point at the legal level, and has been buttressed by a series of decisions from the Court of Justice, the Corbeau decision and the Almelo decision, as well as the decision relating to the monopoly on imports of gas, where the Court of Justice has made an approach which was no longer necessarily the rigid and rather dogmatic approach which it sometimes had, and which, we must say, was the approach of DG IV.
The Billingham report indicates to you today that it will be necessary to go further, by means of a Green Paper, and a White Paper, that it would be better to define what is to be understood by a mission of general economic interest, in the same way that it will be necessary to specify the notion of general interest services other than from a purely consumerist conception.
Recent debates on the notion of universal services within the Telecommunications Council have been extremely revealing in this respect.
The debate was, in fact, polluted by three elements.
And finally, in some countries, and this is the third polluting element, the problem of public services has acquired a theological dimension.
Another point made the debate a difficult one.
Our friend Mr Desama has spoken of a cavalry charge.
I say that fortunately - fortunately - this took place in telecommunications but despite the cavalry charge we are still ten years behind, Mr Desama, ten years behind the United States in a series of new telecommunications services.
Having said that, I would like to return to the draft itself, as we are in agreement about the basics.
We have put forward amendments on two points only.
We think that before we go further, we need an objective analysis of the factors for and against, on the basis of the figures and on no other basis.
Mr President, I welcome this debate and I welcome very much the Commission's communication on which it is based.
It was a very useful development of thinking in the area of services of general interest, trying to define some of the territory and to mark out what is appropriate for the European Union.
She has done some very good work.
We have different regional experiences; we have different needs and capacities; we have different sectors in terms of technological development and the weight of that development by sector; and the current report, in terms of what is sets out as a future scenario and development of thinking, allows for a reflection on diversity and building on that diversity.
We place a very strong emphasis in the Liberal Group - and I am glad to say the rapporteur will take our only amendment to this report - on recalling the necessity as we develop our thesis about universality of service, quality of service and so on - and these issues are extremely important - of not abandoning our commitment - and, indeed, the treaty requirement - to have regard to competition.
It is very important in terms of the market place we find ourselves in, because the modern consumer for the public service wants quality, choice and reasonable price, and competition is the best means of ensuring that, whatever the form of ownership.
They also include other activities which, because they similarly supply essential needs and contribute to economic and social cohesion, must be provided continuously and equally to all, regardless of any criteria of economic and financial profitability.
They exist to provide a complete range of public services in such a way that their goods and products are accessible to the least favoured populations and regions, and this purpose is also enshrined in the Amsterdam Treaty.
We must remember that in Portugal, for example, the liberalization of telecommunications and the privatization of their principal operator has led to a price increase for those most deprived of public services, in the name of economic profitability and competitiveness for the benefit of those who unjustifiably want to hold long-distance conversations.
The establishment of such a charter will probably require a great deal of time as there is no agreement on a clear definition of services of general economic interest.
No one will deny that these services contribute to social and economic cohesion, but mutual solidarity for the benefit of weaker regions will primarily have to take shape within the Member States of the European Union before an additional contribution from European funds and initiatives is given.
It is what we might call a merit good, a very important term often forgotten.
Member States recognized this during the negotiations at the intergovernmental conference.
We have seen recently a Green Paper on the possible convergence between telecommunications and broadcasting where sadly, the Commission - or some elements of the Commission - have failed to recognize this point.
Mr President, the process of liberalization and of deregulation implemented at Community level imperils public services and has had negative consequences on employment and social conditions, without in any way benefitting users.
Obsessed as it is by the principles of free competition, the Commission has a tendency to consider services rendered by the public service as pure commodities, without taking into account the social needs to which they are a response, and the specific historical features which have in many cases given rise to them.
In response to the ultra free-market offensive, there has over the last few years arisen a movement of resistance, of reflection, of proposals and action in favour of the public services, and in particular the powerful strike of November/December 1995 in France.
This movement, which our group permanently placed before the European Parliament, contributed to obtaining the inclusion of article 7d in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
In spite of its limits, it is a point of support in the defence and promotion of public services.
The notion of universal service is advanced by the Commission as if it were some kind of fire-wall, but its content remains ambiguous and even dangerous, because its intent is minimum services, and hence it constantly threatens to level things down, to lead to a two-speed society, and hence to develop more exclusion.
In Europe, public services are part of a fundamental choice between a Europe dominated by economic warfare and financial markets, on the one hand, and a people's Europe, a Europe of cooperation and social progress.
The promotion of public services is a response to the imperative of national solidarity, of social cohesion, a means of ensuring equality of access and treatment for users, by providing guaranteed continuity, security and quality in services to citizens.
We believe that public service must be renovated, and that by democratizing it, that is, by associating staff and users in the management of public services, and releasing those services from the financial pressures of the banks.
Instead of wasteful competition, we believe in and hope to promote cooperation between public services, but also between the private and the public sector, to meet and satisfy requirements.
For that reason it is good that the Amsterdam Treaty recognizes public services as immensely important and an essential principle of law in the EU.
The approval of this report is a historic occasion.
The most objective judge of services is and remains the market and not the state.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to congratulate Angela Billingham very sincerely on the excellent report she has prepared and the Commission on its statement.
It is indeed the case that both article 7d and the declaration in the final Minute provide guarantees for all those who consider that services of general interest, or 'public services' , as our rapporteur systematically and quite rightly refers to them, are economic activities which are vital to citizens and society.
This acknowledgment in the new treaty, inasmuch as it considers such services as one of the common values of Europe and a Community principle, like full respect for the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice, particularly as regards equality of treatment, quality and continuity of services, undoubtedly represents an enormous vote of confidence in a Europe centred not only on companies and competition, but above all on citizens and their rights and the European social model.
One of the essential problems affecting public services is competition.
Competition cannot be justified as an end in itself where public services are concerned.
First of all, I would like, as she does, to emphasize the importance of the inclusion in the new treaty of article 7d.
That is exactly what the Commission has written in its communication based on the practice of the previous years.
A reference or benchmark is now present in the treaty.
When we were talking about the judgement of the Court of Justice in the field of energy, the Court did not say it was not in agreement with the Commission, it said that the Commission had not proffered the correct reasons for its decision.
The Commission in its naivety believed that a monopoly on imports and exports was so contrary to the very principle of the single market that it believed it could convince the judges on that point.
In my mind, the communication from the Commission constitutes the guideline and the source of inspiration for the Commission.
It is confirmed by a reference to it in the treaty.
Just take a little look around you.
And universal service was not assured, Mrs Moreau.
I am taking the example of Gaz de France.
But in principle the national authorities determine public service obligations, and in particular as regards public sector broadcasting channels.
Indeed, it is by adding monopolies to monopolies that we have lost market share in freight transport.
Let that be clear.
If you were to give me more resource, the rules could be better applied with regard to the phenomenal increase in the number of cases requiring processing, and we could better serve companies and our customers.
And to conclude, there are a number of amendments that the Commission can accept, and here I am referring to Amendment Nos 3, 6, 7 and 8.
I would also like to add Amendment Nos 10 and 13.
Thank you, Mr van Miert.
So thank you, Karel, for alluding to my position as a teacher, and it is precisely the teacher who is going to teach you a little lesson.
The second lesson relates to the decision concerning monopoly on imports.
I cited that decision because it is important for one thing, Mr Commissioner.
And it is on that point that the decision of the Court of Justice is clearly an innovation.
Mr President, the important thing about this report is not just the amendments that the Commission will accept, but whether or not the Commissioner would sit down with our rapporteur early in the New Year and explore the ideas in the report to see what can be progressed between the European Commission and the European Parliament.
If tonight you could give a commitment that you are willing to do that then certainly in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy of the European Parliament we will try and take up those ideas and work with you to develop them.
Thank you very much, Commissioner van Miert.
The debate is closed.
On the second reading of my report on denominations and technical specifications of euro coins, I would like to point out again briefly that at first reading the majority of Parliament wanted and voted for essential changes to three points.
If we start from the fact that for many sections of the population, such as blind people for instance, it is very difficult to handle a large number of coins, this would be an example of a reason for reducing the total number of coins.
For instance, the 5 cent coin, at 21.75 mm, is exactly the same size as the 20 cent coin, which makes things extremely difficult for people with disabilities.
There was also a majority on this point in Parliament at first reading.
Parliament could again adopt, by an absolute majority of its Members, all or some of the amendments which were rejected by the Council at first reading, as an amendment to the common position.
I would like to point out that the euro we will soon have, and which will certainly go down in European Union history as a successful and unique financial project, has the consequence that people will have the coins in their hands every day.
Problems like confusion about size, like nickel, which is recognized to be a health problem, and many other points in my report will face the population every day, so the euro coin is important and these problems will come back to us as those who are politically responsible.
Mr President, as you know Sweden has decided to remain outside EMU.
These proportions are increasing, and 20 % of young women in Western Europe have this kind of illness.
Nickel in coins does not cause allergies, but makes the problem worse for people who have already developed this illness.
In this case health reasons should take priority over economic considerations.
I think it is important to state again that protecting coins from forgery is very important to us, particularly as there are approximately 6 million coin-operated machines in Europe.
In this connection, let it be said that obviously not only the coins must be safe from forgery, but also all the notes.
Mr President, it is not possible for Council to send us its decisions and for Parliament then to do nothing, even if it decided quite differently at first reading; it had decided to use metals that were not just nordic gold which is a metal primarily produced by certain states which will not be joining the euro.
There are no plans to use stainless steel, which is a European metal; 20 % of world currency is made of stainless steel.
The fact that Parliament only has advisory powers in this area plays a part in this.
The Council denied this Parliament the right to submit an amendment on the national face because it was alleged to have nothing to do with technical specifications.
As the Council knows very well, that is complete nonsense.
Thus we believe that the national face is not just a graphic aspect, as the Council states, but most certainly a technical aspect, and the old Amendment No 28 therefore deserves a full place in the Council Resolution, and not merely in the recitals.
Mr President, I believe that the proposed regulation will send a further strong message that the euro is on the way and all EMU participants are playing their part.
The aim of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy's first amendment is to establish the principle of a single set of coins which would be designed so as to enable the visually impaired and the elderly, who have the greatest difficulty in distinguishing coins, to accept them more readily.
The second amendment is a proposal to introduce a gold 100 euro coin for collectors.
However the Treaty only provides for the harmonization of coins intended for circulation.
Furthermore, Recital 8 of the regulation underlines the importance of the relationship between the diameter and value of the coins, to which reference has been made.
As regards the production of a 100 euro gold coin which for collectors might seem a very seductive proposition, it would be absolutely essential, if this proposal was taken up, to ensure that the cost of producing a gold coin did not exceed its face value, thereby imposing totally unacceptable costs on the Member States.
On the other hand, could not the revenue from the sale of the 100 euro coins be transferred to the budget?
Taking account of these comments our group will be supporting this report.
Mr President, the euro, and particularly the coin, is certainly a quintessential component of Europe.
Will there be a competition?
Finally, I also believe that the 100 Euro gold coin can be a symbol of confidence in the new currency, even as a commemorative coin, even in a limited edition.
Parliament made some proposals about this at first reading, but I believe it will be some time before we get the ideal system.
This means several tens of billions of coins to be minted between now and 1 January 2002.
This will be done, Mr Rübig, by national administrations, in the name of the principle of subsidiarity, according to the procedures of invitations to tender, or of production which apply in each of the member countries.
I know that the formal decision of the Ministers of Finance can only be taken after 2 May, immediately after the decision of the Heads of State and of Government, but for technical and practical reasons which you will understand, in the light of the number of coins, you can appreciate how important it is to get this matter wrapped up at Council level, in terms of principles, in terms of a formal agreement, before the end of this year.
The proposal before you today at second reading is based on in-depth work carried out for many months by the monetary authorities in the Member States and this has provided a guarantee of industrial feasibility, respecting the timetable agreed at Madrid in December 1995 by the Heads of State and of Government.
I would add that this is the result of a long process of consultation, of concertation with all professional sectors concerned, with associations of consumers and with organizations representing the blind and visually impaired.
Some of you, as was the case in the debate at first reading, criticized the number of coins.
The number and series of coins have been defined as a response to the requirements of all consumers, taking into account the diversity of national situations currently existing.
Today, in some Member States, the value of the smallest coin in circulation is around 1 euro cent.
Here I want to say that the use of nickel in the Commission's proposal will be substantially reduced in Europe, as it will be limited to the 1 and 2 euro pieces, and that the volume of coins containing nickel will fall to 8 % of the total coins currently in circulation in Europe, that is, contractually by 75 %.
I would add that the Toxicity and Ecotoxicity Committee, the scientific committee we approached on this proposal, supported this.
When the Ecofin Council adopted the common position last month, it took up the five amendments the Commission had accepted in its modified proposal.
These relate, I would remind you, to the need for a reliable system, an effective system, and a system acceptable to all the citizens of the European Union.
Your rapporteur's recommendation for second reading retables two amendments.
As at first reading, the Commission cannot accept them.
We have looked closely at this amendment, and from a legal point of view, the Commission cannot accept it within the framework of article 105a.2 which relates to euro denominations intended for circulation.
Indeed, this proposal is in contradiction both to the introduction of the 100 euro note, which was already decided, and to the opposing view of central bankers, with regard to the circulation of such a coin.
However, in order to support the initiative, the Commission has suggested that all of the monetary authorities of the Member States should consider issuing a gold 100 euro collector's coin.
This proposal should meet with the approval of the various Member States, and the Commission will keep you informed.
As it is late, I shall not go into the important decisions taken by the European Council at Luxembourg last week relating both to the coordination of economic policy, the euro Council, and the representation and definition of the external position of the euro in international bodies, but today we can say that all of the preparatory technical work relating to the euro is virtually complete.
This evening, on this eve of the New Year, I would like to thank the European Parliament for its support throughout these months, for its work, for our collaboration, and for its commitment to a process leading up to the introduction of the euro, according to the timetable and the conditions laid down by the treaty.
This round table will take place on 26 February in Brussels.
Thank you very much, Commissioner de Silguy.
But I cannot understand the Commission and the Council not accepting these logically convincing amendments, which were accepted by a clear majority in Parliament and which really - as my colleague said - correspond to the interests of female citizens.
The same will apply to the manufacture of euro coinage as already occurs in the manufacture of national currency coins in Germany, France, the Netherlands and other countries.
The manufacture will take place in accordance with the regulation applicable in each of the countries.
For eight coins, because the intention is to circulate eight coins in all of the Member States.
Thank you very much, Commissioner de Silguy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
