I notice that yesterday you did not tell us who had asked for the roll-call votes.
I can answer your question as regards why I did not specify each time who had asked for a recorded vote: it was because virtually all the political groups - I think - asked for one, and I was hoping to save a few seconds each time, in view of the length of the voting process.
I would also like to draw attention to the serious and dedicated attitude that I have observed in the Committee on Petitions and in Parliament as a whole towards the rights of European citizens.
This is a promising sign for a fruitful and effective cooperation between the Ombudsman and the European Parliament, especially the Committee on Petitions, to the benefit of the European citizens.
This is the first annual report by the European Ombudsman.
Furthermore you have the opportunity to make observations on my report as well as on the report of the Committee on Petitions.
My annual report covers only a short period from September 1995, when I took up my duties, to December 1995.
The report also includes statistics about complaints up to the end of March.
My office has now been active in producing decisions and solutions.
Only about 40 % of the complaints are within the mandate.
The limited mandate given by the Treaty and the further restrictions in the statute which Parliament has laid down for me explains why only about 20 % of complaints reach the stage of an inquiry.
I am sure that the figures will be much more favourable in the next annual report.
Article 8(d) of the Treaty establishing the European Community creates two important rights for the European citizens, namely the right to petition the European Parliament and the right to complain to the European Ombudsman.
However, it may not always be obvious to the citizen which course of action is more appropriate.
For this reason my office and the Committee on Petitions have cooperated closely to clarify our respective functions and to establish methods of cooperation.
There is a procedure for the transfer of cases between the Committee on Petitions and the Ombudsman with the agreement of the petitioner or complainant.
Complaints about decisions of the Committee on Petitions itself are considered inadmissible since its decisions, like those of Parliament, are political matters.
The right to petition created by the Treaty is a right to petition the European Parliament.
The Committee on Petitions acts on its behalf.
My experience of cooperation with the Committee on Petitions has been very positive.
The complaint, the first opinion from the institutional body as well as the decision that finally closes this complaint will also be publicly available.
The inquiries following the first opinion from an institutional body are carried out in private, however, so as to ensure full cooperation and to promote a friendly solution in the case.
If confidentiality is requested then the complaint and all the documents relating to it are treated as confidential.
Part of his mission is to enhance the relationship between the Community institutions and bodies and European citizens.
I have therefore launched an initiative by asking the other Community institutions and bodies to inform me about the position in respect of public access to documents.
The initiative covers all institutions and bodies except the Council and Commission.
European citizens need time and information to understand what the Ombudsman can and cannot do.
The leaflet is being widely distributed through the national offices of Parliament and the Commission, the offices of the national ombudsmen and similar bodies and through a large number of organizations involved in European affairs.
The Commission's own complaints procedure has great potential to help European citizens to protect their rights under Community law when national authorities are involved.
I hope that this important activity of the Commission will become better known to the public.
Finally, I attach great importance to cooperation with national ombudsmen and similar bodies.
The work of the European Ombudsman is only one element in the process for ensuring that European citizens enjoy the benefits of an open, democratic and accountable administration.
The Ombudsman's office can succeed only if the Community institutions and bodies are firmly committed both to these principles and to the full cooperation with the Ombudsman.
Madam President, I very much welcome the statement of the European Ombudsman here today and thank him for the serious cooperation we have had in this Parliament, particularly with the committee responsible, the Committee on Petitions, over the last year while he has been establishing his office.
The Treaty on European Union created this new office of Ombudsman of the European Union and it ensures that the new body can autonomously defend citizens against maladministration in the Union institutions and bodies.
In particular, we welcome his powers to investigate: it is a useful protection for the people of Europe against maladministration in the Council, the Commission and Parliament itself.
The conflict between the idea of Europe as a collaboration of sovereign states and the ideal of a federal Europe has retarded the development of modern, democratic and citizen-friendly European Union institutions.
The Committee on Petitions is the parliamentary organ to which the Ombudsman submits his reports and which needs to establish a complementary working relationship in view of their various responsibilities on petitions and complaints of the citizens.
In practice, this means an additional role for the committee in overseeing the functions of the Ombudsman in relation to Parliament.
The first part of the report is particularly useful since it explains the conditions in which a complaint can be introduced and the procedural decisions taken by the Ombudsman for dealing with complaints.
I am sure that we shall have very interesting reports in due course as to exactly what constitutes maladministration when the Ombudsman reports concretely to us on issues that he has not been able to resolve.
Of course, his ability to resolve complaints by mediation is an important aspect of his work.
The procedure followed: complaints declared admissible and prima facie founded are communicated to the institution or body in question, which is asked to give a first opinion.
Once this has been considered, together with any comments by the complainant, a solution is sought between the two parties.
This form of inquiry may acquire far greater importance in the years to come to the benefit of the democratic functioning of the Union and, therefore, of Parliament and citizens.
The Commission has also had an opportunity to reply to the requests for information concerning complaints querying the Commission's administration or its day-to-day running.
On behalf of the Commission I think I can say that the Commission has replied without holding anything back, in a spirit of transparency and respecting the prerogatives of every institution.
Although some problems have arisen in a limited number of cases -in particular as regards the length of time it takes to get a reply from the Commission - I can assure you that the Commission has undertaken to overcome those problems without delay.
The Committee on Petitions is, as has been said, the committee responsible both for relations with the European Ombudsman and for monitoring the work of the European Ombudsman.
When in future the committee gets reports of maladministration relating to the outcome of individual complaints we will discuss them with interest.
The work of the European Ombudsman and the Petitions Committee is complementary.
One deals with allegations of maladministration in European Community institutions and bodies, the other, the Committee on Petitions, deals with the general area of European Union fields of activity, particularly non-implementation by Member States of European Union law and proposals to improve European Union policies.
They turn a report on the Ombudsman's report into a report on relations between the Ombudsman and the Petitions Committee.
In particular Amendment No 4 encourages the Ombudsman to challenge decisions of the Petitions Committee taken on so-called improper grounds.
Finally, and more positively, I want to make it clear on behalf of the Socialist Group that we will support the work of the European Union Ombudsman, respecting his independence, with friendly criticism where appropriate, but primarily backing him and assisting him in pressing the European Union institutions and bodies to implement the recommendations in his reports particularly when he has found maladministration.
Experienced parliamentarians in this House will have no difficulty in understanding the concept of maladministration and will easily know what is the ombudsman's sphere of responsibility.
In terms of simplicity and colourfulness, I give this a mark of 2 out of 10.
Cooperation, communication between the ombudsman and the Petitions Committee, is also very important if we are to protect more fully our citizens' rights.
In that respect I believe Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4 help the report by underlining the complementary role of ombudsman and Petitions Committee.
In conclusion, and on reflection, I give the ombudsman 9 out of 10 for his first report, but I have to say I reduce the score for his pamphlet to 1 out of 10 and plead with somebody to make that more attractive so that the citizens know that they have the ombudsman and Parliament on their side.
I shall now turn to the amendments, the budget and the question of the office in Brussels.
We can support Amendments Nos 1, 2, 4 and 5.
In a way, we agree that it should be possible to make use of Article 169, but we do not think that involving the Committee on Petitions and the Ombudsman is particularly appropriate, and so we shall be abstaining on this amendment.
We understand the Ombudsman's views on the need for an office in Brussels in order to make his work in Strasbourg more effective, and in the course of the coming year we shall therefore be pleased to discuss the scope for setting up such an office, without creating any conflict with the location in Strasbourg, where the Ombudsman himself also wishes to remain.
This first report by the Ombudsman clarifies, albeit within the limits of the period during which he was in office last year, those problems which citizens might encounter in seeking access to this new body of the European Union.
I wish also to stress the importance of the interaction between the European Ombudsman and the European Parliament via its Committee on Petitions in guaranteeing those rights of citizens which these two Institutions are required to protect.
Admittedly, three months is far too short a period to draw up an initial balance sheet for what is a completely new activity for our institutions.
Mrs Ahern, in her excellent report, carefully analyses these three conditions, and I approve her efforts without reservation, especially when she outlines the cooperation that will need to exist between the Committee on Petitions and the Ombudsman.
My group has tabled an amendment to that effect, and I hope honourable Members will support it.
In any case, providing information to Europe's citizens on the institution you represent is a major factor and I must admit that I myself would like to have more information on how you are planning to publicize your service to that public.
I know, Mr Söderman, that you have had some experience of this function in your own country, but it would be unfortunate to see your strengths changed into weaknesses because Europe's citizens have neither the experience nor the knowledge of the institution of mediation that they were able to acquire in their own Member States.
However, the institution of an Ombudsman and his recognition have a very important part to play in the emergence of that European citizenship which is so close to our hearts.
And Articles 8(d), 138(d) and (e) of our Treaty will only really justify their existence if European citizens become aware that their institutions - of which, incidentally, they know very little - can also safeguard them against maladministration or injustice.
I am particularly pleased by the close cooperation that is developing between the Ombudsman and Parliament's Committee on Petitions.
This decision was in line with the spirit of the Treaties.
Yet we have now learnt, a few days ago, that the Ombudsman has asked the Committee on Budgets to increase his operating budget by 150 %, virtually doubling his staff from 10 to 17 jobs.
It would be easy enough to understand this increase, ladies and gentlemen, if it occurred in the course of the normal growth of his activities, but it seems that the real purpose of this request is gradually to transfer the office of the Ombudsman from Strasbourg to Brussels, opening up a second secretariat in the Belgian capital from 1997.
If this trend were to become established, ladies and gentlemen, we would once again be seeing an anomaly in the matter of the seat and of the institutions and organs of the European Union, and in that case my group would be firmly opposed to it.
The proposal of the rapporteur concerning widespread distribution of the annual activity report in the Member States should be supported.
The annual report should definitely be circulated as widely as possible, since it includes a clear description of the area of authority of the European Ombudsman and thus forms an important source of information for all citizens.
The statistics concerning complaints from March 1996 shows that of 86 complaints taken up for consideration 78 concerned the European Commission.
The first annual activity report suggests that good results will be achieved in both areas.
I think, though, that his initiative to promote transparency is not enough to solve the problems that could compromise the importance of his action vis-à-vis European citizens.
Mr Söderman, I wish you all the best in your new job and, in particular, as a Portuguese Member of this Parliament, I hope that you will deal properly with your first Portuguese cases, because the way in which you deal with them will be important for convincing the people of my country that it is worthwhile calling on your services.
Madam President, I think that democracy in the European Union was improved and its citizens' rights safeguarded when it was decided in the Maastricht Treaty to create the European Ombudsman as an institution.
He has dealt with 131 of the 298 complaints which he received in 1995.
I venture to describe this report, in a word, as historic, because it is the first report submitted to the European Parliament by the first European Ombudsman.
In my view, the confirmed, fundamental right of the European citizen to submit a petition and the real entitlement to direct participation and influence via the bringing of life's experiences to the European Union's attention for the purpose of achieving change are two hugely important pillars.
Not as a pretext for boosting our prestige, but in order that we can demonstrate convincingly that we are fighting for full democracy in the European Union.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in presenting this report today I have come to the end of a very major undertaking.
I only wonder what would induce a country that is setting up an illegal nuclear weapons programme to instruct a bunch of criminals to procure plutonium in the Central and Eastern European countries or the CIS states and then actually to smuggle it through a country like the Federal German Republic which has high-level technical precautions at the airports, the ports and the borders, where there are authorities, where there are institutions that have the necessary technical equipment for checking whether someone has radioactive material, when at the same time a human life is only worth a few paltry dollars at the border between Afghanistan and Russia.
The Institute for Transuranium, i.e., the Euratom analysis centre in Karlsruhe, has investigated 34 cases of seized nuclear material.
That means that to date not a single seizure of radioactive material has been recorded in 12 Member States of the European Union.
Mr President, there can be no doubt that illicit trafficking in radioactive substances and nuclear materials is both wrong and a cause for concern, which this report rightly addresses.
This report contains some very questionable assertions about both scientific and legal matters.
Not even this report is suggesting that any illicit trafficking originates in the EU in connection with Member States' stocks.
And there is certainly a widespread view in the industry that would disagree with the view in Paragraph 3 concerning MOX fuel.
In other words, I believe that problems of nuclear defence policy should not be included in this debate, because I am convinced that we can trust the countries that have access to this type of defence.
I am surprised, even so, that it suggested a further communication on 19 April, but I am also glad to see that the concept of radio protection has been introduced into that further communication.
I think we should remember that the illicit traffic calls for a global and coordinated response by the European Union.
To date, it has been left to the good will of the Member States to deal with the problems associated with this illicit traffic.
A campaign of prevention, then, in the form of technical assistance to the former Soviet bloc in order to restore effective inspections of installations in the former USSR, is essential.
I therefore support the measures proposed by the Commission, appreciating that it is important in this case to strengthen Article 5 of Euratom Directive 80/863 of 15 July 1980 in order to protect the public against ionizing radiation and to supply information to neighbouring Member States.
The list includes Mr Matutes, Mrs Carrère d'Encausse, Mrs Aelvoet, Mr Bertens, Mr Caccavale, Mr Colajanni, Mr Goerens, Mr Von Habsburg, Mr König, Mrs Lenz, Mr McGowan, Mr Poettering, Mr Sakellariou, Mr Viola and myself.
These include quite a number of Members who in other contexts would perhaps have adopted different standpoints.
I just wish to take this opportunity to return to a question I asked the Commission recently regarding allegations that nuclear materials covered by safeguards at the ITREC facility near Rotondella in southern Italy were illegally removed from that facility.
Secondly, this close and dubious relationship between the nuclear and the civil nuclear industries: the very genesis of the civil nuclear industry was in the nuclear industry and the blanket of national security still weighs heavily there.
Attali spoke of hundreds of cases of nuclear smuggling in a report for the United Nations.
It was not just some flight of the imagination that persuaded the Council, the individual Member States and the Commission to increase and coordinate their efforts and to discuss an increase in funding.
That is why we do support your operative proposals, which are in stark contrast to the opinions you are disseminating here for demagogical reasons.
And it really is a great threat because many of the countries that lack proper democratic control are likely to pose a serious and very great threat to us and to the future of humanity, as a result of the traffic in those materials and the development of nuclear powers.
That means that we have to do everything possible to prevent trafficking in nuclear materials and, if it happens, to combat it.
The Liberal Group believes that today's debate must focus on this, and that our debate and the resolution too must not address the pros and cons of nuclear energy as such, as I have just been hearing from the Green Group.
Mr President, the discussion on the illicit traffic in radioactive material in fact raises far more questions than we have answers to at present.
We are rightly upset at the 400 g of plutonium, but we have tonnes of plutonium in England and France.
And there are 103 facilities in which only foreign material, i.e., nuclear material from foreign countries, is stored.
The Gulf War has destroyed Iraq, the only power in that region capable of counterbalancing the power of the Ayatollahs in Tehran.
So the scale of the risk is significant, and it was the Front National which, during the 1970s, was the first political party in France to caution governments against their all-nuclear policy.
Yet, in an increasingly dangerous world where new atomic powers are coming into existence, the protection of our nations depends, sir, on the acquisition of a credible nuclear deterrent, a civil defence system comparable to that enjoyed by the Swiss, and the reestablishment of border controls.
Well, today we have the crisis of mad cow disease, which is first and foremost a failure on the part of the Commission, to serve as a dramatic illustration of the inability of Europe's institutions to protect the public, and the threat represented by the unrestricted opening of our borders.
In the past it was traffic in human beings and drugs, and now it is increasingly also traffic in nuclear materials, which is of course also encouraged by countries that want to procure themselves nuclear weapons by illicit means.
The Commission has presented a good communication.
Let me draw particular attention to paragraphs 11 and 14 of the conclusions of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, which points out that the incentives can be reduced by offering scientists opportunities to apply their expertise to peaceful activities.
Furthermore, it is no secret that countries such as Iraq and North Korea have made attempts to obtain bomb-building capacity.
So for all these reasons it is important to guarantee that we control the supervisory measures over nuclear materials.
However, there is a need to improve the legal cooperation between Member States of the European Union and the Republics of the former Soviet Union to deal with the illicit trafficking of nuclear materials.
Joint action to help combat this growing problem could also be taken under the European Union's common foreign and security policy.
Firstly, the report does not distinguish clearly between questions of nuclear weapons proliferation and nuclear smuggling.
For it is without doubt cheaper and better to give full support to the Russian authorities concerned in their efforts to modernize or set up their control systems than for us here in the European Union to pick up the nuclear materials and other radioactive substances one by one.
As you know, since the outset the Commission has dealt - we think seriously - with this subject, as may be seen in the communication of 7 September 1994 to Parliament and the Council of Ministers, with which Mr Schulz's report deals.
I should like to remind you here that the G7, at the Moscow Summit, agreed an ambitious programme for preventing and combating illicit traffic in nuclear material and made a call to the governments of other countries to join the G7 in implementing that programme.
I can tell you that throughout recent years and to the extent of our financial limits - and within the bounds of our powers - the Commission has made profound endeavours to move in that direction.
However, the Commission would also like to express its concern regarding certain information given in the report discussion today: first, it must be borne in mind, quite apart from the ideological or political view of each one of us, that the European Union plays a major rôle in the nuclear sector.
One may be for or against the nuclear sector, as some honourable Members have pointed out; one may be for or against but the reality - at least for the Commission - is to make it clear that the European Union, at least in the nuclear sector, is a force to be reckoned with at world level.
Secondly another feature of the European Union is that, as you know, apart from the predominantly civil nuclear energy sector, there is another sector of a military nature.
All civil nuclear material is subject to the Commission's security control and is also to a large extent also subject to the control of the International Atomic Energy Agency in the 13 States which do not have nuclear weapons.
Only control of military nuclear material has been expressly excluded according to the Euratom Treaty and the specific agreements with the IAEA.
Nevertheless it must be pointed out that according to the Euratom Treaty all nuclear material outside the military sector is to be automatically included in the ambit of Euratom safeguards.
The Commission's present thinking is that the system is working well and that history shows that illicit traffic has not arisen owing to the use of plutonium or highly-enriched uranium in the European Union.
Of course the Commission agrees with the idea of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs of continuing to encourage nuclear disarmament and to process nuclear materials with high strategic value into other less dangerous materials, but the Commission has to consider all options and cannot exclude the possibility of recycling plutonium or highly-enriched uranium of military origin for use specifically in civil nuclear reactors.
The Commission has taken note, Mr Schulz, of your concern regarding the possible involvement of the secret services in illicit traffic in contraband.
And apart from this particular incident, faced with the constant rise in the number of cases of illicit traffic in general, which implies a considerable risk for the population and the environment, the Commission wishes to emphasize that we and the European Parliament need to be constantly working on this.
For the moment and taking into account all the information available to the Commission, we are convinced that the origin of trafficking lies fundamentally in the serious economic situation of the former Soviet Union.
So, although it needs a great effort - including sufficient human and financial resources - and although there are many practical difficulties, the Commission still believes that prevention through cooperation is called for.
Many of you have made it clear that this is a question which, because of its delicacy and importance, would need more material, human and financial resources.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, this oral addition does nothing to change the meaning of the paragraph, and we decided to reject it, not because of the merits of this amendment but because these same ideas can already be found in several other passages of the report.
This report is most important and in view of the crumbling attendance here I request on behalf of my group that we vote on the Schulz report at the next part-session.
I too am in favour of voting on it during the next part-session.
So I gather, Mr President, that a convenient slot is envisaged from 6 in the evening.
We have voted against this resolution because there are all too many question marks involving Sweden.
We tabled an amendment on how Member States get round the multiannual guidance programme by transferring their vessels to third countries and by using flags of convenience.
I am surprised that there were only 47 votes in favour of this amendment, despite the fact that even my own country of Ireland complains about it.
The British, for example, are always complaining about the flags of convenience and the fact that their own government has failed to decommission and, instead, has sold off its flags of convenience to countries like Spain and France.
It is a disgrace that only 47 Members voted in favour of my amendment which criticized Member States which transferred their vessels to third countries which are already overexploited by the fisheries agreements or transferred their vessels to countries like Britain.
The Member States who are doing this have to acknowledge that they are not meeting their obligations.
Despite the fact that we have 20 % of European coastal waters we have only been allocated 4 % of fishing quotas.
I rise in support of the case of the fishermen of Southend, Leigh and Canvey in my constituency, who are further threatened by the Commission's latest announcement.
These fishermen are native to the Kent and Essex waters, with smaller boats under 17 metres, and have already suffered a cutback of more than half of their catch in the last ten years.
Our aim in Essex is to set up our own regional fishery with our own producers' organization to give the traditional and important fishing industry off the Essex coast much more control over our own waters and therefore over our own future.
The recent Commission announcement of an intended 40 % cut in the fishing fleets of Europe was the final blow.
The Commission says there are fewer fish available to catch.
The fishermen in my area say this is nonsense and the scientists never contact them or ask their advice on the stocks available.
With regard to both policy formulation and the implementation of policy, the European Union's approach on fisheries is seriously deficient and ineffective and is doing nothing to assist fisheries development.
Arias Cañete report Mr President, the Arias Cañete report on fishing problems in the North-Western Atlantic area comes before us at a time when it could hardly be more topical, since the Euro-Canadian declaration which should have been adopted by the Council last week is still under examination today.
On this point, the European Community is calling on Canada to ratify the bilateral 'Fisheries' agreement of 1992, which provides in particular, and among other things, for the reopening of Canadian waters and Canadian ports to Community vessels.
The Arias Cañete report, as adopted, supports that demand very strongly, and so do we.
Mather report The Danish social democrats are voting in favour of the report on minimum requirements for improving the protection of workers potentially at risk from explosive atmospheres.
However, a connection is lacking between this proposal for a directive and other similar proposals, for example on chemical agents.
Naturally it is my hope that a majority in the EU parliament will also have the nerve to set proper requirements as regards the protection of employees.
Even with a limit value of 1 ppm, which is proposed in the report, there are considerable risks of humans contracting leukaemia.
It is therefore reasonable that the limit value should be lowered after 1 January 2001, as proposed in amendment 20 by the Green Group.
And I must warmly congratulate our colleague and friend Barón Crespo on the quality of his work.
Last December we adopted a position on providing effective aid to the Mediterranean countries, aware that peace and stability were greatly dependent on the economic development of that region, certain areas of which have been hard hit by the economic crisis.
We know, too, the role that we need to play in reestablishing dialogue between the countries of that part of the world, a dialogue which may enable terrorism to be eradicated and democracy instituted throughout the region.
This condition appears to me minimal but essential, and it would be worth using it in some cases with other community subsidies.
More seriously, though, I should not like to think that the debates on human rights possibly conceal a degree of reluctance with regard to aid for the Mediterranean.
All of us here know that, sooner or later, the misfortunes of the Mediterranean States will have repercussions on Europe.
Titley report The Titley report on aid for reconstruction in the former Yugoslavia is full of high-minded sentiments.
And lastly, what is called the compromise package really only regulates means of improving the way TACIS funds can flow back into the European countries and in such a way that all EU countries get their share.
The fact, however, that nine opposition parties boycotted the second round of the elections, the fact that the Albanian electoral committee itself felt obliged to declare the elections invalid in 17 constituencies and the fact that no international observers were present when the new elections took place in those 17 constituencies do not say much for the progress being made towards democratization in Albania.
This country is a member of the Council of Europe.
Madam President, undemocratic elections have taken place in Albania, which is a member of the Council of Europe.
The lack of a free media, the exclusion of certain opposition parties from the elections together with serious irregularities have made the Albanian elections into a farce.
The OSCE report is very clear on that.
The European Parliament must send a clear message.
But the European Union institutions must not overlook these incidents.
As a result of international pressure elections were held again in 17 constituencies without the participation of the opposition parties.
So we call on the Council and the Commission to freeze relations with Albania until new elections have been held in this country under international democratic rules.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in a Chamber as deserted as the one in which we now find ourselves in this form of normality that Parliament has appropriated for itself whereby policy has to be evacuated, it is appropriate that we should be discussing Albania and the difficult, the very difficult phase we are now seeing, with the holding of elections that were clearly completely, partly or largely irregular, as claimed by many, although not all, observers.
And in these circumstances we are now witnessing a rather strange turn of events in that the two main groups in the House - which alone account for 400, if not more, Members - are not signing a text on Albania, are not therefore taking up a position, unless to absent themselves, and are not abiding by the compromise that was in fact negotiated with the Socialist Group and the PPE Group also.
I therefore again ask the scant representatives of the groups I have mentioned to think again so that the text we have drawn up as a compromise and that I would describe as robust but acceptable can be adopted without going too far in one direction or the other.
In this context, the European Parliament must either adopt a clear position on this issue or set serious precedents for the future in similar situations.
The European Parliament must adopt a clear position and not adopt any position that is in cahoots with democratic mockeries.
Madam President, as I had cause to say at the last part-session that we held in Brussels, practically all observers, of every nationality, found that the elections in Albania were irregular, and that the irregularities took place before the poll, that is to say in the course of the electoral campaign - as a result, for instance, of the fact that not everyone had sufficient opportunity to campaign; during the poll itself, as a result of clear irregularities in access to the ballot-box, by preventing the monitoring of the poll itself, and also after the poll because it was possible, contrary to democratic principles, to examine the votes and because opposition protests were suppressed.
We have to work towards getting the Albanian Government to change policies and give guarantees to that effect, but we have also to work towards securing rapprochement between the government and the opposition so that dialogue can be reopened in Albania.
And we can also do this by bearing in mind that we need to replace the 1992 economic cooperation agreement: means of exerting pressure are therefore available to us.
Finally, I wish to remind the House of the need to apply, from now on at least, the same methods and the same criteria to all countries in which a process of democratization is under way.
Two: the opposition parties, led by the socialist parties, withdrew their candidates and even their electoral assistants two hours before the end of the elections, but after the announcement by an American opinion poll that the election results were extremely unfavourable to them.
Five: the opposition refused to take part in this second election round.
Six: following the opposition's call for a boycott the recorded electoral turnout was only 18 % lower.
The composition of the group of electoral observers is extremely questionable.
I identified no less than 14 of these electoral observers as Young Socialists, as genuine Young Socialists and not parliamentarians.
These 14 people were originally invited as observers of the communists and only subsequently recruited by the ODIHR group to observe the elections.
Nine: the Albanians voted in accordance with their own views and not the wishes of the Left in this House, which greatly pleases me personally.
I hope this opposition will take a constructive approach, for it too represents its fellow-citizens and its country.
Madam President, in response to what other speakers before me have said.
I also think, in conclusion, that we should treat Albania in the same way as we treat other countries, in accordance with the standards applied by the Council of Europe, and we cannot adjust those each time the political situation changes.
My Group has clearly endorsed this position, also through the amendments to the joint resolution.
The country has a government that really wants to do the right thing, and we have to recognize that.
So I believe that we should do our utmost to ensure that Albania gets what it deserves, namely that it is accepted into the community of European democracies, even if that will still take a while.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is, I believe, no question that the elections in Albania were not completely democratic, in fact that there were serious violations of the most fundamental principles of democratic competition: that is the position, there is nothing to discuss.
But it seems to me that, as usual, we are moving from one extreme to another.
Madam President, the final report of the OSCE on the elections in Albania confirms previous reports detailing the irregularities which took place during voting and reports cases in which there were in fact infringements of the new electoral law approved last February.
It also stated that the continuation of the electoral process according to international democratic rules constituted an essential factor for the successful future development of relations between Albania and the European Union.
We also condemn the violent police response to the demonstration on 28 May.
The Commission has received in Brussels the leaders of the Albanian opposition parties to hear their views and their criticisms of the way in which the elections were held and it was clear that the elections would have to be held again in various constituencies.
The decision taken by the Albanian Government to hold the elections again in 17 of those constituencies is a step in the right direction but it is regrettable that this has not given time to take into account and evaluate the final report of the OSCE and for observers to be present when they are held again.
Only yesterday an informal meeting of the permanent Council of the OSCE was held in Vienna with an Albanian delegation to discuss the OSCE's own report.
It is clear that respect for democratic principles and legality will be decisive for the future development of relations with Albania.
It is true, as some honourable Members have said, that Albania is an important factor for stability in an extremely unstable region and it is also true that in recent years important progress has been made in the economic field.
In recent months the Commission has been engaged on preparing a negotiating mandate for a new trade and cooperation agreement with Albania.
For the moment the Commission has preferred to wait to see how the situation in Albania develops and whether, through the actions of the party in power and the dialogue between President Berisha and the opposition parties, it is possible to restore calm in Albanian political life and gradually to establish normal democratic working.
The announcement that the Bosnian Serbs are to set up their own tribunal to try their war criminals is yet one more slap in the face for the peace process.
It is true, but we would be better not saying it.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission fully endorses the European Parliament's resolution on the holding of elections in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Although conditions are far from ideal, the feeling was that it was vital to stick to the date of 14 September.
To postpone the elections would aggravate the division of Bosnia-Herzegovina and would leave the country without appropriate tools to work on its future.
The OSCE must ensure that the conditions for holding elections are satisfied and fix the date.
So it will be necessary to make an enormous effort between now and the elections to improve the present difficult situation.
Freedom of movement does exist in theory but in practice there are numerous problems creating a climate of fear and mistrust aggravated by the presence in the Republica Srpska of people like Karadzic and Mladic who stand accused before the War Crimes Tribunal.
Since January the OSCE which was entrusted by the Dayton agreements with the supervision and preparation of the elections has been working on the spot in the difficult political and practical conditions I am describing.
In this connection the Commission will contribute ECU 2 million to support Carl Bildt's proposal to set up an independent television channel.
And naturally the European Union as such will also take part in supervising the elections according to rules to be studied with the OSCE election supervision coordinator.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again we have condemned here the attitude of the Indonesian authorities that are continuing to use military repression on the people of East Timor and its youth in particular.
Indeed once again this month the Indonesian authorities killed, wounded and arrested young Timorese citizens who were demonstrating peacefully in Baucau for freedom of religious practice following acts of provocation and religious intolerance culminating in the profanation of a Catholic religious image.
It is important that the European Parliament once again condemns the Indonesian authorities for the use of military repression against the people of East Timor and demands the immediate release of all political prisoners, in particular the lead of the resistance, Xanana Gusmão, and stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the fight of the people of Timor for self-determination and an end to the illegal occupation of their territory.
Madam President, the violent, bloody and deathly incidents described in the explanation of the joint resolution show that the sensitivity of the majority of Members of the European Parliament has not yet been taken in by the pro-Indonesia propaganda and the fight of the Timorese people for observance of UN resolutions and the respect of human rights is well known, backed and respected by the majority of political groups in this house and most Member States on the Council.
This resolution only confirms that the cause of the East Timorese people is gaining more and more notoriety and international political backing as the repression of the Indonesian dictatorship insists on violence.
Therefore, apart from common positions, occasionally adopted by the Council and suffering the ups and downs in terms of publication that are known to all by dint of the British position, positions that confront Indonesia vis-à-vis the respect of UN resolutions, I emphasise the common desire of the European Parliament that Indonesia should quickly and clearly respond to the dialogue initiative of the Portuguese prime minister as a first significant step towards finding a political solution for the East Timor problem.
The events of last week in Baucau show once more how false have been the promises of peace and how sham is the respect of human rights and free exercise of religion in Timor.
As we saw in December international hypocrisy actually condoned the terrible crimes that have gone on, you might say, in litis consortio .
There is no point in continuing to churn out resolutions condemning the Indonesians in the European Parliament, the UN or any other forum, unless there is a strong will and genuine desire to free the Timorese people from the Indonesian yoke and restore peace and security to its people.
To cap it all, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today in the press room of the European Parliament, is a press release strongly attacking Portugal, a European Union country that has only been defending the freedom of Timor, dated 3 July 1995 - yes, 3 July 1995 - revealing the attitude and permanent inflexibility of its authors.
The same root for two different situations.
The question is the right of a people to self-determination, prevented by a military occupation that has led to religious, cultural and physical genocide.
Finland issued a licence in March for the export of 60 armoured troop carriers to Jakarta.
Many governments and many human rights organizations have called for his release and for the release of all political prisoners.
The Portuguese prime minister recently made concrete proposals.
Indonesia prefers torture to talks and so we ask for the country to be condemned by the European Parliament, aware that this body and Europe as a whole must be one of the great beacons of fundamental rights in the world.
Madam President, it distresses us that a country like Indonesia, which we admire in many respects, is unable to resolve a number of structural problems concerning human rights.
Now there have once again been demonstrations and incidents.
On 9 and 11 June two people were killed in Baucau.
We are not dealing here with a religious conflict but with forms of systematic oppression.
But we did guarantee him freedom of expression.
Since then, imprisonment and exile have reduced the opposition to living on scraps.
The murder of Ken Saro-Wiwa gave rise to vehement international protests.
The Nigerian Government took an arrogant attitude to us in the Committee on Development and Cooperation and to the ACP Assembly but in the end there was some hope that we could enter into a dialogue and achieve a certain amount of democratization.
Madam President, the military junta in Nigeria rules the country gun in hand and it arrests and murders political opponents and representatives of the civilian population without pity.
We saw how the Nigerians operate at the last ACP meeting when fifteen diplomats flew in in a special plane to intimidate the other African countries to such an extent that they did not dare vote in favour of a resolution criticizing Nigeria.
Mr President, this third human rights subject also concerns the European Union's relationship with a dictatorial regime and the relations between politics and economic power.
We would also ask the Commission to report on the use of forced child labour in Burma and whether it intends to withdraw the system of generalized preferences.
Leyla Zana and the three other former Kurdish MPs have not been released but are on hunger strike along with Kurdish prisoners in many other Turkish jails.
Army operations have been stepped up and Turkish troops have again penetrated into Iraqi Kurdistan, despite the declaration of a ceasefire by the PKK on 15 December.
We most earnestly appeal to the next Turkish Government to end this never-ending saga of oppression and civil war, to liberate political prisoners and to seek to settle the conflict in the south-east by peaceful means and not force of arms.
We all want closer association with Turkey and its peoples but I hope the Turkish authorities will see this resolution as a clear statement that unless steps are taken to achieve positive improvements in Kurdish and human rights and to end the suffering, our mutual relations will be seriously damaged.
The democratic veneer adopted by the Turkish authorities in order to organize the Habitat II World Conference in Istanbul has quickly peeled off.
Leyla Zana - who I would remind you was awarded the Sakharov Prize by this Parliament - and three other members of the DEP are still being held in prison under intolerable conditions.
The army has intensified its offensive in the Kurdish provinces: more than 3000 villages have already vanished from the map for refusing to respond to the cease-fire appeal made by the PKK on 15 December 1995.
Freedom for Leyla Zana and all political prisoners.
Ladies and gentlemen, we saw a number of things in Istanbul with our own eyes: the Turkish police evicting the leadership of human rights organizations from the premises they had rented during Habitat II; family members who had asked for news of missing relatives being intimidated by the police; a colleague from our own Group being detained for the simple misdemeanour of giving out an invitation to the seminar organized by the Greens; the chairman of the Green Group being grilled for a whole hour by the police because she had given a press conference on Habitat II.
Mr President, it is a matter of great regret to our group that we should feel obliged yet again to table a resolution about human rights in Turkey, but I feel we have a moral duty so to do.
For that reason we are, as a Parliament, continuing to withhold our agreement to the adoption of the regulation for the associated financial protocol and I find it hard to see how we could change our attitude.
In any case we look to the Commission to provide us with the further reports promised to us on the human rights situation in Turkey.
Mr President, the life of Carmelo Soria, a Spanish national and an official of the United Nations removed from his post in Chile, came to an end on 14 July 1976.
He was tortured and murdered by Major Salinas Torres and NCO San Martín, members of the Directorate for National Intelligence.
It is a paradox that on the anniversary of the beginning of the French Revolution, 14 July a democrat should have been murdered by the collaborators of the Chilean liberticide, General Pinochet.
The transition to democracy in Chile is not proving an easy one.
The military authorities are still playing too great a part in the social and political life of that nation.
It may even encourage justice in Chile to act in freedom and without fear.
We here therefore ask the European Parliament today to raise its voice on behalf of the consolidation of democracy in Chile, denouncing the attempt at shameful side-stepping of justice in the case of the political murder of the European citizen Carmelo Soria.
Today we are concerned with the case of a Spaniard working with CEPAL who was murdered by the Chilean secret service in 1976.
But in fact we are concerned with far more than that, for the murder of Carmelo Soria is not an isolated case.
Mr President, I turn to the case of Raghbir Singh Johal who is a journalist, editor of a Punjabi newspaper, who has lived peacefully in my constituency for many years and is known to me.
In this particular case there is a prima-facie case of abuse of internationally recognized human rights.
We therefore call upon the British Government either to produce evidence of complicity in international terrorism or to release Raghbir Singh Johal from custody forthwith.
Mr President, our Europe is a place of boundless idealism.
They are sending convoys to Byelorussia, technical aid, medical aid, medicines, even offering those child victims of radiation the opportunity to spend holidays here in Europe, with our well-to-do families, families where people eat well, live well, enjoy freedom and health.
Mr President, the human rights situation is and remains a matter for concern.
Meanwhile new figures from Amnesty and other sources tell us that 2 000 executions were carried out in 1995 and that more than 3 000 new death sentences were imposed the year before that.
Our standards and our respect for democracy make it imperative that we do so.
I believe that our Parliament, even if it is still being too timid, is in the process of laying the groundwork for a genuine policy towards a country which will be one of the major issues of the next century.
Starting from the denunciation of the position of Wei Jingsheng, an exemplary and central figure in the democratic and non-violent opposition to the Communist Government in Peking, what we want to emphasize is the situation of hundreds of thousands of prisoners of the laogai , thousands of people under sentence of death, tens of thousands of people subjected to torture.
That is also the backdrop to our request to the Commission that it look at this and present to the House a report on the Union's current policy towards China.
The Chinese are a great people and China is a great country but also an interesting economic and consumer market; that does not make it acceptable - and I am appealing to you here, Commissioner - that Europe should be the silent accomplice in an unacceptable trade in human lives and fundamental rights.
I believe that we have in this Chamber 626 people who are free to express whatever view they wish.
I therefore believe, Commissioner, that the time has come to do something concrete and stop going on about what we all, unfortunately, know: in China human rights are a utopian concept at this point in time.
Clearly it is not easy to put pressure on the military, but we have a number of instruments and we have a number of resolutions calling for those instruments to be used, otherwise there is no doubt that Abacha's men will go on wiping out the opposition.
Once again, the European Union must keep banging the drum and in conjunction with other countries must use all means available to put as much pressure as possible on the Nigerian military regime.
Mr President, I should like to speak to say something to Mr Bertens.
I feel I must refer again, Mr President, as other fellow-Members in this House have already done, to the concern aroused by repeated breaches of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Turkey, in spite of the fact that that country has signed the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and has undertaken to observe them - an undertaking which has not stopped their taking political prisoners, the maltreatment of those arrested - a situation which is all the more wretched since they are in a position in which they completely unable to defend themselves - and the violence against the Kurdish people, which has got worse since the customs agreement was signed.
Such a situation represents on Turkey's part - and that has been said before - a violation of the spirit of the customs union and is sufficient reason for asking the Council and the Commission - to our regret - to urge the Turkish authorities to take steps to guarantee an end to such ill treatment, to free political prisoners and to end violence towards the Kurdish people.
Mr President, everyone here in Europe knows that the failure to punish criminals is partly responsible for their reoffending.
The compromise text contains a few good things, in particular the denunciation of Indonesia's occupation of East Timor.
However, the unilateral proclamation of the independence of Timor by the Communists on 28 November 1975 is no more legitimate than the annexation of these Catholic territories by Indonesia on 31 May 1976.
Since then, the 500, 000 Catholic Timorese, who have become a minority in a State populated by 160 million Muslims, have been suffering the fate familiar to all Christian communities in Muslim countries - annihilation.
But this Parliament which - let us be honest and open with each other - is the very physical embodiment of democracy in 15 separate European countries must send a clear message to the British Government: either produce the explicit evidence that shows that Raghbir Singh Johal is actually involved with international terrorism, or release him immediately.
That must be our simple, strong, clear message from this House.
There are at least two areas in which that country must sooner or later change it ways.
First, on respect for human rights, where practices and shortcomings in disregard of everything that the international community stands for are still continuing.
Mr President, the policy being pursued by Turkey in the region is generating problems and posing a threat to the security and stability of the European Union's south-eastern corner.
The Commission's representative in Turkey has sent a report to the Commission which makes it clear that the human rights situation has worsened.
Mr President, the current list of human rights violations in Turkey is a long one: illtreatment of detainees, disappearance or death of prisoners.
As long as Turkey can shelter behind the provisions of Article 11 of the Convention against torture - and thus oppose the publication of the reports in which the Control Commission, whose job it is, denounces these violations - human rights will be violated behind a cloak of anonymity, not to say general indifference.
The customs union between the European Union and Turkey, as it may be necessary to remind those honourable Members who prematurely ratified it, is producing very disappointing results when we recall the charm offensive carried on by Turkey before December 1995 - in other words, before the ratification of the customs union.
Mr President, let us at least have the courage to enforce transparency upon Turkey when it comes to respect for human rights.
Wide circles of Belarussians, and not just the Popular Front but also the non-governmental organizations and the liberal democratic and social democratic forces within the Belarussian Parliament are making efforts to direct this process of transformation towards reforms.
We must continue to support the democratic forces in that country by adhering consistently to our decisions.
It is incomprehensible why the Belarussian Government is playing down the decision by this Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs and dismissing it as personal animosity.
Mr President, just one comment on the resolution about the behaviour of the authorities in Minsk, Belarus.
When the delegation of the European Parliament was in China last month we were repeatedly asked: why so many resolutions?
So far 24 have been tabled in Parliament on the subject of China and human rights.
In the case of Wei Jingsheng it is precisely the rule of law which is not being upheld; not the rule of law of the European Union but the rule of law of China itself because he is being held in detention, he has not been charged, and he has been in this state now for 14 years.
It is because China ignores basic human rights and ignores its own so-called rule of law that we are able to criticize.
On this occasion I hope that Parliament will support this resolution and the amendment tabled which asks the Commission to state whether it will take human rights into account in its recommendation on China's request to join the World Trade Organization.
With regard to Indonesia I must mention in the first place, Mr President, that the Commission has protested to the Indonesian Government on numerous occasions about the human rights situation in that country.
Those protests include not only requests to come to a fair agreement respecting the aspirations of the people of East Timor but also criticism of unjustifiable acts, the need for impartial judgments, appropriate legal representation and access to prisoners in general.
As you know, the question of human rights was also raised at the last AsiaEurope meeting held in Bangkok in March 1995.
The President's final declaration made it clear that a dialogue should be initiated on the basis of mutual respect, equality and defence of human rights.
The Commission recently launched an analysis of the present European Union measures against Nigeria, applied following the hanging of Ken Saro-Wiwa in November 1995.
The Commission in fact considers that new measures should be adopted, particularly to lend greater support to the Nigerian groups committed to the fight for democracy and human rights and that additional sanctions should be studied along the lines of freezing assets and against the oil industry.
The purpose of these measures would be to hasten the peaceful withdrawal of the military from the positions of power in the Nigerian Government and the election of a coalition government, accompanied by the restoration of human rights and the independence of the judiciary.
The Commission assures the Members of the European Parliament that it is doing everything in its power within the limits of its authority to speed up the peaceful transition to a democratically elected government in Nigeria.
But from the experience we have had on other previous occasions which I do not need to quote, when the Commission has tried to do that but has failed, we must be very cautious before putting that type of decision into practice.
In any case I have told you that the Commission is in favour of introducing additional sanctions.
With regard to Burma, the Commission shares with honourable Members their concern at the recent arrest of 262 elected members of the opposition and the continued threats from the government -the military Junta of Myanmar - to the democratic movements since that Junta cut short the beginnings of democracy in 1990.
The Commission continues to monitor the internal situation in Myanmar carefully but, apart from the freeing of Aung San Suu Kyi in July last year, there has been no sign of significant improvement in respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms or of any steps taken towards the restoration of democracy.
That has led to the Commission's proposing to cancel all benefits of the system of generalized preferences in favour of that country, and this will be the first case in which the new arrangements envisaged in the system of generalized preferences in the event of failure to observe human rights have been put into force.
Mr Moorhouse has asked the Commission to send an annual report on the human rights situation and the progress of the democratic process in Turkey.
That annual report will be sent to Parliament in October.
I must also tell you, that following the line expressed in the resolution, specific representations were made on 5 June - only a fortnight ago - by the Troika in Santiago de Chile; the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was informed of the need to make this case the epitome of what ought to be seen in practice from justice and the review of a case which, as I said, is nothing but a political murder.
Both situations must give us concern but in different ways.
In fact no government action must interfere with the distribution of humanitarian aid in Belarus or in any other geographical region.
However, the Commission can tell you that the European Union's aid programmes in Belarus are proceeding normally and at least the non-government organizations working with the Union have not raised any complaint or reported any interference from the Government of Belarus.
The Commission will continue to keep a careful watch on the human rights situation in Belarus, including freedom of the press, so that it can constantly keep bilateral cooperation between the European Union and Belarus under review.
The question of human rights in China has been systematically taken up within the political dialogue with that country, the last meeting for which was held on 14 June in Beijing.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, time is now getting short for completion of the talks on the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty.
Mr President, at exactly this time last year you will recall that there was worldwide condemnation of the French nuclear tests and this Parliament told President Chirac in no uncertain terms here in this hemicycle what we thought of his government's actions.
In the resolution before us today we call on the Chinese Government to abide by the moratorium adopted at international level.
The Chinese Government insists that it should be permitted to carry on with peaceful nuclear explosions or PNEs.
A PNE programme can form part of a nuclear research and development programme and the organization Greenpeace contends that a significant reason for China's attraction to PNEs comes from encouragement by weapons scientists in both Russia and the United States.
Just after announcing that it would be applying a moratorium on testing from September, China went ahead on 8 June with its 44th underground nuclear test.
On behalf of my group, I join in the international chorus of protest and I condemn the Chinese nuclear test just as I recently condemned the series of tests by the French Government.
Our group calls upon all parties to the current Geneva negotiations - and especially the Member States - to do everything possible to ensure that those negotiations end, before the 28 June deadline, with an agreement readopting the zero option - in other words, the prohibition of all testing of nuclear weapons and any other kind of nuclear explosion, supplemented by an effective international verification and control system.
Mr President, allow me to reply in person to the somewhat provocative remarks of our young colleague.
What Mrs Malone said is very true: recital E is actually misleading.
For example, India described its only nuclear test as a 'peaceful nuclear explosion' , but it still used the results to develop its weapons programme.
The other sad fact is that this Parliament does not really have the moral high ground to condemn nuclear tests after our failure on the whole issue of France's nuclear tests and nor does the Commission because the Commission sat on its hands when it had the power to do something and it did not do anything!
The Member States which let France go ahead with its nuclear tests all have dirt on their hands, so we cannot take the moral high ground here.
Following approval of the extension for an indefinite period of the Treaty on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in May 1995, for which the European Union made an unprecedented diplomatic effort, there is today a new opportunity in the context of multilateral nuclear disarmament which, in the Commission's opinion, the international community must not miss.
For that purpose the Commission associated itself with the European Union's declaration on 22 April last year.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, first I should like to propose an oral amendment to the joint motion for a resolution.
In the past week - since the tabling of this motion for a resolution on the death in Burundi of humanitarian aid staff - a further 70 civilians, this time Hutus, have been murdered.
At every significant stage in this war the European Parliament has approved a resolution with specific proposals.
Now that we are about to vote on one more we have to wonder about the point of this type of action.
If the results obtained constantly fall short of our proposals, then apart from the human tragedy, in this case for the population of Burundi, we must reflect upon our own performance and the effectiveness of our institution, the European Parliament.
In Burundi peace will be possible only if it is possible to achieve an international agreement on an effective arms embargo with sanctions for those who fail to observe it; supervision of the disarmament of all the parties involved, militias and armed forces; and the holding of immediate official negotiations under the supervision of an international authority and in the presence of observers.
However, neither the Commission nor the Council nor the Member States of the European Union individually have provided the resources for these measures to be applied or consequently for peace to be a reality in Burundi.
Once again we condemn the situation but we also wish to condemn the failure to put these measures into practice.
In this very House dozens of texts, some more thunderous than others, declarations of all kinds, tons of paper and gallons of ink have been expended, and massacres in Burundi continue unaffected, claiming several hundred victims every week.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one subject on which I think everything possible has been said and said so many times without any adequate action being taken, it is the situation in Burundi.
Secondly, it must be pointed out that all the international organizations are currently in the process of pulling out, including the representatives of the European Commission.
Mr President, when in recent years the massacres began in Rwanda there were those who said that Europe was unprepared, that we had not in fact grasped the serious threat that was affecting the region of the Great Lakes.
Today, in the case of Burundi, no-one can claim that; no-one can claim that we were unaware of the danger threatening that region torn apart by ethnic rivalry, by age-old hatreds which surfaced in the form of unthinkable, unprecedented massacres, unparalleled in that region in recent years.
I believe that clear action is now needed: I am calling upon the Commission to take an initiative to set up an international force ready to intervene - including militarily - in Burundi, with global action by the European Union directed towards an effective common policy in the region.
Srebrenica must not mean that we are never again willing to take part in peace-keeping operations under UN auspices.
And the civil war is increasingly becoming regional in character.
The question is whether intervention in Burundi alone might not simply move the conflict to the neighbouring countries of Rwanda and Zaïre.
The main question is which country should take the lead in any intervention in the Great Lakes region.
Mr President, the Commission profoundly regrets the murder of three Red Cross delegates and the threats recently made against their colleagues in Burundi.
On the other hand it shows the risk run by staff at present working on the aid programmes in Burundi which in our opinion has reached such a pitch as to be barely acceptable.
The Commission has therefore decided, in close consultation with the Member States, to evacuate from Burundi families and staff not regarded as essential.
However the Commission will continue to be represented on the spot and to support the efforts to re-establish peace and stability in the region and in Burundi in particular.
Missions from the troika have visited Burundi, various diplomatic representations have been made and both the Union and the European Parliament have put forward various resolutions.
Mr Ajello is already recognized as a valuable partner in the quest for peace.
In all these diplomatic and political initiatives the message has been identical: violence must stop at once; a dialogue of national reconciliation must be opened; there is no possible military solution; peace and stability in Burundi - and in all the region - can only be re-established at the negotiating table.
The Commission, for its part, has done everything possible to support this initiative and those of the other prominent figures who are devoting their talents and experience to finding a peaceful settlement to the conflicts in the region.
Since the beginning of the crisis in the Great Lakes region the Community budget has made available more than US$ 700 million in humanitarian aid and rehabilitation work.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Votes Mr President, in Amendment No 4 by Mr Pex there is a problem in the English translation.
Mr President, I am against this amendment.
Let us hope that this inquiry speeds up the development of openness and transparency within the European Union.
The European Ombudsman has its good and bad points as an institution.
By way of comparison, the Danish Ombudsman has a staff of 25 lawyers.
I wish to record my support for the new Ombudsman as this new role is another step in the direction of making the European Union more accessible to ordinary people.
However, as the role of the Ombudsman is so new, we in Parliament must make sure that both the Council and the Commission cooperate fully with his office.
In this context the European Community issued a directive on combating money laundering in 1991 which was addressed to all the Member States so that they would introduce a certain minimum standard with regard to combating money laundering.
This 1991 directive does in fact set a relatively low standard compared to most of the legislation in the individual Member States.
A further aspect that became clear from the hearing was that a number of new forms of financial services now exist.
One example is direct banking, which in the experts view is evidently not properly covered in most Member States and is of course not covered by this directive either.
There are a number of points of dispute, which is of course always the case, and which I shall list: one was the question whether the directive should cover only organized crime or also all 'serious criminal offences' .
Mr President, today money laundering is probably the most sophisticated and complex financial transaction.
The advances in electronic banking have removed the personal contact, and criminal-controlled financial outlets provide a legitimate base for successful money laundering.
To combat this we must look at drawing up a list of clean banks, but we must also give urgent consideration to strengthening our articles of agreement with our partner countries to encourage them to adopt equivalent standards for supervision and transparency in financial transactions to those prevalent within Member States of the European Union.
Money laundering is not solely connected with drug trafficking but also takes in arms dealing, prostitution, art fraud and many other criminal activities.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has presented a first report on the implementation of the money-laundering directive which is very useful and informative.
Combating internationally operating criminal organizations is a great challenge for the European Union and its Member States.
In the last year in our community we have suffered the tragic death of teenager Leah Betts, after taking ecstasy pills in a Basildon nightclub.
When a 59 year old grandmother, a 30 years' activist in the British Conservative Party is jailed for five years for laundering £400, 000 on behalf of the fugitive Azil Nadir, funder of that same ruling Conservative Party, we know that these criminals can be found in the most unlikely places.
As we all know, these are cross-frontier phenomena which, like combating fraud in general, require intensive cooperation between the Member States of the European Union in the field of both domestic policy and judicial policy.
In this context particular emphasis is laid on the need for appropriate procedural provisions in the Member States.
In that sense the Lehne report is a major step forward.
Up to this point we are clearly in agreement, as we are in agreement on the fact that EUROPOL needs to be ratified as soon as possible, as it may provide an important means of combating this problem, just as, on the other hand, it could be very dangerous to open up to other countries, such as Russia, without the necessary guarantees on the issue of money-laundering.
Mr President, in the first place I should like to say that the report on the implementation of the directive has made clear the need to take account, in the prevention of money laundering, of the new types of financial transactions and the elaboration of new legislative measures to deal with the complexity of such transactions.
In the second place it should be said that the present directive needs to be revised to include in its field of application occupations and categories of business likely to be involved in money laundering and similarly the directive should be revised to bring greater flexibility into the measures to be taken and the provisional confiscation of goods suspected of being of illegal origin.
Unlike the rapporteur, I believe that an enumerative, unnumbered and above all truncated report, a report in other words that annoys no one, cannot be a good report.
Nowhere is any mention made of numerical data on either the conventional or new laundering channels, although the total extent of the laundering of capital can be evaluated at ECU 500 thousand million.
Mr President, the Commission's first report on the implementation of the 1993 money laundering directive has pointed to vast differences in the way the legislation is applied by the Member States.
The Irish Government has declared the fight against drugs a priority of its presidency.
There were, for example, long delays in obtaining vital information from some countries.
The current directive on money laundering is clearly ineffective given the scale of this drug problem in the cities mentioned and in other areas and also the ease with which the proceeds appear to be laundered into legitimate businesses.
We clearly need a far more flexible legal framework to keep abreast of technological advances in banking systems.
There are huge sums of money going astray which we could use very effectively in the European Union.
A number of international organisations are involved in resolving the problems of money laundering.
Mr President, the rapporteur Mr Lehne rightly said that the fight against money laundering must not be confined to drugs money but must of course also include the proceeds of all criminal offences committed by organized crime.
We are all aware of the damage being done to our society by the drugs traffic and other forms of organized crime.
And that was also the point of departure for the Community's activities in this area, namely the prevention of misuse of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering.
The Commission is convinced that the directive entirely fulfils its task and that in general it was transposed well in the Member States.
As our report says, money laundering is now a criminal offence in all Member States.
I only want to discuss a few of the most important matters raised in the motion for a resolution, since there is no time to go into all 20 paragraphs individually.
As you know, some of this information is extremely difficult to obtain.
The Council has already requested a second report on certain aspects of the directive and we will be drawing up another report both for Parliament and for the Council.
The 1991 directive determines the objective and leaves the Member States a certain amount of room for play in implementing it.
As was also made clear in the report, it is generally agreed that what is needed most at present is closer cooperation between the Member States' authorities responsible for combating money laundering.
The Commission is currently working on a number of areas together with the Contact Committee.
Let me briefly discuss the requested extension of these measures to the Eastern European states.
Finally, let me again thank Parliament for its comprehensive and constructive report.
The Commission will continue the dialogue with you and I hope that together we will manage to achieve better results.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal from the Commission comes in the framework of the growth of the information society.
For that reason the adoption of this programme should be warmly welcomed because it comes to the aid of our linguistic heritage and seeks to promote it, while at the same time offering total participation in the information society for all of Europe's citizens without exception.
The question we have to ask ourselves is whether the promotion of linguistic diversity in the Union is an objective end it itself or simply a means to the promotion of the information society at the international level.
The Committee on Culture has come to a clear conclusion, namely that the programme as such is the main objective and that appropriate means are contained within it for the realization of that objective.
This means that the cultural dimension of this programme has priority over the industrial effects and that therefore a change is necessary in the legal basis.
The European Parliament would be willing to request a judgment from the European Court, not only for the purpose of seeking support for its position in this particular case but also in order to seek, above all, confirmation and endorsement of the importance of the role of cultural values in the European infrastructure.
The Commission has proposed three action lines: support for the construction of an infrastructure for European language resources, mobilization and expansion of the language industries and promotion of the use of advanced language tools in the European public sector.
Allow me to turn now to some of the Committee on Culture's most important amendments.
Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 7 make the case for placing the Commission proposal in the cultural sphere, with Article 128 as the legal basis.
In a related way, Amendments Nos 8, 9 and 10 emphasize the social aspect of the information society, the need to ensure democratic access in order to protect certain population categories against exclusion.
Amendment No 11 underscores the threat of 'dialectification' to languages left on the margins of the information society.
Amendments Nos 23 and 39 deal with the economic aspect.
Amendment No 25 proposes the use of the Structural Funds by the Member States to help protect our linguistic heritage.
Lastly, taking account of the great importance of this programme, it is proposed that the financing be raised from ECU 15m to ECU 20m.
In concluding, I should like to re-emphasize to the House the immense importance of preserving the European Union's linguistic heritage and of ensuring, above all, that it is not devastated in the future by information highways whose content is incomprehensible.
Your words, which have stressed the importance of languages as a factor of culture, are without doubt a very important aspect and I can assure you that your speech was music to the ears of everyone here - one of your best songs.
That is why we propose a link-up with other programmes, e.g.
I warmly thank the rapporteur again for accepting the amendments from the Committee on Budgets.
Given the advantages of Union industries, the activities of European undertakings in this market deserve to be supported.
The development of the global and multimedia means of communication can jeopardize the cultural and linguistic diversity of the Union.
It is, therefore, appropriate in that connection to draw up a policy for the defence of cultural and linguistic identities already existing, the number of which is, of course, much higher than the number of official languages in the European institutions.
In this connection, the arrival of new translation and interpretation techniques can help the so-called minority languages to flourish.
On the other hand, technological development that will lead to production of new translation and interpretation tools could enable the European Union to exploit economically its natural knowhow in multilingualism at world level.
A market for these new applications of language technology is a highly promising one, in particular in terms of job creation and exports.
I share her view that we must dismiss the quick fix of English only: we must take concrete action to promote cultural and linguistic diversity in the information age.
The right of mother tongue access to information technology must go hand in hand with the promotion of language learning.
In this regard, the non-official languages of the Union which have a status recognized at regional level are used as instruments of communication, both for the transmission of technical information and in teaching and cultural activities.
The diversity of the languages used in the European Union constitute a wealth that must be preserved and dynamically developed, both from a cultural point of view and to secure economic spin-offs for the language industries.
Action taken in this programme should help to create a favourable environment for strengthening the language industries.
Finally, we must create an environment favourable to the expansion of the language industries and promote the development of multilingual services.
If the new technologies are put to full use that could even speed up the process and risk destroying the linguistic and cultural diversity of the European Community.
I recently leafed through a report by 'Euromosaic' which is about minority-language communities and which points out that earlier proposals concerned emotive, traditional activities such as folklore whereas today we are also concerned with preventing the social and economic marginalization of minority-language communities and that it is also of decisive importance whether the use of the language in question is extended to the working environment.
We need specific directives to ensure a balance between the major language groups and those languages that are used in smaller national or regional groups in Europe, with a view to achieving equality of opportunity.
The Member States, the European Commission and private undertakings have already invested substantially in the production of language resources.
Let me underline that the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media calls for the modest financing basis to be increased from ECU 15 m to ECU 20 m.
The people must be guaranteed their basic right of access to information in their European mother tongue.
In this respect the programme is a step in the right direction.
But legally and politically it is a mistake to use only Article 130 as a legal basis.
Does the Commission view linguistic diversity as an aspect of cultural diversity within the meaning of Article 128 of the Treaty?
And secondly, and I will end on this: in the Commission's view is linguistic diversity a part of our European cultural heritage, within the meaning of Article 128 of the Treaty?
That means giving our support to the efforts to promote cultural products released in the various languages of the countries of the European Union.
And the ARIANE translation programme was formulated in the same general spirit.
We must now support the increased appropriations for the financing of linguistic diversity in the information society.
In addition, as has already been said, Article 128 must be given primacy, so as to create, together with the use of Article 130, a double legal basis which can accommodate the essentially cultural character of this programme.
Lastly, we must keep on insisting that each country must have access to the information centres and to the services of the information society in its own language.
The Mouskouri report is an excellent list of questions.
Fourth point: the Union and Member States' official policies.
European language policies must give equal treatment - and that does not mean egalitarian - to all national, regional and minority languages in Europe, and also to non-European languages spoken by communities residing in Europe.
My final point is about translation and interpretation at international fora.
The future of the use of different languages by international organisations deserves to be given thought in the cool light of day.
As the report recommends, it is essential to retain Article 128 as the legal basis and to ensure that, in the age of the binary language of computers, the networks are not monolingual in English and, at the same time, the information society does not create a new social dichotomy through the agency of discrimination.
From this point of view, the structural funds could be used to preserve and develop the linguistic heritage of the Member States.
We must not forget that the inequalities in our societies have a profoundly cultural aspect which finds expression in terms of exclusion and disaffiliation.
In the field of languages, as in other cultural fields, it is still necessary - as Brecht said about the theatre - to 'increase the number in the know' .
It is an opportunity because the development of linguistic engineering means that it is going to be possible to reduce the burdens and costs inherent in a multilingual society by allowing rapid transfers from one language to another.
This information society can also have the effect of reducing our linguistic heritage, because the use of new technological tools involves the use of a new terminology which, being created on a pragmatic basis by the users, is usually created today on the basis of a bastardized American.
The emphasis placed by the rapporteur on support for technology is also very important.
Mr President, the diversity of our languages is an integral component of our cultural heritage and must be preserved and maintained.
The planned action programme will support this important objective.
The information society offers us the opportunity of enriching the main European bastion, which consists of a rich cultural, historical and linguistic heritage, in offering us the possibility to provide new services intended for a wider European audience.
By means of the so-called information highways culture and languages will spread more rapidly and widely within and outside Europe.
The building of Europe must develop by means of respect for the cultural and linguistic heritage of its citizens and initiatives like this help to encourage that diversity.
The use of all Community languages in Community networks is fundamental for developing information and communication accessible to all since citizens who are not able to communicate in the widely-spoken languages such as, for example English, might be cut off from any form of communication or at least placed at a disadvantage.
Parliament must take an active part in the functioning, establishment and results of the programme as a body representing the interests of European citizens, ensuring in its turn that there is synergy between this programme and other programmes relating to the information society, since it is clear that coordination saves duplication of effort which unfortunately frequently arises in the Union.
For all these reasons, Mr President, I should like to express again all my support for the report and of course to repeat my sincere congratulations on the rapporteur's work.
We must also support Community initiatives like this programme for the encouragement of linguistic diversity, which guarantees full multilingual protection in the use of computerized information.
Mr President, I support the Commission's three-year programme to promote linguistic diversity in the information society through the encouragement of new technologies and the development of multilingual services.
There is justified concern that the linguistic diversity resulting from the 45 national and regional languages spoken by the EU's 270 million inhabitants could be suffocated by the predominance of one or two major languages.
We should never overlook the fact that 20 % of our citizens speak minority languages.
I hope the Telecommunications Council meeting on 27 June next will have the wisdom and foresight to support these innovative proposals from the European Parliament.
Mr President, it is a case of David and Goliath, minor languages against major languages.
Our many languages are one aspect of our wealth and information in one's own language is a fundamental right of the European citizen.
At the beginning of 1995 I was in sharp disagreement with Alain Lamassoure who wanted to limit the number of working languages in the European Union after further enlargement.
Three weeks ago I had occasion to ask a question of Commissioner Cresson who had given instructions in a letter to her DGs that all correspondence with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe should be written in French, even replies to letters in English or German.
My Group too backs Mrs Mouskouri's amendments which want to see Article 28 and not Article 130 chosen as the legal basis.
Many thanks, Mrs Larive.
Mr President, although my Group regards the Council proposal for the establishment of this programme as highly positive it nevertheless regrets that the budgetary allocation envisaged in principle is insufficient to achieve the objectives set by the promotion of linguistic diversity with a view to the new information society.
The European Charter on minority languages forbids any kind of discrimination with regard to their use and the safeguarding of that principle may be endangered by an upsurge in new forms of communication in privileged languages.
If we have proposed in these programmes to guarantee the citizen's democratic access to information it is essential that it should be available in his own language.
On the other hand I think that if appropriate finance were assigned to this programme it would be in our power to ensure that our cultural diversity in the new information society should indeed be a source of richness and that, furthermore, this rich European diversity should become the key feature distinguishing us from the world of informatics - only in English - which comes from the United States.
Our Group in convinced that the Union's minority languages as well as of the minority languages brought to us by others whom we welcome to our territory need to be promoted.
In the Spanish State, where languages like Catalan, Galician and Basque form an important part of our cultural heritage and as such, and in their capacity as official languages, they deserve every possible assistance to flourish and thrive.
Finally, perhaps I may make a reference to languages such as Berber which, apart from being spoken in Spanish territory, is the languages of thousands of emigrants who also help to enrich the Spanish and European cultural heritage.
Mr President, this report corrects what at times is an unforgivable oversight in the European institutions.
It would be cynical to talk about linguistic diversity without putting these languages on the same footing and would constitute discrimination against the linguistic rights of European citizens.
I would even go so far as to say that these languages need additional support because they are weaker in the face of the challenges posed by the information society.
The Commission says that market forces by themselves are not enough to achieve the multilingual information society in Europe which is essentially a positive measure.
Parliament's action in supporting this aspect in its Committee on Culture is an important advance, as will also be its final approval, I feel sure.
Bilingualism is cultural richness, but it is also an interesting aspect of tolerance and mutual respect.
Having two languages is for some people something which helps us to understand a little better the concept of respect for others, as long as we are able to accept both as appropriate.
We have to make appropriate machinery to ensure that in the information society in which communication will radically change, these languages may develop.
Our world is experiencing two different phenomena, two faces of the same coin: globalization with the new technologies and innovation as a driving force, and at the same time, a return to what is small, to our own, to something with which we can identify ourselves.
The report - and the amendments proposed by the Committee on Culture - show a laudable sensitivity and a very positive proposal for the application of the principles contained in the Treaty with regard to cultural policy, the conservation and protection of the Union's cultural heritage and the application of the principle of unity in diversity.
The report and the amendments it proposes guarantee these principles, pay special attention to the non-official languages of the Union which have a recognized status at regional level and place the emphasis on the application of a policy guaranteeing and promoting the linguistic diversity of the European Union, ensuring multilingual information, including the protection of and help for the so-called minority languages and approving the funds necessary for it by an amount of ECU 20 million, according to the distribution proposed in Amendment 2.
For those who have not been able to follow the dialogue between the President and me, I was telling him in a common language spoken by millions of European citizens that we understand the importance of this report precisely because there are millions of European citizens able to express themselves in their own language, which expresses their identity and which is a spiritual richness which we cannot give up.
Let me make it clear from the outset that the multilingual information society programme forms part of the comprehensive action plan entitled 'Europe's way to the information society' and is and must be coordinated with other actions provided for in that plan.
After careful analysis of the 59 amendments the Commission decided to accept 21 amendments in full and 16 in part with small textual changes.
The European Parliament proposes taking Article 128 as a further legal basis in addition to Article 130 and links this with several other amendments as a logical consequence.
The actions proposed by the Commission are directed primarily at them, in order primarily to create an awareness, to stimulate cooperation and to make the provision of linguistic services more transparent.
These practical objectives led the Commission to propose Article 130(2) as the sole legal basis, even though the Commission fully and entirely appreciates the impact of this programme on other aspects of life and society and in particular on the protection of the linguistic heritage.
The European Parliament regards the Commission's proposed funding as too modest.
The proposed programme is due to run for only three years and it is breaking new ground.
The Commission's proposed budget of ECU 15 m is indeed limited but, in our view, it is appropriate for financing surveys, promoting awareness, mobilizing those concerned, creating the bases for institutional and linguistic infrastructures and promoting the use of multilingual tools.
With regard to the allocation of funds, i.e., Amendment 58, the Commission can appreciate the emphasis on action lines 1 and 2, although one must not underestimate the important role of the public sector as the demonstrator of multilingual practice.
It would be counterproductive for this initiative to be isolated from similar national or regional initiatives.
Good and transparent management of the programme, broad political support and adequate financing are therefore necessary.
I am sorry that we differ as regards the legal basis.
Mr President, I put two very specific questions to the Commission.
We do not want to industrialize the diversity of Europe but on the contrary use industry, but also the public service and political measures, as instruments for making this cultural dimension of practical use to the people.
Thank you, Mrs Wulf-Mathies.
The debate is closed.
