Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 19 September 1997.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of Friday 19 September 1997 have been distributed.
Mr President, it will be seen from the Minutes that the Friday session finished at 10.10 a.m., and that we only had a single item on the agenda.
However, our agenda today is totally overcrowded, so that an important agreement like the cooperation agreement with Macedonia will only be dealt with towards midnight.
If we had made good use of the last Friday, we could today have dealt with this important subject during the day, in the presence of our guests!
I myself have just taken part in a seminar on Mercosur, and I believe I speak on behalf of us all in calling for a strengthening of our relations with Brazil.
I believe it is necessary, if we are to approve the Minutes, to express an opinion on this very important point by removing paragraph 11 from the Minutes of the sitting of Friday 19 September.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, you must not mix up different issues.
Mr President, the Court of Justice has, in effect, just passed a ruling which concerns us directly, stating that the Edinburgh decision should be interpreted as defining the seat of Parliament as the place where twelve ordinary part-sessions must be held regularly.
Furthermore, article 176 of the Treaty of Rome, which governs our work, stipulates that the institution or institutions from which the act appealed against emanates, or whose failure to act has been declared contrary to the current Treaty, are required to take the measures involved in the implementation of the ruling of the Court of Justice.
But this will all be in accordance with the treaties, in accordance with the ruling of the Court and in accordance with our Rules of Procedure.
I indicated to your services that I wanted to issue a statement on behalf of my group, the Union for Europe.
This is the third largest group in Parliament.
On 19 September a Member of this Parliament, while returning from the session in Strasbourg, was invited to an official function in Florence.
Thank you very much, Mr Crowley.
The report would therefore be placed on the draft agenda for a future part-session, to be taken with debate) Urgent political matters The next item is a Commission communication on Member States' employment policy guidelines for 1998 (in preparation for the European Council summit on employment to be held on 20 and 21 November 1997 in Luxembourg).
These are our contributions to the special European Council of 21 November which will be entirely dedicated to employment.
The proposals for guidelines are a start, an important start, which constitutes a qualitative move forward in the way in which we approach the question of employment at European Union level.
In some ways I see in it the culmination of the step I took on 31 January last year when I presented to you, in this very Chamber, the confidence pact for employment.
At national level, the efforts to conclude pacts are increasing.
Not just as a pious wish, but with monitoring and convergence procedures that will stimulate the coordination of policies within a common framework.
The Treaty of Amsterdam calls for the establishment of guidelines for the employment policies of Member States and even, if need be, recommendations to Member States on the employment policies to follow.
But you do not need a very long memory to recall the general rejection that used to be the rule as regards common policy in the area of employment policy.
Heads of State and of Government have highlighted that by stating that we must not wait for ratification of the new treaty to implement the measures set out in the chapter on employment.
This was underlined by their decision to make employment the focus of the special European Council in November.
The 18 million unemployed in the European Union demand it, and we owe it to them.
Now it is time to act.
It is in this spirit that we make our proposals for guidelines today.
We are proposing that these objectives be followed in as concrete a way as possible, through detailed action plans in each Member State, drawn up within the common framework of objectives and guidelines, updated and followed up on an annual basis.
The long term objective of the European Union must be progressively to reach an employment level of over 70 %, similar to that of our principal trading partners.
This demands a great deal of serious determination on the part of Member States in the application of the policy mix that we are proposing.
Given that, and thanks to better circumstances as well, we should be able to see an improvement in the employment level from 60 to 65 % in five years time and a decrease in unemployment levels from nearly 11 % to 7 %.
We will thus have created 12 million new jobs.
Based on a collective dynamic, on peer review and peer pressure - group discipline if you like - and if we act at Member State and Union level on four major issues.
We must create a new enterprise culture, create a culture of professional integration and employability, promote and encourage a capacity to adapt and, finally, strengthen equal opportunities policy.
The tax burden on labour is increasing, while that on capital is decreasing.
The actual level of 42 % destroys employment.
The Commission today identified a package of measures to be discussed at the Ecofin Council on 13 October.
May I also remind you, in the same context, of our tax proposals with regard to energy which are still on the Council table.
Finally, much has been said on the challenge of new technologies, which are opportunities for our businesses.
We are losing ground in relation to our competitors.
Let us therefore reverse this trend by spending levels comparable to those of the United States and Japan in these areas, that is, 2.5 % of gross national product.
Mr President, the second proposed line of action aims for better professional integration, or better employability, as it is called today.
We have 18 million unemployed.
Nearly 50 % of the unemployed are long term unemployed, and lack of training has a lot to do with this.
The Member States must set themselves targets for the number of people passing through the new system, thus encouraging their reinsertion into the employment market, and must bring the number of unemployed being offered training to at least 25 % within five years.
Let us not forget the contribution that the structural funds already play in raising qualification levels and making labour policies more active.
Mr President, the objective of the third line of action is a better adaptability.
Unions and management have an important role here too, notably in negotiating agreements on work place organization and flexible ways of working.
But Member States are also called on to contribute, notably by creating a framework for more flexible types of contract and by improving the status of atypical work at the level of social security and career development.
They should, for example in the area of tax, promote investment in human resources and the development of in-house training.
Rather than spending enormous sums of money in state aid on sectors with an uncertain future, Member States should favour actions such as professional improvement, creation of lasting jobs, efficient functioning of employment markets.
I have spoken about unemployment in general and youth unemployment.
They must make a substantial effort to reduce the gap between the unemployment rates of men and women by actively supporting an increase in the employment of women.
I have tried to give you as complete as possible an insight into the proposals that we have today adopted as our contribution to the special European Council on employment.
Then we will develop our ideas on the way all our common policies can be better put to use in the service of employment.
Mr President, I believe that with today's proposals we are taking the Member States at their word.
We are asking it to demonstrate in this way that defining employment as the number one priority is not a hollow phrase.
This is what the citizens of Europe expect, it is what, above all, the 18 million unemployed expect.
Mr President, Commissioner Padraig Flynn and I are of course at the disposal of honourable Members to reply to any questions they would like to ask.
I should like to know from the President of the Commission whether I am mistaken.
Secondly, I would like to know whether you have based this proposal on a survey of Member States or, to put it another way, how broad do you think support for your proposals will be at the Luxembourg Council?
Mr President, regarding tax proposals we have this very morning identified a global package of tax measures including a code of conduct for tax regulations and a certain number of other proposals which are aimed both at direct and indirect taxation.
This package will, moreover, be submitted to the Ecofin Council on 13 October.
We expect the Ecofin Council of 13 October to produce certain orientations for the European Council of 21 November because we consider that the fiscal package also has an influence on employment, that a relationship between employment and taxation exists, as in other areas, for example the environment, and we are also counting on the European Council of 21 November to give some guidance in this respect.
Regarding your second question about whether the Council will follow our lead, my answer is that we hope so.
In the area of taxation, unanimity is still the rule and with this in mind we consider that, at least by the end of the six months of this Presidency, that is, by the end of December, we will have reached a political agreement concerning the fiscal package and also, I hope, the fiscal package in relation to employment.
In order to encourage enterprises to create more new jobs, Member States must exploit the current favourable macro-economic climate to reverse finally the adverse long-term trend towards higher taxes and, indeed, charges on labour, which have increased from 35 % in 1980 to over 42 % in 1995.
So we are saying that each Member State should set a target for reducing the tax burden on labour while maintaining budget neutrality with a view to achieving substantial progress by the year 2000.
All the players must of course must be mobilized so that the European Council is a success.
I have mentioned the difficulties with regard to this summit.
The exercise we carried out this morning, that is, the proposals for guidelines which are a first in the area of employment, because they anticipate the employment chapter in the Amsterdam Treaty, is definitely a new type of exercise.
In fact, it launches a process by which Member States can review their employment position year on year and adopt guidelines for a national employment policy.
Using a similar approach to that for economic and monetary union, we are seeking to establish methods of convergence and surveillance, with these guidelines, as the starting point, to provide Member States with a monitoring system for checking whether or not their targets have been achieved each year.
Secondly, you asked how we can move the package of measures forward so that the European Council of 21 November is a success.
That is why we have organized a summit for unions and management on 13 November next.
We are very much aware that the European Council itself is not going to create employment, but a process must be initiated and I believe that if the political will is there in the fifteen Member States, and they have a document based on that political will through the acceptance of the employment chapter in the Amsterdam Treaty - and we will be present when it is signed tomorrow morning in Amsterdam - then I believe the follow-up from this European Council has a chance of success.
We consider that tax regulations must be more favourable to employment.
If you study the dossier on taxation you will find extremely precise points with regard to this.
It is difficult to say because it is a process that we are only just initiating.
We did not make provision for sanctions in our approach when we began the process of economic and monetary union.
Finally, the Commission has the right, as stated in the employment chapter, to make recommendations to the Member States.
We are, of course, waiting for the European Council of 21 November to see how we should draw up those recommendations.
No sanctions are in place because, like economic policy, social policy and employment policy are largely national responsibilities, and that must be borne in mind.
Mr President, my question to President Santer is also on taxation.
The first thing that should be said here is that this process will require each of the Member States to draw up an action plan.
This plan will be interactive and deal specifically with all the matters raised in the guidelines, always remembering that it will be done within a common European framework of the objectives and guidelines set down.
But each Member State will set it out to satisfy its own particular circumstances.
Regarding the sanction, after the summit in December adopts these guidelines, it will then be for the Member States to draw up the action plans.
We are not talking here about cuts in social security; that is not the point.
We want to see a greater proportion of the taxation and the social security systems reserves transferred into active labour market policies.
We should always remember that we are responding to the strategy that was agreed in Amsterdam.
This process goes back to 1993 and has now reached a point where we can set down guidelines which will help the Member States to draw up their action plans.
Mr President, the Commission wants to turn the ship around in five years.
What we are talking about here is taking the existing financial structures, whether at Community or national level, and converting them into more active labour market policies.
We must remember that we are talking about increasing the employment rate to 65 % over five years.
We have carried out a simulation which shows that if we can maintain macro-economic growth pattern of at least 3 % per annum over the next few years, together with the structural reforms and the policy employment guidelines we are suggesting here, we will achieve at least a 65 % employment rate which corresponds to somewhere between 7 % and 8 % of an unemployment rate after five years of operation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are holding this debate while nearly 30 million people in the Union are unemployed and at least 50 million are living in poverty.
The Member States will also be asked to put in place a framework for more adaptable forms of contract, taking into account increasingly diverse forms of employment.
Mr President, I should like to begin with a specific point in your report where you say that 45 % of students in higher education fail to complete their course of studies.
To these must be added about 65 % of university students who fail to graduate.
We should not forget that 10 % of all the unemployed in Europe have had no training whatsoever.
And every young person under 25 will be in a similar situation of training, education, or work experience within six months.
Mr President, we are currently in a transitional period until monetary union comes into effect, allowing us to become more competitive, and our economies to converge.
In fact, quite a lot of things have been done in the recent past.
The second document, the joint report, is of considerable importance for it is from this document that the economic guidelines were derived.
From that it will be clearly seen that most of the Member States have been doing positive things as far as developing their labour markets and their educational systems and reforms of all their other systems are concerned.
We should be wary of tax dumping or tax competition, with different Member States chasing jobs and investment, unless progress is made in this area.
It relates to an agreement in principle which was reached by the informal Council of Finance Ministers held some time ago in Luxembourg-Mondorf-les-Bains, and which incorporated harmonization of taxation on capital.
It is a separate package which will be submitted to the Ecofin Council on 13 October.
Of course, you are entirely correct in saying that competition in the area of taxation, which currently occurs between Member States, reduces the tax base, creates problems of tax receipts for Member States and leads to fiscal dumping.
This is why I believe we need to act in the face of this unhealthy competition between Member States in the sphere of taxation and, as I said, we will put in place more precise guidelines at the European Council in order to tie up, at least in a political agreement, the global package on taxation, which is far-reaching, I can assure you.
Thus we are at least assured of having succeeded, after two years of hard work, in unblocking the taxation package which, as you know, has been bogged down for quite a while.
So I think the Ecofin Council on 13 October will be able to give the green light to a policy agreement which we will then ratify at the European Council.
You have spoken of an ambitious plan, but I have to tell you that we can never have enough ambition when we are talking about the future of the citizens of Europe, in particular the youth.
But Mr President, you know as well as I do that a great deal of conviction is needed for the Member States as a whole to pool their efforts in this sphere effectively.
Do you not believe, therefore, that it is now time to talk about moral duty, indeed civic duty, in the face of such a situation in Europe?
You yourself have quoted some disturbing figures for unemployment, in particular concerning people living in situations of insecurity.
I myself took the initiative, on 31 January last year, to set before you a confidence pact for employment which, it has to be said, did not find the same success with the Member States as it did with you.
I am very happy that at Amsterdam - it was not easy, the President knows that very well, having participated in a number of intergovernmental conferences - the employment chapter was accepted, since now, at least mutatis mutandis , a connection is established with the process of monetary union.
Now, in the eyes of the citizens, the European Union is not only a market, not only a single currency, but it also has a social dimension.
And I hope, indeed I am sure that, thanks to the process to be undertaken, the Member States will also shoulder their individual responsibilities.
The process which will be undertaken will enable the employment situation to be reviewed each year, because it is necessary to ensure concrete annual follow-up.
In the longer term you are quite right that the growth of employment necessary to sustain our living standards and the European social model is critically dependent on an increase in the participation of women in the labour market.
But neither have been achieved to the extent we hoped for.
And we here today have grasped what is necessary to move that on and to make the commitment really substantial, to get action plans that will deliver the goods over the next five years.
Mr President, I would first like to thank Commissioner Liikanen and Commissioner Gradin for the way in which the implementation of the European budget has improved recently.
It is clear that we still have problems with regard to the milk quota.
With regard to the structural funds, there is also a global improvement, but to the disappointment of the Committee on Budgetary Control the situation is such that there are certain shortcomings in the implementation of certain Community initiatives.
This visit is the second meeting between delegations of the European Parliament and the Parliament of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and the first official visit by a delegation from the Macedonian Parliament to the European Parliament.
The European Parliament, which represents the citizens of the European Union, attaches great importance to its relations with the Parliament of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and, through its members, to the country and people of Macedonia.
Implementation of 1997 budget (continuation) Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is not our job as a Parliament to spend more money at all costs.
Those words were used by Heinrich Aigner, the first chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament, on 11 October 1977, nearly 20 years ago, to describe our purpose here today.
The authoritative procedure that he initiated at that time for monitoring the implementation of the budget has lost none of its importance since then.
In good enough time to change course or take counter-measures.
Later on in this process we need to find out what needs to be changed in the budget for the coming year and what needs to be improved.
The European Union was and is at the forefront in terms of commitments for financial support in aid of reconstruction there, in order to make people's return home easier.
This does not exactly cast the Member States' efforts in this field in a good light.
In the case of the structural funds, the new trend already discernible in 1996 seems to have been confirmed.
We will once more have seen - and it will be touched upon in various speeches - that 80 % of the EU budget will regrettably have been spent by Member States, and only 20 % - peanuts, as we now say in Germany - will have been spent directly by the Commission.
I have to say that it may be a good thing that we have not committed more than 20 % in the Ukraine.
It seems to me that the debate we are having this afternoon is sometimes relegated in importance in our budgetary debates.
Then we make a switch in our minds and look to the budget debate next week in the Committee on Budgets and later this month with the vote in Strasbourg.
But the monitoring of expenditure should be treated with equal importance by the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgetary Control and by Parliament's spending committees.
I was pleased to see that there has been some progress in ensuring that the monitoring of expenditure is an important item.
After this debate we should be able to say: we know where the weaknesses are in the budgetary process.
And we should not be voting new credits until matters such as those Mr Bösch has raised are cleared up.
It would be helpful to have the Commission's comments on what has been set out in paragraph 16.
Secondly, as Mr Bösch said - and my group agrees with him - rapid utilization does not necessarily lead to effective utilization of the credits.
In the programmes in Category 4 where we see high utilization in Meda and low utilization in Tacis, the Group of the European People's Party does not feel that we should necessarily be voting all the credits for Meda next year but put Tacis in the reserve.
Lastly the European People's Party would hope that where we have had an unexpected event like in the Jet programme in Culham this year, where there have been unexpected exchange rate movements -the pound gained vis-à-vis the ecu - there should be some consideration to make sure that cuts are not made in the effective operational budgets of an important programme like that of the fusion programme at Culham.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the joint report by Mr Brinkhorst and Mr Tillich seems to me an excellent occasion to remind everyone of an obvious principle that can be stated thus: funds approved by Parliament are intended to be spent.
Firstly, concerning funds for the Phare programme, the availability of ECU 150 million which is forecast for the end of the financial year must lead us to question ourselves sincerely as to whether the tool is sufficiently adapted for the intended objective.
The delegation which visited Romania last week within the framework of the joint committee was able to observe the difficulties which this country is having, like many others, in integrating into the accession negotiations due to lack of funds, whilst at the same time we have ECU 150 million unspent.
Concerning former Yugoslavia, and in my position as special rapporteur for this budget, I would also like to underline here my utter dismay in the face of the virtual lack of take up of some of these credits.
Thus, for example, the rate of use of payment appropriations allocated for reconstruction of the republics was 6.14 % by the end of August 1997, for Sarajevo the rate was 4.15 % and none of the funds allocated whatsoever had been used for rehabilitation of the republics born of the former Yugoslavia.
Concerning Tacis, I must say that the problem is a little different, since we know of certain specific difficulties, in particular nuclear energy in the countries of the former Soviet Union, and in this respect it would be extremely useful if effective decisions were taken.
However on a more general note, and by way of conclusion, I would like to warn the Council against an initiative which would once again mean a reduction of payment appropriations in the 1998 budget for the financial year to come.
Now that the stability pact has been ratified in Amsterdam, it is up to each Member State to reduce its domestic expenditure and to stop regarding the Community budget as something for a rainy day which, at the end of the financial year, enables them - thanks to the return of unused funds - to carry out last minute adjustments in which European credits are a positive variable for finance ministers in difficulties.
There are several interesting points to note in the document on the implementation of the budget for 1997.
The objective 6 regions are sparsely-populated areas in northern Europe which have experienced immense structural change, and where the employment situation is bad.
According to my information, Finland has committed half the appropriation it got for this year's objective 6 programme.
Mr President, Mr van den Broek.
Of that, just ECU 3, 376 million had been implemented by August.
This much I can tell you: during the budget process next week, we will include a reservation, and it will not be the Parliament that has to explain to the public why this money is not flowing out, it will be the Commission that will have to explain why this money had not been made available by August and why - I think I dare say this - it will not be have been made available by the end of the year! (Applause from the left) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my previous life I was involved with the Belgian budget, and now I am dealing with the European budget.
I can confirm much more emphatically what Mr Giansily and Mrs Müller have said with regard to assistance to former Yugoslavia.
The European Parliament as budgetary authority must dare to stick its neck out in order to contribute to the offensive that Europe must make against the scourge of unemployment.
But it must also be clear that we only form part of a global approach.
It will not be possible without greater effort, not only in our budget, but also from the Member States and in other areas which largely cannot be included in our budget at European level today.
These are the things we must assess in a global framework and within that global framework we must assume our responsibility with regard to the European budget.
The difficulty we face in the discussions about the first reading of the 1998 budget in the next few weeks is that the Luxembourg summit takes place between the first reading of the budget and the second reading of the budget.
I think we will have to be creative in order to maximize the negotiating position of the European Parliament and pressure by the European Parliament on decision-making during the Luxembourg summit at the end of November.
We must dare to say loudly that the enlargement of the Union means not less solidarity but more solidarity.
Mr President, as many speakers have already said, as far as the European Parliament is concerned, we should be pleased that developments have gone in the right direction.
Objective 6 is important for northern parts of Sweden and Finland in view of, amongst other things, their geographic situation.
Compare that with Brussels, where it is 20 degrees above freezing, and you can see that it could cause certain problems in northern Sweden.
Mr President, the resolution discussed today concludes the procedure to inform the budgetary authority about the implementation of the current Community budget.
This procedure which was initiated by the European Parliament has turned out to be very helpful for the control and also for us as the executor.
Furthermore, it provides the basis for the global transfer which the Commission will propose next week.
The execution of the budget as a whole at the end of September exceeds the level of previous years, in particular with regard to payment appropriations.
Although one-third of the budget still needs to be implemented, the Commission's expectations are that execution at the end of this year will be higher than in 1996 and therefore continue the recent trend.
Firstly, there were no major new spending programmes in the 1997 budget.
Secondly, the 1997 budget was intentionally conceived more tightly than previous budgets.
While this does not seem to create particular problems in category 1, the payment appropriations for the structural funds will very likely be fully used.
The agreement of the budgetary authority to examine a late rectifying letter will permit the drawing of the appropriate conclusions also for the 1998 budget.
As far as the matter of the milk quota is concerned, that discussion will be a part of Agenda 2000, the CAP reform, so we may come back to it in discussions in that context.
In these areas some re-programming towards the end of the programming period has been inevitable.
The particular problems of objective 6 have been widely discussed in the context of Agenda 2000.
Concerning the internal policies, the Commission expects an overall execution close to 100 % in commitments, taking into account very limited redeployments in the framework of the global transfer.
I have here the figures from yesterday which say that execution as far as commitments are concerned is at the level of 82 %.
The Commission will propose some more significant redeployment in the global transfer.
Most important, the reorientation of Phare towards a preaccession instrument will reduce the amount which can still be executed this year by ECU 150 million.
For the present Meda programme, the size of the programmes is higher and execution is already this year at the level of 63 %.
The Commission will shortly transmit a proposal to the budgetary authority to use these funds to reduce future budgetary needs and I hope this proposal will receive support.
The motion for a resolution gives a very objective overview of a serious situation.
If in many important areas funds have been scarcely used or even not at all, that begs the question whether the contributions from the Member States, or from some individual states, are not too high.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
Mr President, at the beginning of the sitting I asked to speak to make one of those digressions from the Rules of Procedure which are a fairly frequent occurrence in this Parliament.
What we have to do is in fact find out what are, after the end of the cold war, the new areas of agreement between Europe, the United States and Canada, now that the cement of security which has held these relationships together for 50 years has been substantially altered.
Mr President, the Commission's proposal on EU-Canada relations includes a chapter on cooperation in the field of internal affairs and justice.
However, at the same time I would also like to emphasize how important it is that the European Parliament should state its position on the joint action plan.
It is precisely because cooperation between Canada and the European Union is very good in many areas, but has nevertheless been difficult on the environment, for example, that strong contacts between elected representatives are needed.
That is why I find it almost incomprehensible that the action plan was adopted before Parliament had expressed its views on it.
As for general cooperation on the environment, the action plan shows that the environmental consultations that have taken place in the past should be continued.
The bilateral relations between the Union and Canada have a long history.
The strengthening of the ties with Canada is also important in the light of the recent reinforcement of transatlantic relations with the United States.
In the new action plan, cooperation is extended to information and communications technology and biotechnology.
With regard to cooperation in the field of information technology, attention should above all be paid to the formation of networks between companies in order to encourage the transfer of technology.
In view of the considerable amount of development in this sector in Canada, the European ICT sector can benefit from it.
Generally speaking, there has always been cooperation and mutual good will between Canada and the Union so it is difficult for most people to fully understand the often fraught relations between the EU and Canada in the fishery sector.
Both the EU and Canada have very similar fishery structures.
In 1975 Canada, Iceland and Norway declared a two hundred mile exclusive economic zone to protect their dwindling stocks and Europe followed suit in 1977.
This led to a loss of fishing opportunities for European vessels and after the accession of Spain and Portugal in 1986, the problems which they faced then became Community problems.
This gave the authorities power to arrest vessels of designated states and in March 1995 Spain and Portugal were added to that list.
This can be achieved through confidence-building measures, both at bilateral level and multilaterally through NAFO.
Finally, Mr President, I should like to mention fishing, which I think is an important aspect of the report.
In any case, I believe it is important to look to the future positively, by developing our relations in a climate of solidarity, cooperation and respect for international law.
We share common principles and values, and our relations should be governed by cooperation.
However, as a Spaniard and a Galician in particular, I must mention a matter which has cast a shadow over our relations - namely, fishing.
As a member of this Parliament's delegation to Canada and of the Committee on Fisheries, I sincerely hope that this cooperation may be strengthened.
Fishing, Mr President, can be the test of these new relations between Canada and the European Union.
It is thus important that Canada should not adopt different weights and measures as regards fishing but that, on the contrary, negotiations to safeguard the interests of all the countries represented here should be pursued, including our common interest in preserving fishing resources.
Mr President, relations between the European Union and Canada have existed for just fifty years and we must congratulate ourselves on seeing them take on a new dimension.
It is therefore pleasing that this communication, whilst maintaining the scope of the previous framework agreement, emphasizes its political, social and cultural dimension by opening up cooperation in new sectors such as scientific research, technological development and education.
What is more, after the period of the Cold War, the international situation which placed the United States in a dominant position required a revision of transatlantic relations.
The reciprocal interest which is represented by the strengthening of political and commercial links is too important.
There are however two problems: fishing is the first stumbling block and the problem of catch quotas has literally poisoned relations between the European Union and Canada over the last few years.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Canada is particularly close to us, in spite of its geography, since it shares a part of its history with two members of the Union, Great Britain and France.
Canada also offers the example, a very interesting one for all those concerned with the European institutions, of a federal country which, in spite of its age, has not found its equilibrium.
Consequently, in its first referendum on sovereignty held in 1980, the 'yes' vote was 40 %.
In the second, held in 1995, the 'yes' vote was 49.5 % and a third referendum has been announced.
This is why I am happy to see that most responsible Europeans do not now have federalism as an explicit target.
There is therefore a lot that could be said, some criticisms expressed too, in particular with regard to the position taken in favour of the World Trade Organisation, that is, a world without frontiers abandoned to the appetites of the multinationals.
In 1995, the Ottawa federalists won by a narrow margin, benefitting from the same advantages as the Maastricht Euro-federalists in France in 1992 - ethnic minority vote, financial and media related pressures.
The joint action plan of 17 December 1996 consolidates the 1976 framework agreement and thus opens up a new form of cooperation between the European Union and Canada.
I should just like to tell him that the matter was discussed this morning in the Commission and I should like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Commission, once again to express our feelings of sympathy for the victims of the earthquake in Italy.
As far as the report is concerned, I am pleased to report to Parliament on the recent positive developments in relations between the European Union and Canada.
Further to the communication from the Commission to the Council on 28 February last year, on 17 December last a joint political declaration and a joint action plan were adopted.
The action plan has already had a positive effect on bilateral relations which are now more balanced than a year ago.
In my view, we can be reassured that our own expectations have also been exceeded.
There are nevertheless still some problems in the bilateral sphere, particularly with regard to the various opinions - this has also been on the agenda this afternoon - on the extraterritorial application of legislation in the field of fisheries and I could also mention certain trade and investment matters.
The negotiations have been completed and the agreement was initialled on 30 May.
Secondly, an agreement on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters.
The negotiations have been completed.
But certain matters relating to the BSE situation still remain to be sorted out.
Fourthly, in the field of competition, the negotiations have also been completed and the agreement will be sent to the Council in the next few weeks.
We feel we can say that these four agreements together will certainly encourage trade with Canada.
A start has also been made on the preparatory work for a joint trade study on the promotion of trade in goods and services and the reduction or removal of tariff and non-tariff obstructions.
On 30 September, lists of the trade restrictions were exchanged within the context of this study.
This was a matter the Commission had discussed within the action plan with Canada.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 am.
It is important that during the Luxembourg Summit on employment the coherence of these three components is not lost from view.
On the other hand, it is also a mistake to use compliance with the convergence criteria as an excuse to cut back social security and in that way also indirectly mortgage the employment policy.
On the contrary, in a country such as Belgium, compliance with and pursuance of the convergence criteria has certainly become the best way to guarantee the financing of social protection in the long term.
But one thing is clear, caution is required, and here I would echo the position the European Commission expressed in its latest communication on the modernization of social security, in the transition from one system to the other.
The key question that we face in the future is: how can we keep social security affordable without weakening the social safety net.
Secondly: employment.
A system of social security cannot function without a high degree of employment.
There are three important instruments.
First of all, fiscal coordination between the Member States in the field of mobile bases of taxation.
Secondly, the search for coordinated fiscal responses to the need for alternative financing of the social security system, for example, energy tax to finance the reduction in the paternal contribution.
Thirdly, the establishment of social convergence criteria in order to direct social protection and wage policy and to prevent social dumping in the future.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am firmly convinced that the more democratic Europe becomes, the greater the strength will be of an adapted, modernized social security system.
There is no doubt that economic and monetary union has an important influence on social security in the Member States.
Not because they form part of some economic dogma, but because they contribute to the success of EMU and thus to monetary stability, economic growth, more competitiveness and consequently to promoting employment.
It is too often forgotten that social security is not of course only influenced by EMU, but also by demographic developments and technological factors.
Thirdly, the promotion of employment, for example, by using unemployment benefit as a wage allowance.
In the draft Treaty of Amsterdam it states that the European Union is aiming for a high level of employment and a high level of social protection.
Although at the moment there is no European social contract, the employment chapter is in the Treaty of Amsterdam and in the employment summit to be held in November.
While this report asks the question, what will happen to social security systems as a result of economic and monetary union, we on all sides of this House have to face up to one simple truth: our social security system, regardless of economic and monetary union, needs serious reforming.
The system set up at the end of the second World War is no longer appropriate for the types of employment and unemployment we have today.
It is a fact that in some of our countries the social security systems permanently exclude our people from work.
In the European Union today it is virtually impossible for some of our young people to make that move from benefit to work.
I say to you as a social democrat, let us for heaven's sake have an honest debate on this issue and let us design a social security system that will be sensitive to the individual and will help to maximise the opportunities for employment in the European Union.
If it could be read as you said it in your speech I would vote for it, but that is not what you wrote.
Similarly, in paragraph 14 you speak again about social security and you introduce a notion of rigidity which was not in what either you or Mr Donnelly have said.
It is probably the experience of power that makes things more comprehensible and makes people more responsible.
We all have an interest in maintaining a system of social security and solidarity, for this is essential for the smooth running of the economic system.
They must therefore be in agreement, and the government too, but that implies an awareness of reality on their part.
There must be efforts to adapt it therefore, and I am happy that, in these discussions, unhappily less so in the texts, we may arrive at an agreement on this point.
Mr President, our group has not difficulty voting for this report and we would like to thank and congratulate Mr Willockx again.
My group does support paragraph 6 of the resolution in which the Commission is called upon to undertake a study into the effect of the ageing of the population on the pension system.
The same material will come up again in Parliament.
The result is the same.
Mr President, EMU compels us to debate the subject of social security structures, because there has been great pressure on us to reduce state expenditure.
There is really a lot that needs doing in the harmonization of indirect taxation especially.
If the implementation of economic and monetary union and the Euro is accompanied by an overly rapid deregulation this could in fact provoke an overall increase in unemployment and a worsening of the standards of living for a growing, and already too large, number of people in Europe.
This is all the more true because extremely divergent policies are pursued by the Member States in the area of social security and this causes considerable and additional distortions of competition.
It is, therefore, now necessary to tackle the establishment of true convergence in our social security systems.
On this point I want to underline the interest that the Commission will find in the wider and more vigorous exploitation of the conclusions in the White Paper on growth and employment.
It is also necessary to make a start on the convergence of health insurance policies of Member States, taking good care not to reduce the area currently covered by national health services, so that the health of Europeans is not abandoned solely to the private insurance business.
Finally, I would like to give the backing of the Group of the European Radical Alliance to the decisions to be taken to move towards a progressive transfer of the resources necessary for the social security system so that they come from the taxation of capital and non-renewable energy sources, in order to lighten the costs which now weigh too heavily on those in work, to the detriment of employment.
Mr President, the report by Mr Willockx is a problematic one.
Because the report in no way deals with the consequences of EMU for the financing of social security systems in the European Union.
Take the first part of the preamble, which states that the current social model must continue to exist.
Mr President, this report demonstrates very clearly the extent of the measures that still need to be taken precisely in the field of social and employment policy in the context of preparing for monetary union.
The important antidote in this particular case is a pan-European coordinated employment and social policy.
My third point is about the employment summit in Luxembourg.
But we must not forget that this is a report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which is more concerned with EMU and the effects social security financing will have on it than with social security and the effects EMU will have on the social situation and security of citizens.
Returning to Mr Willockx's report, the convergence criteria are the torment and delight of the Member States.
On the one hand, it is true that convergence limits room for manoeuvre in the budgets of individual Member States and necessitates a restructuring of welfare institutions but, on the other hand, complying with the convergence criteria increases the overall efficiency of the European economy and reinforces its position in the world economy, promoting growth and employment.
Tax dumping reduces government revenue and shifts the tax burden from capital to labour, thereby impeding the welfare policies of Member States.
In this connection, however, the meeting of the Ecofin Council held on 13 September last finally seemed to produce encouraging results.
It should be borne in mind that the absence of a European agreement on worker protection will enable industries to relocate to regions where the workforce is less expensive and has less protection, running the risk that national systems will be harmonized at the lowest level of social security because national governments will be able to cut their expenditure on social protection in order to be competitive.
If we wish to avoid this dangerous scenario we shall have to endeavour to ensure that the Union has sufficient room to manoeuvre in the field of social protection.
Thank you very much, Mr Cellai, and thank you for your sympathetic words about those who have been affected by the earthquake.
There is already a discernible tendency for the convergence criteria to be taken as an excuse for not reforming social security systems, but deregulating them.
Over the last decade alone, life expectancy has increased by two to three years.
It is certainly necessary to shift the tax burden from employment not only to capital, energy consumption and environmental impact, but also to value added.
Thus the key conditions for putting the financing of social security systems on a stable footing again are a European taxation policy in accordance with the Commission's Monti memorandum, combined with a European social pact to solve the problem of unemployment, and continuity in economic growth.
A debate on the future of social security in the EU is long overdue, and we - the European Parliament - could make a positive contribution to it with all our initiatives.
Mr President, the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy recognizes that the convergence criteria limit the budgetary margin for manoeuvre of the Member States in the fulfilment of their social mission.
This pressure on the budgets of Member States could lead to difficulties in the financing of social security.
Of course, the report takes into account the problems but it is fully a part of the current logic which leads inevitably to the single currency.
This study also noted that economic and monetary union will enable pressure to be exerted on the unions so that they accept lower salary levels and allowances, in the name of maintaining competitivity.
The submission to financial markets, which the single currency and its criteria require, brings an acceleration of deregulation in all sectors, challenges public services and causes the dismantling of social security systems.
It must also be a guarantee of our social security system.
As your rapporteur noted, article 2 of the Treaty on the European Union gives the Community the objective of promoting a high level of social security and a high level of employment.
Your Parliament also legitimately raises the question of the financing of social security systems in Member States, within the context of economic and monetary union.
The first concerns demographic evolution in Europe and its potential consequences for the financing of social security systems of Member States in the future.
The second is related to the management of public finances in order to guarantee the smooth running of social security systems.
Firstly, the difficulties in financing social security systems that may be encountered in the future - I am here replying to Mr de Lassus - will be demographic ones.
The ageing of the population will mean growing costs for an ever shrinking active population.
In fact, the employment rate in Europe, that is, the ratio between the total number of employed and the number of people of working age has dropped from 67 % in 1960 to 59 % currently.
The ratio of retirement costs in relation to GDP will increase 3 or 4 points from 1995 to 2030; that is a great deal.
There will be budgetary effects, but there will also be implications for the labour market.
As your rapporteur notes, the improvement in public finances, linked to the achievement of economic and monetary union, is not dangerous.
It is even the best guarantee for the preservation of social security systems in Europe, and I would say it is the same for employment.
The budgetary framework introduced by economic and monetary union provides a way.
If the actual rate of improvement of public finances continues, and that should be possible with the return to growth, this objective of a virtual balancing should be reached by 2002, that is, several years before the effects of the demographic change are felt.
In fact, the demographic deficit will be the strongest in the European Union in the year 2010.
As your rapporteur rightly noted, suitable fiscal reforms will be essential, which does not mean, Mr Katiforis, that taxes will necessarily have to be increased, but without such reforms, social harmonization would be much more difficult.
Moreover this has been highlighted by many of you and notably by the rapporteur for the Committee on Social Affairs.
This is why the Commission insists that social harmonization be achieved through social dialogue.
I am not going to talk about the employment aspect as, earlier, President Santer and Padraig Flynn had the opportunity of presenting to you the guidelines to be adopted by the Commission in view of the jobs summit, but it seems to me that they signal an extremely innovative element in the context of this desire to recreate jobs in Europe, which of course will be a step towards improving our social accounts.
Finally, reform of pension schemes is also a priority.
In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to underline that the Commission congratulates the European Parliament on its contribution to this particularly sensitive and delicate subject.
The culture of stability which accompanies the introduction of the Euro strengthens the conditions of success for this necessary adjustment, and it is thus that economic and monetary union appears the best safeguard of the European social model for the future.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Mr President, I must report back, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, on the proposal for a Council decision concerning the conclusion by the European Community of the United Nations Convention of 10 December 1982 on the Law of the Sea and the agreement of 28 July 1994 on part XI thereof.
This Convention, the so-called Montego Bay or Jamaica Convention on the Law of the Sea, is a basic text, which was signed by the European Community on 7 December 1984, as is the supplementary agreement which was signed by the Commission on 16 November 1994.
A first question clearly comes to mind: why are these texts coming to us now, almost fifteen years after the Montego Bay Conference?
The answer: it is because as an international organization we cannot deposit our instrument of ratification regarding a convention until a majority of Member States, that is Member States of the Community, have first gone through this procedure.
Being a party to the Convention on the Law of the Sea seems to us essential, firstly because of the Community's own jurisdiction in the area of the Law of the Sea, jurisdiction in the area of commercial policy, fisheries, and the environment.
We will lose this privilege if we do not authorize our adherence before the 16 November 1998, that is, in one year's time.
The main problem that arises in my eyes is that of the settlement of disputes.
Article 287 of the convention offers the choice between four procedures: the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, which is in Hamburg, the International Court of Justice at the Hague, an arbitral tribunal constituted in accordance with Annex 7 of the convention, and a special arbitral tribunal constituted in accordance with Annex 8.
The decision under consideration by us specifies only that the Council undertakes to re-examine, on the basis of a proposal from the Commission and within a reasonable period, once the dispute-settlement procedures provided for have been in operation long enough, whether it is in the Community's interest to opt for a dispute-settlement procedure other than arbitration.
The decision seems to me unfortunate.
I would have preferred, personally, that the Community support the setting up of a new tribunal in Hamburg, or at least show its confidence in the International Court of Justice.
Finally, the last problem is one of procedure.
They demanded at least 60 ratifications before it came into force, and that is why it has taken 12 years.
The agreement on the application of part 11 of the convention encountered fewer difficulties.
By means of this report, Parliament must give its opinion on the Council decision which examines whether it is advisable for the Community to be part of the convention and the agreement on its application.
Article 287 establishes several methods, but neither the Council nor the Commission has been willing to be specific on this point.
For Portugal, a country which has historic links with the sea, and which in recent years has been in the vanguard, together with a few other small States, of the fight to establish specific international rules protecting the irreplaceable heritage of the oceans, this act of adhesion by the European Community is of great symbolic importance.
The Independent World Commission for the Ocean, created by UNESCO in 1995 under the presidency of Portuguese former president Mário Soares, will present its final report in Lisbon in 1998.
I am certain that the Committee's reflections on the enormous potential of the oceans will point to solutions which will contribute to the genuine implementation of this Convention on the Law of the Sea, also taking into account the Rio conclusions, in chapter 17, on seas and coastal areas.
Europe can only gain by taking the lead, following its formal adhesion to the convention, in introducing a new concept making specific proposals to transpose it into Community law, thus opening the doors to the 21st Century.
This would be achieved by means of the creation of a European Oceans Agency and by a resources management concept which balances not only the rights of maritime states and those states which traditionally fish in the high seas, but also the collective right to those resources.
But in concluding, Mr President, I must express my regrets concerning the blatant contradiction which is currently in evidence in Portugal.
After our leading role over the last few years, with the results I have described, it appears that my country is not among the 120 which - to date - have signed the convention.
The Commission is very pleased that this important last step has been taken so that the Community can quickly become a party to this Convention, following the example of the majority of its Member States.
The report rightly refers to the importance of the convention for the fishing interests of the Community.
As a coastal region, the Community, which has very important fishing interests on the high seas and at the same time manages the fish stocks in waters that fall within the jurisdiction of the Member States, endeavours to obtain a balance between the interests of the coastal states and the countries that fish on the high seas.
As far as the EC authority in the field of commercial policy is concerned, the convention provides that the Community shall be a permanent member of the International Seabed Commission.
That therefore really means leaving open a definitive choice with regard to the method of settling disputes, which is referred to in article 15 of the convention.
The Commission is completely behind the European Parliament's request to be fully involved in the definitive choice of procedure.
In good time, that is before the end of 1998, a new and separate communication will be submitted to the Council, either in order to confirm the current choice for arbitration which by default of another choice is automatically the procedure used at the moment, or in order to put forward a new possibility, such as, for example, the Court of Justice in Hamburg.
But whatever the choice is, the European Parliament will be fully consulted in view of the fact that the new decision must be considered as the follow-up to the procedure for concluding an international agreement, in which the European Parliament must fulfil its institutional role.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Van den Broek.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I was appointed rapporteur for this report on the relationship between international law, Community law, and national constitutional law, I had no idea that this would be my last report after more than twenty years in this House.
Because of the situation on European law, it is impossible to reach any other verdict than to affirm the primacy of Community law and of course to stress the role of the ECJ in this context.
The primacy of Community law is not in fact laid down either in the Treaty or anywhere else.
I am very grateful to my colleague Mr Rothley for inducing the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights to hold a hearing on this matter, and the outcome of this hearing is naturally also incorporated into this report.
So if the Amsterdam Treaty is ratified, it could be said that through this ratification and, as I have already said, by the inclusion of this protocol, it will have been established by treaty that primacy exists.
To sum up then: in this report we approve of the judgement of the European Court of Justice in the Foto-Frost case, in accordance with which national jurisdiction does not have the competence to declare the actions of Community institutions invalid.
We also want a clear solution to the relationship between international law and Community law to be incorporated into the treaty, and in this connection require that the Community should be put on a par with the nation states, which means that international law does not apply eo ipso , but rather that it has to be transformed within the EC by means of a legal instrument.
I believe that this report takes account of real developments in the European Community.
If we say yes to this Europe and welcome the growing together of nations into a union, the only solution - regardless of whether one prefers a federal state or a union of states - is to accept the primacy of European law and the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice which flows from that, and accept it in this context.
No national constitutional court can set itself up as ruling over Community law.
No constitutional court can be the tutor.
Secondly, because it is the final contribution of a colleague who is greatly valued by all of us and who has contributed much to the European Union, before he devotes himself the day after tomorrow to defending Community law from another, very different and even more distinguished bastion.
I had the pleasure and the honour of working closely with Siegbert Alber, initially in the presidency of the European Parliament, when we sat side by side as Vice-Presidents, then, in more recent years, on the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which he set up, and I consider it my duty to express with deep emotion the more general appreciation of the people in this room of his entire contribution over so many years as elected representative of one of the great European nations.
The ideas that I put forward in my report of 1995 are strengthened and systematized in our German colleague's text, which supports the supremacy of Community law in the innovatory and unique character of the European Union, and also in its inclination towards further development.
This theory maintains that the relationship between Community law and national law is substantially a federal type of relationship.
A different interpretation is maintained by those whose aim is to safeguard the fundamental principles of national constitutional law against the encroachment of Community law.
However, let us learn a sound lesson from this, because for years in the reports on the application of Community law in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights we have warned that we should not involve the Court of Justice too much in our political battle with the other institutions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is still a long way from being a political union.
Mr Alber, it is a matter of some personal satisfaction for me that this outcome has been possible because of an initiative by the European Parliament, or rather of its Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which in June 1995 held a symposium on the relationship of Community law to international law and to the constitutional law of the Member States respectively.
This should be sufficient cause for this Parliament to support the rapporteur in his demands for high-level and extensive protection of fundamental rights and accordingly for a legal personality for the European Union, which is in a position to support this protection of fundamental rights at international level and to defend it.
Whilst expressing my thanks for this handsome and encouraging report, I would like to offer my very best wishes for the responsible position which its draftsman will in future hold as Advocate-General of the European Court of Justice.
Mr President, I too have a great deal of respect for the rapporteur and I wish him the best of luck in his future post, but I must admit, on behalf of my group, that I am in total disagreement with his report.
His starting point is the observation that the Supreme Courts show a tendency to resistance, claiming the right to examine Community law for its compatibility with national constitutional law.
It is clearly the German Federal Constitutional Court, with its decision of 12 October 1995, and the Danish Supreme Court, which my colleague will talk about in a moment, and its ruling of 12 October 1996, which are being targeted, I was going to say reviled.
Nor can you say, as the resolution proposes, that every national judge, including the supreme national authorities, have the duty to apply the primacy of Community law.
One cannot claim, moreover, that the European Community takes the place of national states in the enforcement of public international law.
Our two distinguished Parliamentary colleagues from Georgia... ...
These Members of Parliament will also have conversations in the European Parliament, particularly with the Delegation for Relations with the Transcaucasian Republics and the President of the European Parliament.
International law, Community law, national constitutional law (continuation) Mr President, allow me to say first of all that it is my custom to refrain from complimenting the rapporteur not out of a lack of politeness or because of the content of his report, but rather because of the need to be concise.
Mr President, I have three good reasons for whole-heartedly supporting Mr Alber's report.
Yet the Alber report also says - and I consider this to be very important - that there can only be a common Europe, now and in the future, if this Europe uses all the means at its disposal to protect fundamental rights, exactly as this report formally requests.
This report, and this has already been said several times, provides an excellent starting point for Siegbert Alber in his important new post as Advocate-General to the European Court of Justice.
We thank you, your honour, for everything that you have done in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for your colleagues and Europe as a constitutional state.
It will be a Freudian slip of mine if we appear with our lawsuit before you at the Court of Justice in Luxembourg.
If I may say so, the colossus, if one can be so irreverent as to describe the system in that way, is growing bigger, but its feet of clay are growing weaker and weaker.
At the same time, however, I am also very pleased for him because I believe the post he is going to take up - that of Advocate-General in the European Union Court of Justice - is one of law's most prestigious positions.
The European Community is a Community of law, which honours the rule of law.
This potential deficit should be offset by a greater political control on the part of the legislative power.
Thus we can say that fundamental rights will only enjoy true legal protection when there is a parallel process between the transfer of national powers to Community competence on the one hand, and on the other hand, when the European Parliament and the national parliaments together gradually acquire greater control over the executive's activities.
It must not be forgotten that Community law is a unitary legal order in which various types of rulings can be found, including derived law, which is that which results from the acts of the Community institutions and is an integral part of Community law.
This point brings us, Mr President, to the tricky and dangerous question of the principle of subsidiarity, which has also been alluded to during this debate.
In the Commission's view he comes out with a great many interesting ideas and particularly about the precedence of Community law and the ratification of international treaties in the Community system of law.
This aspect of the Community system of law has contributed in particular to the implementation of the objectives of article 2 of the treaty.
A number of means that the rapporteur refers to in order to strengthen the precedence of Community law, and I am thinking firstly of the strengthening of the role of the European Parliament, are to a greater or lesser extent generally accepted in the Community.
The contribution from the rapporteur on the relationship between Community law and international law is very interesting now that the Community increasingly participates in international negotiations and concludes ever more treaties.
This institution will now be strengthened with someone who is a powerful defender of the values of the Community and whose important contribution to the development of Community law is undeniable.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Van den Broek.
The debate is closed.
This is a situation which will prompt me to recommend to the Chamber tomorrow, when the vote is taken on my report, that this report be referred back to committee to allow me to update it as necessary and to give us time to contribute towards a peaceful resolution of the crisis in Cambodia.
Two months ago we witnessed a political upheaval in Phnom Penh where military action enabled the leader, Hun Sen, to take virtual control of all of Cambodia and force Prince Ranariddh to flee abroad.
The prospect of the Khmer Rouge being able to change the political framework in Cambodia, mostly thanks to alliances with the main national parties, has produced an unstable situation and brought forth the least democratic elements in Cambodian politics.
The third condition is the strict observance of human rights, a point on which we cannot give way.
In the meantime, the European Union should also make a contribution to stabilizing the situation now that former Foreign Minister Um Guot has succeeded Prince Ranariddh as Head of Government.
At any rate, it is a positive approach which I hope can also be used in future with Burma, a military dictatorship which was nevertheless recently admitted to ASEAN.
Mr President, the European Parliament has an opportunity to make an active contribution to the search for a negotiated political settlement of the crisis in Cambodia and it can do so if we can by a large majority in this House use the ratification process for the framework economic and commercial cooperation agreement.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Laos is one of the most modest of countries - I am talking in terms of its population, which is only 5 million - in South East Asia.
It is also one of the poorest, since 46 % of the population live below the poverty line.
It is also a country which has had to suffer long and painful ordeals since independence, gained in 1953.
First of all internal ordeals between the right wing, the 'neutralists' and the communist Pathet Lao.
Then, above all, the ordeal of the Vietnam War in which Laos, in spite of itself, found itself drawn in and above all the victim.
Finally, from 1986 onwards, Laos launched a programme of economic reforms which moved towards a market economy, a direction that was clearly confirmed in its 1991 constitution.
These concerns to open up to the outside world are being more widely concretised with Laos' adhesion to ASEAN, although they are at the same time involved in negotiations with a view to reaching commercial agreements with the United States and the European Community.
The agreement reached between the Community and Laos is a trade and cooperation agreement.
With regard to cooperation, the Community has showed its willingness to contribute to a lasting development in Laos and an improvement in the living conditions of the people of Laos.
In this sense, certain priorities have already been defined in the fight against poverty, the favouring of rural development, the role of women in development, and also the development of human resources.
The Community will have to continue its efforts to contribute to the eradication of this blight.
The particular importance of environmental considerations in this co-operation agreement should also be highlighted.
It is necessary to mention, finally, the particular importance of concerns in the areas of human rights and democratic principles in the agreement which is submitted for our study.
It is a regime which has favourably evolved as the after effects of civil and international war have faded, but respect for human rights and democratic principles needs more in-depth treatment, which both parties to the cooperation agreement were clearly concerned about.
Mr President, before turning to my report on Vietnam and the report on ASEAN, may I first make a procedural point.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy submitted an opinion to my report on ASEAN.
If I may turn to the substance, I would like to spend a few moments discussing the agreement with Vietnam, or that part relating to Vietnam, and then move on to the wider issue of ASEAN.
The question of Vietnam is simply a technicality to take into account that Vietnam is now a member of ASEAN and to amend our existing cooperation agreement with ASEAN to include Vietnam.
Vietnam is a poor country; it is a country which is recovering; it is a country which has tremendous potential; and is a country which really in essence has never been part of the wider world because since gaining independence at the end of the Second World War it has been submerged in its internal and external wars.
So it cannot be simply said that joining ASEAN and our agreements with ASEAN and our bilateral agreements with Vietnam are rehabilitating Vietnam.
In a very real sense Vietnam has never been allowed the privilege of joining the wider world and these agreements give that country that right at long last.
The question has been raised of human rights in Vietnam and I am sure other Members will wish to make reference to that in the succeeding debate.
For my own part could I remind the House that our bilateral agreement with Vietnam includes a human rights conditionality and this will be carried with Vietnam, as it were, into ASEAN.
That question of extending our already existing agreements with ASEAN to a new entry into ASEAN and the question of human rights, gives me the opportunity of reaching to the wider question of ASEAN itself.
This raises the question of how we handle human rights because Members will clearly have grave reservations when it comes to the admission to our treaty with ASEAN of Burma and, to a lesser extent or perhaps equally now, Cambodia.
No one can recall ASEAN having an opinion on the enlargement of the European Union.
However, when ASEAN has been enlarged, clearly our relations with the old ASEAN will have to significantly change to take into account that new composition.
In that respect, let me say that the committee thought the most prudent and wise course is to insist that when the Treaty needs to be amended for Cambodia, Laos and Burma - we will certainly soon be presented with that in the case of Laos and Burma - we should follow the procedure adopted for Vietnam and have a separate mandate.
We understand that the composition and constitution of ASEAN has a concept of concentric and overlapping circles, so that membership of ASEAN does not necessarily imply that a new entrant has the right to participate fully in all the dialogues which ASEAN has with third parties.
We would like to insist as much as we can on drawing up a new agreement between the EU and ASEAN which contains specifically human rights conditionality, not simply in the form of freedom of conscience and freedom of expression but also human rights at work.
It is perfectly reasonable therefore to demand a social chapter and a social dimension to our relations with any other block, and that would include ASEAN.
If I can move on to more a positive aspect, I would stress that our relations economically and in trade terms with ASEAN seem to be a great success story.
Clearly if we are to develop a genuine dialogue between Europe and ASEAN, we must involve directly elected members who have a mandate and we must facilitate contacts as part of the ASEM process and wider EU-ASEAN relations.
We recognise the need for more dialogue and strengthening our agreements and our cooperation.
If an actual agreement is to be avoided because we fear that the ASEAN side will not accept human rights conditionality, then I am afraid Parliament will not accept that.
That must be pointed out; we can accept as a temporary measure you using a communication for a new dynamic but that is no substitute for a permanent relationship.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, obviously the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy considers the relationship between the European Union and ASEAN to be an extremely important and delicate matter, for a variety of reasons.
However, with regard to the technical question of how to go forward in this political dialogue, we believe that the best solution would be to negotiate a new, third-generation, agreement.
The various pieces of sleight of hand looked at by the Committee to get round the problem - for example, the addition of protocols to the 1980 agreement or a package of economic and social cooperation measures - cannot in our opinion be regarded as an alternative to a new, third-generation agreement with ASEAN, for one simple reason: this would weaken the agreement between Europe and ASEAN at a political level, particularly with regard to the issue of human rights, which is a key issue.
We believe it is vital for the ASEAN countries to sign the two international conventions on human rights and against torture.
I conclude, Mr President, merely by saying that for technical and bureaucratic reasons the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security was not included in the general report of the Committee on External Economic Relations.
The conclusions he has presented are clearly the result of a detailed study of the complex problems involved in the European Union's relations with ASEAN.
It notes the growing importance of the ASEAN countries in the international economy, their strategic relevance in safeguarding peace, stability and security in a region which is having a very significant influence on world events.
It correctly evaluates the positioning of the European Union, which, from the economic point of view, is the second largest investor in the region, and will have to opt for a positive approach of strengthening its participation in actions which further the economic and social development of those countries.
We all consider the restrictions the European Union has been placing on Burma as a result of her disregard of human rights to be perfectly proper.
But all of us are also aware of the intransigent position of Indonesia, especially as regards East Timor, representing a clearly offensive attitude to which the European Union must give an effective and determined response.
It would therefore be more appropriate and politically justifiable to require that country to comply with the international rules recognised by the UNO than to ask Portugal for leave to negotiate thirdgeneration agreements, although it is recognized that these have intrinsic importance and value as the best option for a new dynamic in European Union-ASEAN relations.
Mr President, if there is any country in the world which the European Union should help then it is Cambodia, for at least two reasons.
Firstly, because Cambodia is one of the poorest countries on the planet and since its trading relations are largely in deficit, only vigorous support on the part of the international community can curb and reverse the process of pauperization which this country is going through.
But this effort is required also for moral reasons.
We welcomed with satisfaction the cooperation agreement between the European Union and Cambodia, signed last 29 April, in Luxembourg.
Last June, for various reasons and in spite of reservations on the situation in the country regarding political stability and respect for human rights, the Group of the European People's Party approved the implementation of this agreement.
Fighting has recommenced, violence is appearing in different forms - looting, assassinations - those in power challenge political pluralism and human rights are scorned.
On the contrary, by resorting to what the rapporteur called 'active referral', it is a way of putting pressure on those who keep hold of power in order that their reign of illegality and violence may cease, so that the Paris agreements, notably those concerning the holding of elections in March 1998, may be applied, elections which we must demand take place under international supervision.
The Cambodian people have suffered far too much in their recent history and our responsibility in this is too large for our Parliament, at the time of this vote, to fail to show its clear and vigorous desire to help Cambodia to finally find the path to development and democracy.
This will stimulate economic growth in that land and benefit social stability in that poor country.
International consultation is very important in order to guarantee electronic free trade.
We hope that cooperation in these areas will also help to prevent such ecological disasters in the future.
Finally, my group wishes to stress that it is very important to give the euro, our common currency, a good reputation among the business world in Asia.
We cannot simply liberalize trade or pursue the liberalization of investment according in line with the WTO model.
The EU cannot just fiddle around with protocols on a matter like this.
A basic requirement for new treaties, given our own democratic standpoint, has to be the participation of the European Parliament.
It is not a question of removing constraints, but about banning products manufactured in conditions that involve squandering resources or infringing human rights.
Mr President, Vice-President Marín, ladies and gentlemen, today in a certain number of European newspapers a group of MPs have said, notably, that Europe is not doing well, not doing well because, under the terms of the Treaty of Amsterdam, it has not made democracy a sufficiently high priority within its institutions, its procedures, or its rules of operation.
It is not liberalism at any cost which reigns there, Mr Telkämper, it is just liberalism, an economic system which is causing deadlock in human rights, in democracy, and which claims, in the name of the market and growth, to forget that human rights are a universal value, to forget about political democracy, and to think that the model of the state can function without these values.
We members of the Union, we have other values and I believe that in this case it is important to emphasize, as all our colleagues have rightly done, that we cannot accept, in the name of the laws of trade and profit, to close our eyes to the fact that, in spite of its generals - a little dictatorial it is true - ASEAN has accepted Burma as a member, and whilst Aung San Sun Kyi, winner of the Nobel prize and the Sakharov prize is under house arrest.
No, I believe that our Parliament and our Union have the right and the duty to say no and thus do everything possible in order that human rights clauses, and the rules which we set out in our relations with the countries with which we co-operate should be accepted.
If this is not the case, we can quite simply say to our friends in ASEAN that they can look elsewhere because we are not interested.
I believe that a firm attitude towards the ASEAN countries would be a way of testing whether our values really exist or not, or of seeing if we can review them when it suits us.
Well, if our values are real, it is through them that we will put in place the co-operation that we want.
From this point of view, the comments of the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy are very important.
The challenging of the death penalty which is practised there, and all the other violations denounced in the report must serve as test cases, for the Commission, for us all, to demonstrate our priorities in the way in which we treat these countries.
The English Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, has just turned down a very interesting arms deal with Indonesia.
Mr President, regarding the report that Mr Hindley has provided on the relations between the European Union and Vietnam, and their extension through the agreements signed with the Association of South East Asian Nations.
The text presents indicative figures for economic progress achieved by Vietnam and also reminds us of the possibility of suspending our agreement in the case of human rights violations.
But as in 'lao gai' China, as in Cambodia, as in Laos, Vietnam remains a country of oppression, where the great martyrdom of a people subjugated by communism continues.
In its two wars of conquest, Vietnamese communism has killed millions of people in mass executions, death camps, and also through the flight of the boat people.
But it also gained massive support from the Catholic hierarchy and clergy, by admission of Cardinal de Courtray himself, on 5 January 1990.
We French are now waiting for the French bishops to ask forgiveness for their inexcusable compromise of principle, over tens of years, with the butchers of 200 million victims of these subjugated peoples.
At the same time, the ASEAN countries were recognised as an important market that had to be strategically addressed, so that the European Union became the second largest investor in this region.
The cooperation agreement with ASEAN is based on relations as they were in 1980.
This gives the call for a new dynamic in relations with ASEAN a new dimension.
For the European Union, this means a balancing act between political and economic systems, and between cooperation, toleration and rejection, if tolerance levels are exceeded.
On the other hand, the entry of this country into ASEAN means that there is a market on its doorstep covering 400 million consumers.
The first question is this: what are the real prospects now for the democratisation of a single party government, given that some 75 % of the leading figures in this country are high-ranking and other military officers?
The third question is about anti-personnel mines.
The treaty says that the Commission will examine this problem.
With an inflation rate of 20 %, even growth rates of 7 % look somewhat modest.
Mr President, ASEAN is growing up fast and fraternal Europe has just started to notice this precocious, younger brother whose family ties to Europe, whether political, economic or cultural, are strengthening daily.
Commissioner De Silguy's recent ASEAN visit highlights these exciting developments.
The British Government has made it clear that Burma would not be deemed a full participating Member of next year's ASEM meeting in London under the British Presidency.
The world's fourth largest nation, Indonesia, still has to resolve its difficulties with Europe, including Portugal, over the question of East Timor.
When our friends and colleagues come next year to London, now miraculously free from its all-enveloping 19th century smog, let us hope that only the mist and mizzle of the 21st century stand between us and ASEAN in the development of our fraternal futures together.
This situation is affecting not just aspects of democracy or of development towards democracy, but also regional concerns, as shown by Cambodia having been excluded from the ASEAN framework for the first time at the last meeting in Kuala Lumpur.
As you know, there is going to be an international debate on Cambodia in the United Nations General Assembly on November 22 and 23, and we are hoping to obtain more precise information about the steps taken by the ASEAN countries.
Also, within the next couple of weeks, the Thai Minister of Foreign Affairs will be visiting the European Commission to provide us with information on this point, among other things, since he is currently the President of the ASEAN group, and we want to know exactly how the matter stands.
Because of its poor social and economic development, its transition to a market economy and its efforts to open up, there can be little doubt that the European Union also had to respond to these efforts.
Once the European Parliament has approved this cooperation agreement, our plan is that the first joint committee meeting envisaged in the agreement will be held in Vientian at the beginning of 1998.
As for extending the ASEAN/European Union agreement to include Vietnam, I must say that for the Commission, achieving a cooperation agreement with Vietnam was a political challenge, and is a source of great satisfaction when you think that negotiations for this agreement first started about two years ago, if my memory is correct.
These negotiations have been very long, and started at a time when the chances of success were very slim.
To me it seems clear that ASEAN is increasing the political stability of the region.
Therefore, we think it is extremely valuable to support this initiative for extending the ASEAN framework to include Vietnam.
Of course, we must maintain this clause in all the cooperation agreements, as the European Parliament says.
However, it would be naive to imagine that just because a negotiating partner has been persuaded to accept the democracy clause in the cooperation agreements, the country in question will automatically become a democracy.
Including the democracy clause in the cooperation agreements makes political dialogue possible, allowing us all to progress towards respect for freedom and human rights.
However, nobody should assume that because we have the democracy clause with Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia, these three countries will automatically and miraculously become democracies, because that will not happen.
Mr Hindley, what can I tell you about the ASEAN situation in general?
I think it is up to the ASEAN countries to explain that difficult situation, far more than the European Union.
The reason is that the ASEAN countries are making a brave and interesting decision in excluding Cambodia specifically because that country's democratic normalization process has suffered a setback, whereas in contrast they nevertheless admit a country such as Myanmar, where there is a military junta.
Well, for some time now the European Union has had some very intensive programmes to rid Cambodia of mines, and we have been working very hard to try to resolve the problem.
Perhaps from January 1, 1999, when the euro has responsibilities internally and externally, the European Union may perhaps be able to intervene by means of normal participation in the international financial institutions, for example the Asian Development Bank which is a World Bank regional bank.
As for the fires in Sumatra, it was said that the early warning system did not work.
If the question is too specific, Mr Commissioner, you can also let me have a written reply if necessary.
Mr Telkämper, why do you say that it did not work?
My friend Mr Telkämper always unsettles me politically, Mr President.
The debate is closed.
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is the only republic to emerge from the former Yugoslavia without bloodshed.
This small country of two million inhabitants in the heart of the Balkans between Albania, SerbiaMontenegro, Bulgaria and Greece has had to face inter-ethnic tensions and difficult relations with its closest neighbours, the direct repercussions of which on its economy and its insertion into the international economy and international community have been negative in the extreme.
However, more than six years on from the declaration of sovereignty, it is gradually beginning to emerge from the economic and international isolation in which it found itself thanks to a double embargo: the direct embargo imposed by Greece, and the indirect repercussions of the international community's embargo on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
At the same time however, on the minus side, it must be said that unemployment has reached a record level of 37 % in a short time, which shows that the economic measures have been very harsh.
The key problem of the country's economy is how to raise levels of investment to modernize production structures, transport infrastructure and social infrastructure in an economic context characterized by very low levels of domestic saving, high interest rates and a heavy burden of public spending.
Meetings and contacts are provided for at ministerial, technical and parliamentary level, and the joint declaration also envisages the possibility of organizing political dialogue as regional dialogue.
Therefore, the Committee on External Economic Relations thinks that in this region troubled by continuous political, economic and even military problems, which have gone so far as to affect the development of the European Union, it is politically important that we should support this cooperation agreement.
Mr President, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy has voted in favour of signing the cooperation agreement between the European Union and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Over the past few years Macedonia has managed to achieve independence without the terrible tragedies that accompanied the independence of the other regions of former Yugoslavia and the European Union will have to do everything in its power to sustain the continuing economic transformation of Macedonia and consolidate its democratic life.
In our judgement it would be very useful for the European Union to have its own delegation in Skopje to monitor carefully and from close at hand the development of this democratic experience.
This effort is very important.
From this point of view, the aspect of the financial protocol is significant: 150 million ECU from the BEI, guaranteed by the community budget.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the concluding of a cooperation agreement between the European Union and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, together with the finance protocol and the agreement on transport, is indeed of great political value since it will make a vital contribution to the economic development of this small Balkan state, to the restructuring of its industry, the rekindling of its commercial dealings, and the promotion of more stable and balanced relations with neighbouring countries.
It must be emphasized, however, that the agreement comprises a special provision and gives particular importance to social development and social rights, which is an innovative aspect of this agreement.
The cooperation agreement is expected, among other things, to facilitate political dialogue on the consolidation of democratic institutions, respect for human rights, including the rights of minorities, and the promotion of security, peace and stability throughout the whole of Europe, and, more especially, in this sensitive region of the Balkans.
In addition, I also would like to support the request of this country for the creation of a European Union office in Skopje.
The country of Macedonia would not even exist today if the United States of America had not begun to defend that country's independence in the face of possible Serbian aggression.
Macedonia is a country that has gone through a lot in recent years, a country that has managed to free itself from a very difficult hold, which many other countries in a similar situation did not succeed in doing - we only have to think of the fate of Bosnia-Herzegovina, for example.
This infrastructure needs to be built up both for the sake of this country and also to provide adequate links for the European Union.
The Commission also goes along with the general opinion expressed by the speakers, that this cooperation agreement is a first step of great political significance which, in the final analysis, is far more important than its economic value.
Because of this importance, the Commission hopes that the Council will approve without delay the decision to bring in the cooperation agreement and the transport agreement, so that it can come into force on 1 December 1997 at the latest.
The Macedonian Government is still applying its policy of economic and political reforms, but we all know that it is faced with difficult economic and social problems such as low economic growth and, of course, high unemployment as a result.
As well as the normal financial aid under the Phare programme - ECU 15 million directly from the Phare programme and ECU 10 million for transfrontier cooperation with Greece - a further ECU 8 million has recently been made available to the country.
Therefore, the Commission would be very pleased if this political dialogue between the European Parliament and the Macedonian Parliament could be developed and strengthened even further.
