As rapporteur, I have tried to be very moderate and have only tabled those amendments that obtained a majority at the first reading and that, in my view, could also bring about a compromise in other parts of the House.
We all know that the incubation period can last from 10 to 20 years.
We have also raised the amount of the total liability for damage from ECU 70 million to ECU 140 million and have left this up to the Member States.
But if that should be the case after all, then the people of the European Union are entitled to expect us to create a proper legal basis for product liability and for their claims to damages.
I ask you to support these amendments at second reading so that we can endeavour to achieve a sensible solution in the codecision procedure with the Council.
BSE played a major part in the genesis of this report.
Mrs Roth-Behrendt made one emphatic point at first reading.
In principle I agree, and I think that she showed courage at first reading.
I did not think it right to decide on that as an incidental point in a different report.
Madam President, it beggars belief that the common position takes no account at all of the views which the European Parliament expressed at first reading.
The rapporteur is quite right in retabling the amendments in question.
The acute nature of the BSE crisis showed that liability for defective products needs to be widened as quickly as possible.
I regard the raising of the ceiling from EUR 70 to 140 million as important.
Madam President, since 1985 we have had a directive regulating compensation for people who have suffered damage from defective products.
In fact I am very surprised to find that my colleagues on the other side of the House have suddenly forgotten a great many of the things we once decided here unanimously and jointly a year and a half ago in the wake of the BSE decision.
Perhaps it is not so much a chain as a circle that we have to close here, to ensure that in the end every producer is responsible for what he puts on the market, but that he also assumes this responsibility over a fairly long period of time especially for products which we know can cause illnesses that cannot be detected after one year or even after 10 years.
I refer in particular to Amendments Nos 5 and 6.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this report is extremely important in economic terms.
These people have been infected with the disease at some point in the last few years, in the last 15, 18 or 20 years, we do not know exactly when.
The 1985 directive establishes the right for any victim to be compensated for injury caused by a defective product, without having to prove the fault of the producer.
In extending this right to the agricultural sector, the Commission is reverting to its original proposal of 1976.
At Parliament's first reading, in November 1998, a majority came out in support of this principle.
Unfortunately, there is nevertheless a risk that the aim shared by all three institutions - namely to extend the regime to the farm sector - might not be achieved, should Parliament and the Council disagree on the timing of a thorough review of the 1985 basic directive, going beyond the limited aim I have just described.
Indeed, by resubmitting the amendments adopted at first reading, your committee responsible is encouraging you to amend the common position.
It is crucial that an agreement should be reached on the basis of the common position, thereby extending the rules on civil liability to the agricultural sector.
Therefore the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 3 to 7, relating to mental injuries, exemption, the time-limit for claims, the maximum amount, and amendment of the directive in the year 2000.
Madam President, as the Commission stated last November, the best time and the best way to engage in a review of the 1985 directive is when discussing the report on the application of the directive, which the Commission must present to Parliament and the Council in 2000.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
If we are to deal with all these issues at global level it is vital to have a world organisation capable of formulating rules governing universal conduct that will be respected and complied with once they have been accepted.
I am, of course, referring to the United Nations Organisation, which is to be applauded for the pivotal role it has played in solving many world conflicts and problems over the last 50 years.
The creation of the International Criminal Court has been a great step forward, in that it establishes the international criminal responsibility of the individual.
This means that in most cases crucial decisions for the world economy are being taken by a small number of globalised companies unrestrained by any democratic scrutiny, often with negative social and environmental consequences.
The problem is that we are contributing as 15 individual states and not as a single entity, so our contribution does not carry enough weight.
This may put us in mind of a problem we are experiencing much closer to home at the moment.
I would like to draw attention to one particular idea in the report which is valuable in terms of the legitimacy of these institutions of global governance.
The loss of credibility which the UN has suffered in matters of peace and security must be remedied quickly.
That can be easy enough.
Madam President, Mr De Melo has produced an excellent report, and I congratulate him on behalf of the Green Group.
In my opinion, the Security Council question is central but for different reasons from those put forward by my friend, Mr Alavanos.
With regard to Guatemala, we saw how China blocked the peace process because of the veto which it holds on the Security Council.
Now with Kosovo, Russia is bringing strong pressure to bear because of its right of veto.
As Mr De Melo suggests in his resolution, we must seek to ensure that this reform of the Security Council is implemented as soon as possible.
As for the specific reforms required, the UN Security Council needs to be updated along democratic and non-élitist lines; moreover, this subject already appears as item 59 on the agenda of the General Assembly.
A time too when many people can see the negative aspects but cannot agree on solutions.
The many important aspects you mention in your report, such as human rights but also economic, social and security aspects, must be integrated into general policy.
We believe that the UN millennium summit scheduled for the autumn of 2000 will provide an excellent opportunity for acknowledging the challenges of world management and defining more precisely the role of the United Nations for the twenty-first century.
It is also our sincere hope that the enlarging European Union will play an important part in this whole debate and will contribute its experience of problems and opportunities in integrating these various aspects of policy into general policy on a multinational basis.
The EU memorandum is an integral part of the statement which the President of the European Council makes each year to the UN General Assembly.
However, because it covers such a diversity of issues, I do not think it is well suited to serve as the basis for joint action within the meaning of Article 13 of the Amsterdam Treaty.
As regards the request that the Commission should report on the Union's position concerning the specific points in your resolution in the context of forthcoming UN assemblies and other relevant gatherings, the Commission will certainly, as usual, continue submitting communications to the Council and Parliament in advance of important international events which require a position of consensus from the Union.
The Commission will naturally also continue to keep the relevant committees of the European Parliament informed of any significant developments in the foreign and security policy of the European Union.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 3 p.m.
On the one hand institutional uncertainty is at a peak given that this Parliament is to be dissolved on 13 June.
We do not know whether there will be an agreement on Agenda 2000.
In other words, we do not know whether the next budget will be an annual budget based on Article 203 or a budget under the future financial perspectives.
In this context, it is very difficult to establish satisfactory and precise priorities for Parliament.
In Category 3, which is of particular interest to us, we are stressing the need to concentrate efforts on decentralised information measures, the reception of refugees and the financing of Eurodac.
In Category 4, we are happy to concentrate aid on the poorest countries, as requested by the committee responsible.
Firstly, in Category 1, the management of the agricultural appropriations needs to be more rigorous, without ignoring the principle of adequate funding.
In particular, before 30 June, we want the Commission to come clean and clearly indicate how many staff it needs to perform its tasks.
The attention currently being paid to our institution in relation to its carrying out its control function reflects another responsibility we have to live up to.
For instance, if Parliament's budget estimates for the year 2000 provide for a sum of EUR 3.8 million just for setting up a supermarket, that means that here too, as I and the Committee on Budgets are suggesting, we must carry out our control function.
Applause Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in his very good introduction our general rapporteur on the 2000 budget, my friend Jean-Louis Bourlanges, drew attention to the institutional problems, especially in the area that particularly interests me as rapporteur for the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy.
The aim here is an ambitious one as it involves halving the number of people living in extreme poverty by 2015.
Finally, we fully support the work of the NGOs and hope that line B7-6000 will be given adequate payment appropriations.
Finally, I wholeheartedly endorse the comments made by the rapporteur on Category 5 regarding the staff shortages in the Commission in particular.
That brings us on to Category 5.
If Category 5 does not grow by 1.5 %, then 4, 000 jobs will be lost between the Year 2000 and 2006.
We still have the problem of 850 unfilled vacancies within the Commission.
We vote on this report before Berlin, and we assume that there will be agreement in the Council on Agenda 2000 and between the Council and Parliament on the Interinstitutional Agreement.
The new one on public access to a supermarket was not tabled in my name; it was tabled by a member of my group.
I am certain our rapporteur will do that in these difficult circumstances, particularly as we have never had to be guided without having a European Commission in place.
I have two comments in speaking on behalf of my Group for the European Parliament Budget and then for the Commission Budget.
Turning to the budget of the Commission, it is clear that we have once again a rigorous budget in front of us.
This is a debate we will no doubt have later in the year, but at this stage I would like to conclude that so far as our Group is concerned, we will be looking at this particular aspect of the budget in a much more critical way than any other.
Mr Chairman we live in the age between the ages as Reinhold Niebuhr said, and other colleagues have made that point very clearly.
It is, therefore, very important in this period of uncertainty that the Parliament itself indicates that it is fully aware of its central responsibility on this point.
Over the last five years we in Parliament have made enormous progress in the quality of implementation and the involvement of other committees than the Budget Committee.
A better institutional balance is, of course, absolutely essential.
In the absence of an agreement on the new financial perspectives, it is clear, as the excellent Mr Bourlanges has described in detail, that the financial framework for the 2000 budget must be established by adjusting the ceilings for the various headings, pursuant to Article 25 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 29 October 1993.
In other words, the 2000 budget must be another austerity budget, maintaining budgetary discipline while at the same time guaranteeing that the necessary resources will be available to implement the European Union's policies, as pointed out by the rapporteur, in accordance with Article F(3) of the EU Treaty.
Therefore, whatever the current difficulties, it is right and even advisable that the joint budgetary authority should prepare a responsible, rigorous and effective budget for the year 2000 in line with the EU's political commitments and according to the spirit and letter of the Interinstitutional Agreement.
Although at this stage the Council's priorities for the 2000 budget have not been identified - these particularly depend on the results of the Agenda 2000 negotiations - it seems clear that the aim of most of the delegations is to ensure that Community expenditure does not develop more than national expenditure.
So I very much welcome our joint call for an increase in the share of development policies in the Community budget.
But we must bear in mind that the development impact of each euro must be enhanced with a view to sustainability, and here I mean both ecological and economic sustainability.
We must look more closely at the macro-economic impact of our food aid and put the interests of the agricultural budget in second place.
To tackle this as quickly as possible, the rapporteur is suggesting that 50 % of the payment appropriations should be included in the budget for 2000.
You mention the restrictive budgetary policy in recent years.
So a forced increase in payment appropriations for the year 2000 is not the right way.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, either the 2000 budget is the first budget under a new financial perspective or it is based on Article 203 of the Treaty on European Union.
I am addressing these words more to the Council, which is not here, than to Members, for the Council should know exactly what the financial resources in categories 3, 4 and 5 will look like when it decides the question tomorrow and the day after.
Should what the Council is currently discussing in relation to staff costs and administrative costs become the basis of the budget for 2000 and the following years, the freezing of the budget would mean that the European Union would have to lose 3 880 posts in all.
These would be distributed between Parliament - a loss of 420 posts, the Commission - a loss of 3 000 posts, the Court of Justice - a loss of 182 posts, the Court of Auditors - a loss of 58 posts, and the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee - a loss of another 220 posts.
Whether intentional or not, a backlog has occurred here accounting for more than 40 billion.
In two days' time, we shall have the debate and the decisions of the European Council on Agenda 2000 and the financial perspective.
Be that as it may, speaking as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Policy on the budget for 2000, I would like to recall the three basic points made by the committee in respect of the new budget.
In the motion for a resolution, there are two paragraphs concerning Category 2, paragraphs 12 and 13, which are extremely important and which raise crucial technical issues.
By the end of 1999, this could amount to more than 200 % of the commitments undertaken.
Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to clarify these three points.
The budget is a legal obligation for the Commission.
It is very important to increase control of the quality and the sectors in the budget.
It is very important that it will be directly presented in next year's budget.
That could be very expensive and very impractical.
It is continuing in the services and I hope that in the context of the budgetary procedure we can give more information about its results.
This idea was launched by the Commission this year and the Commission decision was taken on the basis that the budget for 2001 will be based on activity-based budgeting.
Mr President, I just want to thank Mr Liikanen for his words and for the excellent cooperation we have always had with him.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 3 p.m.
The first of these drafts - headed No 130 - looks to the creation of a committee of senior police officers at a senior level within the framework of Article K3 of the Treaty of European Union.
Consequently, my main amendments to this draft wish to see the creation of a multi-disciplinary group which comprises heads of police, customs and other law enforcement agencies, for example top civil servants in interior ministries.
The text implies a half-hearted involvement of this body.
Consequently, my amendments beef up the role of Europol by calling for its involvement in discussions, planning and implementation measures.
Mr President, the proposals before the House on closer police cooperation in Europe are good ones.
That applies, firstly, to the idea that when the Council group on police cooperation meets, those who actually do the work must also be involved, namely the police officers.
Mr President, Sir Jack Stewart-Clark's report is short, to the point and effective.
Nevertheless, cooperation between the police and customs authorities has become a key factor in the success of this fight.
We therefore support the rapporteur's recommendation that a European-level multi-disciplinary group should be set up, with the power to make decisions on improving exchanges of information and on harmonising technical communications systems between the various national authorities.
This success obviously owes a great deal to the possibility of deploying large numbers of police officers when necessary, as recommended in the Enfopol no 129 draft, but as the rapporteur has quite rightly said, the success of these cooperative actions on crime should be measured in qualitative terms and not just by the number of arrests made.
I could not resist the temptation to jump in myself and give my opinion on Sir Jack Stewart-Clark's report, as what shines through this report is the special attitude of someone who wants not just a police force, but a top-rate force.
Mr President, cooperation between the police forces in the different countries, as well as between police and customs, is a welcome development in combating crime.
Mr President, the great challenge for police cooperation in Europe in the future will not be the harmonisation of legislation, but the creation of practical cooperation at grassroots level among all European states.
Europol must be granted significant powers and a clear role in both the coordination of checks taking place on the Union's external border and in the development of the information exchange and early warning systems used by the authorities.
The Commission and the Member States will consider together the most effective ways of implementing the two joint actions.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 3 p.m.
The Leonardo Programme should be a laboratory of innovation that encourages and enables a wide-range of partners and trainees to gain access to new opportunities and new ideas.
The amendments which have been retabled cover complementarity between Leonardo II, the European Social Fund and the Employment Guidelines.
In brief, I am aiming at defining Leonardo II as the programme which is concerned with developing vocational training systems for all, an inclusive approach which helps influence and develop training opportunities across the European Union and will link in with the European Social Fund and the Employment Guidelines.
I am also aware of the importance of agreeing these proposals today to ensure there is proper time for preparation for the new programme, and that it starts on time on 1 January 2000.
The lack of decent management for Leonardo may be seen as one of the root causes of the crisis in which we find ourselves at the moment.
However, it would be wrong to look at the conclusions to be drawn from the work of the technical assistance offices only in terms of what should happen with Leonardo in the future, since technical assistance offices are a general phenomenon seen in all the directorates-general.
Mr President, since our debate on the second phase of the Leonardo da Vinci programme on 5 November last year, much has changed.
We want to supplement Member States' European vocational training actions and achieve complementarity between them.
That is perfectly feasible, because Coreper is meeting on 14 April and there will be time to vote before then.
Mr President, I am pleased that the administration of the Leonardo da Vinci programme has come in for very detailed scrutiny.
We know that the programmes are always the subject of trade-offs or rather tussles between the Council and Parliament over the budgets agreed.
Finally, I am sorry to see that once again the common position does not give much room to the social partners in the administration of the programme.
In Europe, Leonardo da Vinci is the symbol of creativity and ingenuity.
Mr President, I think we really do now have a classic example of the problems involved in the European programmes.
A good, indeed an essential programme, is simply not a carte blanche for mismanagement.
Here Parliament has a special responsibility to bring about progress through dialogue with the Council.
That is the central task to which the Council and Parliament must now apply themselves together and which the new Commission must resolve.
Mr President, this Leonardo programme is important but has been badly managed.
On the contrary, things came to a head in the crisis and we now know for certain that this Augean stable at any rate is going to be cleaned out.
The programme is in danger of grinding to a halt because even the applications are not being processed.
In a European jobs market, I think it is most important for people to gain experience of working in other Member States, and that is what this programme makes possible.
I shall touch on the question of the TAOs, because this is what has exercised us most of late.
I totally agree with what Wim van Velzen and Thomas Mann said on the subject.
I agree with those who say, and also as Wim van Velzen said, that TAOs are all right in certain cases, but in very restricted cases, in my view.
I think it might create a few problems in Finland.
Another point which is of course very relevant is the question of social security contributions.
Madam President, I am here in exceptional circumstances so I will be very brief.
Firstly, the Commission can accept 30 of the 33 amendments tabled to the Waddington report.
We had discussions earlier in this Chamber on that very point when we talked about budgetary priorities for the year 2000.
We have been working on the general rules of that area and I would just like to say that it is clear that the ways the technical assistance offices have been used have been too vague and they have exercised two different tasks.
Thank you, Mr Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, you are right to say 'assuming that this is true'.
The weapon in question is a spray-type tear-gas grenade which can be bought in any supermarket.
The official bodyguard is officially permitted to carry firearms just like all bodyguards.
Anyone wanting more details can ask me for a copy of your letter.
Mr President, I am wondering whether our own amendment is admissible.
Before the vote on Amendment No 14 Mr President, I feel that Amendment No 3, which appears in the voting list after paragraph 9, serves the same purpose but goes further.
I think it should be put to the vote before Amendment No 14.
Amendment No 3 goes further.
Before the vote on Amendment No 19 Just a word, Mr President, about Amendment No 19.
The first part of Amendment No 12, paragraph 5a, has therefore been withdrawn.
We shall now vote on paragraph 5b of Amendment No 12.
Mr President, I wished to say that I was taking over this amendment but proposing a modified oral version to the House.
Are there 12 Members who are opposed to this oral amendment by Mr Fabre-Aubrespy being put to the vote?
I would be obliged, if he were willing to accept as an oral amendment: 'for a vote of approval by 5 May or at the latest by the end of the life of this Parliament'.
We would like the Council to assist us with the earliest possible time but if they fail to approve the Commission by 5 May, then at least we should have as a fallback that we can approve the Commission within the life of the Parliament.
More than 12 Members were opposed to the oral addition to Amendment No 1 (Parliament adopted the resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, the text of the resolution we have just adopted will be available this afternoon in all the languages.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have just adopted the resolution calling for the summit to appoint a new Commission.
It is technically possible to postpone this vote until April.
I shall therefore call one speaker in favour and one against, but first give the floor to the rapporteur.
It is vital that both the Council and the Commission have the time to introduce the new programme on 1 January 2000.
The Foreign Affairs Committee is tabling three amendments and has decided to delete paragraphs 4 and 5 of the draft text which proposed blocking funds for KEDO.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say a word or two about the amendments tabled by the Group of the European Radical Alliance to the motion for a resolution on relations between the European Union and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
The motion for a resolution on which we have to vote in a moment was introduced by the Foreign Affairs Committee as a complement to its report on KEDO and with the express aim of making a justified attempt to dispel suspicion in this most isolated state of North Korea and to bring it closer into the international community.
Mr President, as far as the procedure is concerned, I must say that it would really be the last straw if we could not vote on these amendments.
Thank you, Mr Dupuis.
Parliament adopted the resolution Mr President, I simply wish to say that I would like to withdraw the ends of two of the amendments tabled by my own group, in the interests of preserving the consensus that prevailed throughout the drafting of this report.
In addition, I should like to join my colleague Mr Brinkhorst in regretting the Council's absence during yesterday's debate on this report.
Parliament adopted the resolution Mr President, firstly, the Commission - the guardian of the Treaties - sank into the mire, as described in the report of the five Wise Men.
Mr President, I regretfully had to abstain in this vote and I would like to explain why.
The first is that this resolution leaves the road open for this so-called Committee of Experts, which has indeed done well here, to go on working for ever.
Mr President, as I was not given the floor yesterday in the debate, I would like first of all to say how very much I regret that, following the Committee of Independent Experts' report with its rather arbitrary conclusions and the ill-considered and irresponsible reactions of some people in this Parliament, some of the public have been led to believe that the process of European construction is just a sordid business of fraud, waste and irresponsibility.
Fortunately, this is not the case, and I very much want to pay tribute to the four years of work done by the Santer Commission, which carried out all of the political programme that Mr Santer presented to Parliament.
She has set a bad example which is detrimental to all women involved in politics in Europe.
Finally, I did not vote against the resolution.
Nonetheless, I was not able to vote in favour because there is a lack of balance in paragraph 2 with its overly positive assessment of the extremely arbitrary conclusions reached by the Committee of Experts, which unfortunately has been asked to continue its work.
Mr President, I too voted for the resolution.
I believe that in future we must not just call for the restructuring of the Commission but also become more self-confident vis-à-vis the Commission ourselves.
Mr President, the title of the resolution should be amended to take account of Amendment No 16, which was adopted.
The Committee of Experts' report is actually very clear.
By adopting paragraph 7 of the resolution, most Members of Parliament have shown that they have not learned from this report and, above all, from the many statements made by the experts since then.
With regard to the Committee of Experts, it was wrong to give it until 1 September to produce a report.
Mr President, I abstained in the vote on this resolution, largely for one reason: I too consider it a bad thing that this resolution virtually extends the mandate of the Committee of Independent Experts.
It has indeed done good work, but I voted against this Committee of Experts at the last vote too because I am convinced that there is no legal basis for that committee.
Thank you, Mrs Palm.
I have always believed that a strong Commission was vital in protecting the interests of smaller countries.
It is important for the future of the European Union that we have a strong Commission at the centre of our political life.
We now know very well that because of their very structure the European Parliament and the Commission play into each other's hands, and that control can only come from outside, from the Council and the national parliaments, whose powers should be increased.
In particular, the European Parliament, a specialised assembly, may be of use in carrying out specialised tasks, but never in the general exercise of sovereignty.
Because of an error stemming from the Treaties establishing the European Union, the Commission has far too great a role to play.
Paragraph 7 should be interpreted in this light too, from the perspective of a Parliament which, while recalling the need to respect the Treaties scrupulously, calls at the same time for a rapid decision and a convincing solution.
The Commission must now consider carefully what administrative reform, as insisted on by the European Parliament, really means in practice.
The Treaty of Amsterdam requires the Commission to draft a new regulation concerning public accessibility to European Union documents.
The regulation must carry guarantees that the people of the European Union should be entitled to the maximum possible access to the documentation of all the institutions of the Union.
On a recommendation by the Green Group, the European Parliament today resolved that there should be a substantially larger number of women members in the new Commission.
From 1989 to 1996, for years, in full knowledge of the facts, the Commission allowed the movement of contaminated meal and cattle infected with a terrible disease which may be transmissible to man: bovine spongiform encephalopathy.
On the other hand, today, a report by five people representing no-one but themselves, yet nonetheless elevated to the status of 'wise men', led to the resignation of the European Commission on 15 March 1999.
Furthermore, it has been made clear that sovereign tasks, such as aid to Eastern Europe or the southern Mediterranean, cannot be entrusted to private companies and profit-making agencies, which is unfortunately what the Commission has been doing since the days of Jacques Delors.
The two most heavily implicated Commissioners were Socialists, which simply confirms at Community level the iniquities of González, Mitterand, Craxi, Roland Dumas, Augusta's Belgian Socialists and other corrupt forms of socialism seen in social democrat governments at national level.
Lehne report (A4-0112/99) We voted against the Lehne report.
Given, however, that the rapporteur only wants the joint actions to apply for a limited period and at the same time calls for Commission initiatives to prepare for the possibilities introduced by the Amsterdam Treaty, the non-attached Members voted against the report in the final vote.
The rapporteur believes that the Commission should carry out a feasibility study into whether this can best be achieved by introducing a common student card or by a European logo on existing cards.
We agree with the content of the report and its conclusions.
Roth-Behrendt recommendation (A4-0068/99) Out of consideration for consumers, the June Movement is voting in favour of the Committee on the Environment's amendments aimed at protecting consumers in the area of product liability.
The June Movement does not want the right of initiative to be transferred from the Commission to the European Parliament, but would instead like to see it vested in the national parliaments.
But let me turn now to my oral explanation of vote.
A particularly positive aspect of this report are the amendments to the accompanying measures.
Stewart-Clark report (A4-0110/99) The operational implementation of the third pillar, to combat all forms of international organised crime, is vital if public opinion is to support European integration, of which the single market is one of the essential elements.
The report contains many commendable proposals for the introduction of an effective system for exchanging information and an early warning system for identifying criminal activities.
Cooperation with Interpol should be strengthened in order to prevent any duplication of activities.
For instance, proposals have been put forward aimed at giving Europol a leading role in cross-border investigations.
Bourlanges report (A4-0109/99) I have two comments on the procedure and two on the substance, Mr President.
On the procedural side, apart from the fact that we are discussing this report here in Brussels rather than in Strasbourg, where budgetary matters should be discussed, I would point out that in recital B of the report adopted by a majority in Parliament, we welcome the conclusions of the informal European Council in Berlin, which actually takes place tomorrow and the day after.
I am afraid this reflects not just a straightforward timetabling error but also the fact that very often we pre-empt what goes on between the institutions.
On the substance, I am astounded by what is said in paragraph 2 of the report, on the one hand, and then in paragraph 3, on the other.
In paragraph 2, we say that the budget for the year 2000 should safeguard the prerogatives of the European Parliament.
This is an unfortunate illustration of the fact that very often most of the Members of the European Parliament think in terms of conflicts of competences and powers, far more than they consider straightforward budgetary arguments or the interests of the taxpayers in Member States.
Nor are these interests taken into account when we point out in paragraph 3 that the European Parliament has observed budgetary discipline over the last three years, because it adopted a budget below the level of the preliminary draft budget.
Tindemans report (A4-0104/99) Mr President, it was in fact with great regret that I voted against some of the amendments tabled by my friends in the ARE Group because in principle they were certainly right.
Consequently, we voted against the report in the final vote.
Terrón i Cusí report (A4-0079/99) In the light of the massive inflows of migrants from Iraq and the neighbouring region, we believe that the situation demands attention, and we therefore welcome Mrs Terrón I Cusí's report.
It is therefore urgently necessary to establish an international political counterweight in order to restore a proper balance of power between economics and politics, a balance which today is heavily weighted in favour of the former.
