I trust that other Members of this House will take note and do likewise.
Thank you, Mr Falconer.
Madam President, I refer to Rule 127 in conjunction with Rules 95 et seq of the Rules of Procedure and welcome the Conference of Presidents' decision to include on today's agenda, in place of the Council and Commission statements on safety in cities, items on the dramatic events taking place in Kosovo and the nuclear tests in India.
Nevertheless, like many of the other members of this House, it is my view that safety in the cities of Europe is also an important and urgent matter.
Madam President, yesterday we were told in this House about a dreadful incident in Turkey where a very prominent human rights activist, in fact the President of the Human Rights Association of Turkey, Akin Birdal, had been shot in his office in Ankara by unknown civilians.
Akin Birdal is known to many of us in this House as somebody who, with great courage and integrity, has been leading the fight to enhance and strengthen human rights in Turkey.
Thank you, Mrs Green.
Appointments to the Executive Board of the European Central Bank The next item is the recommendations by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the appointments to the Executive Board of the European Central Bank (Rapporteur: Mme Randzio-Plath).
In short, they will provide the European Central Bank with the Executive Board it deserves.
They all emphasized the priority they would accord to price stability, whilst at the same time indicating that with an inflation rate of 2 % it can be assumed that the goal of price stability has effectively been achieved.
Europe's historically low inflation rates mean that the European Central Bank will not have to start its life with a policy of raising interest rates in order to prove its credibility.
The candidates also implied that there would be no need for an excessively rigid interest rate policy in order to prove the ECB's independence and trustworthiness.
Finally, the future single monetary policy will be shaped by the European System of Central Banks, not by the European Central Bank and its Executive Board alone.
At the hearings, all the candidates expressed their reluctance to see monetary policy used as a tool in the struggle against unemployment beyond the achievement of price stability.
They stressed that monetary stability represents the greatest contribution the European Central Bank can make to combating unemployment in the euro zone.
Only with a guarantee of continued price stability can further measures, such as the reduction of short-term interest rates, be considered.
The task in hand is to examine, within the framework of monetary dialogue with the European Central Bank, how this contribution can be shaped.
The duty of democratic accountability laid down in our resolution on the democratic accountability of monetary institutions in Strasbourg means that we can expect the European Central Bank to report to us, detailing how it is exercising its scope for independent action in matters of monetary policy.
Unlike American legislation on the US central bank, the Maastricht Treaty stipulates that the European Central Bank must pursue the objective of price stability as its primary task.
As has already been mentioned, the candidates made it clear that monetary policy can be used to support growth and employment by preventing interest rate speculation through the safeguarding of price stability and thereby guaranteeing macro-economic stability and, above all, a low level of long-term interest rates.
For the first time, this will allow us to use monetary policy to support economic policy in the euro zone and to pursue the secondary objectives which the European Parliament will consider particularly important in its debate on the annual economic report and the economic guidelines.
These issues will be particularly important in the dialogue between the ECB and the European Parliament.
We must ask the European Central Bank to provide statements on resolutions relating to monetary policy in order to assess its contribution to the creation of a balanced policy mix.
The events which took place in the European Council on the weekend of 2/3 May have done nothing to further public confidence in the independence of the European Central Bank.
The hearings in the European Parliament, on the other hand, have helped to redress this lack of confidence and to that extent our hearings were a confidence-building measure which benefited both the European public and the future European Central Bank.
Of course, the Maastricht Treaty provides for the political appointment of candidates.
Following that debate, to which almost 50 speakers contributed, this Parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of the eleven.
The results of this historic vote were reported by your President to the Council and, on behalf of the Council, let me say how much we valued the opinion of this Parliament.
Let me also formally report that, in line with the views of Parliament, the Council unanimously decided that 11 countries should join the single currency.
Let us remember also that this single currency is designed to achieve the stability that will help us meet our shared aims of higher employment and greater prosperity for the peoples of Europe.
Let me remind Parliament of the importance we attach to the role of Parliament in ensuring proper reporting from the European Central Bank to the people of Europe through this Parliament.
Your resolution as a Parliament on 2 April included some helpful and constructive suggestions on how this Treaty might be implemented in practice.
The people of Europe, as the rapporteur said only a few minutes ago, need confidence in their new Central Bank, confidence in its independence, confidence in its proper accountability, and that is what we are seeking to achieve through Parliament and governments working together.
Let me make one other remark that is of significance for the long-term future: the movement for greater openness and transparency in monetary policy is now becoming a powerful movement right across the economic world, an idea whose time has come.
There is now a recognition that the clarity of objectives and the setting of operational rules, that is central to credibility in modern monetary policy decision-making, requires also to be underpinned by greater openness in economic government to ensure that maximum credibility is reinforced.
Last month all the countries represented in the interim committee of the IMF proposed a new code of monetary and financial practice that requires greater openness.
This new momentum for openness, transparency and accountability is now a force for change, being recognized throughout the world.
I welcome the role of the European Parliament in its future dialogue with the European Central Bank, a role that will be important in ensuring that there is proper reporting to a democratically elected institution.
Let me say in conclusion that we should never lose sight of the fact that the arrangements for the single currency are for a purpose: they are to achieve the stability that will give us the high levels of growth and employment that we need and we want to see in Europe.
Let us, as a Parliament and as governments, never lose sight of our duties and responsibilities to include those who are socially excluded and to help back to work the 18 million unemployed who need, deserve and should have our support.
The European Parliament behaved in a very responsible way in conducting the hearings for all six candidates.
Our approach was to ensure that all candidates gave a commitment to price stability and independence and, indeed, all six candidates fulfilled that obligation.
But in the Socialist Group we also place great emphasis on full respect for Article 105 of the Treaty which means that when price stability has been achieved the Central Bank helps in the broader objectives of the European Union, in particular in job creation and growth.
We have to ensure that beyond the achievement of inflation control at a low level monetary policy can make its contribution towards fighting unemployment.
I was glad that the President-in-Office mentioned that this morning.
On behalf of the Socialist Group today, I would like to say that we need to meet with Wim Duisenberg before the summer recess of this Parliament to flesh out and spell out in detail the way in which the European Parliament will in future deal with the European Central Bank.
Our group did that and we will not suspend judgment on any of these candidates simply because of the historic importance of this moment.
The way they have to do this is by setting interest rates that are going to maintain stability and also, as the President-in-Office said, setting interest rates that will guarantee growth and full employment in the European Union.
We want an interest rate policy for all of our citizens, not only for the rich heartland of the European Union.
The six candidates amply satisfy the selection criteria stated in the Treaty.
I should like here to address my hearty thanks to the President-in-Office of the Council for having expressed what has now become important in the light of the Asian crisis: ' transparency is central to credibility in modern monetary policy' .
I am glad that this is recognized today and that, at the same time, the European Parliament's role has been recognized, and I hope that we shall be worthy of it and that we will take part in this debate in as responsible a manner as possible.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 and 8 May, under the firm yet courteous authority of President Karl von Wogau, we conducted a hearing of the six candidates for appointment to the Executive Board of the European Central Bank, in an atmosphere of mutual trust and esteem.
Everyone knows that in our political groups and parties, we always choose the person we consider will best defend our ideals and our interests.
In fact, I cannot see why the Peter Principle should apply to such an institution.
It seems to me that the six candidates unanimously agree that inflation will fluctuate between 0 and 2 %.
In fact, it would have been surprising if one of them had announced that his model was the Albanian Central Bank, with its formidable loan pyramid system.
Having been reassured on that point, we therefore come to the third question: will they form a coherent team?
This is why I personally would have preferred, and I think the Union for Europe Group would have unanimously preferred, an overall vote on the whole group of candidates whom, in all probability, we would have massively supported.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on Saturday 2 May this Parliament celebrated the constitution of monetary union with eleven Member States of the Union.
Monetary union brings with it a single currency, the euro.
This decision marks the consolidation of a new and important advance in the economic and monetary dimension of the Union, which also has enormous political importance.
The issuing of a currency implies sovereignty, and the single European currency expresses a European sovereignty which should result in a greater deepening of the political dimension of the Union.
Unfortunately, when the time came for the European Council to propose the president, the vice-president and the other four members of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank, after the European Parliament had made its decision, elements of uncertainty were introduced.
Luckily, the substance proved more important than the means, the international financial community has clearly demonstrated its acceptance of monetary union and the euro, and the proposed team has been warmly congratulated by the most internationally outstanding and prestigious economic and financial institutions.
We welcome his independence from any pressure which might limit the fulfilment of the objectives set for the European Central Bank by the Maastricht Treaty.
The European Central Bank is the keystone for the fulfilment of the objectives set for it by the Treaty and we will watch to make sure this process is complied with in full transparency, and that the obligations the Board members committed themselves to at the various hearings are also complied with.
Price stability, the main aim attributed to the European Central Bank, was achieved by reducing the creation of money and credit, to encourage better returns on investment.
Madam President, I should like to start by reminding the House that our group voted, by a large majority, for the timely introduction of the euro with eleven Member States.
Which means that we have to discuss the political programme advocated by the candidates.
Then there is the big problem of monetary policy.
Lastly, we must also see that on matters of transparency and democratic accountability the candidates were arguing mainly with a view to the financial markets and the general public, and that they envisage only a loose form of dialogue with the European Parliament.
The information given by the future President of the European Central Bank to this Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, reinforces belief in the independence of the European Central Bank, without jeopardizing the gentlemen's agreement made in Brussels.
There is no need, in this respect, to look for any form of higher authority to confirm that the body in charge of democratic control played its part responsibly and efficiently.
It remains for us to express two hopes: firstly, that in future, members of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank will continue the debate with the European Parliament as readily as they have done during these hearings.
Madam President, on behalf of the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations I attended all hearings with the prospective candidates for the Executive Board of the European Central Bank last week.
There were some striking differences in the way both the written and the oral questions were answered.
The next four to eight years of professional experience no longer seem to matter.
The only possibility we have left now for expressing this difference between candidates is to do so during the vote.
Madam President, the independence of the Central Bank, of the first truly federal institution of the European Union, should not be the independence of isolation, solitude or irresponsibility.
Nevertheless, the institutional provisions contained in the Maastricht Treaty and the changes made since then, form a minimum starting point.
First of all, there is the power to appoint the Executive Board of the European Central Bank.
Because this appointment is political in nature, the Heads of State or Government cannot and should not merely accept a co-option agreed between central bankers.
In the future, it will be the responsibility of the euro Council and of the Ecofin Council to set up a dialogue with the European Central Bank.
The responsibility and professionalism with which we have prepared, conducted and today evaluated these hearings must reinforce this institution's legitimacy and authority as the main parliamentary interlocutor of the European Central Bank.
In short, a high level of employment.
On these two points we must have serious discussions with the European Central Bank.
The evaluation we have undertaken today of these six candidates provides us with a unique opportunity, given that the length of the terms of office of the members of the Executive Board is variable.
Their proposals vary, but they have obviously shown great independence and great coherence of thought.
Having made such a good start, we must now adapt our schedules and our structures so that, alongside the main orientations of economic policy, we can attentively ensure that our monetary policy is compatible with coordinated economic policies, in order to benefit employment.
I would first of all like to say that, with regard to the procedure followed by the Council between Saturday 2 and Sunday 3 May, what is important is to take note of the fact that the markets, that is to say European savers, welcomed the appointments with satisfaction, and therefore the European Parliament - expression of the people's will - must also take account of this fact, which also represents a desire for the euro that is probably much greater than the opinion polls show.
The problem is of the utmost importance, in that it concerns the need for democratic control and transparency as well as the need to strengthen the reputation and credibility of the ECB.
Mr President, when interviewing the candidates for the Executive Board of the European Central Bank last week, our primary goal was to assert a principle, that of the need for the confidence and, exceptionally, the right of censure of the Parliament with regard to the Central Bank: for its formation today, for its operations tomorrow.
The other priority of the hearing was to verify the role and political space that the new institution - the Central Bank - intends to cover in observance of the treaties: relations with the Ecofin and euro 11, with the governors of the banks of the European countries that want to and will want to be part of the euro, since with the Central Bank's creation we find ourselves truly confronted with the first federal-like achievement of Europe.
Mr President, the hearings in Parliament and the confirmation vote which we have later today on the president, vice-president, and Executive Board members for the Central Bank mark for this House the last significant step in the beginning of a very significant and historic enterprise for Europe.
The quality of the proceedings in the House, I believe, has restored some dignity to the appointment process which unfortunately, because of the prolonged and rather bitter exchanges on 2 May at the European Council, was rather marred at the outset.
The nominee for president intends, health permitting, to serve at least until the switch-over from national notes and coins to euros has been achieved.
But we, in the Liberal Group, think there can be no more graphic way of confirming this in substance than by his remaining in office to ensure a smooth transition from the first appointee as vicepresident to that person's successor in office.
In the name of all those who, in the most dramatic way, pay for the consequences of this unpopular, neo-liberal policy, we refuse to use our vote to legitimize this body and the role that has been assigned to it.
Mr President, I hope the procedure used to appoint the board of the European Central Bank will never be repeated.
The European Parliament must immediately initiate talks on this subject with Board members.
But I would say, let last week's hearings serve as a starting point for future dialogue between the Central Bank and the European Parliament.
They must also give weight to the fact that the ECB, described as the world's most independent bank, must in the future operate in such a way that it is accountable both to the European Parliament and to the general public.
Nevertheless, I must stress the need to review some of the mechanisms for the future appointments to the Executive Board of the European Central Bank.
Madam President, before we held the hearings with the candidates for the European Central Bank last week, we obviously already knew that, legally speaking, we had no veto right against the candidates.
In the meantime it has become clear that, politically speaking, this veto right does exist.
None of the candidates is able to function as a Member of the Board if he or she does not have the confidence of a large majority within this Parliament.
Some of us sought advice in the United States, from the Senate and the FED, on the American experiences.
Our own approach with one leading interviewer per candidate, always from a different Member State than the candidate, is undoubtedly worth following.
Secondly, it seemed to me that there was sufficient awareness amongst all candidates of the importance of openness, active communication and good relations with the European Parliament.
My final conclusion is that the candidates demonstrated sufficient awareness of the uncertainties entailed in monetary policy at European level, and that they did not proffer traditional, national solutions for European problems.
As if the Group of the Party of European Socialists are the only ones here in this Parliament who defend openness and transparency where the Central Bank is concerned.
It also appears that being president requires a truly professional approach in such circumstances.
The replies to questions about democratic accountability occupy a central position for this Parliament.
The candidate for the Presidency of the Bank is prepared to appear before the European Parliament four times a year.
The quarterly report will then be discussed.
The Vice-President, Mr Noyer, says he also sees the importance of this accountability.
The Presidents of the national central banks are able to explain the monetary policy in their national parliaments.
Marianne would topple from her virginal pedestal.
I have one comment and one question.
In its endeavour to succeed, the European Central Bank will need the confidence of the public in addition to that of the market.
In this respect the European Parliament could act as one side in an excellent partnership.
Mr President, I was pleased and honoured to attend all the hearings of the Central Bank governors and the remaining five members of the Executive Board held in Brussels last week.
These hearings were a resounding success for the European Parliament and hence for the people of the European Union.
Secondly, Wim Duisenberg placed on record, as did Mrs Hämäläinen and Mr Issing, that in accordance with Article 105 of the Treaty, once the overriding principle of price stability has been secured and established then it is an obligation not just an option - wisely exercised using all instruments available to it - for the ECB to support the broad objectives of the European Union to promote growth and employment.
There are 18 million unemployed, as mentioned just now by President-in-Office Gordon Brown.
This obligation can entail lowering interest rates across 'Euroland' to stimulate growth.
The European Parliament is coming of age.
Allow me to make one further comment on Mr Metten.
I have the impression - and this was borne out in the vote - that this was due not to a genuine question of suitability, but rather to the fact that the candidate in question was an adviser to a Christian Democrat prime minister and, in addition, had worked for many years for the Employers' Association.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has conducted the hearings of the candidates for the administration of the Central Bank in, I believe, an exemplary way, which does credit to our Parliament.
But perhaps these are all issues which take a back seat in the face of the fact that there are now two large central banks in the world; one is the new European Central Bank and the other is the Federal Reserve in the United States.
We hope that these two large institutions will cooperate to stabilize the international money system and the global economy.
The aims which are defined in the charter of the European Central Bank are one-sided and somewhat clumsily phrased.
This one-sided nature of the charter either forced or allowed the candidates to present a united front on the issue of price stability and essentially, like other Pontius Pilates, to wash their hands of the matter of employment.
The role of Parliament, in the context of the general acceptance of all of the candidates and in the context of respect, naturally, for the independence of the central bank, is to point out to them that, with whatever policy they practice, they must rectify the one-sidedness of the charter and move towards the position of the American Federal Reserve.
It is high time that a part of that burden was borne by an economic and monetary policy which is more efficient and more sensitive, and it is hoped that the members of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank will play their role in this.
This is not a vote against them personally: it is a vote against the deal struck at the Brussels Summit on 2 and 3 May.
That success depends not just on the credibility of the new Central Bank but on the credibility of all the European institutions, not least on the credibility of this House.
At the same time, however, the Treaty reserves a special moment for politics - that is, the moment of nomination.
That nomination falls to the Council, but there is also a provision for Parliament to express its view following hearings or interviews with the candidates proposed by the Council.
To quote Mr Duisenberg from the verbatim report of proceedings: "I do not intend to stand down at a specific moment in time' .
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once before in Europe, 128 years ago, to be precise, there was another position which needed to be filled.
But this time, two days later, the two main protagonists sat down together in Avignon and made plans on how they would proceed in Europe in the future.
This political stability represents a foundation stone for the economic and monetary stability we are endeavouring to achieve within the European Monetary Union.
Mr Duisenberg's paper gives the first possible date for stepping down, but not the final one.
So he is correct in his definition when he says that after four years things will start to look up and that we will then be able to defend the independence of the Central Bank should any national government try to exert unreasonable pressure on its head and his good team.
I think it is very important that the ECB makes it part of its monetary policy to report back on its assessment of how much monetary policy has given real support to common economic policy.
The European Central Bank must also take account of the possibility of asymmetrical shockwaves affecting the economy when it determines appropriate monetary policy in Europe.
The candidates have all shown their willingness to enter into permanent dialogue with our European Parliament as the Executive Board of the European Central Bank.
Moreover, the candidates have shown in advance that they have the predisposition to operate as a team.
After having heard the candidates and having read the conclusions of the European Council, we can only conclude that the Treaty and the Statute of the European Central Bank are being respected.
I hope, Mr Metten, that the groups will retain the political freedom at the next opportunity to each organize themselves internally as they see fit.
The decision-making procedure of the Council must of course be changed.
Mr President, the creation of the euro is an event of the greatest significance.
It will be a new reference currency of great economic potency, and I very much hope the euro will help to turn that into great political potency.
The euro will be managed by an independent Central Bank, and our interviewing of the members we appointed to manage it was among the high points in the life of the European Parliament.
The process by which the Council selected the President of the Central Bank, however, was lamentable.
Thus, just as we have come to know the Board of the European Central Bank a great deal better, so they have undoubtedly realized that for us monetary policy is neutral, and that, in their dealings with national Parliaments, European Members will be attentive and vigilant in ensuring that the operation of the European Central Bank fulfils all the obligations imposed on it by the Treaty: price stability, but also war on unemployment, support for economic growth, and economic, social and regional cohesion in Europe.
The commitment to openness and transparency is, as the President-in-Office mentioned earlier in his speech, an idea whose time has come.
All the candidates were competent and some held views which some of us did not agree with.
With the decision by eleven of the fifteen Member States to introduce the single currency on 1 January 1999, the European Union has set its course for the 21st century.
It is true that the six members of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank have different terms of office.
One thing is certain - preparations for the Council meeting on 2 May 1998 were far from ideal.
As we know, it is the task of the presidency to take a leading role in advance preparations for personnel decisions which must be unanimous.
The Luxembourg Presidency started the process by putting forward a suggestion which was, in fact, very similar to the solution finally adopted.
The British Presidency then continued these efforts.
Unfortunately, the proposal which British Prime Minister Tony Blair finally put to the Heads of State and Government at lunch on 2 May 1998 failed to meet with general agreement.
For this Helmut Kohl has earned our thanks and our recognition.
Then he moved into the world of international monetary policy through his work at the International Monetary Fund.
The team will also contain two other very strong players: Padoa-Schioppa from Italy, an excellent individual whom we all know, and Mr Ottmar Issing, Chief Economist at the German Central Bank and the author of the standard reference works on monetary policy and monetary theory.
I believe I speak on behalf of all the Council of Ministers when I pass my congratulations to this Parliament for the excellent way in which these proceedings have taken place.
I want to add only two things.
The transparency, accountability and openness which almost every speaker has referred to in their remarks is, in my view and in the view of these proceedings, absolutely essential, not just in itself because it is good for the working of the single currency, but because it will make for the greater stability that will allow for high levels of growth and employment in Europe.
It is, therefore, on that basis that the consultation has been effective and will in future be effective that I urge you to pass on your consultations to the European Finance Ministers and the European Council in the spirit of the speeches we have received today.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Euro-Mediterranean process is today facing the difficult and important moment of resumption after the weakness of Malta, the labourious agreement with Jordan, the delay in the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean agreements already concluded, the dramatic events in Algeria, the stalling of the peace process, the complex candidature of Cyprus and, finally, the difficult blocking of the MED programmes.
Euro-Mediterranean dialogue will resume in Palermo where, in June, the informal Summit of Foreign Ministers will be held, a summit that should open the way - hopefully downhill - to the forthcoming Conference in Berlin.
This return is beginning under favourable auspices: first of all the resumption of the MED programmes, and therefore a regained confidence in the possibility of once again giving civil society the necessary strength to link the two sides of the Mediterranean and providing it with the adequate funds.
These good auspices notwithstanding, the risk remains nonetheless that the arduous peace process between Israel and Palestine, which lately has also been showing all its problems and the inadequacy of a European diplomatic presence in the negotiations led by Washington, will negatively affect - as has already occurred in Malta - the European attempt to consolidate a dialogue with the southern rim of the Mediterranean.
If the Union's common foreign policy is still not up to such tasks, perhaps the future Euro-Mediterranean Forum will be of help in keeping the channels of dialogue open between all sides.
Today, we are also discussing the resumption of the MED programmes.
I hope that the Commission has understood the high cost - not only in quantifiable financial terms but also in the difficult-to-quantify terms of the loss of trust in the European Institutions on the part of the Mediterranean non-member countries and especially on the part of civil society - caused by the inevitable blocking of the MED programmes, blocking that, mind you, was rightly sought by Commissioner Marín and effectively monitored by this Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control which gave its own positive opinion that decentralized programming could resume only when the Commission provides sufficient guarantees that there will be a resumption of sound programming and financial management.
The Group of the European People's Party is obviously not avoiding such a debate, considering it in any case useful and timely.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all allow me to remind you of the importance of the European Union's actions in favour of the associated countries of the Mediterranean.
With the MEDA programme alone, up to 1999, we are talking about ECU 3400 million.
Priority is given to projects in the fields of education, professional training and health.
Although I fully agree with the Commission on the basic principles, there are still some question marks over the implementation of those principles and the way in which the money provided in the Union's budget is spent.
The Court of Auditors' report on financial and technical cooperation with Mediterranean third countries which was presented a few weeks ago may give rise to doubts, for example about the Commission failing to provide enough human resources to implement the programmes, and about the lack of clarity between the Commission's various services on the one hand, and between the Commission's headquarters in Brussels and the territorial delegations, on the other.
Here we need to know if the Commission is planning to do everything needed in order to follow up Parliament's resolutions on the MED programmes.
It is good that these cooperation programmes have been relaunched on a new basis.
Mr President, Commissioner, I wonder if people need reminding that this is a sine qua non for authorizing the discharge of the 1996 budget.
The meeting of Foreign Ministers being held in Italy in early June is an opportunity to confirm and give concrete expression to this commitment, and our group is earnestly pressing for it.
To obtain this result all the instruments must be reactivated.
In the meantime, as far as the association agreements are concerned, that is to say those already concluded like the ones with Morocco and Israel, the agreement with Morocco, in particular, was concluded over two years ago, but some Member States have not ratified it yet.
The Council must recall the importance of this act of ratification and must also give the Commission a brief for greater flexibility so that the negotiation agreements can move at a faster pace.
The Parliament's delegation in Algeria clearly raised the questions of the respect of rule of law in the necessary fight against terrorism, but also Europe's cooperation in order to give no respite to any bases of terrorism set up in some of our countries.
It has the obligation to exercise its role in this area and to be a point of reference for all.
From the UK Presidency and the meeting of Foreign Ministers we are expecting a strong commitment in this direction and concrete acts that can be measured.
Mr President, in 1995 when the Intergovernmental Conference in Barcelona was opened, conference that was followed by other ministerial meetings - Malta in 1997 and the civil forums in Barcelona in 1995 and Naples in 1997 - the government and parliamentary institutions as well as civil society expressed unanimous support for closer and more profitable Mediterranean cooperation.
Mr President, I am going to talk about the main difficulty that is impeding the Barcelona process - the crisis in the Middle East.
Collective pressure must be brought to bear on those who seriously threaten to break the peace, so that the implementation of the Oslo agreements can be resumed.
I believe that, in general, as far as the Euro-Mediterranean problem is concerned, we should understand and accept that Europe will not play a fundamental role in resolving contradictions unless it has the tools to implement its policy.
First of all, it must admit that the social and economic problem in Algeria which was imposed by the World Bank is also Europe's problem and that Europe must clear up that problem.
Secondly, it must agree that a policy of prevention of any form of terrorism, in Algeria, can only be implemented in compliance with human rights.
Thirdly, it must take civil society into consideration: in Algeria you must learn to count to three!
If we do not understand that, we will not be able to play our part in a vision of Europe based on the concept of social welfare and freedom.
So the EUROMED parliamentary forum, which will take place all this year, becomes especially relevant since it should strengthen and complement the Barcelona process, ensure that its resolutions are complied with, and increase political dialogue.
Mr President, the decentralized cooperation programmes, developed by countries of the European Union in order to help improve the structure of partnerships between the North and South of the Mediterranean area and thereby contribute towards the stability of the Euro-Mediterranean zone, are going to be resumed.
We would like to know, in this case, what solutions the Council has implemented or intends to implement in order to safeguard the efficiency of MED Community funds and re-establish transparency in their use.
The past can also serve as a lesson for the present.
The bilateral relations between the European Union and the individual Mediterranean third countries have been conducted until now in this context, but it is doubtful that this could be of fundamental importance in the context of general Euro-Mediterranean policy.
Our resolution, which supports resumption, therefore ends up being an over-ambitious cahier de doléances barely offset by some reasons for hope, including the unblocking of MEDA funds, the meeting of the 27 Foreign Ministers and the launch of the Euro-Mediterranean Forum.
In short, without a common foreign policy for Europe, from the North Sea to the Mediterranean, little will truly be able to change and resolutions like this one will be repeated without offering great expectations.
As regards ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean agreements so far signed, the Council can only note that the ratification process by national parliaments of the agreements already signed is indeed a very long one.
The Barcelona Conference in November 1995 agreed the goal of the EUROMED free trade area by the year 2010.
As far as negotiations on agricultural products are concerned, the Council notes that notwithstanding the sensitivity of certain products, negotiations were successfully concluded with Morocco, Tunisia, Israel, the Palestinian Authority and Jordan.
The Council hopes that the remaining negotiations will soon be successfully concluded.
A new negotiating round with Lebanon took place on 23 and 24 April, and with Egypt on 7 and 8 May.
I can also tell Parliament that negotiations with Syria are scheduled to start on 14 May.
In December 1997 the Agricultural Council adopted conclusions on the Commission's study on the impact of concessions to the Mediterranean countries.
It also noted the need to develop a consistent overall strategy when defining the Community position in negotiations with third countries.
As regards the fight against terrorism, the negotiating directives for an association agreement with Algeria, as adopted by the Council in June 1996, do not provide for the inclusion in the agreement of provisions concerning this issue.
In the framework of the European Union/Algeria dialogue the Algerian authorities have underlined their interest in pursuing discussion on what might be done to prevent and combat terrorism.
The Council has repeatedly reaffirmed its interest in a broad-based dialogue to discuss any concerns and proposals that the Algerian authorities might seek to bring to its attention, including on how to combat terrorism.
The Council has strongly condemned terrorist attacks against the Algerian population, including massacres, other murders, abductions and rapes.
Equally important for the Council is the promotion and protection of human rights in Algeria.
To this end, in the context of the 54th United Nations Human Rights Commission, the Presidency, on behalf of the European Union, urged the Government of Algeria fully to respect human rights and to approach the fight against terrorism within the rule of law and international standards.
The Council has encouraged, and will continue to encourage, the Algerian Government to promote transparency through dialogue on human rights with the international community.
The MEDA programme is an essential component of the strategy of cooperation between the European Union and its Mediterranean neighbours.
The Council notes with satisfaction this decision taken just a few weeks before the Palermo ministerial meeting.
This will enable substantial cooperation to be developed in line with the Barcelona Declaration between actors of the civil society promoting better mutual understanding.
The ad hoc ministerial meeting which will take place in Palermo on 3 and 4 June will be an opportunity to assess jointly, with all the Mediterranean partners, the activities undertaken under the Euro-Mediterranean partnership and to give it a renewed impetus in view of the next formal ministerial meeting in Germany in April 1999.
The two processes are complementary but separate.
As you probably know, it was raised in this House on Tuesday and again this morning.
Up until just two and a half years ago, when the Barcelona Conference took place, the European Union's Mediterranean policy was relatively modest and limited in scope.
All we offered to each Mediterranean third country was a series of trade concessions and an amount of bilateral financial aid.
Also, the financial aid was of a conventional nature.
Association is a far-reaching project which now addresses all sectors of common interest, from questions of politics and security, through economic and financial cooperation, to the social, cultural and human dimension.
So nobody should be surprised if the changeover to this new system has given rise to certain teething problems or problems of implementation, which the Commission cannot hide.
Firstly, it is no secret that the MEDA regulation was blocked in the Council for eight months, for strictly political reasons that you are all aware of.
That eight-month paralysis in the Council was caused by the situation which arose in connection with the problem of our relations with Turkey and the veto of a Member State.
Secondly, the exponential increase in aid at the Cannes Summit came at a time when politically it was not possible to increase even slightly the Commission's human resources for implementing that aid.
The Cannes Summit, which resulted in a very considerable increase in the MEDA programme, was held just at the time when the Council and the European Parliament were deciding on zero growth for the European Commission in terms of personnel.
Furthermore it is true that, because of the management problems we found with the decentralized cooperation programmes, I myself made the decision to suspend them until we could be completely satisfied with their transparency and good management.
Today we have a policy with coherent and ambitious long-term objectives, based on the establishment of free trade, support for economic transition, and the promotion of direct investment.
Despite the difficulties - and the additional problem of contamination by the peace process, which is causing us many difficulties in our everyday work - the MEDA programme has reached cruising speed, after two and a half years.
To ask for Euro-Mediterranean policy to be implemented, or to be in favour of EuroMediterranean policy, on condition that the countries of the region cannot sell a tomato, a lettuce or a cucumber in the Community market, is simply to be against Euro-Mediterranean policy.
You have no idea what miracles we often have to perform to get the Barcelona committee to carry on working, simply because the situation in the Middle East has a very negative influence on the whole process.
Our objective is to remove that contamination from the Barcelona process as far as possible at Palermo, at the summit meeting of foreign ministers from both parties.
If in October this year the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament decide on zero growth, then you already have the answer for next year: I will still have no staff.
Of course, I would like to be given more staff in the October budget so we can run these programmes directly.
As for the decision on whether or not to refer these cases to the judicial authorities, the Commission is going to deliver a report about this to the Committee on Budgetary Control on 20 May during the debate on the discharge of the 1996 budget.
And the problem needs to be stated there.
If we open a tender for a rural development programme in Algeria and nobody puts in a bid because of the security situation, what can the Commission do?
I cannot make the technical staff who normally work in Brussels go there, because they think it is a very difficult country to work in, for internal reasons.
Nevertheless, we are working in Algiers this week, in order to find a solution.
Then there is another reason for the delay in implementing the programmes, which is never talked about but which I must mention: the delay on the part of the Member States in ratifying the association agreements.
I have spoken again to the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, because the average time taken to ratify the Mediterranean agreements in the national parliaments - Tunisia was the first case - is two years, four months.
And the agreement with Morocco has still not been ratified by all the national parliaments.
So that part of MEDA which is concerned with cooperation committees simply cannot be put into operation.
And in that sense, I hope our Member States will try to ensure that they can explain their position when they arrive in Palermo on 6 June.
As pointed out by Mr Samland, chairman of the Committee on Budgets - which, by the way, is not well known in Parliament for being particularly kind or charitable - the Commission is showing an exemplary degree of transparency in this field, and I believe it should serve as an example for the other cooperation programmes we have underway.
I think reducing the immediate funding for the MEDA programmes despite the high level of implementation is a negative political signal.
The situation in Israel is worrying for us all.
Next week, this Parliament's delegation to the Maghreb will be visiting Morocco and Mauritania to promote political and parliamentary dialogue with these countries in the spirit of the Barcelona Conference and the association agreement with Morocco, which certainly has an ambitious development plan underway in the north which deserves our attention.
For that purpose, various procedures have been developed, such as those arising from the MEDA programmes and the bilateral agreements on economic, cultural and social development.
Whether or not Mediterranean cooperation achieves good results depends on the parties concerned.
The European institutions should put in place the necessary means so that aid can reach these countries as quickly and transparently as possible, and so that a suitable information policy can allow interested businesses, organizations or individuals equal access to the planned programmes.
The European Parliament has offered this political dialogue, which we have already started in the context of the delegation to the Maghreb.
This seems wrong to me.
The area in question is a sensitive area in terms of stability and peace and it is also a vast commercial area.
The differences between the Fifteen, which are sometimes comprehensible but often prejudicial to any real prosperity in the Mediterranean region, do not help to solve migration problems, social, environmental and cultural problems, as well as problems of security and terrorism.
It is clear that Europe must get more involved in the Middle East peace process and in solving the problems that are rife in Algeria.
We have to admit that Europe has not played a major role in the Algerian situation.
The Barcelona Declaration states that all signatory countries must respect the principles of peace, democratization and human rights, in a spirit of freedom and dialogue in civil society.
Mr President, the process of dialogue begun at the Barcelona Conference represents a new pattern of regional dialogue between the peoples of the Mediterranean, committed to achieving three main objectives: political stability; security, based on the strengthening of democratic institutions; and economic development.
But at the moment, this association dialogue lacks credibility.
It is suffering constant attrition due to the Middle East situation, the infringement of human rights in Turkey and the instability in Algeria.
As regards the Middle East, the peace process has been blocked by the Israeli Government, and by that country's lack of commitment to having a meeting in the near future in order to continue with efforts towards peace.
This attitude reveals obvious contempt for the United Nations Security Council resolutions, the Oslo Accords and the principles agreed at the Madrid Conference on the Middle East.
The European Union must demand that Israel complies with these obligations.
If that does not happen, we should reconsider the limits of our agreement with Israel, whose government is endangering the region's stabilization and integration.
In planning its future strategy, the European Union should examine its part in the Middle East peace process and its political role in the Mediterranean area, with which we have ancient historical, cultural and human ties.
On that role depends not just the credibility of Mediterranean dialogue but also the very construction of Europe as a political project.
The debate will be resumed this evening.
Mr President, I rise on a point regarding the imposition of the Rule on the 50 % voting on roll-call votes.
You will recall that you advised this House that this new procedure was going to run for a trial period for three months.
I would advise you, Mr President, that while I seem to be alone in my objections to these particular impositions, I can assure you that many Members of this Chamber from all political groups are as concerned as I am about the imposition of Rules from a Bureau which does not make itself accountable to this House.
Therefore, I would conclude by asking if you will be placing before this House any procedures which will authenticate the current, obscene and daft 50 % ruling, as you have done on the current voting system?
Mr Martinez, you are an admirable jurist.
That is the case, for example, with appointments to the Court of Auditors.
I think that it would be right for us to follow our usual practice and, even in the event of a roll-call vote, to vote by secret ballot.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, as a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, you know that a secret ballot has to be requested by one fifth of the Members before the vote opens.
Because of a seating problem - I still have not found the right place - I want to say that I was here for the last vote and my vote is a 'yes' .
You must all be aware, however, that in actual fact it is dishonest of us to include these six countries in the SAVE Programme as we do not have a single penny for them!
Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz, this is not the time for an explanation of vote or a debate.
We shall begin the vote. (During successive votes, Parliament approved the six Commission proposals) Mr President, as you rightly reminded us, this text requires a qualified majority.
We have just voted on an amendment to the first indent, which was rejected, but in my opinion the original text of the first indent should now be put to the vote to see if it obtains a qualified majority.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, the Treaty stipulates that, at second reading, amendments have to be approved by a qualified majority, but nothing else does.
My report in no way deals with rare diseases, but very common ones.
I recall that we have already voted for Amendment No 50, presented by the Socialist Group.
I am sorry, I would like to go some way towards it, but in this case I cannot. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, when we voted for the euro on 2 May, in a speech in the House in Brussels I talked about a ship that had finally left to accomplish its institutional duties.
Selecting the six members of the Board of the European Central Bank and its first president was the main act to render the single currency operational.
All the candidates consider that the price stability objective has more or less been achieved in Europe, which should help, in the future, to keep interest rates low.
Similarly, according to the hearings, the financial competence of the candidates, as well as the legacy of seriousness that central banks will bequeath to the ECB, should ensure the latter's credibility and also contribute towards low interest rates.
It will have to compensate perpetually for this lack of credibility by means of interest rates higher than the potential average national rates if they had still existed.
Furthermore, as the price stability objective will be a priority for the ECB, it will have to react each time any slippage is likely anywhere, as it could cause an imbalance in the whole area.
And, once again, the situation will not be accidental.
It will be the result of the very idea of European monetary unification, which will put a single Central Bank in the centre of a heterogeneous area.
If in the future we want the citizens of Europe to regard the euro as a reliable and stable currency, then the individuals serving in this Central Bank must also have been elected by a procedure in which the citizens can have the greatest confidence.
Today, Commissioner Brittan and others, particularly some members of the British Presidency, are telling us that we need to create a transatlantic single market.
So, if they get their way, and we do create a transatlantic single market, no doubt the same people will tell us, in 2004, 2005 or 2006, that because we have a transatlantic single market, we need a transatlantic single currency, which could of course only be the dollar.
In conclusion I believe that the appointment procedure followed on 2 and 3 May turned out to be highly unsatisfactory.
The sinister political sparring calls for further powers for the European Parliament in this area.
Of course we are voting for the recommendation on the appointment of the President and other members of the European Central Bank's Executive Board, because the common European currency affects development in all European countries.
What took place on 2 May at the Brussels Summit has caused great dissatisfaction and bad feeling.
The squabbling between Member States has relegated the birth of the euro to second place and has diminished its importance as an event.
It was nevertheless worth holding a debate on who should have the authority to make decisions.
From now on, we shall have to ensure that Parliament exerts real control and, in particular, works determinedly towards a political Europe.
The European Parliament's resolution on the appointment of the President and members of the ECB has, at least, made it possible to create a team of monetary experts whose professional qualities are recognized by all.
But, even if the debates organized over the last two days have allowed Members to cover quite a wide range of subjects, from the individual situations of the nominees to their concept of the role of the ECB, including technical questions on the money supply or on the euro/dollar parity, it is still particularly difficult to judge the 'theoretical' competence of each nominee at a single hearing.
Of course, recommending monetary stability in order to institute a 'healthy' economic environment is commendable, but in no event should we lose sight of the aim, which should be a priority for both politicians and monetarists: to reduce unemployment.
The six candidates proposed for the European Central Bank's Executive Board must follow this constitutional economic policy.
We feel that the 'horse-trading' that has taken place regarding the ECB President's term of office and the manner in which the European Parliament has been consulted is unworthy and degrading.
As a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy of the European Parliament, I welcome the key decisions that were taken during the weekend of 1-3 May by the European leaders which have given the final green light to the introduction of a single European currency in Europe.
I welcome the fact that 11 countries are set to join the new currency which will encompass a population of over 290 million people.
If only six or seven countries were to have joined up to the new currency then this would have only resulted in the building of a two-speed Europe.
The European Central Bank will be run over the next 12 years by two of the most experienced bankers in Europe, Mr Duisenberg and Mr Trichet.
The debate about the new head of the European Central Bank must not detract from the achievements to date in bringing about a new European single currency.
We must also remember, however, that real challenges lie ahead with regard to Irish participation in a new European single currency.
In conclusion, I am confident that Britain will join up to the new currency in the near future because British industry wants it and because Britain will be a big loser in terms of attracting outside direct foreign investment as long as it stays out of the new euro zone.
The Danish Social Democrats are abstaining from the vote on appointments to the Executive Board of the European Central Bank.
Voting in favour would go beyond the stance based purely on principle that we took on 2 May.
The appointment of the President of the ECB has already been ratified by the markets and public opinion - and that is a very important evaluation factor, on the democratic as well as the economic level.
And it is a positive element that, owing to the statement of superior political will revealed by the appointment process, the ECB's principal objective - the control of price stability - can now be placed in the wider context of the stability, balance and cohesion of the European Union as a whole.
The total independence granted to it by Article 107 of the Maastricht Treaty really means an absence of control.
So it is easy to see that, without control, the ECB will be all-powerful.
The hearing of the candidates for the Executive Board of the European Central Bank and the corresponding vote for their endorsement by the European Parliament is indeed an important political moment in the necessary completion of EMU and the euro.
The vote of the European Parliament is purely consultative.
We will soon have to face up to it: either EMU does not lead to the political integration of Europe along federal lines, in which case we must worry about its future, or it de facto and inevitably leads towards that objective, in which case we must say so clearly and prepare ourselves appropriately.
On these grounds I prefer to abstain in the vote without naturally calling into question the suitability of the persons that are being proposed to us and even less the historic importance of EMU and the single currency.
Opening up the central banks to the public at large and in particular to the 'specialized public' of the financial markets may appear humdrum, but democratic anchoring of the independence of the central bank in a structured monetary dialogue to be institutionalized at both European and national level is a task that remains to be achieved.
A considerable minority within our group did not consider that it made sense to vote 'No' in such a critical situation.
Cabrol recommendation for second reading (A4-0150/98) Mr President, the decision taken in this House today marks a great day for democracy and for the health of citizens throughout Europe.
Obviously the Greens would have liked to have seen this directive strengthened, but we know that the tactics of the tobacco lobbying industry were to try to get an amendment put in so that when it went back to the Council the majority there would change it, because of undue pressure by Germany, in particular.
The German Government was pressurized by the print media and the newspaper industry because they were faced with the prospect of losing a huge amount of money from tobacco advertising.
I think it is appalling that vested interests within governments and countries are totally disregarding the health of people throughout Europe.
For example, an organization in Ireland called ASH estimates that the tobacco industry and its appalling campaign to ensure that more and more young people take up smoking kill six times more people in Ireland each year than road accidents, work accidents, drugs, murder, suicide and AIDS.
I am glad to see here today that the tobacco industry did not get its way and that Parliament put the interests of the health of people throughout Europe before vested interests.
The Greens were in a difficult position in trying not to amend it because we knew what the end result would be.
It is quite clear that the tactics of some people in this House were very sinister indeed: trying to put amendments in; trying to get people who are health conscious to vote in favour of them.
Mr President, I did not vote for the common position for two reasons.
It is not a question of being for or against smokers, for or against the prevention of cancer.
Because the ban on advertising in the Community will probably destroy thousands of jobs, particularly women's jobs, in my country especially, to the benefit of multinationals in third countries, I have decided not be a hypocrite, and have voted against it.
However, I would like to draw your attention to the attitude taken by Commissioner Flynn when he closed the debate on this report.
I believe that the two are to be kept separate, as the Commission has done, deciding to maintain aid for tobacco production, something that we will discuss in a forthcoming report by the Parliament.
Therefore, Mr President, I ask that you convey my censure to Commissioner Flynn and request, if possible, an answer to his attitude.
This is an improper position; it takes no account of the unfavourable economic and social effects of such a measure, which disregards European interests vis-a-vis the United States of America, and finally it is not associated with a thoroughgoing reform of the CAP, particularly in favour of agriculture, fruit-growing and oil and wine production in the countries of the South.
After more than 5 years of legislative stalemate, we are about to vote on one of the most difficult texts in the history of the European Parliament.
Our vote today should make it possible to ban tobacco advertising in the European Union.
This decision is fundamental to public health and expresses our determination to prevent all forms of addiction, whatever they are.
With the majority of us in agreement, it is the best possible compromise at the present time because it strikes a balance between the interests of all those involved.
I ask all my colleagues in favour of public health to show the same determination.
As an ear, nose and throat specialist, I should like to refer to some of the aspects that have helped us to make this decision, which is not in the least excessive or disproportionate, in comparison with the public health risk.
As tobacco advertising aims specifically to stimulate this type of demand and to increase this type of consumption, it is important that we control it permanently.
We have united to create a single currency.
They increased the nicotine content of some of their products so as to addict young people for life.
They target young people with seductive advertising without caring about the long-term damage that is being inflicted on their health.
We cannot therefore ban tobacco production and consumption.
After six years of discussions, the Council has finally, by an extremely small margin, adopted a common position on a total tobacco advertising ban.
Personally, I am in favour of adopting the project as it stands without any amendments.
Each Member State can therefore act under its own initiative if it considers that the time scale indicated in the text is too slow.
Today, after a 9 year struggle, this Parliament - the direct representation of the citizens of Europe - by accepting the Council's common position without amendment, has managed democratically to impose its view.
Today is a historic occasion for the health of all our citizens, despite the fact that the Spanish Members of the Partido Popular voted in favour of encouraging tobacco consumption and its dramatic consequences for health.
On a day like this, it is an honour to be a Member of this Parliament, as I said in the debate yesterday, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
I should like to congratulate warmly the rapporteur, Professor Christian Cabrol, for the excellent work he has done in preparing the second reading of the proposal for a directive on banning the advertising and sponsorship of tobacco products in the European Union.
I share his convictions on this common position.
Six years after the first reading, the Council has finally reached a common position.
Detractors of this proposal for a directive argue that its legal basis should be changed.
That is what Parliament has done today, on the very day after the publication of the WHO's annual report, which states that 3.5 million deaths are caused by smoking throughout the world every year, and estimates that there will be 10 million deaths per year by the year 2020.
This increase is directly linked to a foreseeable increase in smoking, particularly in developing countries.
A great step forward has been taken in the area of public health protection.
The European Parliament can today congratulate itself on giving its support to a ban on tobacco advertising in the European Union.
One of the fundamental principles of the market economy, and therefore an integral part of a single market, is the provision of appropriate information about goods which are legally available.
The European Union wants to guarantee the free movement of goods and services and realize the single market.
As a consumer I have the right to know which products are on the market and what these products offer.
I have therefore voted in favour of the report.
While all of us want to see a dramatic reduction in tobacco advertising, it is regrettable that the need for better education among young people has become overshadowed by the superficially attractive argument for a blanket ban on advertising.
I have listened to the arguments put forward not only by the manufacturers but also by anti- smoking campaigners and by the trade unions who represent workers employed in the industry in my own constituency.
With 654 victims per year Luxemburg is no exception.
Strong in my conviction and backed by the moral support of the doctors of Luxemburg and the Fondation luxembourgeoise contre le cancer , I will be voting for the tobacco advertising ban.
Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and Council's legal service have both concluded that the Community does not have the power to issue the directive - regardless of whether article 100a or any other article of the Treaty is cited as the legal basis.
Should the directive be adopted, a complaint would in all probability be brought before the Court of Justice to the effect that the document should be declared invalid under Articles 173 and 174 of the Treaty.
One of the fundamental principles of the market economy, and therefore an integral part of a single market, is the provision of appropriate information about goods which are legally available.
This is in keeping with the treatment of the consumer as a politically mature individual who is able to use information correctly.
I reject the ban on the grounds of basic considerations relating to the procedure used by the Committee on the Environment which has resulted in the European Parliament disassociating itself from an important European legislative project.
Because we are taking it upon ourselves to discuss in this House a draft which was dealt with by the European Parliament over six years ago in a quite different context.
Even more important for our position, however, is the fact that by using the selected procedure the European Parliament is performing a legal act which undoubtedly exceeds the scope of its legal competence.
We would consider ourselves far more bound by a principle of subsidiarity which does not produce a sort of rarefied EU centralism and in which a European legislator in Brussels does not see himself as authorised to intervene in anything and everything.
But I am not going to follow the recommendations of our rapporteur, Professor Cabrol, because I am not convinced that this ban will have the expected result.
I can see no legal basis for the common position in the Treaty on European Union.
In fact, a reduction in advertising and promotion alone will lead to a reduction in tobacco consumption.
In that respect, we approve the regulation of the advertising and promotion of tobacco.
It is therefore necessary to prevent advertisements, which are banned in some Member States from being broadcast without control by the media of other Member States.
Nevertheless, this group wishes to reiterate its position with regard to European tobacco production.
A large number of Members of this House from non tobacco-producing Member States regularly want to withdraw all aid from tobacco production.
Now, it is important to remember that overall the European Union shows a deficit, and that it imports far more tobacco than it exports.
Imports would increase, with a negative effect on the balance of trade of the European Union, and it would have no effect on consumption.
It would be wrong to withdraw aid from tobacco production, because that would have a devastating effect on particularly sensitive rural areas.
Finally, the Cabrol report raises an important question of law.
This is an extremely dangerous precedent: it may lead the way to activist intervention by the Community, on the basis of the majority vote, in practically all the areas that fall within the competence of the Member States.
The question of the legal basis of a text is therefore always fundamental.
In that respect, the intention and, in this case, the use, to which the legal basis argument can be put in delaying tactics, are not insignificant.
The coherence of this Parliament's political decisions reflects on our credibility and our efficiency, and with a political courage dictated by necessity, we must act as scrupulously as possible with regard to public health risks.
Collins recommendation for second reading (A4-0146/98) The Council directive on the quality of drinking water is of great importance and its de facto application must be ensured.
This proposal for a directive has been examined by the co-decision procedure and was already significantly improved by the European Parliament, at first reading in December 1996.
But, above all, the Council's common position has incorporated some of Parliament's basic amendments such as: the need to develop harmonized methods of sampling for testing the lead content in water, which I introduced on behalf of the PPE group at first reading.
This is essential, because data must be comparable between one Member State and another; -the definition of points of compliance: the Council has taken up my amendment, which was adopted at first reading.
That will facilitate the enforcement of this directive considerably.Nevertheless, some areas of the common position could still be improved.
The PPE group is also pleased that amendments have been adopted relating to: parametric values regarding specific chemical substances, such as trihalomethanes, or physical parameters, such as radioactivity, which will of course have to be taken into consideration in the light of the Euratom directive; -the request for a study relating to endocrine disrupters.
They have five years in which to develop a plan to replace it.
That is a good solution, which provides a reasonable period of time to plan what needs to be done, in the light of the effects of lead.
It would of course be preferable for the cost of these plans to be calculated and programmed, but that will fall within the competency of each of the Member States.
It was nevertheless necessary, in exceptional cases, for Member States to be able to ask the European Commission for a further derogation.
I have therefore voted in favour of the report.
Mr President, it is important that water quality is protected and improved throughout the European Union.
The people have a right to expect no less.
The directive on drinking water is one of the most significant legislative initiatives of EU environmental policy.
In the water industry, like many other environmental sectors, it is necessary to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the full, so problems can be solved more efficiently.
However, I support the rapporteur's amendments aimed at limiting the scope for Member States to be let off meeting EU standards of water quality.
This type of report should not pass through this Parliament.
Parliament should decide on general guidelines but then leave expert bodies to work out specific details.
Miranda de Lage recommendation (A4-0156/98) I refused to give a positive vote to the European Union-Mexico agreement because of the human rights situation, particularly in the Chiapas region.
It is understood that the modernization of the Mexican economy and its membership of NAFTA make it necessary to reform the framework agreement on cooperation.
The European Union could, furthermore, not fail to react to the increasing instances of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, social disparities and poverty in Mexico, after the events in Chiapas and the financial crisis of December 1994.
As our rapporteur says, the new agreement comprises three cooperation arrangements, which aim to encourage the democratization of Mexican society, and which were not included in the 1991 framework agreement.
In spite of this, we have not voted in favour of this report.
We do not in the present situation believe that Mexico fulfils the requirements regarding respect for human rights.
In Mexico, and especially in the province of Chiapas, infringements of human rights are constantly taking place.
French Communist and allied Members have declared themselves in favour of the suspension of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and Mexico.
We have recommended this exceptional measure at the request of many personalities in Chiapas, and in Mexico, for the same reasons that I described to this House, on 15 January, the day after the terrible massacres in Acteal.
We shall therefore not vote for the report.
Since the beginning of the year, serious violations of human rights, the militarization of the area and the presence of paramilitary groups have been common.
The population lives in an atmosphere of violence and constant tension.
Dozens of indigenous people are in prison for demonstrating, or because they took part in the establishment of independent municipal structures in compliance with the San Andrés agreements of February 1996.
The partnership agreement between Mexico and the European Union was drafted within that context.
To approve it today would mean endorsing a completely different policy.
Peijs report (A4-0149/98) The reform of the Customs Code, drafted some time ago, has come at the right time, when the shocking losses in the Community budget caused by large-scale fraud have just been announced.
Europe has to reform this legislative framework.
The cost of the various types of customs fraud amounted to some ECU 2 billion in 1997.
The reform of the Customs Code is a reference framework for future proposals and initiatives by the Commission in this area, and is therefore welcome and necessary.
These aspects of the proposed reform are clearly steps in the right direction and will enable opportunities for fraud to be considerably reduced.
First of all, it is necessary to ensure democratic control: it is important that speeding up procedures does not lead to a situation in which the European Parliament has lost all democratic control.
Secondly, we must prevent confusion: the simplified procedures must reduce the administrations' reaction times in new situations.
We have naturally voted in favour of protecting the public interest, which we still think is served by the customs officials and all professionals involved in the fight against the deregulation of the procedures and indiscriminate access to them, in the context of the urgent need to prevent smuggling, which, for its part, serves interests that transcend all national boundaries.
Pollack report (A4-0161/98) Mr President, I wholeheartedly agreed with the three reports on acidification.
We welcome the proposals by the Commission and the amendments from this Parliament.
Thankfully, reductions of more than 50 % since 1980 are no exception in the majority of Member States.
It might even be possible to achieve the planned reductions for sulphur and nitrogen oxides for 2010 as a result of the new standards for car exhaust emissions.
This is extremely worrying, because one particle is already enough to be fatal amongst certain risk categories.
We all realize the harmful effects which the pollutants addressed in this directive have on public health and the environment, and the urgent need for binding limit values.
I am voting in favour of this report today as the people who send us here to represent them have a right to expect that we back measures aimed at cleaning up the air that we all breathe.
But today we realize that air pollution can harm not only our own children and our own district, but that one nation's pollution can be carried on the wind to damage the international environment.
Uniform standards of measuring air pollution across the EU should be used to inform the authorities and the public locally of the air pollution they have to face each day.
This kind of regular information can act as a real incentive to our governments and business to reduce pollution levels.
Alongside national action such as the British Government's commitment at the recent Kyoto Earth Summit to tackle pollution levels, EU law can also add a weapon to our arsenal in the fight for clear air for future generations.
Hautala report (A4-0174/98) The proposal for a directive relating to a reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels is one of the aspects of the action to be taken within the framework of the Community strategy for the prevention of the acidification of the atmosphere.
Sulphur dioxide (S02 ) is one of the pollutants that contribute towards acidification as a result of depositing excessive quantities of acidifying substances in soil or water.
The question of the fuels used in refineries is also important.
In my opinion, Article 100a is a far better basis for a directive establishing limit values for the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels, in order to prevent both acidification and the present distortions of competition in the European heavy fuels market.
In this respect, I wish to point out that paragraph 4 of Article 100a allows Member States to enforce more stringent national standards if they are justified for environmental reasons.
I hope the European Commission will take this vote into consideration and will revise its proposal on that basis.
On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I deplore the fact that the scope of this directive has been enlarged to include bunker fuel oils and marine diesel oil and that the standard recommended by the European Commission regarding gas oil has been toughened.
I am, nevertheless, pleased with the adoption of amendments intending to involve the European Parliament in information procedures.
Furthermore, by the end of the year, the European Commission will have to submit proposals for economic instruments which may contribute to reducing sulphur dioxide emissions.
For the EU not only has to deal with the myriad of existing national systems, it also has to fight against deceptive "ecological' advertising.
The new approach being taken here should hopefully be more serious, thanks to the creation of a "European Organisation for the Environmental Symbol' .
Quite naturally, countries with high environmental standards do not want to give up their eco-labels simply to introduce a weaker one.
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of revising eco-labelling.
The parliamentary report proposes that the area of application of labelling should be expanded to include services as well.
Whitehead report (A4-0153/98) Mr President, Mr Whitehead's report relates to an essential area, complementary to our vote two years ago on the 'Television without Frontiers' directive.
The subject here is the protection of minors and human dignity in new audiovisual and information services.
The drafting of a Green Paper on the protection of minors and human dignity is an excellent thing in itself and I read Mr Whitehead's report with great satisfaction.
In order to be efficient, we must mobilize all the players involved in the problem of violation of human dignity, with regard to minors, of course, but also with regard to any human being.
We need to introduce measures especially to protect children and to emphasize human dignity.
The Commission itself has undertaken to support the creation of a system of national self-regulation frameworks, and to encourage cooperation and pooled experience between the police and the judicial authorities in Member States and with their equivalents in other countries.
Furthermore, the Commission has asked Member States to support efficient self-regulation actively amongst service providers.
This proposal should certainly be supported and implemented; nonetheless great vigilance is required.
That is why the rapporteur has my full support when he says that national practices vary according to each country's culture, which means there must be some convergence between codes of conduct.
We all know that today children and young people are exposed to enormous moral and spiritual pressure and pollution through a whole range of violent images and other trashy products on the Internet and other audiovisual services.
This matter is a good example of a problem that cannot be solved satisfactorily at the national level.
We are delighted that Council has taken the problem of the legal basis seriously in this matter and has re-worded the proposal to harmonize better with article 130, item 3.
I am delighted that the Commission has tabled a motion in which Member States are urged to practise national self-regulation to ensure basic rights for children in the matter of audiovisual and information services.
Children are a particularly vulnerable group who deserve special measures to protect them in this area which is so difficult to regulate.
Mr President, I am happy to be voting for this report by my colleague, Mr Whitehead, today.
Instead the chance should be given to businesses working in these new technologies to show that they take consumer worries about obscene material seriously.
The industry should know that, whilst we back moves to an information society where technology is available to all, we will be watching to make sure that our children are not exposed to obscene material by unscrupulous operators.
Hulthén report (A4-0162/98) The Hautala, Pollack and Hulthén reports all relate to the problem of air pollution.
In fact, as far as large-scale farming is concerned, nothing is being done to promote the use of agricultural products for non-food purposes.
I also think that the rapporteur agrees rather too much with the Commission's opinion that the massive introduction of new information technologies in schools will solve a lot of problems.
I think that we must very positively and attentively study academic failure, which is endemic in all our countries, and ask ourselves why academic failure exists and how to remedy it.
I do not mean that new technologies cannot help us here but I believe that it is a dangerous delusion to think those technologies will be our salvation.
So, why do so many exchanges or programmes not have the expected results?
Furthermore, confusion reigns, in all these reports, with regard to the concepts of education, training, a Europe of knowledge, and so on, and one word seems to me to be too often missing.
All the great events of European history have taken place in the various European countries on a basis of unity and diversity, for example, monarchism, universities, and so on.
It would be very interesting to introduce a European dimension at the level of European culture.
In 1999, three Community programmes relating to education, training and youth will come to an end.
In its communication, the European Commission has presented to us its guidelines for future actions in these areas for the period 2000-2006.
It proposes a limited number of objectives - increased access of citizens to educational resources, implementation of pilot projects, wide distribution of good educational practice.
For my part, I do not think that the Commission has really taken into consideration the positions upheld many times in this House.
The Commission has not provided any solution.
However, I hope that the Commission will take note of Parliament's proposals that there should be a European content to the curriculum, a separate youth programme with a broader based goal to combat exclusion and racism and an EU lead to promote new technology and the information society.
The value of the EU's educational programmes in contributing to European integration was brought home most vividly to me when I had the honour of participating in a Comenius project in a school in my constituency.
The teachers and pupils of this school showed tremendous commitment, displayed many skills, expended much energy and enthusiasm in fostering European cooperation and mutual cultural understanding.
The aim of this communication is to start a debate on the guidelines for future Community actions in the areas of education, training and youth for the period 2000-2006.
It relates in fact to the new generation of programmes or actions that will replace or continue the Socrates (education), Leonardo (training) and Youth for Europe programmes.
Our proposals will depend on the answers to all these questions.
The Community's current programmes in the fields of general vocational training and youth policy are set to come to an end in 1999 after a period of five years.
In my view, it would have to be doubled in order to achieve an increase in the level of subscription to the programmes and to achieve a subscription level of at least a 10 % in line with Commissioner Cresson's target.
In Swedish schools, for example, we have always had a European dimension.
We have already been unable to hear all the speeches listed for this morning in full because the stipulated speaking times have been exceeded.
To enable the first three points on the agenda, that is to say the Tindemans report, the Council's statement on nuclear tests in India and the statements by the Council and the Commission on Kosovo, to be debated before 'Question Time' , in order to ensure that the whole of the proceedings can take place in the presence of the Council, therefore, I would remind all members of the need to observe speaking time limits scrupulously.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is noticeable how in Europe since 1945 the problem of security and defence has kept coming to the fore, but it has usually also led to disagreement.
I can only list the instances, for which I apologize. 1947: the Dunkirk Treaty between Great Britain and France; 1948: the Brussels Treaty; the Dunkirk Treaty between the Benelux countries; 1949: the establishment of NATO.
In 1954 the Western European Union was established amongst the countries included in the Brussels Treaty.
In 1970 political cooperation commenced.
In 1976 a report was produced, at the request of the European Council, under my name, which contained the sentence: European Union is unthinkable without a common foreign and security policy.
The Bureau of this Parliament agreed to this.
We are trying to push forward a number of issues, that is, to convey our ideas, especially to the Council, and obviously also to the Commission.
A report was therefore drawn up, and we have already approved it in the Committee.
In my opinion this report stands midway between the actual situation in Europe and the ideal desirability of developing the European personality.
It aims to provide clarity and transparency in the relationship between NATO, the European Union and the Western European Union.
It wants to clarify how this directly elected Parliament sees the objectives of a sound defence, and in which direction a meaningful development ought to go if Europe wants to prevent or resolve crisis situations, even when these concern territorial integrity or the defence of justified interests.
How Europe views peace also affects neighbouring countries and ultimately the whole world.
It calls for closer links between the Union and the Western European Union as suggested in the Treaties, or as is being proposed, at the level of ministers, parliament, assemblée , officials, and for a planning entity for foreign policy through which, according to an earlier decision, this cooperation ought to be realized.
Mr President, the Committee on Budgets has taken note of the report by Mr Tindemans with a great deal of interest.
In the context of the Treaty of Amsterdam it is important that the second pillar issues are financed within the framework of the European budget.
The Tindemans report also makes the mistake of assuming that the WEU and the EU are integrated, while the Treaty only mentions the possibility.
Since the resolution was passed on 2 May, we have largely completed economic and monetary integration.
When talking to our European citizens we often meet with a high degree of disappointment that the European Union is unable - I say unable because it does not yet possess the required instruments - to secure peace outside its own borders.
I believe it is fitting that, at such a vital time as this, a man like Leo Tindemans should have grasped the opportunity to start such a debate, rather as he did in the 1970s with his report on the development of European Union.
Moreover, this strategy and planning unit stipulated in the Amsterdam Treaty must be conceived in such a way that it does not become a COREPER-3 organization or a new organization of political directors and their representatives.
It must be shaped to include the Commission in such a way that it represents a Community position rather than simply a collection of national positions.
Those countries expect a great deal of Europe, of a Europe that no longer aims to dominate, that aims to promote balance and peace in international relationships.
The European Union will not be able to play that role if it does not gradually establish a common defence policy to safeguard its territorial integrity, its vital interests, and its ability to take part in conflict prevention and peacekeeping operations.
In order to meet that challenge, Mr Tindemans proposes to bring the structures of the Western European Union and the European Union closer together, with a view to long-term integration of the two institutions, with the WEU becoming to some extent the fourth pillar of the European Union.
The proposals to strengthen the WEU and to integrate it gradually into the European Union, submitted by Mr Tindemans, must be discussed in relation to that long-term objective, which probably cannot be achieved quickly.
The gradual establishment of a common defence policy must take place within the framework of strengthened cooperation, as the provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty propose.
The great challenge of conflict prevention, the indispensable emancipation of Europe in a transatlantic alliance, without cutting the ties that unite us with the United States, the gradual integration of a Europe of defence, of the Western European Union, into the institutional framework, are well covered in this report.
If that concept were unequivocally accepted, the ideas put forward by Leo Tindemans would have greater chance of success.
The European Union has an objective interest in the construction of this new model of security on our continent.
But at the same time, we should realize that it will only be possible to build this model if the Union is fully committed to it, and has a real common foreign and security policy.
It is clear that the progress in this direction represented first by the Maastricht Treaty and then by the Treaty of Amsterdam is positive but insufficient.
We are talking about a defence policy which is not based on a classical concept, but on a renewed definition, guided by the principles contained in the United Nations Charter, the Helsinki Final Act and the Paris Charter.
Furthermore, in that same direction, we should also think about regaining a balance in the EU-USA relationship, in security and defence terms.
The idea that the EU can guarantee security in Europe with a common defence policy is a throwback to the time of the Cold War.
It can create balance, it can build up close economic relations and on this basis offer strong economic cooperation and financial support.
It is also these instruments which will enable the EU to assume the responsibility at world level which it needs to ensure common survival in this world.
The report he submitted to us today is certainly not the report he wanted; it is certainly not the report that I wanted and that the Group of the European Radical Alliance wanted; it is a report which has encountered many problems before reaching today's sitting, and may I say that I detected a certain irony in the speech made by our British friend, Mr Titley.
And today our Belgian premier is giving his name to a report on a joint EU ministry of defence, joint weapons production and joint armed forces.
In the same way, the Danish government will eventually vote in favour of joint armed forces if Denmark votes "Yes' to the Amsterdam Treaty - otherwise, that would be the first time a government had remained unmoved.
The Tindemans report on joint armed forces is serious and dangerous.
It suggests a gradual build-up in line with the Amsterdam Treaty.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, India has just carried out three nuclear tests, China is continuing its experiments, others countries are equipping themselves with or developing atomic weapons, yet the rapporteur managed to talk about the defence of Europe, without ever mentioning the concepts of nuclear dissuasion or nuclear armament in his report.
And yet, that is a very crucial area with regard to the security of Europe, because unfortunately goodwill and good intentions will not safeguard the external and internal security of our countries in the future.
I also regret that the report does not show any real determination to emancipate Europe from the United States of America and therefore from NATO.
A number of principles need to be reaffirmed: the creation of a new so-called 'European alliance' treaty, not only uniting the countries of the European Union but forming an alliance of sovereign European States, independent of course from the United States of America but also from NATO structures, the enforcement of the European preference rule in all areas relating to arms, the establishment of a budgetary policy, which enables Europe to regain its security, independence and freedom, taking into consideration new threats such as terrorism and bacteriological threats, the development of training structures, organizational structures, and civil protection structures and finally the establishment of rules enabling French nuclear dissuasion to be used for the joint benefit of the European alliance.
European security policy rests on three pillars.
As I see it, the third pillar is disarmament.
It is obvious that the creation of interdependence in itself will increase security and stability in our continent.
We should remember that European integration is, by its nature, its aims and its fundamental structure, one vast security project, with defence as one of the principles of the Maastricht Treaty.
Specifying the role of the Western European Union as part of a single defence policy is linked to some extent with the simultaneous enlargement process in respect of NATO and the EU.
With NATO about to receive members from central and eastern Europe its membership will become more heterogeneous, but at the same time the organization's so-called European pillar will be strengthened.
The Petersberg tasks, which were written into the Amsterdam Treaty on the initiative of Finland and Sweden, and which allow all Union Member States to participate in regional peacekeeping operations, will create a supporting structure for a single defence policy.
The development of a viable peacekeeping capability is a precondition of the growth of a single defence policy, although peacekeeping is not always directly linked to defence.
It will also be seen as a step on the way to a more united identity for European security policy.
I too believe that he would have liked, would have tried to do much more than he succeeded in doing in the end, and that it was therefore extremely difficult for him to arrive at this point with results that are, honestly speaking, modest from the point of view of whoever considers this issue - common defence policy - an essential point, if Europe is not just thought of as the Europe of the single currency.
Furthermore, anyone who has said that the Tindemans report should focus more on prevention and less on the matter of interventions has assumed a hypocritical approach because, while it is true that prevention is the top priority - this is clear - it is also true that Europe is forced to just chatter away, to utter useless waffle, because in reality it is not possible to intervene in cases of regional conflicts, like in Bosnia or Albania a few months ago.
An adult European Union must be able to enforce its foreign policy by military means, including during the times the United States do not support this.
The rapporteur has clearly stated in his report that a common defence policy is pointless without a common foreign policy.
As many Member States as possible should make use of NATO joint task forces if desired.
In conclusion, Mr President, as chairman of the relevant subcommittee I support the proposal in the report to change the name of the subcommittee, presently security and disarmament, to Subcommittee on Security and Defence Policy.
On the issue of imperialism, it is quite clear in paragraph 4 of this document that 'the purpose of a common defence policy is to protect the Union's interest in all areas, including security of supply' .
That such a thing should be true in this Parliament is an absolute disgrace.
Ireland is holding a referendum on the Amsterdam Treaty.
Our government and the main political parties are telling us that the Amsterdam Treaty has nothing to do with defence.
The Western European Union is a military alliance committed to the nuclear deterrent.
Furthermore, Article J(7) of the Amsterdam Treaty, a protocol attached to the Treaty, was an Irish addition and intended to prevent the Irish people from knowing the real implications of the Amsterdam Treaty.
It says that the European Union, together with the Western European Union will jointly consider future requirements in strengthening mutual cooperation within one year following the entry into force of that Treaty, in order to give the WEU, ' as an integral part of the development of the Union' , an organizational framework.
Having said that, thinking about European defence today means asking a series of questions.
Whether the European Union is really the most relevant framework within which to approach the current defence problems of our continent, in terms of the new threats that have replaced the Soviet threat.
Whether the aim of a European defence policy should be to put everyone into a straight jacket or whether it should be organized on the basis of a variable geometric concept, taking into consideration the Member States' very different wishes with regard to defence.
It only contains two innovations: the incorporation into the CFSP of cooperation in the field of armaments, and the Petersberg missions.
The objective of the European Armaments Agency must be to maintain the capability for independent research and production at the highest technological level in Europe, in view of particularly aggressive American competition.
These are areas in which the scale of the costs involved in the projects justifies the adoption, by virtue of the principle of subsidiarity, of joint programmes, whose funding will have to be provided over a period of time by Member States, which freely decide to take part.
Member States with a tradition of neutrality, which make up one-third of the Fifteen, have accepted the integration into the Treaty of all the Petersberg tasks, but have however clearly refused the collective defence guarantee instituted by the Brussels Treaty among members of the WEU.
Article 17 of the Treaty of Amsterdam also reflects the deep divisions between Member States with regard to defence policy.
Even leaving aside the question of Member States with a tradition of neutrality, it states that common defence must be brought about through the integration of the WEU into the European Union and, at the same time, that this has already been achieved within the framework of NATO.
The Tindemans report rightly underlines the fact that any common defence policy is dependent upon the clear identification of common interests and proposes that a Council White Paper should try to outline them.
It is nonetheless extremely significant that this debate is taking place precisely today, the same day our Parliament has expressed its favourable opinion for the names proposed by the Council for the members of the Board of the European Central Bank.
We must reaffirm here once again that monetary union without political union is ridiculous, a useless effort for the European people.
An essential accompaniment to political union is undoubtedly a common foreign and security policy combined with a common military and arms strategy.
The single currency must soon be followed by a common defence policy so that Europe can guarantee peace, including beyond its own borders.
The delegation of the National Alliance, the democratic and moderate Italian party, will vote in favour of the report to reaffirm its own choice for European Unity and in so doing to confirm the need to make those essential choices and give political and international dignity to our Europe.
He is perhaps the most veteran of any of us, either in the Council or in Parliament, and I think it is a compliment to say that he still has a vision of the future, because he has really fought not just for a politically united Europe and the Europe of the single currency, but also for a Europe of security and defence.
Specifically in connection with this report, I want to say, on behalf of the Spanish Socialists, that we have always had a positive attitude towards it because when we formulated our decalogue on security and defence, at the time of the referendum on NATO before we joined the Community, we always said we needed to revive the WEU and affirm Europe's defence identity.
And the Maastricht Treaty awoke positive hopes insofar as it formulated our foreign and security policy - saying that a defence policy would follow at the appropriate time - and the Treaty of Amsterdam has taken a further, timid step with the so-called Petersberg missions and the possibility of incorporating the WEU without reforming the Treaties.
NATO forms the basis for European cooperation in the field of defence.
A more active defence cooperation within the EU should be developed not as a replacement, but as a complement, for NATO.
Nevertheless, European defence cooperation within the WEU has lacked strength.
The problem lies not so much in the fact that new countries outside military alliances have applied the brakes, as in the lack of a strong political will at the heart of the EU.
A functional defence policy must also be based on a common foreign policy, but the EU has not yet reached this point.
The Tindemans report gives us an opportunity to reflect on this point.
In this respect the EU has been a total success.
The peace initiative is being further advanced through eastward enlargement.
In order to gain membership of the European Union, the applicant states are striving to promote human rights, settle internal disputes and conflicts between themselves and also with other countries.
This is important.
For example in my own country, there is every reason to point to the major role that the EU continues to play in developing peace in Europe.
Unfortunately, however, for you who have worked so hard, unfortunately for the European Parliament and unfortunately for the people of Europe, the gentlemen of the Council will throw it in the bin.
As has already been recalled by other Members, we have at least four institutions: the European Union, the WEU, the OSCE and NATO which, although in theory should collaborate between themselves, in reality are at odds and interfere with one another.
Naturally this poses a question: will this European Union not have a defence policy?
Mr President, I am afraid that after Mr Kaklamanis' Marxist analysis of the European banks and Mr Ephremedis' class-conscious considerations, I shall look a little bland as I just want to make a few comments on the Tindemans report.
Firstly, we should endeavour to define a new defence policy which is embedded in a new security policy and which is based more on collective security models such as the OSCE than on models from the Cold War like NATO and the WEU.
Thirdly, if we develop our own defence policy we should do it not to relieve the American budget, but in order to reflect our own identity.
I was going to say that I could invite you to speak, to make a personal statement, at the end of the debate.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report prepared by Mr Tindemans sends out a very positive signal because it is, at long last, a document which clearly highlights the European Union's responsibility for its own security.
Secondly, American security policy very, very often depends on the prevailing domestic political situation.
We must therefore continue to pursue the goal of a common foreign and security policy, merge the EU and the Western European Union in the interests of crisis management and peace-keeping, not only in Europe, but at world level.
In Sweden, 70 per cent of the population are still opposed to a common defence policy.
Madam President, the European Union will only carry any weight if it succeeds in growing beyond its achievements to date.
Here for the first time we have an opportunity to develop the Union on three institutions - the traditional European Community, the Economic and Monetary Union and the political union - freely, that is without extreme pressure from outside as was the case during the Cold War with its threat of nuclear strikes.
The Tindemans report therefore points the way to European independence in the narrower sense of defence policy.
It is therefore logical for Austria to support the complete integration of the Western European Union into the EU and to take part in the creation of a common European defence policy.
Eleven out of fourteen of our EU partners wish to create a European security and defence identity within NATO.
The WEU depends on NATO capacities and NATO logistics in many respects.
The Tindemans report forms a good basis from which the Council and the Commission can formulate policy in this area.
Secondly, the report does not sufficiently get to grips with general European security, and especially the development of security between the EU countries and Russia.
This sort of cooperation is required, for example, in the development of the Baltic region and in the Nordic sea regions.
An emphasis on EU military endeavour will, I believe, affect the issue of enlargement for the countries bordering on Russia as well as for Cyprus.
It is too bad that the other heads of government did not take the President of the French Republic literally, at the time, and did not insist on arriving in Amsterdam at a truly new result for the common defence policy.
Basically, the real significance of the Tindemans resolution is, in my opinion, this: the European Parliament says to the European Council, to the Council of Ministers 'the time has come to include this difficult topic on the agenda' .
We are about to increase from fifteen to twenty six, we cannot do it without reaching a new parameter, that of the international identity of the European Union, of a common defence policy.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the WEU is developing its operational capacities on the basis of internal optimization.
For this reason it is important that we continue to follow this process in this House, as we are doing today.
In this context, it is extremely important that relations between the WEU and both the EU and NATO are shaped with the necessary sensitivity.
But, to address Mr Bonde from Denmark, we have absolutely no intention of influencing the Danish referendum on 28 May with our debate today.
I also have great sympathy for the position taken by the United States which - most recently on Corfu - advocated continued adherence to the NATO agreement to make independent collective resources available to the WEU only where this is required for urgent CFSP operations within the context of a specific crisis.
Madam President, I would like to start by thanking Mrs McKenna, Mrs Theorin and Mrs Ojala for their contributions, which I regard as small shafts of light in an otherwise rather dark and gloomy debate.
I sincerely hope that we shall reject this report.
Madam President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on producing his timely report.
The Amsterdam Treaty, in developing a more effective common foreign and security policy, stressed the importance of closer institutional and organizational links between the EU and the WEU, including the evolution of the Petersberg humanitarian and peacekeeping tasks.
The report also points out the importance of the objective of global disarmament, the Pact for Stability and welcomes the draft EU code of conduct on the arms trade.
The integration of the WEU into the EU is not a realistic proposition in the near future.
I do not accept that the purpose of a common defence policy is to protect the Union's interests in all areas, including security of supply.
Amending the Treaty on European Union to include Article 5 of the WEU Treaty is also not a feasible option.
If the Socialist proposals for amendments fall, many of us will have to vote against the entire report.
I was and remain sceptical about the opportunities to develop a genuine defence policy within the Union context.
I am not opposed to it on principle, but consider it sensible to leave NATO on this point for what it is.
The discussion on the defence of own territory has been pushed into the background somewhat over the past few years by a much more important discussion on the role of NATO, the European Union and the WEU in crisis management.
I am therefore much more interested in the question of whether the Union will be capable of carrying out the so-called Petersberg tasks should the situation arise.
The realization of this option, for which the foundations were also laid in Amsterdam, and preparing ourselves for the possibility should be given priority over the coming years.
It also concerns the practical interpretation of the relationship between the European Union and the Western European Union in this sphere.
The introduction of the euro will also without question lead to the necessary dynamism in this area.
The best contribution the European Union can make to security in Europe is its enlargement.
The proof that the scope of the security instruments of the European Union is extensive must, I think, remain the starting point in the debate in this Parliament on the security role of the Union.
But added to these is the fact that, in the past, during such a discussion on a European defence policy we were able to refer to the tragic developments in former Yugoslavia and were able to point to the lessons which should be drawn from this.
But today it is no longer possible to speak in an abstract way about this topic, because Europe is yet again faced with a situation which, if precautions are not taken in time, might show a repetition of the horrors of an ethnic conflict.
I will deal with the situation in Kosovo separately in a moment.
But it seems to me that it should also be discussed in the context of this debate, as there are so many points of reference with the remarks put forward by Mr Tindemans in his report.
Absorbing such a situation has also so often been the subject of debates in this House.
That is why there is every reason for us to reach a state of affairs in which all the resources the Union has, or is able to have, at its disposal are dedicated fully to preventing the situation in Kosovo and the surrounding region from worsening.
And I am most definitely referring to a possible contribution by the Western European Union to initiatives intended to limit as much as possible the risk of the conflict spilling over.
All credit to Italy, by the way, which, only three months after the European debate and with the support of a number of other countries, managed to be present in the country with a stabilizing unit and, indeed, managed help to stabilize the situation.
But it would most certainly have been the European Union and the Western European Union's responsibility, mindful also of what has been laid down in the Amsterdam Treaty with regard to the so-called Petersberg tasks, to take a leading position in resolving the crisis which erupted in Albania at the time as a result of the pyramid investment scandals.
The question then arises as to whether it would not have made sense if the European Western Union had at least been asked to conduct an analysis of the security situation in situ, coupled with a number of recommendations about the way the Western European Union might possibly help to achieve security in the region.
It is right and it makes sense that this issue is also being looked at from within the NATO context.
The absence of concrete and specific activities is making a debate on the place of the Western European Union in the security architecture really rather theoretical.
When we are talking about defence identity and link this to the protection of independence and the territorial integrity of a territory, I do not believe anyone in this House will dispute that the prime responsibility for this lies with the Atlantic Alliance, NATO, in the foreseeable future as well.
But what we are talking about here, and where Amsterdam has in fact made some progress, is taking action ourselves, with military resources as well, in the field of regional crisis management for instance.
And I repeat my question: having not taken the opportunity a year ago in Albania, should we have been surprised by events yet again this year when there is the threat of a crisis in Kosovo?
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Nuclear tests in India The next item on the agenda is a statement by the Council on the nuclear tests in India.
The presidency is ensuring that the implications of this test are discussed by Member States at the Political Committee on 12 May' , which in due course took place.
These tests have been carried out in flagrant disregard of international opinion.
This is a deeply unwelcome step which can only serve to destabilize security in the region.
Madam President, Minister, I only have two minutes and in two minutes one can only be brief.
India is, in fact, in a situation of unresolved territorial conflict with two of its neighbours: one is China, a recognized nuclear power and the other is Pakistan, a potential and perhaps even clandestine nuclear power.
But China and Pakistan both signed the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, the CTBT, in September 1996 in New York, although as far as I know they have not yet ratified it, and until now they have respected it.
Minister, the European Union's first great initiative in terms of foreign and security policy must be nuclear.
Madam President, the agenda says that we will have a statement by the Council on nuclear tests in India followed by questions.
It seems to me therefore that it requires a political response.
Secondly, will the President-in-Office come to the Foreign Affairs Committee at the end of this month, the day after the Council meeting to which he referred, since we will be discussing the André-Léonard report on the new European Union-Indian partnership agreement and our views on that might obviously be affected by what happens in the next few weeks?
I believe the British presidency has a key role to play in defusing what is an unfortunate incident before it becomes a regional disaster.
Madam President, I speak on behalf of my political group to condemn this initiative of the Indian government and on behalf of the Committee on External Economic Relations in the capacity of rapporteur on the partnership agreement between the European Union and India.
I recall that our committee is very attached to the multilateral aspect of the economic actions that might be undertaken and is against bilateral initiatives.
If, on the one hand, it is certainly in the interest of the European Union to maintain the best economic and trade relations with India, if we can in some way be sensitive to the preoccupations of this country with the status of nuclear power asserted by China, which also did not adhere to the ban on nuclear testing, we cannot remain indifferent to the risk of escalation of nuclear weapons which this decision reopens.
The decisions of the United States and Japan, the possibility of sanctions, call for a rapid stand on the part of the European Union.
As for the Parliament, I recall that it has always come out in favour of measures agreed at international level, and therefore I believe that it is in the Security Council, the UN, that any multilateral decisions must be made.
Madam President, the five nuclear tests are not making the situation any more comfortable in the meantime, and are undermining the momentum for nuclear disarmament which has been in existence since the end of the Cold War, the signing of the CTBT and the extension of the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
It is of the greatest importance that all nations concerned take part in the disarmament which is now finally able to take place.
Only through a joint approach will we be able to reach our goal.
Madam President, the seriousness and irresponsibility of the new Indian Prime Minister's decision cannot be sufficiently emphasized.
I believe the time has come to resume the debate on nuclear weapons and their permanent destruction in every country, without exception.
By signing the Non-Proliferation Treaty, declared nuclear powers have signed a solemn commitment, Article 6 of the Treaty, to work towards the achievement of that aim.
Let us consider together what initiatives to take to express a strong protest against these tests and more generally to stimulate public opinion on the issue of peace.
Madam President, I believe that the nuclear tests carried out by India, now five in total, are indeed a big step in the wrong direction.
The whole region is in turmoil.
Naturally, on the other hand, not enough emphasis can be placed on the hypocrisy of the five nuclear powers who have done nothing about nuclear disarmament, even though this was also provided for in the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
We will not become credible as a European Union, and this applies to both the United Kingdom and France, unless they take initiatives in this matter.
Madam President, the five underground nuclear tests which India has carried out obviously caused a shock wave throughout the world.
The question is not only whether the fifteen countries of the Union will speak with one voice internationally, but also what we will be doing as from next week, when a vote is held in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy on the signing of the cooperation agreement.
At the same time this will also mean that we must pursue a much more active policy so that, as Magda Aelvoet has said, there will finally be an end to the hypocrisy of the nuclear countries.
Madam President, it is a very serious matter that India has conducted these tests since this could lead to a new global nuclear arms race.
It is also important, however, to bear in mind that India's argument for not signing the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons was that it did not contain a paragraph on total nuclear disarmament.
However, it is also important to remember that every nuclear power should be treated equally.
Madam President, since nuclear testing was resumed on Mururoa under the aegis of the French President Mr Chirac, it was of course to be expected that such conduct would be copied by countries in Asia and elsewhere.
We accepted the existence of nuclear weapons with a bad conscience at the time, Madam President, because of their deterrent effect.
Because of financio-economic measures we must cooperate with countries which are capable of exerting financio-economic pressure, such as America and Japan, to see what our role should be in guaranteeing peace in this region.
Madam President, as rapporteur on the strengthened European Union-India partnership, I am particularly shocked by India's dangerous and incomprehensible attitude.
The five nuclear tests have changed the European Parliament's whole perspective on the strengthened partnership.
I will therefore encourage the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy to consider that current circumstances are no longer conducive to strengthening the partnership; on the contrary, they must lead to a temporary halt in the process until India has permanently stopped carrying out nuclear tests, has signed and ratified the Non-Proliferation and Comprehensive Test Ban Treaties and has begun to contribute actively towards improving relations between states in the region, more specifically with Pakistan.
On 25 May, the Committee on Foreign Affairs will have an opportunity to discuss this, within the framework of my report.
Given this fact, the sanctions which have been announced are more likely to result in an act of defiance than any sort of understanding that as a large, democratic country in the region India also has a duty to set an example to its neighbours.
Already, India spends 12.5 % and Pakistan 27 % of its budget on military expenditure.
Madam President, thank you for the chance to make a short response to the points which have been raised in this short but important debate.
I would like to say to those who raised questions that the points which have been highlighted will be considered as part of the agenda on 25 May by the General Affairs Council when it considers the Union's response.
The important point of the debate is that it has been an opportunity for us all to focus on this subject, to think of the way in which the Union should respond and to suggest options so that on 25 May the Council can consider what action should be taken.
But above all we must make sure that we give proper regard to the Non-Proliferation Treaty and to the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty and that these form the background to our discussion on 25 May.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, Kosovo is currently one of the major political problems and major trouble spots in Europe.
Kosovo The next item is the Council and Commission statements on Kosovo.
The deteriorating security situation further underlines the urgent need for a political process involving full and unconditional dialogue.
It is simply not credible for the Belgrade Government to justify such actions as legitimate counter-terrorist measures when so many women and children are victims.
The European Union has therefore appointed Felipe González as its representative to the FRY to work in tandem with his mandate from the chairman-in-office of the OSCE as his personal representative.
The situation in Kosovo also poses serious risks to the security of neighbouring states and to the stability of the region as a whole.
The governments of those states which stand to be affected most, namely Albania and Macedonia, have taken a constructive approach to Kosovo which we very much welcome.
We have already increased the number of European Community mission monitors on the Albanian border with Kosovo and have also placed monitors in Macedonia.
But at the same time it also means there is a risk that the conflict will escalate further, particularly after President Milosovic organized a referendum with a predictable outcome in which the population also turned against international interference, to call it that.
Secondly, the Commission has also set out which positive measures President Milosovic could obtain in the event of his being actively prepared to cooperate.
But I am also thinking of the trade preferences which might be promised to Milosovic if he cooperates.
I am thinking of the technical assistance as part of the PHARE Programme which Serbia is not able to claim in the present circumstances.
I am also thinking of the trade and cooperation agreement which was offered to Serbia at the time, if they were to keep to the recommendations in the Gonzales report.
In other words, those who might feel that President Milosovic is not given any encouragement whatsoever to cooperate in a peaceful settlement of this conflict, should realize that there are plenty of offers on that point.
In other words, a whole series of positive measures that could return Serbia to the framework of the international community, yet Milosovic's interest in Kosovo still seems to have the upper hand.
We need not only international observers, we also need international peace-keeping troops to monitor the return to autonomy in Kosovo, leaving the Kosovo Albanians free to come to an independently negotiated solution with Belgrade.
For example, two police patrols were recently attacked, one of them in Pristina itself.
There is a risk that one or other of the parties in the conflict (or both of them) may want to exploit the negotiation situation or demonstrate against it by escalating the violence.
I know that I can rely on support from Parliament in urging the parties to refrain now from violence and in demonstrating through our actions that we wish to give both the negotiations and the peace a chance.
The European Parliament must call a spade a spade.
Only an open dialogue between the Serb authorities and the leaders of the Albanian minority in Kosovo can lead to a solution which will ensure the inviolability of borders and respect for human rights and the rights of minorities.
In that respect, both parties have allowed opportunities to pass.
I think it would be very useful if, on this point, we were to try, as part of common policy, to give some proper direction to the difficult but real potential of the Albanians from Kosovo who are with us.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I have a number of questions.
Madam President, fellow Members, the crisis in Kosovo - a consequence of the fibrillation to which the former Yugoslav world is still prey - risks, as in the case of Bosnia, turning into a tragedy, with its resulting ethnic cleansing and counter-cleansing.
The National Alliance delegation considers the real popular revolts which occurred in this region to be more the consequence of the illiberal and despotic regime in power in Serbia than a real desire to reunite with Albania on the part of the population of Kosovo which is of Albanian origin and culture.
However, the real supporters of European Union are overcome with a sense of helplessness when they consider that once again - faced with the prospect of an ethnic, and not only ethnic, war that could erupt in a region very close to us - Europe is finding it hard to be a valid interlocutor between the parties.
In fact an interlocutor, to be credible, also has to throw its political weight on the negotiating table and the possible consequences of the failed agreement between the parties.
And here we come to the crux of the problem with regard to the European Union, which, until it has a common foreign policy, no one, or almost no one, will have any weight to settle the conflicts, including those closest to its borders.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the National Alliance delegation considers that the institutional reform relating to the voting mechanism in the Council can no longer be put off, and therefore that unanimity must be abolished for foreign policy decisions.
Question Time (Council) The next item is questions to the Council (B4-0464/98).
At the moment, Mr Sarlis, all I can offer you is the chance to start Question Time, two minutes later now than it already was.
Mr Dupuis has the floor on a point of order.
In fact, I think there is some mistake, because we agreed that there would be a mini-debate with representatives of the groups and therefore an introduction by the Commission and the Council, a statement of the views of the various groups, and a reply by the Council and the Commission.
Yes, Mr Dupuis.
But you should raise this question with your group chairman, because it was not the Presidency which organized this debate but the chairmen of the various groups.
And we are already behind schedule.
Question No 2 by Lyndon Harrison (H-0388/98) Subject: SMEs' participation in the Single Act Does the Council believe that the long-awaited Late Payment on Commercial Debt Directive and the recently published Venture-Capital Programme for SMEs will encourage these vital, job-generating agents to participate more decisively in the Single Market?
Late payment inhibits the competitiveness of small and medium enterprises and acts as a barrier to small businesses participating fully in the single market.
The Commission transmitted a proposal for a Council directive to combat late payment in commercial transactions and presented its proposals at the Industry Council on 7 May.
The Council looks forward to discussion of the directive at a working group meeting before the end of the United Kingdom presidency.
The Luxembourg job summit of 20-21 November welcomed the initiative of the European Parliament on the strengthening of budgetary resources earmarked for employment and invited the Commission to make formal proposals, for speedy adoption by the Council.
On 21 April the Council gave its political backing to a package of up to ECU 420 million over three years for three strands of measures, including a venture capital facility run by the EIF to be targeted at an early start-up stage at SMEs with high growth potential.
If we can unlock this problem for small businesses in the European Union, the dividends in terms of jobs and getting our people back to work will be absolutely enormous.
I would like to welcome the President-in-Office's response to my colleague's question but pick up the part about venture capital.
The European Union says a great deal about its support for small and medium-sized enterprises, but it is exactly such a company in my constituency that has been having great difficulty in accessing money from the European Investment Bank precisely to expand and provide additional jobs in an Objective 5b area.
Thank you very much, Mrs Hardstaff.
Mr Henderson, as you can see, this Question Time is getting off to a good start because everybody is congratulating each other.
Question No 3 by James Nicholson (H-0390/98) Subject: Disparity between the pound sterling and the Republic of Ireland punt Does the Council recognize the disadvantageous trading position being faced by Northern Ireland traders at present as a result of the serious disparity between the pound sterling and the Republic of Ireland punt and will the Council give a view on when the present position can be alleviated and whether it will act to ensure equal and fair trading between both jurisdictions?
The Council recognizes the importance of exchange rate stability for the effective functioning of the Single Market.
As recognized by the 1997 broad economic guidelines, sound macro-economic policy management creates the conditions for stable exchange rates within the Community.
The exchange rate differences between the punt and the pound will have always had an effect on the border area between the Republic and Northern Ireland.
The honourable Member will know that it is the stated aim of the United Kingdom Government that there should be a period during which convergence could take place between the economy that is determined by the pound currency and the economy which is determined by the single currency.
Question No 4 by Felipe Camisón Asensio (H-0393/98) Subject: Creation of a European agency for safety in civil aviation What information can the Council provide on the possible creation of a European agency responsible for safety in civil aviation?
In December 1996 the European Commission made a recommendation for a Council decision authorizing the Commission to start negotiations on establishing a European Aviation Safety Authority.
Any doubts we might have had have not been completely resolved by the speech from the Council.
Secondly, GPS has brought us new opportunities in navigation.
Not too long ago I was in Moscow where we will be getting another system in the form of GLONASS.
Question No 5 by Alan Gillis (H-0395/98) Subject: Money laundering Given the illegal activities of non-resident registered companies in Ireland what action does the Council intend to take within the context of European anti-drug policies to persuade the Irish Government to close these companies which the government has admitted are involved in money laundering activities?
A Council directive on prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering has been place since 1991.
The Commission draws up reports on the implementation of this directive at regular intervals and submits them to the European Parliament and the Council.
In view of this, I should like to ask the President-in-Office: does he not think that he should also make money laundering and the fight to combat drugs and drug trafficking a top priority, bearing in mind that the European Union has almost no borders now and there is free movement for these traffickers?
The presidency has made the whole question of combating this trade in drugs and allied activities like money laundering a top priority.
The European Conference set up an experts' group to look at how drugs could be combated across a wider area than just the European Union but also covering the countries which wish to accede to the European Union, some of which are often involved as transit countries from the source of drugs and are therefore linked in with the provision of the financial resources to purchase them or get profits out of them.
The honourable gentlemen is absolutely right that there is and should continue to be a dialogue between the Union and the countries that wish to accede to the Union on the whole question of combating this trade in drugs and the allied problem of money laundering.
I do not know whether that applies already in some of the countries which wish to accede to the Union.
Without prior notice and a detailed analysis of the situation in each area, that would be wrong.
However, in general terms, I can say that it is very much in the interests of those offshore banking sectors that they meet the normal regulations that apply internationally.
For instance, I know that on the Isle of Man strong efforts have been made to make absolutely clear that the level of regulation required there is the same as would be required in the City of London.
Question No 6 by David Bowe (H-0400/98) Subject: Environment Council of 23 March 1998 Is the Council happy with the outcome of the Environment Council of 23 March 1998?
The Council reached four common positions, agreed four sets of conclusions and made good progress in a number of key areas such as climate change and air quality.
This work should make a valuable contribution to improving the quality of life for people in Europe.
However, I would like to ask what else - this is only the first step - will the presidency be doing or does it think it has already done during this presidency to achieve more in the field of the environment and completely sweep away this image of the UK as being 'the dirty man of Europe' ?
The important principle is that all sectors of economic activity should, on all occasions, carefully monitor and scrutinize the environmental impact of anything they do.
I wonder whether the minister would welcome that decision?
Mr Henderson, you have the floor if you would like to reply to that question.
You have the right to reply or not to reply.
The Council's approach to the Middle East peace process is firmly based on international legality, including United Nations Resolutions 242, 338 and 425.
The Council believes firmly that the Oslo process and the principle of land for peace represent the best prospect for a solution offering justice for the Palestinians and security for the Israelis.
The conference in London was important because it re-established the dialogue.
Many who are involved or who have a knowledge of the circumstances recognize that there really has to be the kind of dialogue that tackles simultaneously the various political and economic questions so that there are steps forward as part of a package to which all the parties are committed.
The Council has been examining two proposals on related subjects.
First a draft decision for a multi-annual Community action plan on promoting safe use of the Internet.
The Council is also examining a proposal for a recommendation on the protection of minors and human dignity in audio visual and information services.
The proposal recommends that Member States voluntarily establish national frameworks for the protection of minors in the fields of broadcasting and on-line services, in particular by encouraging the parties concerned - users, consumers, businesses and public authorities - to take part in developing and implementing measures for that purpose.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, from your answer I gained the impression that the issue is not being faced with the attention its seriousness demands.
There is a relevant article in the January 1998 Economist which, Mr President-in-Office, I would recommend that you study.
May I say to the President-in-Office I found his reply very positive and most encouraging.
As to whether or not the situation changes after the Amsterdam Treaty, there is a further onus on the Community to make sure that any action it takes is non-discriminatory, and that is something which will be borne in mind in any activity that we take as a Union to try to counter the effects of some of those damaging products which are on the Internet.
Question No 10 by Hans Lindqvist (H-0416/98) Subject: Harmonized EU eco-labelling Sweden is well endowed with reliable eco-labelling systems, having three of them, namely Bra Miljöval, Svanen and KRAV.
Eco-labelling has achieved a success in Sweden that is unparalleled in other EU Member States.
In view of this, what will the Council do to stop the Commission changing things for the worse in relation to the environment?
The proposal does not seek to prohibit other schemes operating at a national or regional level.
Rather, the effect of Article 11 of the proposed new regulation would be that within five years national schemes should be limited to those product groups for which there were no criteria established under the Community scheme.
The working group of the Council has held an initial discussion of the proposal, attended by representatives of the Commission, and this was one of the issues on which a number of Member States expressed concern.
We have, of course, only today discussed a report on this question in Parliament.
My supplementary question is: Does the Council support this decision of Parliament, and what other conclusions does the Council draw from the extremely positive debate that has taken place in Parliament today?
But it is something which is before the Council and it will be for the Council and the Member States to make an assessment of the impact of the proposals on the general scheme of things and to see whether or not their original reservations have been met.
After ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty, the new Article 17 of the TEU will stipulate that 'the common foreign and security policy shall include all questions relating to the security of the Union, including the progressive framing of a common defence policy, in accordance with the second subparagraph, which might lead to a common defence, should the European Council so decide' .
Subject to the adoption of such a decision by the Member States 'in accordance with the respective constitutional requirements' , the new Treaty therefore describes common defence as a possibility left open for the future under the conditions set out in the article.
I hope I can reassure her that the Council has currently a capacity to debate foreign and defence policy and, indeed, does so on many occasions.
Thank you very much, Mr Henderson.
We have exactly 5 minutes left until the deadline we agreed on.
I propose a joint reply to Questions Nos 12 and 13.
Question No 13 by Per Gahrton (H-0455/98) Subject: The Iraq embargo At an EU conference on humanitarian aid to Iraq held in early April, a member of the Commission, Mrs Bonino, directly attacked the Iraq embargo on the grounds of its anti-humanitarian impact.
UNSCOM's inspections of sensitive sites began again on 6 March.
Inspections of presidential sites followed shortly afterwards on 26 March and 4 April, proceeding without any major difficulties.
The United Nations humanitarian aid programme under Security Council Resolution 1153 will not come into force until the government of Iraq has submitted a distribution plan to the UN and that plan has been agreed by both sides.
The recent European Union meeting, which discussed the humanitarian situation in Iraq, demonstrated the continued commitment of the European Union and the international community to do all it can to help the Iraqi people.
The regime has ample resources available to it under the UN humanitarian programme but chooses not to use them to help ordinary Iraqis.
The Council's representative says that it is Saddam who is using children to "play politics' .
While thanking the honourable Member for his question, may I say to him that the food and medical supplies for oil are available because the Council and our international allies in the United Nations are aware of the potential impact on a society of not having access to those important commodities.
It is Iraq that has chosen not to meet the very reasonable conditions which have been laid down and reiterated by the UN Secretary-General in his recent proposal with the Iraqi Government.
It is still available and it is up to Iraq to respond to a very reasonable position on behalf of their people who are desperately in need of those supplies.
Thank you very much, Mr Henderson.
Ladies and gentlemen, since the time allocated to questions to the Council has now expired, Questions Nos 14 to 38 will be dealt with in writing.
This Presidency had to wait half an hour today before being able to start Question Time.
So I would be extremely grateful if you would address any comment you might have on the matter to your group chairman, since I am only responsible for the implementation.
The second point is that if you withdraw your question you can reformulate it.
But if you do not withdraw it, it will be answered in writing, as I said earlier, within the next 48 hours.
We cannot do much but we should be prepared to do what we actually can do, which is to help Algeria by taking on its concerns, by being prepared to work together with the Algerians, for example by fighting terrorism, not in Algeria but in our own States, in Europe.
Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, this is indeed an important sitting of the European Parliament, insofar as it is concerned with the future and the significance of the MEDA programme and its relevant aspects.
I think that as long as there is no real common foreign policy to guarantee security, integrity, peace, freedom and co-development, today's attempt will run the risk of failing in the same way as the attempt in 1972, which we called "Overall Mediterranean Policy' , somewhat ironically perhaps.
Mr President, I just want to reply briefly to what was said this morning.
In the first year of the MEDA programme's implementation, the European Parliament decided to establish a negative reserve of 20 %.
Also, the decentralized cooperation programmes for the Mediterranean, which had caused problems, have been relaunched.
In other words, we now have the MEDA programme completely operational for the first time.
A lot of things are still not working properly, of course, but the important thing to know is that the programme has now reached cruising speed.
While the lack of peace in the Middle East continues to contaminate the Barcelona process, we can work properly on the second pillar, that is, the association agreements.
I hope that between us, on 6 June at Palermo, we will be able to resolve this situation.
What the European Commission is trying to do is precisely to separate the Barcelona Conference from the ups and downs of the peace process, because all the while people are reproaching each other, it is very difficult to get on with the day-to-day work.
Voting will take place at 12.00 noon tomorrow.
Kosovo (continuation) The next item on the agenda is the continuation of the debate on the statements by the Council and the Commission on Kosovo.
We have all called for President Milosovic to line up clearly behind the necessary political process.
But I understand that this single meeting in Belgrade will be followed by negotiations in Pristina within one week and that there will be weekly meetings thereafter.
Mr President, for the second time I must protest about the way in which the debate on Kosovo was handled.
Another constructive development is the decision of the Western European Union in Rhodes, where the Foreign Ministers and the Ministers of Defence of the Western European Union unanimously said that, on the one hand, the territorial integrity of Yugoslavia must not be maintained, while in parallel terrorism must stop and the Yugoslavians must do something to bring about some fundamental dialogue.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Having reached the end of my report, which I began a few months ago, I can and will say that this is not fair and, indeed, it is in many ways very unfair.
Of course, this evening, at the end of all this work, there is no question of my not being aware of or not mentioning our weaknesses.
The first is the inadequacy of our investment, both public and private, in recent years, which has undoubtedly curbed both innovation and gains in productivity in our industry.
Our second weakness is our serious shortcomings in the area of information technology and in the production of computer goods as well as in biotechnology.
Our third weakness is a tax system which is cumbersome, often unfair and which often curbs competitiveness in our industry.
The fifth is for example the great difficulty which all of our societies have in adapting to all technological change, and this applies to all sectors and all people.
These problems are important and require, both on the part of the European Union and on the part of the Member States, the adoption of clear, readable and simple measures which are timed appropriately.
First, the implementation of a global economic policy for the European Union, coordinating the economic policies of the Member States.
Of course this is already underway but we can do a great deal more in this area.
Second, the coordination of fiscal policies, particularly in order to fight against all forms of fiscal dumping and all other forms of deregulation.
Fourth, the strengthening and improvement of the Internal Market in line with the advent of the euro which, as we all know, will play a very important role and will at the same time be an excellent lever of European citizenship.
Sixth, a commercial policy for the Union which would no longer be embryonic and which would, in particular, allow our competitors in the rest of the world to respect the rules of international competition.
Seventh, finally, and without putting in doubt our drive in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, we should not forget that, like small and medium-sized enterprises, large companies have an important role to play in the development of the world economy, nor should we forget that research and technological development depend to a high degree on large companies who alone have the means to place themselves at the forefront of the research/development process.
First, the introduction of information technology on a massive scale.
As for these arrangements for reducing working hours, we are aware of the debate which divides us to a certain extent and I, personally, would like to say that if, in my capacity as rapporteur, I cannot support the GUE's amendment on this issue, then as a French socialist I support Amendment No 4 of the Confederal Group of the European United Left.
Finally, as a fourth and last point, as product life cycles are becoming increasingly short, protection by means of patents in Europe must incorporate new data.
High level research in Europe also needs to be improved in terms of effectiveness, so that we do not lose our researchers, for example, to the hard cash research institutes and universities of the USA.
Productivity in the European economy seems to hinge very much on the investment stage.
The Commission should put forward a proposal to create a framework for a new European industrial policy.
I expect guidelines based on measures to promote public and private investment.
It is also important to discuss the competitiveness of European industry because it provides the basis on which we build a large part of our prosperity.
In our view, additional investments, special rules for certain sectors and a selective economic policy are ineffective and costly and will, in the long term, destroy entrepreneurial activity.
Globalization of the economy increases the need for reforms.
It is in that frame of mind that we have submitted some amendments which we hope the rapporteur will accept, although we have already had some replies, not all of which were positive, but, in any event, I think those that have been accepted can improve this report even further.
But I believe that we should not conceal the fact that it is linked to a situation in which for the last 15 years cost cutters have had control of both the private and public spheres and this has had devastating results.
It should also be noted that, as far as the technologies of the future are concerned, Europe is currently giving away the lead it had, and to a certain extent still has, in environmental technologies.
First of all, at a European level, we urgently require something like a gouvernement économique which then also takes control of the various dimensions of dumping - fiscal, social, ecological - and, by means of a new policy relating to market economics, sets new conditions of development.
First is the importance which we must attach to the way in which SMEs and large industrial groups are complementing each other increasingly.
We all know that SMEs in Europe, of which there are approximately sixteen million, are the main vehicles of job creation today and that for the most part they depend on or cooperate with the large companies.
In my opinion we must therefore encourage synergy and - why not? - work towards creating a statute for European society which would make it more efficient in terms of international competition.
This brings us to the question of the financing which would be required to achieve these goals, from both public and private capital.
Everything in life is in constant motion and the organization of work today, in particular in terms of the number of working hours, needs and will need to be adaptable and flexible, even up to a period of one year.
With unemployment of 18 million a direct relationship must be established between competitiveness and job creation.
A competitive industry simply creates more jobs.
Our efforts must be concentrated much more on commercial realizability.
Due to flaws in the coordination of research policies in the Member States, some of the most valuable synergy effects are lost.
In the report taxes are mentioned only as something which hampers growth and productivity.
Whatever it is that the 20 million unemployed have, it is surely not a lack of desire to work!
I would like to have seen these three points included in both the rapporteur's report and the Commission's original statement.
Because our society's first priority is employment, and let us not forget that within our society, industry is the basis for growth, wellbeing and the creation of employment around us.
The single currency is going to favour this competitiveness because, on the one hand, it creates stability for investment, consolidates the internal market and decreases exchange costs for businesses and, on the other hand, it brings low interest rates too, which also help to improve the funding and competitiveness of European business.
All of that is necessary but insufficient because we are also in a climate of globalization, which has to be seen as an opportunity but which requires European industry to be competitive and to adapt more quickly.
At the moment, energy can be bought, technology can be bought and moved around, raw materials can be bought and moved around, but our competitiveness and our future fundamentally depend on our people.
Mr President, the debate has shown that progress has been made in the discussions which we have had in recent years about terms such as competitiveness, productivity, deregulation, flexibility, etc.
In the last week we have held the debate with the Council of Ministers for Industry about competitiveness in the light of our report, which is also the subject of Mr Caudron's report, and we were, on the whole, in agreement on this.
In my opinion theoretical arguments about, for example, whether deregulation creates jobs or destroys jobs, are, in view of our experience in telecommunications, for example, quite futile.
As can be seen from the statistics, today there are essentially two areas in which new jobs are created in Europe: the information society in the broad sense of the term, and biotechnology, i.e.
Both countries have come through this change with great success.
They have created more jobs, particularly better paid jobs and not just jobs which combat poverty but jobs which bring with them good prospects for survival.
For example, for a long time now we have been applying our research to processes and products close to the market, to things which have direct impact.
In small and medium-sized enterprises we now have the first visible progress, which my colleague Christos Papoutsis is pursuing resolutely.
In our White Paper we began to look more closely and to ask about the current situation regarding jobs which do not require any specific qualification.
A society which can only offer jobs for a particular level of qualification is also not ideal.
Incidentally, we have lost a lot more of these jobs than the USA has.
The interesting thing is that our labour productivity is higher than in the USA because we have lost these jobs for the lesser qualified.
This has nothing to do with environmental technology.
The euro will also make a considerable contribution to the competitiveness of European industry.
The debate is closed.
Voting will take place at 12.00 noon tomorrow.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to thank my colleagues for their very intensive cooperation and willingness to compromise, which resulted in a report which can hopefully consolidate a little the European Union's policy in the area of electronic commerce and business transactions.
In particular I thank the Secretariat of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which worked around the clock and participated in the drafting of this report.
The aim of the Communication of the Commission is to introduce a series of measures which allow the potential which electronic commerce offers the Internal Market to have full effect.
The Communication of the Commission can be seen as a response to the initiative of the US government, which was presented in person by President Clinton on 1 July 1997 and broadcast live on CNN and C-SPAN.
The electronic market place is a virtual place where information is exchanged and contracts are entered into, goods are bought and paid for, and there should be binding rules.
This cyber reality is a world of its own which is strongly rooted in the real world but with some independent characteristics which must be included in a comprehensive trade policy of the European Union.
In this context I made a suggestion which asks the Commission to sign an agreement of mutual recognition with the Americans in the area of data protection.
The data protection directive must be incorporated into national law by 1 October.
The legal framework should be flexible and adaptable.
The European Union must have an active role in the necessary regulation.
This directive must be ready in the next two months.
We support the attempts made by the Commission in the context of the WTO and the domain names, as well as the international charter initiative, although in a more wide-ranging form.
My proposal of a single point of coordination in the Commission in the area of electronic commerce could support this process.
The market, however, needs to stimulate the growth of electronic commerce, and too much regulation or the wrong kind of regulation might nip the potential of electronic commerce in the bud.
The idea of tax neutrality of electronic trade is widely supported within Europe and the United States, and no discrimination should be allowed to take place between traditional and electronic delivery of services.
The consumer must be certain that the electronic environment is safe.
Small payments are normally made in cash without divulging personal details.
As rapporteur of the Committee on Research, it is my duty to underline a few important points concerning the guidelines of support for research and development to facilitate the growth of electronic commerce.
This is not enough, however: it is necessary to broaden, on the one hand, the base of users, to help those who invest in the development of applications and software, to help small and medium-sized enterprises that want to launch out into the international dimension with telematics, to encourage the administrations to become computer literate, also offering in this way with the new technologies better services for the citizen, to develop the culture of interaction with computers not only through school and the workplace but also through new types of training and involvement for all ages.
While it is true that in the computer industry we have lost the race with the United States, as regards the telecommunications industry, it seems to me that competition is still open.
That is why I want to recall only a few of the research themes: switching technology, statistical access technology, data compression technology, long wave broadcasting via cable and satellite, new multimedia terminals and, finally, work on standards to enable Europe's industry to participate in the definition and assertion of these new standards on the market.
I think that the broad consultation that she has undertaken with industry, the service sector, consumers and with other interest groups has stood her in good stead and this shows in the report.
I want to add also my congratulations to the Commission, whose proposals are timely, thoughtful and forward-looking.
Her report goes on to stress the importance of confidence-building in electronic commerce.
There are always some risks in commerce, but at least the method of trading needs to be as foolproof as possible in both the old and the new services.
It needs to be low-cost, because that is the key to the real development of new services in the fields of electronic commerce and many other new technology applications.
This report and the Commission proposal go a substantial way to securing those objectives and I commend them to you.
Thanks to her method of working we have a very good report with which we, as European Union, are able to fulfil a part of our, as it were, leading role in this field.
Large opportunities are awaiting Europe in this field and when we are talking about jobs or employment it is always good to have another look at the figures.
This growth means 50 000 jobs in Europe every year.
So, in other words, it offers a great many opportunities, but we should also set conditions, of course.
Mr President, I believe that the introduction of the euro will be a powerful shot in the arm for trade within the European Union.
The European regulations must give the consumer the necessary confidence to make use of electronic commerce and, that way, allow him or her to enjoy the benefits of the internal market more.
The free movement of electronic services within the European Union is an essential prerequisite if the internal market is to function well.
I therefore wonder whether the European Union and the European Commission might not be able to fulfil some kind of information provider role in this area.
For small and medium-sized enterprises, Mr President, electronic commerce offers big opportunities.
Electronic commerce offers SME's the opportunity to bring new and remote markets within easy reach, and to find new market segments at low cost.
Nevertheless, companies will have to prepare themselves properly through education and extra training measures.
I believe the fifth framework programme could also play an important part on that point.
Consumer confidence in electronic commerce is vital.
But everyone knows that we will not get much further with this Charter if it is not accepted by the United States.
My group fully endorses the proposal aimed at stimulating the vigorous growth of electronic commerce in the European Union.
We need our own road map for the future.
The sector offers a huge range of opportunities, development potential and jobs.
The high cost of telecommunications has acted as a major stumbling block for all electronic commerce in Europe.
I hope that putting in place a package of liberalization measures will result in lower and more flexible prices.
One of the major hurdles to be overcome is successfully creating confidence for all Internet users in their transactions.
A Europol cyberpolice could be essential.
Mr President, Commissioner, you must get tired of hearing the same old stories over and over again, but we, the representatives of various groups, would like to have our say.
I am afraid my remarks are similar to what you have already heard.
The Mann report is good, in particular because of its broad approach to the problems.
In view of the speedy development of the Internet and the cross-border character of electronic commerce, it is of great importance that there should be international cooperation on the creation of a regulatory framework.
But in order for that to be possible, Europe must first of all put its own House in order, and this problem is truly urgent.
On the contrary, I believe the European Commission has made some very good first moves, but that does not mean that the Member States are all in line.
The Commission should not delay in addressing problems of copyright, trademarks, misleading advertising and safeguarding personal data.
Investment has been responsible for losing more jobs.
When we talk of freedom of choice in commerce, the choice should also take employees into consideration: a choice between work and unemployment.
Creating something completely new will be difficult and that is our test in Europe.
If we look at developments which have taken place since then we see that we are in fact eye witnesses of a revolution in the field of data exchange and are therefore experiencing a revolution of our society and of human coexistence.
However, I would venture to say that we are only at the beginning of a very complex transformation process.
I published a book on this subject in the spring of this year and when I read it again today I see that some parts of the book are already out of date.
For this reason I am grateful for the Communication of the Commission and for the extraordinary commitment of the rapporteur, Erika Mann, and also of Wim van Velzen for a European initiative in electronic business transactions.
These new opportunities in turn create completely new service opportunities.
This is another example of the fact that such a discussion with Parliament can also be very informative for us and we gain important new ideas from them.
However, in any case we can say that if we reach this political consensus and if there is a certain degree of equivalence in terms of content, the way in which it is reached will not be important.
The charter which we proposed, and of which Mr van Velzen asked the Americans' opinion, met with broad approval.
We have contacted all international organizations which will be involved in this and we will be in constant contact with the Americans.
At the beginning there were some misunderstandings because the Americans believed that we wanted to create a type of new international authority with strict regularization.
There are certainly still issues which we must discuss but if we want to make overall practical progress we must set the ball rolling because factors which can pose a threat to the Internal Market can of course also pose a threat worldwide.
We have a group in which all Commissioners involved in the information society are represented.
We have absolutely no problem with that and we will certainly find a solution in the near future.
This enterprise has expanded from 40 to 400 employees in 3 years, broadened its client base from 1 to 23 countries, reduced time to market for new products from 6 to 1 week, improved reliability, ' etc.
I would like to say to my Irish colleagues that Ireland is an example of a country where the use of new opportunities has resulted in a new dynamism in the economy and created jobs.
Data protection is a very important example.
If it is not guaranteed many people will refrain from using it.
In the year from 1995 to 1996, 230 000 new jobs were created in the IT industry.
If in terms of outsourcing we also interpret this as an information network between the firms producing the systems and the suppliers, then new competitiveness is really being created.
The fact that we are still currently slightly behind the USA is due to a combination of factors; it is partly due to cost, as already mentioned, but particularly to the greater popularity of the PC.
So if access becomes easier and cheaper we will witness a considerably greater driving force being set in motion in Europe than we saw in the USA.
But I have no doubt that all the Member States will realize what is important.
The Parliament, as this report shows, quite clearly has the same opinion.
The debate is closed.
Voting will take place at noon tomorrow.
Mr President, the rapid pace of expansion of new information services calls for innovative ways of regulating them to the extent that is needed without hindering their development, or of adapting the existing regulations that could prove outdated or counterproductive.
As the Commission pointed out in its proposal, there is a risk of Member States issuing contradictory or inconsistent regulations, thus damaging the internal market by restricting the free movement of goods and services.
Hence the need for coordination in this particular field.
The Commission chose to use an existing mechanism directed towards technical standards which has proven to be effective in its own field.
At its first reading Parliament supported this approach.
Fourthly, active cooperation between Member States and with the Commission.
Now, looking at the common position itself, at first view - and despite the relatively broad support by the Commission - I must say it looks disappointing.
Other sector-specific aspects were considered, namely financial services, in a way which shows a convergent analysis of what an efficient regulatory attitude requires.
I have tabled five amendments for this second reading, all of which relate to points already raised at the first reading.
Amendment No 2 concerns the establishment of an expert consultation group.
Amendment No 3 concerns the freedom of establishment of a service operator.
It means that rules established in one Member State may be used to block organizations from another Member State from setting up in that particular country.
With Amendment No 4, both the Commission and other Member States are entitled to submit detailed opinions explaining why they believe that the measures envisaged create barriers to the free movement of goods.
If the Member State in question does not take account of such opinions it must give clear reasons why it is unable to do so.
Amendment No 5 refers again to provisions for the freedom of establishment of service operators and it is justified for the reason I have already given.
I believe the amendments to be realistic; I believe the amendments to be minimalist; and I believe the amendments are aimed at achieving maximum consensus and therefore, I hope, a qualified majority tomorrow in Parliament.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, technical standards and regulations are an extremely important instrument of economic policy.
Their function is to create transparency and promote communication.
It seems to me quite important to include in these considerations those countries which seek accession and finally also to initiate communication with "the rest of the world' .
The vertical level is also very important.
A third level, the duty of provision of information, can also provide a basis for the free movement of goods.
For us it is important that the market can react quickly and at a low cost.
It is significant in that if we can implement such a rule here and in the area of goods, an achievement now possible due to the efforts of Parliament, we avoid fragmenting the market; as our experience shows, this cannot be achieved using any other method.
But in view of time restrictions and the fact that we are basically in agreement on all matters, I will merely thank the rapporteur and note that we will adopt all the draft amendments presented by him, so within a short time we hope to have as our legislative basis a considerably improved proposal.
The debate is closed.
Voting will take place at noon tomorrow.
The proposal has as its aim the introduction of number portability and carrier pre-selection.
I would therefore like to ask the Commission to monitor the introduction of number portability and carrier pre-selection stringently.
I pay tribute to the Commissioner in that once again the Commission tackled five Member States yesterday, because these Member States are not implementing, or not implementing properly, the licensing system nor the Interconnection Directive.
Mr President, I would also like to say something about the European emergency number 112, and this means venting some frustration.
I already asked the Commission some questions about this a few months ago, and I was given a reply which left me none the wiser.
In addition, in some Member States the new number has been introduced alongside the old number.
Belgacom issues lists which do not mention the 112 number.
My response is, Mr President, that the parallel existence of two emergency numbers, a national and a European number, is not in keeping with the intention to have a single European emergency number.
In conclusion it remains for me to say that my group would be glad to agree with the common position supplemented by the amendments.
It seems to me entirely reasonable to be calling for number portability in the field of mobiles as quickly as possible.
My second point is about something in the explanatory statement which the rapporteur has referred to, and that is the use of the 112 number.
Mr President, what Mrs Read said is correct.
The requirement that emergency operators should be in a position to work in at least three Community languages - well, in principle, as the satirical Radio Eriwan would reply - will be very difficult to implement in practice: if even the control towers at airports are not in a position to speak English and that is the only language that should be spoken there, then I have my doubts as to whether it would work immediately with three languages at these telephone exchanges.
I hope that the final decision will soon follow.
The debate is closed.
Labelling of certain foodstuffs produced from genetically modified organisms The next item on the agenda is the report (A4-0181/98) by Mr K.
Mr President, it is a pity that the rapporteur is not there but I would like to discuss the position of the PPE group regarding the Collins report.
On the whole, the PPE group is in favour of the proposals of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection but opinions can vary.
A list of products which must not be labelled could be useful but I believe that none of the parties should become too involved in this argument as a compromise must be possible.
My main request to the Commission, but also indirectly to the Council of Ministers, is: please reach an agreement at last!
Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, it is now a year, almost exactly to the day, since the novel food regulation came into force, at least in theory as it is completely ineffectual in practice.
It opts for a system based on the detection of modified DNA or modified proteins in the final product delivered to the consumer.
In concrete terms, this in fact signifies that approximately 50 % of modified foods will escape being labelled because modified proteins or DNA will be transformed or destroyed in the final product.
The consumer wants to know the origin of the product and wants to know if there has been any genetic engineering involved.
Thank you, Mr Lannoye.
The issue of labelling genetically modified food is a crucial one in order to maintain public confidence and trust in the development of the biotechnological industry and in placing on the market biotechnological products.
The problem we have had is that with reference to particular products derived from GM soya and maize appeared on the market before the novel foods directive came into place.
The original Commission proposal, which is still under discussion in the Council, tries to address some of the problems relating to the labelling of genetically modified products.
This will engender some trust on the marketplace and hopefully a degree of sympathy and understanding within the population, which will encourage the continued production of genetically modified products and the biotechnology industry in general.
Having been given that information and having a quiet confidence and trust in the product, I feel quite confident that in the case of some of the early products that have been placed on the marketplace - I refer, for example, to the genetically modified tomato paste which is now outselling ordinary tomato paste in the United Kingdom by 2 cans to 1 - you will see a slowly developed preference for genetically modified products amongst the population when they realize they are harmless, of good quality, dependable, reliable and that in no way reflect the will of a large biotechnological company seeking to make profit or a dangerous product which may threaten their health.
But perhaps that is the role of a Commissioner.
In three issues it had a different opinion from ours, for example in the issue of a threshold, a minimum, and in the issue of a negative list.
If we refer to scientific facts in these two issues this means that we cannot come to any decision at the moment.
In the third issue, that of the "may contain' , my opinion differs from that of Parliament.
The "may contain' has a whole range of advantages, mainly for the consumer but also for the small business, which is not in a position to do everything that is necessary to attach a "does not contain' label.
You will then see, Mr Bowe, that even today approximately 60 % of processed food would have to be labelled, according to our calculations, and if we are to be on the safe side, perhaps 90 % or 100 % would have to be labelled "contains GMO' .
This would then be a zero information for the consumer; if it is no longer possible to buy a GMO-free product because manufacturers, for reasons of liability regulations, are more or less compelled to protect themselves from risk, there will no longer be any information for the consumer.
In this connection I would like to tell a story from Bavaria.
Of course the Commission will not oppose a compromise but you cannot be annoyed with us if we say loud and clear that a solution under one set of circumstances or another is not practical or will not provide the consumer with the information he wants.
This is my opinion and, so far, also the opinion of the Commission.
It means that which is already in stock.
This means that it is either a stock or a product but it must have been on the market before entry into force.
Whether it was a stock or a product that is perhaps only in the production process is therefore irrelevant, it depends on the timing.
Mr President, I have one short question for the Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Voting will take place at 12.00 noon tomorrow. (The House rose at 11.38 p.m.)
