Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 4 December 1997.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of 4 December 1997 have been distributed.
Mr President, I would like you to make a public statement on behalf of this House, to express our support for the aspirations of the Basque people, and our sympathy for the family of José Luis Caso, who was murdered for having been democratically elected to represent Basques like himself.
Mr President, I support what Mr Galeote has just said.
I believe Parliament is to receive a visit tomorrow from the family of the town councillor Miguel Ángel Blanco, who was murdered in Ermua, and Vice-President Cot is going to lead a meeting to provide information and support for all the victims of terrorism in Spain and Europe.
Thank you, Mr Medina.
I should also like to remind you that tomorrow, at 6 p.m., as Mr Puerta has mentioned, we will be holding a meeting which will be open to all Members of this House, to express our support for all the victims of terrorism - in Spain and in Europe as a whole - and this House's strong will and commitment to combat terrorism in all its forms wherever it occurs.
Thank you, Mr Papakyriazis.
That, coupled with the other rumours circulating about both beef and lamb, suggests to me that it would be important for the Commission to make a statement to this House, particularly after the Council meeting today.
But what appals me, Mr President, is that this declaration will be followed by a debate, but not by the Parliament taking a position.
Last month, in November, we adopted a far-reaching resolution with very few omissions in it.
Mr Posselt, this decision was made by the Conference of Presidents.
Mr President, you often come in for a lot of flak on these occasions and I think it is only right that on some occasions you should receive some compliments as well.
I would ask you to pass on our thanks to all the services involved in moving us into our new offices in Brussels for the way this was carried out.
Mr President, it was to raise a point about the minutes that I asked for the floor, just when you introduced the first point on the agenda.
I would like to make a comment about page five of the minutes of the meeting of 4 December, and more particularly on the response to my point raised under Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure.
In my speech, I reminded the House that on 19 November, I had submitted a written declaration formally registering my concern regarding the regularity and transparency of procedures governing our operating and investment expenditure.
And indeed, in a letter dated 3 December, you wrote that you were actually referring the matter to the Rules Committee that very day.
Mr President, the Rules Committee met on 8 and 9 December.
As of today, 15 December, no submission has yet been received from you on the subject.
Mr Colino Salamanca, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, has the floor.
Mr President, the amendments to that report were approved unanimously in committee.
The fact is that you can never create a flexible organization of work unless you also have a well-developed labour law, an active labour market policy and a right to in-house training for employees, etcetera.
This is largely a question for the parties in the labour market, but society should give the basic standards and create incentives to shorten working hours.
However, in this respect the situation is gloomy.
We know that only one in three employees has access to training.
A change in the organization of work is a long-term measure.
We are talking about health and safety at work and working hours in particular.
On behalf of my group I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur for his report, and for agreeing with most of our amendments.
The biggest changes that are taking place in the workplace and with regard to work are the changes in technology.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to mention atypical work.
We will have to move towards a system in which people can choose the hours they work, whether to work part-time or not, whether to work as an employee or freelance, and our social security system should be adapted to suit this.
I, along with the Committee on Women's Rights, am deeply concerned about how the position of women will be affected in the changing work scenario.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Andersson for his excellent report, which clearly establishes a link between innovation, training and the reorganization of work, with one major concern: employment.
We are currently experiencing a real technological revolution, particularly with the Internet, a revolution comparable in scale to the industrial revolution affecting Europe in the second half of the 19th century.
The interactive society which we will come to experience, operating 24 hours a day and wide open to the world, will completely destroy traditional working hours and habits.
Innovation, training and reorganization of work were the three pillars of the Luxembourg Summit on employment.
To conclude, Mr President, if we link up innovation, training and reorganization of work with the reduction in the costs associated with labour, then we will be certain to benefit from globalization, favouring investment in Europe and going on to win the employment battle.
It is important for us because we want to defend and extend this European social model, which is built on solidarity and consensus.
We have been used to better things from you in the past, and I would ask you to study the statement from the Committee on Women's Rights, which is attached to this report and which we all support.
Mr President, I am sorry but I cannot say that I agree with this document as it stands, or with the contents of the Green Paper.
Both documents start from shared and acceptable assumptions such as workers' safety, social protection, equal opportunities for women and the disabled, space for immigrants, worker profitsharing and introduction of new technologies, but then they go on to say that a reduction in hours may ensure greater competitiveness, better working conditions and a rise in employment without affecting production: everything, and the opposite of everything.
Europe cannot compete in the world in terms of wages, but ultimately only on productivity.
However, I agree with the report from the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment when it calls for worker participation in decision-making.
If we can combine these three concepts, we will have the basis for creating our own path in Europe.
Mr President, the Commission Green Paper does not offer anything new.
There is great unease since the pace of labour market reform in Europe is lagging behind that of the United States and Japan, and this can be interpreted as a demand for the widespread acceptance in essence of part-time work and the quashing of workers' basic rights and achievements.
A more flexible labour market may benefit both employers and employees.
Mr President, the labour market is changing rapidly today because of globalization and new technology.
The principal aim of the Green Paper was to promote a debate on how we can improve employment and competitiveness through a better organization of work, and a high level of competence and quality, and at the same time guarantee social security.
Last month a summit on employment was held in Luxembourg.
These guidelines are also reflected in the Green Paper, not least with regard to adaptability.
At this point I would like to remind you that last month the European Council invited the parties in the labour market to negotiate agreements on modernizing the organization of work.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, trafficking in women for the purpose of sexual exploitation is an increasing global trade which involves women from poorer countries being forced into sexual slavery in the EU and elsewhere.
This report by the Committee on Women's Rights recommends a number of measures to protect women and combat trafficking.
It suggests that a range of Community programmes, including STOP and DAPHNE, could be developed and used more effectively to combat trafficking in women, support the victims and enable them to rebuild their lives.
It urges that gender equality and the need to combat trafficking in the countries of origin are featured in the EU development programmes and EU negotiations on enlargement, since this trade is primarily fuelled by women's poverty and their lack of power and opportunity in these countries.
This Parliament should congratulate Commissioner Gradin on the work she has done in this field, persuading Member States to begin to work together to combat this trade in women.
By supporting this report, we will be providing further encouragement for action against the exploitation of vulnerable women whose human rights are being violated, and we will enable more measures to be taken to support the victims of sexual slavery in rebuilding their lives.
I hope that this report will be adopted unanimously by this Parliament, as it was in the Committee on Women's Rights, because then the work of Commissioner Gradin can gather momentum and force, and we will truly be able to say that this European Union is taking every possible step to avoid the victimization of women and violation of their human rights.
Italy, for example, talks about residence permits for reasons of social protection in its new immigration law.
Madam President, I would like to congratulate Susan Waddington and Maria Colombo Svevo most sincerely for their excellent report, but I would also like to thank Commissioner Gradin for her passionate dedication to the fight against trafficking in women.
Maria Colombo Svevo made a reference to the latter just now.
Countries would rather battle against trafficking in women, against illegal immigration, than against the most brutal violation of human rights.
Even though it is worthy of consideration, even though it is good that in some countries there are some forms of temporary protection against women, concern for victims is still very selective.
The problem is however, that the agreements with the Council of Ministers are not legally binding, not enforceable.
The fact that 500, 000 women are estimated to be being trafficked in the European Community is an appalling figure.
When Commissioner Gradin raised this issue and made it one of the priorities for her term of office, there was probably quite a lot of amusement and scepticism about the extent of the problem.
They arrive in a new country often illegally, without papers and are then trapped.
This must be achieved by supporting more women's projects in European and national development policies; it must be achieved by strict implementation of the human rights clause in agreement with third countries; and it must be achieved by putting more emphasis on the equal opportunities policy in negotiations with candidate countries in central and eastern Europe.
The root of evil in the trafficking of women originates, after all, in the unequal balance in power and wealth between men and women.
Secondly, much more emphasis on the role of the non-governmental organizations in the information, prevention, protection and later reintegration of women in their countries.
Coordination and cooperation on a European level is necessary, when protecting victims, when prosecuting and punishing perpetrators, when informing and educating people through, for example, EU embassies in third countries, in strengthening the role of NGOs and through support of women's organizations in the countries involved.
Trafficking in women is degrading.
It is in this way that the wish not only of this Parliament, but also of society, to opt for an international approach to trafficking in women, has been complied with.
This integrated approach is indeed necessary; not only cooperation between police and law services, but in particular the protection of victims is needed in order to be able to prosecute perpetrators.
The role of the NGO's, as has already been said here, is crucial in this, since they are much better able to win the trust of the women who have ended up in totally alien societies.
But more should be done, and in the Member States it should be mentioned that as far as the protection of victims is concerned, more effective action should be taken, because a temporary residence permit is often not enough to win true trust.
Mr President, I would like first to congratulate our rapporteur, and the Commissioner, for the quality of the work she has carried out on so delicate a subject.
Let us simply express the hope that the opening of the European Union to these countries will enhance our ability to control this problem, especially as women from the central and eastern european countries who are involved in this trafficking are young and educated, and therefore should have better chances of entering the employment market.
First, given the current extension of homosexuality, trade in women is no different from trade in men or in transsexuals - it is all done for the same reason, so to speak - and, worse still, it is no different from the even more horrible, more monstrous trade in children, as revealed by the unspeakable actions of Dutroux and his accomplices in Belgium.
Such trade shames our Europe, a Europe which, increasingly less Christian, is increasingly less respectful of human dignity.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report.
The trafficking of human beings is also a part of organized crime, and is widespread and mainly found in the Eastern bloc countries.
I agree with the rapporteur that the problem must be tackled from the viewpoint of the victims.
With the report on the trafficking of persons, we in the Committee on Women's Rights have embarked on a course to take us out of the taboo zone.
Mr Commissioner, let me begin by congratulating Mrs Waddington on a good and balanced report.
Since the big conference in Vienna in the summer of 1996 and the plan of action which was adopted by the Commission in November last year, the question has really been put on the political agenda.
The Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs have also acted swiftly and followed up both the plan of action on trafficking in women and the Stockholm Conference on the sexual exploitation of children.
The Council of Ministers has also decided that trafficking in people shall be regarded as a crime and that the perpetrators will be punished.
However, that will not come into force until the Member States have changed their legislation in this direction.
The Council of Ministers also made a decision on the Stop programme, which stands for Sexual Trafficking of Persons .
The USA is going to cooperate with the IOM, the International Organization for Migration , and we in the EU with the voluntary organization La Strada.
The US President and his First Lady are deeply involved in the issue.
The great interest clearly shows that there is a need for contributions from voluntary organizations in this area.
The project involves organizations and authorities in Italy, Poland and the Dominican Republic among other places.
A third project concerns the sexual exploitation of immigrant women.
The Grotius programme concerns information and exchange in the judicial area, and the Oisin programme concerns increased cooperation in policing.
The debate is closed.
The existence of this directive will also enable European Union countries to take a lead in the manufacture and marketing of new engines which have been designed for this purpose in order to reduce gaseous emissions.
It will therefore give European industry a tremendous advantage on the world market - on the assumption, of course, that European industry grasps this opportunity.
The directive was the subject of conciliation between ourselves and the Council.
The original Commission proposal was approved by this House without amendment.
Comitology concerns the way in which technical decisions arising from directives are made, and we have a choice: either these decisions can be made publicly, so that members of the public can see what these decisions are and can understand them; or we can make these decisions behind closed doors so that you, the public, do not hear what is being said and so that you, the public, do not understand what decisions are being made and the whole thing is kept under wraps.
So we went to conciliation on this, and during conciliation we managed to change the Council common position in this regard; and I think that we have therefore advanced the democratic case that we wanted to advance.
We also secured a reference to the modus vivendi.
The modus vivendi is about bringing us and the Commission together so far as these decisions are concerned, and we do not think that the modus vivendi in its present form works very well.
We also have an undertaking from the Commission that a new form of the modus vivendi will be proposed some time in the middle of 1998.
Mr President, let me begin by expressing the Commission's satisfaction over the result of the conciliation procedure where this very important question of legislation is concerned.
The use of less polluting engines in such machinery will therefore play an important role in reducing air pollution in our cities, and at a reasonable cost.
I am conscious that the question of comitology has raised a problem for Parliament.
Let me finally convey the Commission's appreciation of the fact that Parliament and the Council of Ministers have reached a constructive agreement with regard to the draft directive.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I think it is good that this Parliament will be able to find something about it in the text.
Mr President, a comparison between the joint draft and the original proposal yields at least three points of difference which are vital in order for the result of the compromise procedure to be called a quality product, and which prompt me to congratulate my colleague Mrs Oomen-Ruijten sincerely on her persistent efforts and on the result.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Oomen-Ruijten for her excellent work and assistance in this job of conciliation.
In the case, for example, of quality wines sold by France, in a 0.75 l bottles, the fact that wine is typically sold in this unit size made it clear that the compulsory display of the price per litre was unnecessary.
It is fortunate that the transitional period has been extended to 24 months, and the Commission will have to present a report and make a proposal covering the special case of small traders.
In conclusion, Mr President, our group will vote in favour of the legislation arising from this directive, but wishes to draw attention to the difficult situation which small traders are likely to face as a result of the two-fold obligation under the present directive at the end of the transitional period, and the requirement to implement dual price display in the countries affected by the single currency.
Mr President, first I would like to express the Commission's appreciation of the fact that we have reached a compromise on the directive on consumer protection with regard to the indication of prices of goods.
The compromise which has been reached does not mean a definitive solution for small retailers.
For its part the Commission shall, after the expiry of the implementation period, deliver a report on the application of this directive to the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers.
On the basis of the report, the European Parliament and the Council shall consider and reach a decision within three years.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
At the time I tabled two amendments on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, which dealt with the problem of terminal dues.
Mr President, despite the fact that in October, Parliament agreed a common position on postal services with the Council, the issue of post seems to refuse to go away and is yet again at the forefront of Parliament's deliberations.
During discussions on the directive, the issue of terminal dues caused a great deal of concern.
However, disagreements emerged within the Council, and in order to get an agreed position on the directive as a whole, it was decided by Parliament to drop the amendments on this particular issue.
Mr President, I am not Jacques Donnay, as you can see, but I think there has been some problem with transport, and if you will allow me, I shall speak in his place.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, at the time of the recent adoption of the directive on postal services, we agreed on the principle according to which terminal dues should be based on the real costs borne by the postal services at the distribution end.
The proportion of international mail as compared to domestic mail is only 5 % for France, 6 % for Germany and 7 % in Italy, but rises to 12 % for Great Britain and 25 % for the Netherlands.
Mr President, the resolution that I have tabled jointly with my colleague Michel Dary, on behalf of the Group of the European Radical Alliance, provides a corrective to the wrongful practices of some member countries of the European Union.
Indeed, some postal services, advantaged by particularly competitive tariffs, practice unfair competition by giving incentives to mail reposting, and so poach from the national mail services business which they handle as international mail services, since the mail is deposited or sorted with them outside national boundaries.
Finally, failing agreement between operators on terminal dues, it would be appropriate for Member States to authorise their universal postal companies forthwith to invoice their postal processing and distribution services for incoming cross-border mail on the basis of the real costs incurred.
Mr President, with regard to terminal dues, we should devise a solution to put an end to the unfair practice of reposting, and respect the spirit of the directive, in particular the principle of the universal service.
According to some sources of information, the Commission is thought to be on the point of discussing a communication on these questions, although the European Parliament on 1 December last voted through a directive already adopted by the Council, but only after laborious discussions.
The association of European operators has furthermore expressed its concerns in this respect, and raised a warning with regard to the possibility that the quality of service and the viability of a universal service, supplied at a uniform tariff for throughout the national territory, might be called into question.
The current rate for a standard letter at the lowest weight is on average around 45 % of the domestic tariff, which would suggest that the actual costs of delivering a letter in this category are some 80 % of the domestic tariff.
According to the decisions made by Parliament and Council, the Member States enjoy clear authority in these areas, and not primarily the Commission.
In other words: what is necessary, as well as an agreement that is in harmony with the rules of competition, is an improvement in postal services in terms of both cost and quality.
We could also make our decisions based on the rules of competition quite out of the blue.
There is a section on this in article 13 of the postal services directive, but here the Member States are only advised to ensure that in their agreements on the terminal dues involved in cross-border intra-Community post the following principles are observed.
Mr President, the problems surrounding terminal dues for international postal services and our recent decision about the EU Member States' postal services and the Universal Postal Union as an institution are based on a view of postal distribution as a state monopoly, a view which is on the way to becoming increasingly out-of-date.
Hence there is the need for a directive.
Mr President, recently Council and Parliament took the unwise decision to postpone the liberalization of cross-border postal services until the year 2003 at least.
Thus the draft resolution of the PPE Group, the PSE Group, the Liberal Group and the Green Group proposes that, now that Reims II has not been signed by all participants, the postal services will be allowed to set the tariffs in line with their costs.
In addition, firms in other Member States, including postal services, should be given the same treatment as tenderers of large consignments of post within one Member State.
I am not saying that we are always right, but in this case we really did make a self-sacrificial effort, in Parliament and in the Council, to fight for a clear deregulation timetable, which obviously through competition would have helped much more, and much more efficiently, to produce the very thing we desire, namely a fully functional, competitive postal service.
You are not often in attendance here.
That is why we have said to people 'Suggest something to us!' and that is Reims II.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon.
We have been deliberating for two-and-a-half years now about adapting the European directives on public procurement to the last WTO agreement, and we have now reached a concerted agreement at the end of the conciliation process.
We could have had everything a lot quicker, Mr Commissioner, if the Commission, or part of the Commission, had been somewhat more flexible, for Parliament was of the opinion from the start that adapting the directives to the world trade agreement should only proceed as far as is absolutely necessary.
The Commission has ultimately admitted - and the Council in the conciliation process likewise - that we should agree on a sensible arrangement regarding the technical dialogue, that the technical dialogue, that is to say the consultation prior to awarding the contract, will always remain a possibility, if competition is not expressly ruled out.
Firstly, when the Utilities Directive 93/38 comes up for review next year but also when we receive the Commission's response to the Green Paper when that comes before Parliament early in 1998.
Since then, much water has passed under the bridge, and we are now in a position to give an opinion on the report of the delegation to the Conciliation Committee. (The President asked the speaker to wind up) I have one more minute, Mr President.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 8.15 p.m.)
