Hopefully, we need only wait two or three months for the temperature and weather to allow us to carry out this drill in the best possible way.
Thank you, Mr Poos.
I would like to extend a warm welcome to the Chinese delegation who are here to participate in the sixteenth interparliamentary meeting between the European Parliament and the People' s Republic of China which is taking place in Strasbourg on 15 and 16 December.
Let us now express the firm hope that this dialogue will develop further and that our cooperation with the People' s Republic of China will become stronger.
Mr President, I have asked to speak because you have already turned your attention to the agenda.
Climate change The next item is the statements of the Council and the Commission on the results of the fifth Conference of the members of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Mr President, Members of the European Parliament, a policy on climate issues has been one of the main environmental concerns of the Finnish Presidency.
The European Parliament is quite right when it states in its resolution that the commitments that have been made up till now are still not sufficient to limit the rise in temperature to one and a half degrees a century: we need new commitments in addition to the present ones.
We must remember that these strategies are only the first step in what will hopefully become an on-going process of implementing and developing climate strategies.
One of the most important decisions reached during the autumn was the commitment made at the Helsinki Summit by the Community and the Member States to ratify the Kyoto Protocol before the Rio+10 Conference, which is to be held in 2002, and that the Community should do everything required to make ratification possible.
I consider one fundamental issue to be the fact that nuclear power cannot be accepted as a method to be applied in the CDM and Joint Implementation projects.
Thank you, Mrs Hassi.
One year ago the parties to the Convention on Climate Change decided on a two-year work programme, the Buenos Aires plan of action.
In this context the expectations for Bonn concentrated on the need to make substantial technical progress.
I am very pleased that the European Union, along with many other parties, expressed its support for that idea.
In this context, the decision of the parties in Bonn to speed up the process during the coming years was important.
The Kyoto mechanisms - emissions trading, joint implementation and the clean development mechanism - are a part of the Protocol.
Without this achievement, the prospects of reaching decisions at COP 6 would have been bleak.
That is why we need a balanced process between issues relating to the Kyoto Protocol and issues relating to the underlying Climate Change Convention.
We have to keep in mind that COP 6 can be successful only if we can deliver significant results on both issues, building a bridge between the industrialised and developing countries.
These projects financed by industrial countries cannot but enhance capacity building and technology transfer in developing countries and economies in transition.
This brings me to a very important matter that Parliament has also raised in a resolution, namely the question of nuclear energy as an option for clean development mechanism projects.
I am of the opinion that the environmental and safety problems surrounding nuclear energy are too important to encourage its proliferation in developing countries under the header of the clean development mechanism.
This should allow the first behavioural and technological changes with a view to preparing for the much more ambitious emission cuts of the future.
However, it is crucial that we get the process right.
In the meantime the Commission will continue not only its active role in the negotiations but also its work on Community measures.
Under the climate change action programme, which I announced in this House in October, the Commission's work is currently focusing on the establishment of a list of priority measures in the area of climate change to be presented to the Environment Council in March.
A tremendous amount of technical and political work still lies ahead of us in putting the Kyoto Protocol into effect as a first step in fighting global warming.
I appreciate your commitment to help in conveying the importance of combating climate change throughout Europe and to your counterparts in other countries, in particular the United States Congress.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, at the end of this century, the subject of environmental protection is being accorded the importance which it actually deserves, given the major challenges at stake.
It is true that we have made progress in numerous areas and that some environmental problems, such as water pollution, have been sorted out.
But the greatest environmental problem facing our planet in the next century has not been sorted out; on the contrary, it is increasing day by day.
If we do not act now, the next century will be dominated by dramatic problems.
The catastrophic floods in France and elsewhere have also shown that problems arise if we fail to act quickly.
That means that we in the industrialised countries and in the European Union need to reduce them by far more than 50% in order to take account of legitimate development interests in developing countries and population growth.
The Council and the Commission played a constructive role at the Bonn Conference.
We particularly welcome the commitment to ratify Kyoto by 2002.
The Bonn Conference was not a failure, even if the dramatic situation in fact calls for greater progress.
Some countries have indeed reduced emissions to some extent, but there are no true paragons.
I find it particularly worrying that emissions are currently rising sharply in what are in fact environmentally-friendly countries such as Denmark and Sweden.
I do not take the view that nuclear power is a universal panacea but, more importantly, we do not want nuclear energy technology to be exported to unsafe countries in lieu of commitments at home.
Famine, poverty and injustice in the way in which burdens are distributed remain acute problems in many parts of the world.
Just as Mr Liese said, we were not perhaps expecting too much progress at the latest COP Conference in Bonn, but it would still of course have been desirable for the EU, the United States and everyone else to have achieved a more constructive result than was actually achieved.
We are convinced that more must happen more quickly, both in the individual Member States of the European Union, but also of course worldwide.
As clearly stated in our motion for a resolution, the results of the Kyoto Protocol are unsatisfactory on several accounts.
Our resolution on the Kyoto Protocol, adopted in October, was clearly heading in this direction by demanding a coordinated strategy for informing the public in a clear, understandable and accessible manner.
It is through these concrete and tangible measures that Europe will enter our homes and our habits.
Amongst these - and we are happy that Commissioner Wallström has pointed this out - is the clear criticism of the pressure exerted by the nuclear industry on Bonn so that nuclear energy may be used in the strategy to reduce CO2 emissions.
For this reason, in the Committee on the Environment, we still propose renewable sources of energy and the adoption of clear measures with regard to transport; not only in road transport which is the form of transport which produces most CO2 emissions, but also in air transport which also produces many emissions and which, until now, has not been controlled as it should be.
The debate on climate change is not a trivial affair.
If countries at a climate conference reach an agreement, then it is understood that every effort is made to reach sound implementation and execution.
The fact that this environmental problem needs to be solved worldwide does not detract from the huge responsibility incumbent upon each individual Member State.
In other words, a reduction in CO2 emissions can never be a licence to emit other harmful substances instead.
The introduction of excise on kerosene remains a necessary measure, so that flight traffic is no longer given undue preferential treatment in financial terms over other types of transport.
Mr President, everyone in this House agrees that reducing or at least stabilising CO2 emissions is an environmental imperative for our planet.
We must therefore raise awareness among the Member States and among our partners.
The European Union must therefore be resolute in the face of the US Congress and Japan and it must also be able to convince countries such as Russia.
I do not really favour energy taxes as I do not believe that environmental problems can be systematically solved with taxation.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, thank you for your perceptive comments on global warming.
Even worse, under pressure from powerful nuclear lobbies, nuclear energy has nearly succeeded in being recognised as a renewable source of energy.
Mr President, one of the greatest challenges in the fight for sustainable development is to reduce the all too high levels of CO2 emissions and, to begin with, I should like to emphasise that nuclear power is not a renewable energy source and that it ought not therefore to be included among Kyoto' s flexible mechanisms, such as the mechanism for sustainable development.
The use of nuclear power must not stand in the way of the transition to a more sustainable energy supply.
Mr President, seven years after Rio, two years after Kyoto, the issue of climate change is today at a critical juncture.
It is unacceptable that in principle, the European Union is fighting for a reduction in emissions and then, in practice, reaches the conclusion that, because the necessary policies have not been implemented, many Member States are already slipping alarmingly in relation to the limit values set in Kyoto for 2010.
In order to do this, we do not have to wait for the United States of America, particularly because it is more and more likely that we will have to move ahead without that country for the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol in 2002.
This is unacceptable and Europe must say so.
Regardless of the Americans, Europe must say that it will ratify the Kyoto Protocol without getting involved in the right to pollute system.
It is therefore absolutely necessary to take political measures.
I have come to the conclusion that the European Union must very much take a leading role in this work.
My question both to Commissioner Wallström and Representative of the Council Hassi is this: you have expressed a general optimism; now where is the conclusion?
Mr President, in common with other speakers, I should like to begin by emphasising the need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and to reduce the effect upon the climate.
Specifically targeted charges on carbon dioxide emissions should be more effective than general taxes, but there are also other options for individual Member States.
The argument that says nuclear energy is not a sustainable means of producing energy, on account of the waste it produces, and cannot thus be included in the clean development mechanisms, is simply not tenable.
I would like to remind those Members here who continue to speak against nuclear power from one debate to the next that, but for the current level of nuclear energy being used, carbon dioxide emissions would immediately grow by 800 million tons every year.
There must be maximum cooperation between the EU Member State governments and all interested bodies so that a reduction in the use of CO2 becomes a reality.
The Irish Government has brought out a Green Paper on sustainable energy, which is to be given special status within our national development plan for the period 2000-2006.
This Green Paper discusses the framework for reducing CO2 emissions within all sectors of our society.
I also agree with what many have pointed out, that Kyoto is only the first step.
We all know that it has been difficult in the European Union to take a decision on an energy tax but, for example, the conclusions of the Cologne Summit state the importance of this issue.
One step in the right direction is that achieved on Monday in the Environment Council, which is for a Council common position on a 'strategic directive to assess environmental effects' , which will be a good tool to evaluate the impact on the environment, including the effect of emissions on the climate, of different programmes and action.
This is absolutely true, but I myself would certainly not see the USA in quite such a gloomy light as might have been inferred from some speeches.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what made the biggest impression on me during the conference in Bonn were the speeches by representatives of small island States.
We in the European Union ought therefore to ratify the agreement on a common basis and with all Member States on board.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 p.m.
On 20 December this year Macao returns to Chinese rule by virtue of the agreement made between Portugal and China.
The European Union supports Macao' s status as a special administrative area, and will be following developments there closely.
The European Union wishes to emphasise the importance of this special identity for Macao and holds it to be important to maintain citizens' rights and freedoms in accordance with the Community resolution of 1987 and the special administrative areas' constitution as laid down by China and Portugal.
The European Union regards it as being especially important that the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Convention on Civil and Political Rights, and the basic standards established in the conventions associated with the ILO are applied in all their respects in Macao.
This agreement will create a lasting framework for cooperation between the special administrative area of Macao and the EU, and will help to maintain regular dialogue on economic matters and matters of commerce and cooperation.
The example of Hong Kong will give us cause to believe that the transfer of power in Macao will proceed without conflict.
As honourable Members might imagine, there is a certain sense of déjà vu for me in all of this.
Certainly, my great friend and former colleague, Vasco Rocha Vieira, has more claim to the title than I do.
In making this statement this morning I want to place on record my admiration for all he has done in Macao in his long tenure as Governor.
His distinguished record as a public servant of skill and integrity is, I am sure, recognised in his own country as it is in Macao, and in this Parliament as it is in the Commission.
Macao, like Hong Kong before it, will begin a new era after 19 December as a special administrative region of the People's Republic of China.
That is what is meant by the concept of "one country - two systems" under which Macao, like Hong Kong, will retain its freedoms and fundamental rights and enjoy a high degree of autonomy as a special administrative region of the People's Republic of China.
Those rights and freedoms, as the Presidency said a few moments ago, are set out in terms in the Sino-Portuguese Joint Declaration which both parties have solemnly pledged to uphold.
The European Union will continue to take a close interest in Macao after 19 December.
The Commission has recently published a communication entitled "The European Union and Macao beyond 2000".
The trade and cooperation agreement between the European Community and Macao, signed in 1992, will remain in force.
It will help to maintain and reinforce our dialogue on trade, economic and cooperation issues.
We want to have as good a relationship with the future chief executive of the special administrative region as we have had with my friend the present Governor.
What is happening in Macao next Sunday is an important moment in Portugal's history, in China's history, in Europe's history.
Portugal has run her course in Macao and is fortunate that her honour during this passage has been in the hands of Governor Vieira and his officials in the Government of Macao.
The other political Groups have finally accepted the position of the European People' s Party and we therefore consider it essential that this debate takes place here and now, by happy coincidence on the day on which a delegation from the Chinese Parliament is visiting us.
The intervention of the European Parliament, of the Council and of the Commission will not only contribute to providing a more substantial safeguard for a combination of interests that were stated in good time, but will also reaffirm a genuine leading role for the European Union, which will ensure that China continues to see it as a favoured partner in discussions on a global strategy for peace, to the building of democracy, to the safeguard of human rights, to development, to dialogue and to modernisation on a worldwide scale.
For more than four and a half centuries, the presence of the Portuguese in Macao has almost always been peaceful and has almost always been as important for Portugal and for Europe as it has for China.
Therefore, what is about to take place in this quite unique case must involve the European Union in a very special way.
It is worth recognising the importance of the fact that Macao was the first permanent point of contact that Europe established with the Far East, in the middle of the 16th Century.
This is also why it makes perfect sense and presents a major political opportunity for us to adopt a clear position, one which will express the well-founded expectations and the commitment of the Union' s citizens concerning the future of the special administrative region of Macao in the political context of China and concerning Europe' s relations with both, with regard to defence and the promotion of human rights, of other constitutional values and those of the specific legal framework which applies to the region by means of its new statute and of the principle of "one country, two systems" .
As far as these and other aspects are concerned, some of which involve my country more specifically, it is to be hoped that the conclusions of this debate will make an appropriate contribution to achieving the aims that have been stated.
I have personally been connected with the issue of Macao since the revolution of 25 April.
The process was actually settled in a fairly cordial manner and in line with the friendship that has traditionally existed between Portugal and China.
I am sure that the ceremony will be exemplary and I must say that, as a Portuguese Member of this Parliament, I am delighted with the circumstances in which, at the end of the century and of the millennium, Portugal' s cycle of imperialism is coming to a close.
Portugal is a different country today, a free country, a country in which people coexist peacefully, one in which human rights are respected and whose main objective is peace.
I am sure that you will represent the European Parliament well in Macao, even if, as a Portuguese person, your heart will be slightly heavy.
However, for the Union to talk of a shared legal system between Europe and Macao stretches credibility.
In the communication, the Commission talks of "a solid relationship in terms of culture and civilisation".
I hope the Council and Commission will assure us that they will not shrink from expressing Europe's outrage at the continued assaults on human rights and human liberties which pose a major challenge to us in the next century.
However, as the joint resolution that has been presented states, the necessity of this act does not mean that the European Union is no longer interested in the future of a territory which has such close links with our history and even our culture.
Macao is a current symbol of that Portuguese, Hispanic and European spirit of adventure, which led us to establish human and trade relationships on every continent.
Mr President, we are delighted with the way in which the preparation for the region of Macao passing into the sovereignty of the People' s Republic of China on 20 December has taken place.
Mr President, four days away from the transfer of power in Macao, the resolution, with which we agree, is extraordinarily valuable because it is confident and because it provides guarantees for the future.
Although in different circumstances, which are painful and very harsh, Timor is like Macao: it represents another promise of progress for human rights, freedom and for the rule of law in Asia, another beacon of hope with links to European culture through Portuguese culture and experience.
Portugal takes pride in the efforts that have been made in the territory of Macao and in the hopeful signs that several centuries of peaceful coexistence have left there.
For China, this is how its policy known as "one country, two systems" works.
This collective attention on the part of Europe is the best additional, practical guarantee that we can give, the best way that we have of guaranteeing that Macao' s unique nature is safeguarded, and of continuing to deal with Macao in a unique way, not by putting it into the pot with every other country.
Mr President, like slaves in Ancient Rome, Africans in the plantations in the Americas or, better still, like serfs, the inhabitants of Macao change master without anyone having consulted them, without them having been able to express their views on the subject.
Mr President, I agree with the previous speaker that the people of Macao are the main element missing from the 1987 agreement between Portugal and China, and indeed from this handover.
Macao and Timor were in the same situation.
You talk about maintaining a European presence in Macao.
I will be attending mass next Sunday morning in the cathedral in Hong Kong with my friends in the parish, as I used to when I was Governor.
The international community was concerned about the earlier decision taken by the Court of Final Appeal in Hong Kong, or rather the reversal of that decision by the parliament in Beijing.
Thank you, Commissioner Patten.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m.
All the European Member States adopted the Beijing Platform for Action.
We committed ourselves to 12 areas.
But single mothers and older women remain the main victims of poverty.
Unfortunately, education of women and men still follows a stereotyped pattern.
The sixth area is women and the economy.
We promised to fully implement the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women.
The eleventh area is environment.
This is the discouraging result five years after Beijing and after 25 years of effort since the United Nations incurred the responsibility for promoting women's rights at national, regional and international levels.
An action-oriented plan for advancing the Beijing goals is necessary if all governments are to implement strategies for gender equality in all 12 critical areas of concern.
This report was debated in the Council (Employment and Social Affairs) on 22 October of this year.
The nine indicators it is proposed should be used when next monitoring implementation of the Beijing Action Platform are included in these conclusions, and a reminder is provided of the Member States' commitment, in accordance with the Beijing Action Platform, to achieve the equal participation of women and men at all levels where power is exercised and decisions taken.
I agree with Mrs Theorin that the situation is particularly dramatic for women in many places on the planet and is becoming critical.
As you know, the European Commission drafted an announcement in 1995, in parallel to the Beijing Conference, in which it adopted gender mainstreaming in all development policies.
I repeat that some action has been taken since Beijing, but this needs to be stepped up and consolidated with much more specific measures.
On the borders of the European Union, we have endured the wars in Bosnia and in Kosovo, which have still not returned to an acceptable state of normality.
In many parts of the world, women are victims of violence and traditional practices which do not take account of their personal dignity or their human rights.
The trade in human beings particularly affects women, who are victims of organised mafias and prostitution.
This particularly affects younger women and, unfortunately, does not only happen in the less developed countries, but also in the wealthy countries.
They want to participate more and more in technological innovations; they have discovered the opportunities offered by organising themselves and establishing associations in their places of residence, in their work-places and in their regions.
However, despite the progress made, we have to continue working so that many women may have more dignified and fair lives.
The meeting in New York, following on from the conference in Beijing, will be a good opportunity to continue working along this line.
I therefore ask for more participation by the Parliament and support from the European institutions so that our presence there may be effective.
We do not want to formulate new objectives; what we want is a clear analysis and evaluation of where progress has been made in our Member States, where we should concentrate and where we should step up efforts so that the European Union can achieve progress in New York for the women of Europe and throughout the world?
Thank you, Mrs Gröner.
Mr President, although I fully appreciate that we have to break off in order to award the prize to Xanana Gusmão, whom I fully and completely support, I should nonetheless like, on behalf of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, to ask whether we are to see as discrimination against women the fact that we do not get to continue our debate at three o' clock on the dot, which I think would have been quite the natural thing to do.
Mrs Theorin, that was the arrangement from the outset.
I hope that Parliament will not stop at applause but that it will also actually follow up the promise of solidarity with the people of East Timor and those responsible.
The same thing happened four years ago, which is why I protested in committee.
It is about the Petten reactor in Holland, which we are always assured is for medical research.
Commissioner Lamy gave that undertaking.
However, in view of its desire to keep Parliament informed, the Commission was careful to send its proposal to this House at the same time as to the Council.
However, the Commission, as the body which will be responsible for implementing this programme, can only hope for its formal adoption.
The importance of this research reactor in the medical field in recent years cannot be ignored.
Over six million diagnoses are made annually in Europe due to this work.
In addition, the Community is conducting medical research in this reactor, particularly on the development of new brain tumour therapies.
These are only a small minority of cases and, for reasons explained during the debate yesterday, these amendments cannot be accepted at this stage and in their present form.
Furthermore, any solution would have to avoid a conflict with third countries' legislation.
Thirdly, concerning Amendments Nos 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19, the Commission considers that the draft amendments detract from the legal certainty of the proposal and will work to the disadvantage of the injured parties.
Given that conciliation seems unavoidable, the Commission will play a full and constructive role in facilitating a compromise in order to avoid a failure of the directive which would affect all of us and be of considerable detriment to motorists visiting the EU.
In particular, the Commission can accept in full Amendments Nos 1, 4, 9, 11, 17, 25 and 29.
We can accept in principle the second part of Amendment No 12, provided that the deadline is set at 30 June 2002, and Amendment No 15, on condition that the date for the ban on the use of virgin HCFCs is set at 2008 and that the ban on the use of recycled HCFCs is set at 2010.
We can also accept in principle Amendment No 26, provided that the text specifies that reports be sent to the Commission by 31 March each year, and Amendment No 27, subject to the addition of a reference to the Scientific Assessment Panel under the Montreal Protocol.
The Commission can accept Amendment No 31 in part and in principle, subject to redrafting that makes the text clearer.
The Commission can accept the first part of Amendment No 12 and the part of Amendment No 24 that makes reference to Articles 12, 13 and 14.
Unfortunately I have to say that the Commission cannot accept Amendment Nos 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 28, 30 and 34, the reference to Articles 6, 7 and 11 in Amendment No 24, and the last paragraph of Amendment No 31.
We have proposed a way of taking TACIS forward which does not penalise other countries and which makes a distinction between the development of democracy and human rights, on the one hand, and other programmes, on the other.
The Rules of Procedure clearly state, in Rule 115, that texts must be made available 24 hours in advance.
I would like to ask, as politely as possible, if we may interpret this vote as an irregular amendment to our Rules of Procedure?
We have a joint motion by five political groups. (Parliament adopted the joint resolution) The House has made its decision.
It concerns Rule 51 and also Rules 180 and 181, Annex 6 and Annex 15 which deal with amendments to the Rules of Procedure.
Rule 51 deals with written declarations.
I can see nothing on our agenda today dealing with written declarations.
Mrs Muscardini, if there is a problem with the spring in your chair we will get an usher to come and deal with it.
Let me read Rule 19 to you: "The President shall direct all the activities of Parliament and its bodies under the conditions laid down in these Rules.
If you look at the seating plan, you will see that the four members of the PPE group up here in the last two rows are sitting between other groups.
It is not a very happy arrangement and it should be changed, especially in view of what has happened here today.
In the uproar, I withheld my vote on proposed Amendment No 3 of the last resolution, whereas I actually wanted to vote against it.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE - Hungary (C5-0190/1999) Mr President, I asked to take the floor for the explanation of vote on the Hulthén report too.
I voted for this attuning of the institutional aspects of the European agreement between the Communities and their Member States on the one hand, and the Republic of Hungary on the other.
Pack report (A5-0097/1999) Mr President, I voted for the SOCRATES programme.
The education of citizens in the European Union is very important.
I would like to stress that in this programme it is necessary to provide for those who have completed their compulsory education, therefore workers too, to have access to education, which is important for everybody' s cultural development.
I must say that I deplore the lack of commitment among our ministers.
In my opinion, many European citizens derived immense benefit when Parliament and the Council adopted the conciliation solution.
Hulthén recommendation for second reading (A5-0077/1999) Mr President, this time I voted against the Hulthén report.
The European Community has the delicate task of deciding how best to proceed as regards making further progress on the one hand and considering the care, health and environment of our great great great grandchildren on the other.
The depletion of the ozone layers in the stratosphere is one of the most momentous environmental problems we are facing.
For example, the Council proposes that the production of the substances in question should not exceed 35% of 1997 production levels by 2008.
Yet, also with reference to 1997 production levels, the Committee on the Environment demands that production levels be reduced to less than 75% by 2001, less than 55% by 2004 and less than 30% by 2008.
We must tell people why and how the EU has come to legislate in this very technical area.
In the main, these have incorporated the environmental dimension into their product development policies.
We support the idea that taxes on heavy goods vehicles should be applied in accordance with the real level of contamination and that this revenue should be invested in the railways and combined rail/road transport and, finally, we agree with the idea of distributing the 91% of the permits which are not distributed according to an equal quota amongst all the Member States, not only in accordance with actual transport needs, but also taking into account the origin and destination, for example, of goods which are passing through Switzerland originating from airports and ports such as Hamburg, Rotterdam, Genoa or Marseilles.
Mr President, I have voted against the Aparicio Sánchez report.
In Switzerland, the protection of the environment is high on the agenda and rightly so.
As we do not approve of this goal, we will vote against this report.
However, it is on these two issues alone that discussions must start at the beginning of next year in accordance with the provisions of the Marrakech agreements.
A powerful protest movement raised its voice against a WTO which, through its rules and structure, has favoured private interests at the expense of collective interests.
If Europe fails to become involved in this movement, in this refusal to treat the world like a piece of merchandise and in the hope expressed in Seattle, the only option left to the people who reject this destructive globalisation will be to withdraw into nationalism.
The ILO must be made the appeal body for decisions involving basic social standards.
We even suggested a moratorium on the start of negotiations with a view to being able to produce this kind of balance sheet and to produce a subsequent study of the routes that international trade relations are taking.
It is not therefore surprising that, as noted by the motion for a resolution, the Member States of the European Union have not adopted the measures needed to meet their Kyoto undertakings while, at the same time, systematic deregulation is underway in Europe.
GMO (B5-0313/1999) Mr President, I voted for the proposal for a resolution and I have nothing against putting a label on genetically modified food products.
However, I would like to ask you if it would not be more correct for the European Union, that is, Parliament, to decide that if these genetically modified products are harmful, their production and trade should be banned, or if they are not harmful, they should be allowed on the market.
Regrettably, some Members of this Parliament have not taken up the serious responsibility that the Commission has put in their hands and have not acted sensibly, particularly with regard to Amendment No 4.
This contains labelling proposals for products derived from animals that have been fed GMOs.
The consequences would be that the vast majority of meat products in our shops would be labelled as having been derived from genetically modified organisms.
It seems to me that, whilst Labour Members are fully in support of the resolution, we have to accept our responsibility and acknowledge the maturity of our position. - (FR) I voted against the draft resolution on the labelling of foodstuffs containing genetically modified organisms, because its sole aim was to give a green light to the Commission to propose a regulation establishing that labelling indicating that GMOs are present would not be compulsory in the event that a food product contains less than 1% GMOs.
This measure would be contrary to the position adopted by the European Parliament on 14 May 1998, which requested that labelling be compulsory when GMOs are present, regardless of their percentage proportion.
The problem is a real one, but the solution proposed seems to me to be unacceptable, even on a temporary basis.
The new Commission proposal aims to fill in these gaps.
It covers the accidental contamination of a product by DNA or protein originating from genetically modified soya or maize crops.
As indicated in the motion for a resolution, the text proposed by the Commission is far from sufficient.
The European Commission must submit new proposals on novel foods for animals and on foods without GMOs, in order to allow the consumer to choose with full knowledge of the facts.
Nuclear energy has been, is and will be a very important part of decreasing CO2 emissions.
This concerned the point of order which I raised based on Rules 180 and 181 of the Rules of Procedure.
These guarantees are absolutely essential to ensure the correct operation of this House in particular and any parliamentary institution in general.
Mrs Lienemann, I wish to protest very firmly but very calmly to you, and to President Fontaine and, I hope, to the Bureau about what I consider to be an abuse of power.
I think that the Presidency should urgently ascertain the reasons behind this interruption.
Beijing Action Platform (continuation) The next item is the continuation of the debate on the oral questions to the Commission and Council, on behalf of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, on the EU follow-up to the Beijing Action Platform.
We still need a discussion about equality and change in the EU but, above all, there must be active efforts in respect of the developing countries and in connection with aid to Kosovo, the Balkans etc.
to ensure that women are part of the process and are also involved in development and reconstruction.
The "Beijing plus five" Conference is of major importance and the European Union has to be very well prepared to take part in the most effective way possible if it is going to have the impact that we want.
As a Parliament, we owe that to all women in the European Union and beyond - in fact throughout the world - in view of all the commitments that were made before Beijing and following it.
We also urge the Commission to pursue, and to work more intensively on, its strategy aimed at achieving a proper balance between women and men on the staff.
I therefore hope that the Commission can today assure me that reproductive health will be given a prominent place at the EU' s Conference and that, in one way or another, the European Parliament will be able to participate in the New York Conference, just as it did in the arrangements for the WTO negotiations where we were in fact represented.
Madam President, Beijing 1995 was a special event.
The Beijing Declaration and the Beijing Action Platform were adopted by 192 government delegations.
The Beijing Action Platform serves as a major catalyst worldwide and in all areas policies have been tightened up, reviewed and renewed.
Firstly, the PPE deems the importance of NGOs and of women' s movements extremely high.
NGOs play a key role in the mobilisation of the political will to transpose policy.
My question is: can the Commission indicate what it intends to do to 'mainstream' the results of Beijing and those of New York in the fullness of time, in European policy?
Madam President, Commissioner, without doubt the fifth UN Conference on women held in Beijing was an important step on the road towards equality of the sexes, culminating as it did with the surprising agreement by the representatives of all the UN countries to a joint worldwide platform for action.
The European Union, or rather the European Parliament, must not just be present during this procedure; it must make a decisive contribution, both to the evaluation of the five years of action and to future plans.
It is a fact that, in comparison with other parts of the world, such as Afghanistan and Kuwait, where millions of women are still deprived of fundamental human rights, women in Europe lead a privileged existence.
However, despite the progress made, serious problems of inequality and discrimination against women still need to be resolved: higher unemployment, violence, sexual exploitation and, above all, the exclusion of women from the centres of policy and decision making.
In view of the forthcoming UN Conference in New York, we need to speed up the European Union' s preparations if we really want to make a fundamental contribution to pre-conference planning and to the conference itself which is commensurate with the prestige of the Union.
I was pleased to hear the Commissioner and the Presidency representative this morning express their intention and commitment with regard to the organisation of the European conference and participation in the pre-conference planning for the Beijing plus five Conference in New York.
I have the feeling that this image could also be used for the work following the Beijing Conference.
One frightening statistic we have heard is that, before the fall of communism, there were 13 million people in Eastern and Central Europe living below the poverty line.
The same applies to the situation of women today, as much in terms of equality - education, citizenship and employment - as freedom - habeas corpus, the fight against violence and the trading of women.
A European conference may be held in parallel with a UN meeting if, and only if, this works to produce an internal European policy and demonstrates a common determination within the UN dynamic.
The conference in February 2000 could have this specific and formative policy as its objective.
In these countries as elsewhere, the role of the NGOs, particularly since Beijing, has become indisputable.
The Commission must be a capable participant in the work undertaken by these associations.
Madam President, the 1995 World Conference on Women has given the worldwide fight for freedom and equality for women a shot in the arm.
I dare say this because I belonged to such a set-up myself for years, namely during the Beijing period.
The Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities of this Parliament has the explicit responsibility to monitor the follow-up and implementation of international agreements, such as the Beijing Action Platform.
It would preferably do this on the basis of tangible, current information and in a constructive dialogue with the Council and the Commission.
Madam President, here, at the end of the debate, I just want to say that I do not think it has been negative but that it has been very realistic indeed.
May I just warn against the Commission and the Council confining themselves to just four areas when they now produce the concrete programme following the Beijing Conference.
I want to say as well that we have also quite rightly demanded that it should be possible for the Committee on Equality and the women in Parliament to also be present at the conference which is to take place in New York in June.
Just as representatives from Parliament participated in the WTO Conference, the women in Parliament ought also to be involved in this one.
Following the Beijing platform and the commitment of the 189 countries to the platform, there have been three levels of action as far as our region, the European Union, is concerned: first, at Member State level, secondly, in the form of political strategy at European Union level and, thirdly, at the level of European Union policy vis-à-vis developing countries.
However, I wish to stress, as certain speakers have said, that the commitments to the Beijing platform are mainly binding on the Member States, they are mainly binding on governments, with the European Union coming in at a second level with a horizontal strategy.
These twelve individual areas of interest will be examined in the following groups under the general heading of "mainstreaming" : gender issues in development policy, in other words, how sexual equality intervenes in all cooperation agreements between the European Union and developing countries, the involvement of women and human rights.
There will be a horizontal and vertical link between these groups and the twelve Beijing areas of interest.
I think that the European Parliament could act in this area and the Commission is ready and waiting to support such campaigns or initiatives at worldwide level, provided that they relate to the matters to which you have already referred.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m.
Unfortunately, owing to the cancellation of the morning flight from Brussels to Strasbourg due to exceptionally adverse weather conditions, he is not able to be here in person.
I will therefore speak to you instead on the important issue of the Commission action in relation to the continued refusal of France to lift its ban on imports of British beef.
The Commission yesterday, as you are already aware, adopted a decision to issue a formal reasoned opinion to the French authorities over their continued refusal to lift their national restrictions on imports of British beef.
The French authorities have five working days to reply to this letter.
I think it fair to add that it is a disappointment to all the parties concerned, given the huge efforts that went into finding a solution without recourse to legal action.
They also followed the orientations of the European Council in Florence in June 1996 on the procedures, timetable and safeguards required to lift the ban.
Unfortunately, the French authorities, on the advice of their National Food Safety Authority, AFSSA, were still unprepared to lift their national restrictions.
The Commission took the precaution of referring to its Scientific Steering Committee these concerns for an opinion on whether they called into question the decision to lift the ban and the terms of the date-based export scheme in particular.
These efforts led to the agreement between the UK, France and the Commission on a memorandum of understanding on 23 November, which provided the reassurances and clarifications required.
On 9 December they officially informed the Commission of this decision.
There have been criticisms that the Commission's efforts to resolve the dispute in a diplomatic manner were a waste of time and effort.
It is useful to bear in mind that the Commission's letter of formal notice issued on 16 November allowed a period of only two weeks for reply, rather than the normal two months.
Similarly, the reasoned opinion adopted yesterday also allows five days for reply rather than the normal two months.
I am sure that if we are ever to find an amicable solution to this dispute, which I hope can still be found, it will have been due to the efforts which took place over the past several weeks.
The formal part is that we agreed and decided on the agenda this morning.
This Parliament has the right to decide alone.
Then we shall consider how to deal with the Council.
There are precedents for delaying the debate for some period of time.
I too believe that we should not hold this debate without the relevant Commissioner here.
It is far too important.
We must adjourn the debate until the Commissioner is here.
The suggestion that Council may have taken a decision already without Parliament is particularly important.
I have the conclusions here from the Presidency and the Council meeting.
Madam President, I would just like to say that this question of the labelling of beef, in political terms, is one of the most sensitive issues in relation to agricultural and agro-food policy.
Madam President, it is never too late, as they say.
The Council is therefore making decisions and, apparently, deftly transferring the responsibility for these to Parliament' s Committee on the Environment.
This is very interesting.
We had a rather confused debate in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and we are having this debate here today.
Mr Papayannakis, your report will, of course, follow this statement which will therefore inevitably be later this evening.
Madam President, I take exception to the fact that a Commissioner arrives late for a meeting in Parliament, never mind where it takes place.
I moved, quite clearly, to adjourn this debate and to resume it after the debate on competition.
We have heard at least one speaker in favour and one speaker against.
The order of this agenda was specifically amended by the Conference of Presidents in order to give Commissioner Byrne the opportunity to attend.
Therefore under Rule 146, 32 Members can set the specific time and date when this debate should resume.
I am therefore proposing that the debate should resume at 4.45 p.m.
You declared the vote of 32 Members to be a vote.
In the face of clear evidence that the French government has engaged in a devious game of cat-and-mouse with the Commission and the UK government and clearly never had any intention of removing the ban on British beef from the outset, they must now be held to account.
Can I also deal with the red herring that Prime Minister Jospin has introduced into this debate.
It is therefore quite unacceptable that they continue to apply this illegal ban 18 weeks following the directive ordering that the ban should be lifted.
The lifting of the export ban on British beef followed long scientific debate, long reports and numerous inspection visits to the United Kingdom and was approved by this Parliament.
Only where there is scientifically substantiated and provable cause for concern can the free movement of goods be excluded and suspended in order to protect consumer health.
Commissioner Byrne and the Commission have chosen the only correct reaction.
Member States call time and again for legal security in the European Union, Member States call time and again for everyone else to respect the law when their own interests are at stake.
We shall shortly be debating the Papayannakis report on beef labelling.
They have been dragging their feet since 1997 and the Commission has also failed to take the necessary action.
I would have wished for more consumer protection and more support than I mustered.
Perhaps there is now a new trend in consumer protection.
There are no logistics in place for either and no results from the possible application of this testing, including in Great Britain, have been submitted.
Madam President, this is not only a crisis for British farmers, it is a crisis for French farmers as well.
But above all it is a crisis for the European Union.
The results of the Scientific Steering Committee back on 1 August ruled that British beef was as safe as any other beef and that was led by a French chairman.
I happen to believe that it is safer than other beef because we have got some of the highest hygiene standards in the world now.
The Food Standards Agency in France did not come up with any new evidence at all.
Madam President, in refusing to lift the ban on British beef and veal, the French Government has decided to face a limited and short-lived crisis with its European partners rather than risk a scandal breaking in a few months or years linked to Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease.
Madam President, my British colleagues must realise that this is a scientific, political, legal and moral problem.
Thirdly, the disease is not disappearing despite the ban on meal.
The second legal problem is one of legal responsibility.
I would remind you that the latest child to be dying from your disease is only 13 years old.
We are now in the middle of a crisis which has been going on for eighteen weeks and a beef conflict between France and the United Kingdom which, as I have noticed, has taken on a suspect nationalist dimension.
The second point which becomes clear is that Member States appear to be unable to handle this sort of issue.
Madam President, I want to speak here today as a Member of the European Parliament, and not in terms of nationalist rhetoric.
I do not personally believe that British bluster is as exportable or as healthy as British beef.
The result of that was the memorandum of 23 November, which we believe was the beginning of the end of this wretched dispute.
We got the decision on 9 December by the French Government that it would continue with the ban; and that did come to most of us as a complete surprise.
Mr Jospin was a party to the memorandum of agreement, which accepted the date base scheme in its entirety.
The alternative, if you are going to choose not what is right but what is popular, is to pursue a process of confrontation between two Member States which threatens this whole institution.
Surely this Parliament and this continent have gone beyond the days of Henry V and Joan of Arc?
What we need now is a sensible way out of this situation.
We do not want this dispute dragging on in the courts for years.
I think this Parliament should support him in that effort and should talk down those who want to widen the division between our two countries.
We took the opportunity to personally draw President Chirac's attention to the quality of Scottish beef.
Commissioner, I have attacked you vociferously on three previous occasions for not taking a decision, because I thought you were weak.
I might add to Mr Whitehead that I speak here now not just as a Member of this august Parliament but as a farmer.
It is particularly important that people understand that this crisis has affected every individual farmer, not just in France, but right across Europe.
I would just like to suggest to Mr Martinez that last year over 20 people died from listeria in France - more people than caught BSE.
Therefore I do hope that you use objective scientific evidence when it comes to food safety, and not just a precautionary principle, which is understood under Article 30 (ex-Article 36).
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Monti has just told us that the criticisms made of those who sought dialogue were unfounded.
I fully share this point of view.
At this stage in the debate, I want to mention the three parties in this affair, with the first clearly being the British Government.
The action taken by France with others and against others must help to definitively resolve this crisis.
I believe that the decision taken by my government was a decision to be made by politicians and this is how a government must act.
The political authority must choose, so this is what my government has done.
Today in this debate, Commissioner, you are our partner in dialogue and we have four demands to make.
That was the formal notice, the more factual part of the proceedings, and then yesterday the reasoned opinion was agreed by Parliament to be sent to France with a response time of five days.
Let me say this.
A negotiated settlement that is agreed between the parties is always a better settlement than the one that comes about as a result of court proceedings.
The advice that I got, which I was happy to act upon, was that the beef exported from the UK under the DBES scheme was as safe as any other beef in the European Union.
The reasoned opinion, when that is sent out two months after the formal notice procedure, normally also gives a period of two months in which to reply.
Mr Stevenson also raises the question of the position of Germany.
My understanding is that this will be discussed in the German Parliament on 17 December.
I said in my hearing last September that it was my intention to establish a proper EU-wide testing system for BSE to determine the levels of infectivity in various Member States.
In litigation before the European Court of Justice not only do the proceedings take place between the immediate parties - in this instance, the Commission and France - but also Member States are perfectly entitled to intervene in those proceedings: the UK or indeed any other Member State.
A number of Members said, and I agree, that this appears to be the way forward in relation to these issues.
I think most of you will agree that to have a situation where scientists are disagreeing with one another on issues so important as food safety is a very unsatisfactory situation.
It is unsatisfactory from a public health point of view but it is also unsatisfactory from the point of view of consumer confidence.
The White Paper has been drafted, it has been in interdepartmental consultation in the Commission and it is now just about to be presented to my colleagues in the College of Commissioners.
I expect that to happen on 12 January.
It cannot be established in such a way that its work is going to be in the form of a series of dictates issued from Brussels as to what the appropriate way forward is.
Such an agency will not have the confidence of Member States and consumers unless there is a broad degree of consultation between scientists in the European Union.
But once that consultation process has taken place and once the scientists in the Member States and in the agency have come to a conclusion on the appropriate way forward in any given situation, particularly with regard to a food scare, the opinion of the agency should stand, should be respected, should be followed and should not be challenged.
It would then be discussed in the codecision procedures with Parliament and with Council.
Let me just say finally that I believe it will be necessary to have an interaction and a relationship between the scientists and the law-makers and between the risk assessment and the risk management so as to make absolutely certain that those drafting the laws understand what the scientists are saying, and that the scientists are satisfied that the law-makers are drafting the laws in such a way as to deal with the concerns expressed by them in their opinion in the area of risk assessment.
I think that they are the issues that were raised and I hope I have dealt with all of the questions satisfactorily.
Commissioner, thank you for your statement.
The debate is closed.
Question Time (Council) The next item is Question Time (B5-0036/1999).
Mr President, we have adjourned the debate on beef labelling until late this evening.
If you come at 9.00 p.m., you will have the opportunity to participate in that part of the agenda.
In any event, at 9 o' clock at night, which is a tranquil hour, and also in a Christmas spirit, surely you can hold this debate without Mrs Siimes.
The Council informed the Member States of this by means of a list with reference to EU law in May 1998.
The implementation of the law would lead to more effective border checks and reduce illegal immigration on the part of the nationals of applicant countries and nationals of third countries coming via these countries.
Furthermore, I would remind everyone that at present the rules that apply to immigration on the part of nationals of applicant countries or third countries in the Member States of the European Union clearly fall within the competence of the officials appointed for this purpose at national level.
I wonder if the Council would agree that the best way to stem the flow of economic migrants is by improving economic conditions in the host country?
In other words, if enlargement works, if the Agenda 2000 programme is successful in improving the economic situation in Central and Eastern European countries, this will of itself reduce the flow of economic migrants from those countries to existing Member States of the European Union.
When it was asked about the nature of the investment planned by Gardaland, the Bank argued that it was unable to forward the relevant documents on the grounds of the confidential nature of relations between the Bank and its customers.
Again, if the Community grants the EIB a security against certain loans out of the Community budget, for example, to grant loans for projects in third countries, the Council has stipulated that the EIB must, in these cases, produce an annual report to both the European Parliament and the Council on the action achieved with the help of the secured loans in question.
Madam President, if what you say is true, we have been particularly unfortunate because, although we requested these environmental assessments, we have not received a reply insofar as we have only been told that this is confidential information.
Mr President, as the Council stated in its reply, the European Investment Bank is a bank, and it therefore cannot function in accordance with the same rules on public access as the European Union institutions that enact legislation.
Question No 3 by (H-0673/99): Subject: Opening up the Council of Ministers to transparency What is the latest situation with the case taken by Swedish journalists to the European Court of Justice regarding the conflict between the undemocratic secrecy of documents of the Council of Ministers and the open transparency of all documents as required by the excellent two-hundred-year-old Freedom-of-Information law in Sweden?
Mr President, on 17 June 1998, the Court of First Instance abrogated Council Decision 174/95 of 6 July 1995, according to which the plaintiff is not entitled to access certain documents associated with Europol concerning the public' s right to access Council documents, by virtue of Council Decision 93/731/EC.
The Council re-examined its own decision on the basis of this judgement and stated in a new decision made known to the plaintiff on 30 July 1998 that it could release the documents in question with the exception of one.
Under Article 255 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Council must establish in a codecision procedure with the European Parliament general principles and limitations regarding access to documents to take account of the public or private interest within two years of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
I was told this by one of the 15 press officers.
One of the key points in the case is that of whether a Member State, in this case Sweden, has the right to abide by its own constitution and publish EU documents.
This says that the Commission wants to use Article 255 to limit the right of national authorities to publish EU documents which have not otherwise been made public.
My question to the Council is this: does the Council intend that, with Article 255 as a basis, it should be possible to limit the Member States' right to publish documents in accordance with their own national legislation?
Mr President, during the Finnish Presidency the decision was taken that the agendas for the Coreper meetings would be made available, and this is a step in the direction that the honourable Member would like to see.
This subject was discussed in the Council on 19 July 1999, and it was decided to adopt a resolution.
The Council expressed its concern over the problems being caused by delayed flights, which are becoming more serious, and considered that action needed to be taken to find a solution to these problems and in this way respond to the demands by the citizens of Europe for a better service.
The Council urged the Commission in particular to produce a report on recent and current measures in place to try to reduce air traffic delays and congestion in Europe.
In its sitting of 9 and 10 December 1999, the Council held a large-scale debate on the Commission' s new report on air traffic control, which was delivered to the Council and the European Parliament on the Single European Airspace.
The matter will be addressed by Eurocontrol and the Ministers responsible for civil aviation in their meeting to be held on 28 January.
The fact that congestion and delays are more common in some parts of Europe than others is obviously very unfortunate, and perhaps the quickest way to deal with the problem is for the national authorities to find out what can be done to improve the situation in the individual Member States.
I would like to ask if the Council, which is quite rightly concerned about the situation in mainland Europe, also retains some concern for the situation of regions such as the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which is currently experiencing major problems, particularly following last weekend' s air disaster.
Mr President, may I ask the President-in-Office a question of a different sort on air traffic control.
It concerns the issue of the regulation which is shortly to come in which will enable airline pilots between the ages of 60 and 65 to fly freight traffic throughout Europe, with one exception.
That means, because of the extent of French airspace, pilots over 60 will effectively be out of a job.
The Council has offered its support to Mr Igleton, who is the UN Secretary-General' s special envoy in the Western Sahara, and the Council is prepared to push for a peaceful solution, based on the thorough assessment contained in the UN' s next report.
Madam representative of the Council, we have listened to Kofi Annan' s report on the most recent information regarding the referendum and we attended the 25th Conference on the support by European NGOs of the Saharaoui people a few weeks ago in the Canary Islands.
It is true that it supports the peace plan, it is true that it sends letters and other things, but Europe has a specific responsibility because my country, Spain, and other countries have a close connection with the current situation in the Sahara.
We have listened to Abdelaziz who has described again the unsustainable situation of the Saharaoui people in the Tinduf camps.
It is a situation in which they are making an enormous effort to maintain the education of their children and to feed their population, but which has already lasted more than 20 years.
In a meeting with the Finnish Presidency held on 14 September, Mr Igleton urged the EU to convey a message to Morocco and Algeria that the international community is aiming for a sense of equilibrium in the Maghreb, and to make it clear that it will be difficult to provide financial aid for the reconstruction of the region without this sort of stability.
Furthermore, the Finnish Presidency adopted a resolution on 21 June 1999, in which the EU' s promise of support for the UN peace plan and related action was reiterated.
Thank you very much, Mrs Siimes.
Mr President, the Council naturally follows the human rights situation in Turkey closely.
Although the Council is not inclined to interfere in the work of another international organisation, it keeps a close eye on whether Turkey is complying with decisions of the European Court of Human Rights.
The Council is furthermore aware that the deadline for Turkey to implement that judgement ended in October 1998 and that Turkey has still not paid the compensation specified.
The Council wishes to point out that all EU Member States voted in favour of a provisional resolution on the issue, which the Committee of Ministers in the Council of Europe adopted on 6 October 1999, and which stated that the terms of payment proposed by the Turkish government could not be considered to be in compliance with the obligations in respect of the court decision taken, and forcefully urged Turkey to re-examine her position.
EUR 62 million was set aside for humanitarian aid projects for Serbia in 1999 alone.
In addition, ECHO is at present considering granting EUR 20 million in aid, inter alia, for heating in special institutions such as children' s homes and homes for the elderly.
I am not well versed in religious matters, but I think that humanitarian programmes are directed not at friends but at those who have a problem of a humanitarian nature, be they friends or enemies.
Mr President, this year the European Union has given or will have given Serbia a total of EUR 62 million for different humanitarian aid projects.
In addition, it is planned that EUR 20 million in aid could be granted under the ECHO programme to special institutions, that is to say for heating for all those who are worst off, such as those in children' s homes and homes for the elderly.
To be specific, these people suffered merciless bombing by NATO for 78 days, with the active participation of the European Union; today they are subject to inhumane blackmail on the pretext of the democratisation of the Federal Democracy of Yugoslavia, in other words, they must overthrow their legitimate government in order for the fuel embargo to be lifted and they are to be given the funds to reconstruct what was flattened by NATO and European Union bombs.
Thank you very much, Mr Korakas.
Question No 8 by (H-0694/99): Subject: Overlapping of European Parliament part­sessions and meetings of the Council of Ministers Of the 41 meetings of the Council of Ministers scheduled between September and December 1999, 18 took place or will take place when Parliament is holding plenary sessions in Strasbourg or Brussels.
So as far as I am concerned, this does not answer my question and I hope that this will be discussed in a broader context within the Council at some stage.
Mr President, it is obviously true that the Presidency represents the Council and that the organisation of Council meetings is the specific task of the Council.
Unfortunately, however, it is not always possible.
Thank you very much, Mrs Siimes.
Question No 9 by (H-0697/99): Subject: Fiftieth anniversary of the Geneva Conventions In the light of the fiftieth anniversary of the Geneva Conventions, and in view of the armed conflicts that have taken place in the world over the past few years, particularly in continental Europe, what opinion does the Council hold on the level of compliance with the International Humanitarian Law laid down by these Conventions?
The European Union has urged countries, which have not yet done so, to be a party to the Geneva agreements and other agreements relating to humanitarian issues.
At the twenty-seventh international conference of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent held between 30 October and 16 November, the EU for the first time adopted a resolution which stressed that recent and current conflicts have shown that war is ever more making victims of civilians, especially women and children, or that they have been used as pawns in war situations.
The Council also reminded everyone that all sides in a conflict have to comply with International Humanitarian Law.
Furthermore, the Council urged the Russian Government in particular to avoid civil casualties and ensure that international humanitarian aid gets to its destinations unhindered, including the growing numbers forced to abandon their homes and cross the border into Ingushetia.
The EU wants the international community to aim in the future, above all, at closing the widening gap between the existing international standards and compliance with them.
In fact, the basic principles of international humanitarian law, which are contained in the Geneva Conventions, are values which must be maintained as a basis for European construction and promoted through institutional activities.
In any event, the European Union must be an agent for peace and international humanitarian law and it must assist the ICRC in its task of guaranteeing that this law is upheld.
For all these reasons, on the 50th anniversary of the Geneva Conventions, at a time when we must all commit ourselves - Parliament, Commission and Council - to promoting awareness of international humanitarian law and supporting the organisations responsible for its protection, does the Council propose any specific initiative to promote the knowledge of international humanitarian law amongst the citizens of the Union?
Thank you very much, Mr Martínez.
I repeat that I do not know whether others are parliamentarians or false parliamentarians, but my question was not a false question.
We are all real parliamentarians, Mr Martínez, Mr Dupuis, but this type of parliamentary manoeuvring happens and it is quite normal.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, there is a specific and clear question and you may reply.
Question No 10 by (H-0699/99): Subject: Transport of live animals Does the Council support a limit to the transport of live animals of a total journey of not more than eight hours?
In Europe today we still see animals suffering agonies and animals dying in transit as a result of the inhumanity of transport conditions.
In 1996 the Council adopted a decision on the participation by the Member States of the EU in strategic action planned by the World Customs Organisation for the Balkan channels to speed up the process of international cooperation and develop the control of illegal commerce, particularly in the Balkans.
Third countries, especially the Central and Eastern European countries, are invited, as required, to take part in these operations.
One of these operations is a route control project, to prevent the illegal trade in weapons.
The EU institutions have made considerable efforts to create a climate of openness with regard to decision making.
However, unlike the courts in many Member States, the European Court of Justice has a policy of only limited openness.
Mr President, pursuant to Article 321 of the basic instrument of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, Article 33 of the basic instrument of Euratom, and Article 29 of the basic instrument of the ECSC, deliberations in the European Court of Justice are secret, and remain so.
Pursuant to Article 245 of the Treaty establishing the European Communities, Article 45 of the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community, and Article 160 of the Euratom Treaty, the Council can amend the rules on secrecy only at the request of the European Court of Justice.
However, my thanks go to the representative of the Council for still having answered my question.
The practice, which exists in one or more Member States, would, however, be quite difficult to transfer to a Community court, without making agreement on decisions harder as a result of the change.
Earlier this evening we discussed a concrete case before the European Court of Justice under question 3, the so-called Journalists' Case.
Mr Sjöstedt, I realise that I have infringed the Rules of Procedure because you had already asked one supplementary question and on Council days you can only ask one.
Mrs Siimes has the floor.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Council has elapsed, questions 13 to 32 will be replied to in writing.
In accordance with Rule 146(1), I have received a request from the PPE-DE Group to postpone this debate.
Everyone who attended the preliminary discussions of the von Wogau, Rapkay, Jonckheer and Langen reports in committee is aware of the importance of competition policy and of future internal market policy to the future development of the economy and to growth and employment in Europe.
Our view is that, given the importance which the work of the European Union and which our relations with Member States, undertakings and workers will have in the future, all four reports should be debated in detail in plenary and substantiated vis-à-vis the public at a more convenient time.
Thank you very much, Mr Karas.
Paradoxically, I do not want this report to be used.
We actually want a culture in this European Union, in our single market, of prompt payment, not late payment.
In particular, thanks to UEAPME who are very much the voice of small businesses in the European Union and who have given wholehearted support to this proposal.
It was Lyndon Harrison who, as rapporteur on 16 September 1998, said to this House: "It is time to outlaw cheating practices and give small and medium-sized enterprises the confidence to go boldly into the single European market knowing that they will be paid on time and in full." I could not agree more.
However, it is important to point out that there are large areas of difference between us.
All these areas are very difficult and could cause problems between Parliament and Council.
Shortly after I was elected to this House, Mr President, one of my first pleasurable duties was to bring to the Parliament representatives from Dudley Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which was then in my constituency.
They came to a hearing on late payments that was being organised in the Parliament and gave some very good expert advice, recognising that we had problems with late payment in the single market.
Those problems have actually got worse, which is why we currently have a directive and a proposal before us this evening.
They will expect from this House tomorrow a strong vote backing the vote that was carried in the Industry Committee unanimously on Monday of this week.
With those opening remarks, Mr President, I would commend our position to you.
We must bear in mind that every citizen in the European Union owes 65 euros due to late payments.
I received a call today from an organisation representing thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises to say that they wished to congratulate the European Parliament on behalf of European business people.
That is precisely what we are attempting to do and I call on the European Parliament, where we have the honour of sitting, to vote by a large majority in favour of the text tomorrow, I call on the Commission to do justice to the text which we give it during its evaluation and, above all, I call on the Council to understand that we cannot proclaim left, right and centre that we are above the law, that we cannot proclaim left, right and centre that we are sensitive to the issue of job creation, that we cannot proclaim left, right and centre that small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the economy and, at the same time, refuse to vote in favour of and adopt the positions of this European Parliament.
The most significant innovations we wish to introduce are the following: careful consideration of the consequences of late payment for perishable foods; recognition of the right to demand compensation for costs incurred from debt collection too; retention of title clauses by the vendor; to ensure that an enforceable title can be obtained normally within 60 days of the lodging of the creditor' s action; and finally, greater transparency in the relationship between the contracting authority and the contractor, and also in a subcontractual relationship.
The compromise of 60 days seems to me a sensible arrangement.
The Ombudsman' s report highlighted many instances of late payments to suppliers by the Commission.
Mr President, when the common position arrived here, as the former shadow rapporteur of my group, I felt slightly abandoned by the rapporteur of first reading who had left this House.
I would like to know the Commissioner' s opinion regarding this Amendment No 18.
The Commission's proposal for a directive on late payments contains a package of measures to combat late payment in commercial transactions in the European Community.
The directive applies to late payment between all enterprises including the public sector.
It provides the legal framework to deter late payers from paying late or from imposing unduly long payment periods on their partners.
I am conscious of the fact that it is not easy for Member States to agree to changes in their legislation.
This is the case with Amendments Nos 6, 20 and 25.
Finally, there are a very few amendments which the Commission cannot accept for specific reasons, and these are Amendments Nos 2, 18 and 23.
Mrs Thyssen has just spoken about Amendment No 18.
In fact it seems that this amendment is inspired by the law of one Member State and that the proposed rule has not worked well so far in that state.
As a result, 15 Member States have opposed the proposal.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
We would like this point cleared up by the Commissioner before the debate.
As Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf very rightly points out, I am not here to answer on behalf of the Council, but in so far as I can assist Parliament I would be very happy to do so.
Before I read that document I should point out that what I am about to read amounts to a political orientation taken by the Council yesterday.
The Council recognised that this issue was being discussed today in Parliament.
Mr Byrne, it is not true that the Council has not taken any decisions.
However, the Council decided on an initially optional labelling system and postponed the compulsory system until January 2000.
After all, the Member States were obliged to ensure that the conditions needed for complete proof of origin for cattle were in place and that their electronic data bases were up and running by 31 December this year.
Even if the judgement had been made, it would still have been extremely difficult to complete a codecision procedure on this matter.
We will give the Member States a further eight months to catch up but the compulsory system must be definitively introduced in all Member States and for everyone marketing beef on 1 September 2000.
At the same time, the European Parliament and the Council will decide on a new version of Regulation 820/97 under a codecision procedure.
She needs to see at a glance the information on the origin, production method and other details in a simple, unambiguous way.
And shepherd's pie labelled "product of the UK" may contain beef from Botswana, Zimbabwe or anywhere else in the world.
We have the situation that 12 of the 15 Member States have not introduced a voluntary system of beef labelling and are therefore not in a position to move to a compulsory scheme in January.
Could I also urge Commissioner Byrne to introduce a compensation scheme for British beef farmers who are being hit by the illegal action of the French Government?
Mr President, we return for the second time today to the grave crisis over beef, its safety and circulation within this Union under the rule of law.
All of us believe that we need the measures which were promised by the Commission back in 1997.
The issue of the identification of beef products and the certainty that they can be relied upon is as much at the heart of the dispute between France and the European Union as it is at the heart of the concerns of safety which have preoccupied both the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Environment over the last two years.
We are all concerned about the apparent fait accompli in the statement by the Council.
We see Regulation No 820/97 slipping away from us into a morass of half-observed voluntary practices with no immediate prospects of the compulsory scheme which every Member of this House knows is necessary.
The amendments of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy set out to remedy this with a remission of eight months maximum.
Some of our amendments clarified and strengthened Article 152 as the legal base.
Today the Council is urging that Article 37 be added to the legal base.
The whole point of this is that it gives us a right to intervene, a right to be consulted and to be participants in the process of codecision.
The EU Parliament ought to put the screws on and ensure that all EU countries label beef and register cattle.
Consumers should be able to rely upon the quality of the beef they buy, and they can only do that if it is possible to monitor the animal concerned from its birth until such time as the beef ends up on the dinner table.
Mr President, Mr Byrne, you have presented the Council decision to us here today.
There was good coordination between the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Environment.
Now to the role of the Commission.
We take the view that Article 19 does not legally allow this postponement.
Mr President, I welcome this opportunity to make a brief contribution to this debate and to open with the comment that an early and satisfactory resolution of the controversy surrounding food safety is of paramount importance to consumers, to our farmers and indeed to the food industry.
While not detracting from the seriousness of the situation, the impact on consumer confidence has been far greater in my view than the actual threat to public health.
It has been agreed to accept the recommendations of the Scientific Committee as the basis for all decisions on the public health aspect of food production.
To do otherwise in my view would be to politicise unnecessarily what is now a priority EU agenda and indeed would do nothing to restore consumer and farmer confidence.
The European agricultural model, based on family farms, in my view provides the infrastructure necessary to give our consumers quality and choice.
This fact must be fully reflected in the trade talks still to get under way in Seattle, where our competitors in world trade will have a vested interest in frustrating our efforts to put our agriculture and food sector on a sound and competitive footing.
The delay in the implementation of the regulation cannot be ascribed solely to the Commission and individual Member States.
In other words, this approach would have been totally unnecessary if the Commission had acted promptly at the time.
Then there is the point that the applicable Regulation 820/97 still contains the obligation to introduce the compulsory system by 1 January 2000.
Mr President, the European Parliament is in favour of these measures and has also shown that it is in favour of operating in a flexible way so that these measures are implemented effectively.
But the European Parliament is against the use of deadlines as an excuse for this measure never being implemented.
BAMST stands for Belgian Association for Meat Science and Technology.
Mr President, as I am the last to speak, I shall not repeat what everyone else has said.
I have already said in this Chamber that British and Irish farmers are in a difficult situation and we must help them.
This has led I know to a change in the schedule of Parliamentary business with this important debate now taking place late in the evening.
I am very aware that Parliament is deeply unhappy that a compulsory labelling regime is not in place as envisaged with effect from 1 January 2000.
Secondly, not all Member States will be in a position to establish reliable registration and identification systems for all animals.
It therefore is also confronted with the very pressing deadline of 1 January 2000.
This is, of course, a major amendment which, in my opinion, does not favour a quick conclusion to the codecision procedure.
This puts both the Parliament and the Commission in a very difficult situation.
As already signalled, the Commission would be obliged, in order to avoid a legal void, to present a third proposal.
I can in this context accept amendments which aim to shorten the period during which the existing arrangements can continue for a period of eight months.
However, I cannot accept your amendments concerning bringing forward the labelling of place of slaughter with effect from 1 January 2000.
Indeed, yesterday in Council I drew the Council's attention to the fact that there was an amendment put forward by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on Monday.
I should like to add that the debate is still open in relation to the Commission proposal on the general rules applying an obligatory regime.
It is in this context that the main debate should take place.
The Commission is of the view that Article 152 is the appropriate legal base.
There is little or no appetite in the Member States for a fully compulsory system from 1 January 2000.
The Commission is in favour of full, compulsory labelling.
It is therefore proposed that it should take place from 1 January 2001 for place of slaughter and, in addition, from 1 January 2003 for place of birth and fattening.
I am not here to answer for Council and all I can say is that I read out the conclusions of the Council yesterday.
I should say that the Council did not adopt this as its decision, but rather said that this was its view, its orientation, but made it clear that it would have to await the outcome of Parliament's decision tomorrow on this particular issue before finally voting on the issue and adopting a position.
For that reason I understand that this issue is going back to one of the Councils before the end of this year for finalisation, having regard to what Parliament said today and what Parliament will vote on and decide tomorrow.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
The Commission refers to scientific studies which confirm that the use of BST inflicts unnecessary pain on animals.
Consequently, I reject the marketing and administration of BST in the European Union, as formulated in the report, on the grounds of animal welfare.
The truth is that we ban American beef today because those hormones are there; but the truth is also that we know that, if we allowed the Americans to sell that beef into our market, at good value to our consumers, and if we were to put a label on it saying those hormones were there, they would still buy it.
It is the same with this product we propose to ban today.
Articles 2 and 3 deal with continued licence to produce the BST hormone here in the EU.
I cannot therefore support the wordings of Articles 2 and 3.
Unlike in the health sector, no side effects can be tolerated in agricultural applications.
I should like to make another point as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
I will not go into the details, but it was not included in the report.
As I have said, it was agreed with the Commission.
This deadline expires on 1 January of the coming year.
Mr President, this is not acceptable to me, since if we ban these substances and their marketing within the European Union, as the agreement says, it would not be legal to be able to send them, within the European Union, to another Member State.
Nor would it be legal, as we are currently doing, to produce them in a Member State.
Therefore, I would ask you to clarify whether this is the case because, according to this text and according to the Commission, this ban would not affect marketing or exporting to third countries.
Mr President, I believe that this would be extremely hypocritical.
As you know, the Council has already banned - in 1990 - the placing on the market and the use of BST on dairy cows under Council Decision 90/218/EEC.
Article 2 of Council Decision 94/936/EC provided that the Commission had to entrust a working party of independent scientists with the task of assessing the effects of using BST.
Before putting a new proposal on the table of the Council the Commission was waiting for the opinions of the two scientific committees which were delivered on 18 March 1999.
The Scientific Committee on Animal Health and Animal Welfare adopted on 10 March 1999 its report on animal welfare aspects of the use of bovine somatotrophin and stated that BST increases the risk of clinical mastitis as well as the duration of treatment of mastitis, it increases the incidence of foot and leg disorders and it can affect adversely reproduction and induce several severe reactions at the injection site.
The protocol on protection and welfare of animals annexed to the Treaty establishing the European Community calls on the Community and Member States when formulating and implementing the Community's agricultural policy to pay full regard to the health and welfare requirements of animals.
All Member States have also ratified this convention.
Council Directive 98/58/EC concerning the protection of animals kept for farming purposes states that no other substance, with the exception of those given for therapeutic or prophylactic purposes, shall be administered to an animal unless it has been demonstrated by scientific studies of animal welfare or of established experience that the effect of the substance is not detrimental to the health or welfare of the animal.
Thank you very much, Mr Byrne.
The debate is closed.
We were overjoyed to hear of your release just three months ago on 7 September.
You showed admirable and unyielding courage throughout your detention which began on 20 November 1992.
We hope that the experience of 25 years of suffering will enable your people to realise this dream.
All these illustrious people have taken up the torch carried by Andrey Sakharov in making the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms their life' s goal.
So, Mr Gusmão, on behalf of the whole European Parliament, I am delighted to give you this extremely symbolic prize. (Loud applause) Madam President of the European Parliament, Mrs Fontaine, honourable Members of the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I am greatly honoured and moved to be here with you today, with you, the elected representatives of the citizens of Europe.
I must confess that when I returned to East Timor, I was devastated by the havoc caused by the systematic destruction and I could scarcely have imagined that I would come to Strasbourg and that I would have the rare opportunity of seeing and walking through the corridors and halls of the seat of democratic power in Europe, a Europe that shared with us the pain and suffering of genocide, but also the courage and the strength to resist a campaign of destruction and murder.
I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of my people, to thank you for the attention and solidarity that you have shown by adopting numerous resolutions supporting my people in exercising their right to self-determination.
In Indonesia, our experience showed that through the regime of the Orde Baru (New Order), led by Suharto and his generals, which occupied my homeland for more than two decades, a system of repression and suppression was implemented through the imposition of a doctrine, Pancasila, which regimented thought and consequently human behaviour, in an attempt to destroy the ability to think in an individual, collective and, above all, free way.
After the fall of Suharto in May 1998, ways opened up for the resolution of the conflict in East Timor and for the democratisation of Indonesia.
I would like to take this opportunity to pay sincere tribute to all winners of the Sakharov Prize, particularly Aung Sang Suu Kyi, one of the greatest fighters for freedom and democracy in the whole world. (Loud applause) Madam President, by exercising our most basic right, that of determining our own future as a free and independent country, it was easy to foresee tragic consequences, but our people did not hesitate to show, once again, that it is staunchly determined to defend its freedom.
The massive participation of 30 August must continue if the Timorese people are to feel that they themselves are the agents for development.
We are in a difficult, even crucial phase, because at the moment we are, or we feel that we are, very fragile and weak in terms of preparing ourselves for an independence that represents a new life for our people.
We want to learn to be responsible towards the international community in the development of our country but, after a long period of political activism and of fighting, we feel today that we are carrying a huge burden on our shoulders because we are responsible for the happiness and the freedom that we have promised our people.
This prize shows the European Parliament' s recognition of my people' s courage in fighting for a free homeland where freedom of thought is guaranteed as a right that is inherent to the human condition.
