In it Mr Janssen van Raay commented on the voluntary pension system.
He is the most senior of the 31 Dutch Members and he tells me that it is definitely not true.
I therefore cordially request you to ensure that Members who want a copy - and I think many Members are interested in this - are sent one as soon as possible, especially as the Parliament's Legal Service is already preparing an answer.
Madam President, I refer to Amendment No 49 on the McCarthy report.
That will be corrected, Mr Hallam.
Madam President, I just wanted to point out the fact that I voted in favour of Amendment No 7 of the McCarthy report by mistake.
Thank you for pointing that out, Mr Nassauer.
We must put an end to the complicated disputes that divide the Member States, which assure us that they have done all in their power to take in as many refugees as possible and more often than not lead us to believe that the other countries are still doing too little in this respect.
The Geneva Convention should continue to be the starting-point, and human rights must be respected.
It is important to stress that burden-sharing will only apply in emergencies involving a mass influx of refugees.
The introduction of a standard form is only one stage in this.
Along with the members of our Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I am prepared to believe that the introduction of a standard form for visas is in line with Community law, on the basis of Article 100c of the Treaty establishing the European Community rather than Article K.3(2) of the Treaty on European Union.
However, we have voted against the committee's recommendation that these joint actions should be replaced by a directive and a regulation under the first pillar.
Those people yesterday caused me no particular offence in terms of the cause they were pursuing but the next time it might very well be people to whom I and other elected Members of this House would have very great objections.
I have obtained a copy of the most recent figures, which indicate that around 2.5 million Ecstasy tablets were seized in 1997 in Europe alone, half of which were seized in the Netherlands.
However, they also show that anti-drug strategies are taking effect, and that police measures are effective, namely because more synthetic drugs are being seized.
These synthetic drugs are now being consumed by more than 5 million young people in Europe according to conservative estimates.
The situation is therefore a dramatic one, particularly because these young people never know what substances the synthetic drugs they are consuming actually contain.
The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs also shares the Council's view on nearly all issues, because its proposal is simply very consistent and very comprehensive, as well as very practical.
With this package, we hope to successfully control the illicit diversion of precursors not only across Europe but, because this has been possible for two years, throughout the world as well, and to get our hands on an instrument that is essential in allowing us to successfully combat drugs, thereby protecting young people.
In the meantime, the market novelties are called DOB, Golden Eagle, 4MTA, and flatliners, which are 33 times stronger than Ecstasy.
The European Parliament should take part in assessing voluntary cooperation.
I think it would be a good idea to extend the voluntary cooperation we already have in our country and a number of other countries between the authorities and those in the market to other countries in Europe.
The Commission's proposal to amend the present directive is not a solution, but it is an important step in combating the manufacture, and hence reducing the availability, of narcotic substances.
Mr President, we have followed the work here in Parliament of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs and we have noted that its attitude as expressed in Hedy d'Ancona's report is very liberal.
I welcome the intention of the Commission to extend the scope of the 1992 directive on the control of illicit narcotics to include precursors used in the manufacture of these new drugs.
The action plan agreed at the General Assembly of the United Nations in June of this year is a step in the right direction.
I support this report and the proposals contained therein.
It is thanks to his efforts, and others, that this proposal has rapidly been brought before the European Parliament for a first reading.
The development of synthetic drugs is an extremely serious problem, not only for the European Community but also for the rest of the world.
Current Community legislation on precursors for synthetic drugs only allows us to monitor 22 chemical substances that are classified by UN conventions.
Although the number of substances involved is very high, only a targeted approach is conceivable.
The work of this committee is, of course, confidential.
At the moment, the Commission is already preparing an annual report for the International Narcotics Control Board - which is, as you know, a UN body - on the basis of the information it receives from the Member States.
Therefore, the Commission cannot undertake to produce such a special report, but it is naturally happy to provide the European Parliament with the annual report for the INCB.
As for the rest, I must once again congratulate the rapporteur wholeheartedly, along with those who helped him, on the report that he presented to us today in such an extremely convincing manner.
The debate is closed.
It is mainly a question of dismantling barriers to trade and also allowing financial services to be offered worldwide without being subject to discrimination.
We have referred to this area of competence in various reports several times in Parliament, and not least this week in Mrs Mann's report on transatlantic relations.
I believe that it is very important for us to not only apply this to countries in the European Union, but also to particularly endeavour to raise this at the WTO negotiations.
It guarantees substantially free market access and national treatment for foreign financial institutions in more than 95 % of all worldwide trade in financial services.
And I think it is important to emphasise precisely that point - public understanding.
Free citizens cannot trust in a policy that casts everyone in the same mould and turns the electorate into mere consumers.
To put it more precisely, it involves nothing less than the GATS, the General Agreement on Trade in Services under the umbrella of the WTO, the World Trade Organisation, and therefore once again, the financial services.
This is a turnkey agreement which guarantees free market access and national treatment in more than 95 % of worldwide trade in financial services.
At the same time, we are supposed to applaud because the Commission has once again made a successful attempt at liberalisation, without asking our opinion.
The successful conclusion of GATT negotiations on financial services on 12 December last year was indeed a major achievement which reinforced the World Trade Organisation as a framework for multilateral service negotiations.
We also expect other countries who participated in the negotiations to complete their internal procedures before the deadline of 29 January next year.
I was listening very carefully to what some of the Members of Parliament said.
Part of the problem in Asia and elsewhere lies in the fact that there are no adequate rules.
The debate is closed.
I would on principle have expected the Commission, as an advocate of cultural diversity and also a promoter of jobs in Europe, to take into account all the objectives of the European Treaties in its examination of the book pricing system from the point of view of competition law.
The readers also want rapid availability of books, and our system guarantees this.
They guarantee cultural and literary diversity on a market economy basis, and without subsidies.
I repeat: the issues are also the cultural identity of linguistic areas and cultural diversity in Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, if a few chains of shops and unfortunately also the European Commission have their way, the book pricing system is to be abolished.
At present, publishing houses in Austria and in some other countries of the Union have the possibility of selling their products at a fixed minimum price.
The diversity in literature is a sign of intellectual independence.
If I hold up a book, such as this book here, then what I have in my hand is, of course, first and foremost a commodity.
The diversity of the book market shows that the culture of a country, and of a linguistic area, has developed.
However, in order to have this diversity we also need to have a variety of publishing houses and bookshops.
There are books that are aimed only at a specialist audience or a special interest group.
However, every publishing house that has to close down means a loss of books, books that are then no longer printed because other publishing houses follow different agendas.
Commissioner, you will understand that we are asking you - and I know we are certain of the support of virtually the whole of Parliament - to really take Parliament's observations on this into consideration so that this cultural dimension of our continent is really taken into account.
Mr President, it sometimes seems that only one thing counts in Europe - our economy.
The debate on book pricing drags on.
In short, book pricing promotes cultural development in Europe without the need for subsidies.
Commissioner, when Beckett received the Nobel prize for 'Waiting for Godot', all 300 copies of this book were sold in the German-speaking area of Europe.
I understand that you believe that it is not worth the expense and that it would probably have been better not to publish these 300 copies, since there is obviously no demand for them.
Sometimes it lasts decades, and I think that it lacks culture to reduce this complex search simply to the way the market works, and what lacks culture quickly becomes barbaric.
However, given that this comes under paragraph 75 of its decision, the Commission has in no way disregarded these cultural aspects.' (NL) That is what the Court says.
That surprises me, because there are plenty of countries in the world which do not have book price fixing - the United States, the United Kingdom too now and a number of European countries as well.
There is no obligation of any kind.
We are also told that only book price fixing allows there to be enough variety in titles.
Even where there is book price fixing, the small bookshops are in decline, everywhere, in the Netherlands too, in France too, everywhere.
May I point out that in countries which have book price fixing, such as France, 25 % of books sold are currently sold in department stores.
It is about cross-border effects or practices which, as in the Dutch case, were totally unacceptable.
As chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I should therefore also like particularly to express my appreciation to Karel van Miert for his work.
This was a very difficult question to answer in the case of television, for example.
Television is regarded as a cultural object.
However, there is no doubt that books are cultural objects, and that they are an inherent part of our European culture.
Chains such as Bertelsmann and Smith are already in Amsterdam and Alkmaar.
The whole Flemish government which has responsibility for culture was in favour of it.
Because you will not find the poems of Nolens at a news-stand.
We hope the Commission will abandon its efforts to attack book price fixing schemes, but rather see them as a way of integrating homogeneous linguistic regions and creating a European cultural area in which the wealth of European culture can find expression in all its diversity and quality.
The market needs to be put right not only in its social aspects, Mr Van Miert, but in its cultural aspects too.
We shall thus be voting for this resolution, even though it merely repeats what is so often called for by the culture ministers and is also a little bit detached from what is going on in the real decision-making bodies because, Mr President, we are talking here about a resolution whilst the Council meeting of 17 November specifically had book price fixing on its agenda.
If we therefore assume that the arguments are more or less equally good on both sides, the problem is reduced to judging the book either as a commercial good or a cultural object.
In the battle of competition versus culture I have simply decided in favour of culture on the basis of Article 128(4).
I should like to continue to find quality books in the bookshops and not only paperback best-sellers.
You will see that with or without book price fixing, mergers are occurring everywhere, that the small booksellers have their backs to the wall, and I wanted to say something more on that.
I am sorry, Mr von Wogau, but it is indeed one of life's pleasures to have time to walk around, browse through a few books, buy something and then read them, either on the way to Strasbourg in the car - I am lucky enough to have a chauffeur so I can read in the car and do not have to leave it until bedtime.
Thank you, Mr Elchlepp.
Thank you, Mr Schulz.
To all of these people, especially the latter, we offer our sincere thanks.
