Madam, I would just like to mention that my name is not included in the list of those present.
If, in fact, money ever disappears or gets lost in the wheels of administration, then it is always the Commission which is to blame and never the Council.
The EU Commission' s Task Force is already working in the area itself.
For this reason, I would ask that the request for urgent debate be rejected. (Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure) Public health and food safety The next item is the statement by the Commission on public health and food safety.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, and particularly in recent months, the European citizens you represent have been shocked by a succession of food safety scandals.
It is our responsibility to protect the health of our fellow-citizens.
Europeans see food as part of their way of life and their identity.
As a consumer, I have to know exactly what is in a food product, a packet, or a jar and I have the right to know because this right, amongst others, is enshrined in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
A starting point could be to give consumers access to a Community rapid alert system, and ensure that it covers not only agricultural products but also animal feedingstuffs.
In a single market, all citizens have the right to equal protection.
At the moment there are, for example, more than 100 basic directives on agricultural products and processed food.
One way to achieve this is to set up an independent European food agency.
However, in the case of a food scare, this can take weeks and weeks.
The idea behind the precautionary principle is very simple: provisional safety measures must be taken where scientific information is incomplete and when there are still concerns over safety.
The problem is that scientific knowledge is always incomplete because we are constantly pushing forward the boundaries of knowledge.
We need to clarify these points and a parliamentary debate is a positive step.
Therefore, before the end of the year, we shall present to the Council and European Parliament a White Paper on Food Safety and a Communication on the precautionary principle, which must be studied thoroughly.
The White Paper will include an action plan on food safety, setting out a clear timetable for action over the next three years, including options for a possible European food agency.
Our aim is a fundamental reform of food law and we will put forward all Commission proposals for this before the end of 2000.
Madam President, President Prodi, Commissioner Byrne, sometimes you get the impression that European food policy only moves forward a step when there is a new scandal.
I believe, Mr Prodi, that it is not just a question of an agency but of whether we in Europe are going to obtain a European Framework Directive on Foodstuffs such as we have been demanding from you for more than ten years.
I regard this as scandalous, for the dioxin debate was a problem for the Member States and not for the Commission.
The Member States have not understood this.
The Council and the Member States are still light years away from this attitude.
Therefore, work together with us in this area.
It must be possible to improve the ways in which supervision is itself controlled in the Member States.
The supervisory office in Dublin must have the ability to exercise supervisory authority in the Member States as soon as there are grounds for suspicion, and it must also have investigative powers.
You have referred to this subject, and I say again that we need a positive list and we need supervisory controls in the field of feedingstuffs.
In this way, you can see the close, two-way connection between environmental policy and consumer protection and vice versa.
The reports on residual matter which the Member States have, after a fashion, submitted to the Commission in recent years must be checked more thoroughly and more quickly.
I therefore urge you to do something now, before the end of the year.
For me, the important things are supervision and transparency.
I assume, Mr Prodi, that this proposal for an agency, as you call it, is to be put before Parliament.
We must now, four months after the start of the crisis, rise above the emotional atmosphere - you mentioned it too, Mr Prodi - which has often dominated the debate until now.
To do this, then, the Union must invest more in the safety of the food chain, at every stage of the process, and decide, for example - as we have discussed - whether or not it is useful to create this agency, this notorious independent food agency, supposedly inspired by an American model or some other such thing.
I note your various proposals, Mr Prodi, particularly citizens' access to the early warning system; and Commissioner Byrne' s proposal on the White Paper.
The vote on the next budget, including a series of amendments designed to draw the initial lessons from this dioxin crisis, will indicate whether we have decided to lead the way or not.
The quibbling involved in stating that the Committee on the Environment has scheduled a hearing on animal feedingstuffs should not be an obstacle to the debate.
The recent attempts by some governments to control these industries are still insufficient.
In order to achieve this, we need regulations which prioritise the precautionary principle which the Greens have long cherished.
Finally, according to this same principle, it is vital to wait for a period before accepting genetically-modified products whose long-term effects on the resistance of plants unsuitable for cultivation are unknown, as little known as the adaptability of weeds to GMOs.
If the European Union really wishes to show all those who have suffered from past neglect that it wished to draw all the parties involved together and that they can once again have confidence in its policies, it must immediately put forward some very concrete proposals on food safety.
President Prodi, you rightly said that scientific information is always incomplete.
The Council and the Commission would like to get the measure of this concern, but at the moment, they do not seem to be particularly capable of offering solutions other than pernickety but overcautious regulations, which the sharpest and most unscrupulous people will continue to circumvent, to the detriment of food safety.
So, I would like to take advantage of this general debate to stress to my fellow Members and to the other institutions the need to get back to a few common-sense principles which have been swept away by great theories which are based too much on economic concerns and not enough on human concerns.
These country products, I say to you, should never be penalised under Community regulations, especially not when they are sold as local produce, for their quality is almost certainly the best guarantee of food safety.
So, in order to ensure food safety in the face of the unknown, I believe that, going beyond the practice of scientific committees which is far too widespread in the United States - and which I deplore, even here in the European Union - with decisions taken behind closed doors, we must, above all, guarantee the consumer complete and accurate information right from the original production sites.
But since there is a free market and open borders and almost unlimited imports, including those from non-member States I might add, then effective measures must also be taken to impose common safety and environmental standards within the European Union, but also in the countries from which our food imports originate.
Given the many scandals we have seen in the food sector and the growing concern of consumers, passed on, what is more, by political decision-makers, I believe there is an urgent demand for greater transparency, more controls, greater traceability, and especially greater responsibility at every stage of production.
So, Mr President, you would be specifically to blame if you were unable to propose a real reform in agriculture and, from that point of view Madam President, it is a pity that the Council is not represented here, since agricultural policy is chiefly dependent on the Council.
Finally, Commissioner, Commission President, Madam President, we must present a united front in the discussions we are to have with the United States about our relationships within the context of the WTO.
The tragedy is that in areas where we have a rudimentary common policy, through the scientific committees and the new Veterinary Office in Dublin, some Member States still break ranks.
Europe can surely do better than that.
I can remember that when the dioxin crisis began in Belgium, in my country that is, people said: how could we have detected that?
We note that the Commission wants to be strict, not just towards Belgium but also towards the others.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, we are agreed that the EU should no longer be synonymous with rubbish and poison being found in foodstuffs.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with a great deal of attention to the statement from the Committee on Public Health and Food Safety.
Member States must be in a position themselves to establish the level of precaution and food safety they wish for their citizens.
We saw that the Commission was fully responsible for the slowness of the decision-making process in the mad cow crisis.
The role of the Commission and the European institutions must, in the specific case of food safety, be limited to negotiating the precautionary principle within the framework of international agreements and to coordinating the policies of Member States and the European Union.
The sacrosanct principle of the single market and globalisation must not be allowed to undermine the food safety which all the citizens of the European Union are entitled to expect.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dioxin and BSE are different types of problems which have both hit the world of agriculture hard as well as directly involving consumers too.
The latest striking evidence comes from dioxin.
The solutions target specific areas: 1) the consumers; 2) a new agri-environmental revolution; 3) precise political direction which the Community bodies must give.
Agenda 2000 and Regulation 1257 recognise and emphasise aspects which are connected with moves in this direction.
You did indeed refer to 800 basic directives but in fact there are still huge gaps in this legislation.
Mr President, it was stated in a previous speech that consumers and the public do not trust producers.
It is inconceivable that it has been possible to use sewage sludge for years in the preparation of feed and in fertiliser, although this was banned in the EU ten years ago.
Our European agriculture model has received a heavy blow and, because of this, we must swiftly take up these issues.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Commission, first and foremost, I would like to lend my support to the objection raised by Mr Florenz and the PPE about the Council' s failure to attend this plenary sitting.
I feel that this Parliament behaved in a eunuch-like way yesterday in refusing to link this debate on food safety and the WTO with a resolution.
It is clear that our food contains dioxins that also derive from external sources.
The best model is probably that of Europol.
What about the World Health Organisation, Mr Prodi!
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, the Commission' s statement on food safety comes not a moment too soon.
Mr President of the Commission, the fact that it was you that provided the introduction to today' s debate gives us cause for hope.
It is an either/or situation: either there is a public health problem or there is not.
I have submitted a question in writing on this but I am sorry to say that I have received no response as yet.
I have listened with interest to the things which Mr Prodi has said in the past about how we can reach a solution to the crisis with food safety within Europe.
If you had done that, then we should not have had a dioxin crisis in Belgium.
We have to remember, Mr Prodi, that when this Parliament has looked at this problem of a food agency in the past, we have not been absolutely sure about whether this is the right way forward.
The first question will be whether it is a food and drug agency or a food safety agency that you are proposing?
You must resolve those issues inside the Commission before you take steps towards creating a food agency.
I therefore believe that tests of this kind must take place throughout the European Union.
European legislation must provide a quality labelling system and must ensure that tests and quality standards are the same throughout Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner Prodi, consumers are living ever longer lives and are becoming ever healthier at more advanced ages.
I believe that producers and consumers are in the same boat here, for the producers are themselves also consumers.
But we also need reasonable prices so that both producer and consumer are in accord with one another.
Mr Prodi, we are particularly concerned about the fact that, in recent years, matters of vital concern relating to the quality and safety of food and the protection of the health of European citizens are continually in the news, which does not always guarantee valid and reliable information.
It is true that there is now an urgent need to set up a system of continuous scientific control not only for the safety, but also for the quality of food.
The European Union must create some form of supervisory system for supervising the inspectors.
Mr President, food safety issues have quite rightly dominated much of our thinking and that of Member States in recent years.
The European Commission and we in the Parliament, too, should do all in our power to ensure that consumers Europe-wide can have confidence in their food purchases.
Mr President of the Commission, there are so many cases of food contamination that there is no way that this phenomenon is arbitrary, neither is it the simple result of human error.
Mr President, Mr Prodi, I am grateful for the information which you gave Parliament this morning, but I would like to stress the fact that these accidents - those of mad cow disease and dioxin - are not really accidents.
I believe them to be the consequences of the policies that have been pursued.
We have abandoned European traditions, we have ended up with extensive and semi-extensive livestock farming and, as Ferdinando Riccardi pointed out a few days ago, Plutarch reminded us in his treatise on animals of some cows who had gone mad as a result of becoming carnivores.
I would ask for more investigation, more control and more accountability for those countries which do not comply with the regulations.
Mr President, Mr Prodi, I would like to speak about two basic conditions for improving food safety.
Finally, I would like to point out that during the dioxin crisis, there has been a degree of genuine dishonesty between the Member States.
This is very serious and we require measures which will safeguard this Community trust between the different Member States.
We need urgently to know what steps the Commission is taking against the French.
The BSE crisis happened because the previous government reacted too late to the problem.
Some other countries cannot say the same.
However, the Commission now wants to produce a White Paper.
We must supervise food safety at a European level.
Mr President, our common goal is food safety and consumer health.
I do not have enough time now to expand upon the subject, but I would like to draw the Commission' s attention to the need not just for preventive action but also for increasing the accountability of all the official inspectors, all the experts, so that the precautionary principle does not become a principle of refusing to accept responsibility on the part of those in charge of monitoring food safety and consumer health.
Europe must now, therefore, also guarantee food safety.
We need clear, uniform, Europe-wide standards, Mr President of the Commission.
Commission President Prodi, we are reducing cereal production in Europe in order to avoid over-capacity.
If, for example, farmers are only able to earn EUR 1.25 per kilo of pork, then everyone wonders how the production costs can be covered.
Education and the provision of information can contribute to improving and enhancing citizens' relationship with the foodstuffs they eat.
But responsibility for food safety comes first, and only then can confidence increase.
Mr President, I have asked my group to again give me the opportunity at the end of this debate to elucidate a number of points arising from it.
Let me now again emphasise, Mr Prodi, that what you have talked about - and what has also in part become clear from many other interventions - is something which you ought to, if you would, take home with you.
It is not acceptable that Directorate-General III should be responsible for processed food, drugs and genetically-modified organisms and that Directorate-General XXIV should also have a portion of responsibility for these while Directorates-General VI and XI should retain a small portion of responsibility for feedingstuffs.
Many of our colleagues have referred to this and have said that we need an independent, authoritative advisory body.
We then come to the subject of supervision, Mr Prodi.
They have never really reported to us about how many supervisors in the Member States supervise what, when and where.
When the Member States in fact carry out what should have been their task for a long time, namely to check that food does not poison us but enables us to live, then we still have a supervisory authority at the Commission.
We shall then also be able to go to the WTO negotiations in Seattle and say: everything is above board, we are not practising protectionism, we are enabling our citizens to live healthily and that is what we also want for you in the United States and in the developing countries.
We must, then, also make this clear outside the European Union in the negotiations which will begin with the Millennium Round.
Madam President, first of all, I would like to congratulate President Prodi on the scientific rigour, but also on the high degree of transparency which characterised his address.
Basically, the danger is not only linked to the levels, but also to other pharmacokinetic characteristics typical of these compounds which have a half-life of around 5.8 years, maybe even 7 years.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, eating and drinking have a high status in the lifestyles of Europeans.
In the end, health is important to all of us, ladies and gentlemen.
I should like to point out here that over recent years, indeed decades, Austria has pursued another path in agricultural policy.
In view of increasing competition and further concentration in the market, the future of the foodstuffs industry lies in the specific promotion and development of quality products and services.
Not only does it lead to uncertainty for the European consumer, but it also damages our foreign trade.
The strength of Europe and that of European agriculture lie in their good reputation.
I would also urge that Europe should not fence off or close its markets, but pursue purposeful agricultural and food policies which are in keeping with the conditions and also the needs to be found in Europe.
The European model for agriculture, as decided at the European Summit in Berlin, must be given priority in the WTO negotiations.
Madam President, Commissioner Prodi, Commissioner Byrne, the BSE and dioxin crises coupled with the ongoing controversy regarding genetically modified foods have combined to seriously undermine consumer confidence in the safety of food.
For these reasons, I welcome both Commissioner Byrne' s commitment to make food safety his number one priority and also the statement by the Commission President, Romano Prodi, in this House on 23 July, when he said that one of the first tasks of his Commission would be to restore consumer confidence in the safety of food products.
Commissioner Byrne, I may add, is to be commended for his prompt action in agreeing to produce a White Paper on EU food law later this year and also to tighten up the EU' s rapid alert system for food emergencies.
However, I would urge the Commissioner to go the extra mile: if he and his colleagues are determined to regain the confidence of consumers and the food industry in the EU' s food safety structures, then he should establish a European food agency along similar lines to the US Food and Drug Administration.
I would urge you, Commissioner Byrne, to give serious consideration to the establishment of an independent food agency along these lines.
I believe that we need a rapid alert system and that the Commission must be entitled to intervene in the Member States more quickly than has so far been the case.
Also relevant in this connection is a framework Directive on Foodstuffs which is worthy of the name and which, in providing preventative protection to the consumer, is easy to read, workable and can be overseen. (Applause) Madam President, the recent successive crises in the area of food safety have shown in the most convincing manner that the protection of public health must take priority over all other policies.
Mr Prodi, we hope that you will act soon and swiftly, because this issue and food safety are prerequisites for safeguarding the health of the European citizen.
Consumer protection must have absolute priority in all measures regarding food safety.
Could I say to the President and to the sessional services that it would be helpful if there were monitors in all the meeting rooms to ensure that we were fully au fait with what was happening in the House.
Madam President, I will be very brief because Commissioner Byrne is going to reply to your detailed questions.
We must also clarify the matter of the precautionary principle because it is a framework principle which everything hinges on.
During the debate we must keep in mind - and this is important - all the problems of agriculture and reward quality agriculture, as well as giving a lot of room to the matter raised by Mrs Roth-Behrendt of the relationship between technical and democratic control.
It is an extremely important issue because we must have - let us call it - an agency, which will take these two fundamental principles into account.
This is a very complex question which not only involves the Committee on Public Health, but also the Committees on Agriculture, Research and Trade.
Our problem is to constantly coordinate this process and not try to reduce it by taking away the role of the various Commissioners.
The real objective is to achieve food safety as one of the pillars of public health policy.
The White Paper will contain an examination of important issues that have been raised by you, such as the control of the food chain, the reinforcement of controls, the labelling of foodstuffs, and the improvement of the early warning system so as to ensure that there is full transparency in the rapid alert system and in the early warning system.
A number of you have mentioned that there is not the degree of accountability or the degree of openness or transparency in relation to the rapid alert system that we would all like to see, and I intend to address that in the White Paper.
Its model is not yet fully determined, its shape has not yet been finally realised, but we have given some considerable thought to this already.
I believe that we can have an agency that is independent, that gives scientific advice in an independent way, and yet at the same time can achieve the degree of accountability that all of you here as parliamentarians require and deserve.
Many of you mentioned this issue and it is, of course, of enormous importance.
I am conscious of the amount of time I have available to me and I would like to point out that I will be discussing all of these issues in more detail with you at the Environment Committee meeting later in the month.
The preliminary advice available to me so far is that no such new information is available, but I wish to see if we can resolve this difficulty which has emerged over the last couple of days in a diplomatic and an amicable manner.
I drew the Agricultural Council' s attention to my concern about this and informed the Council that it was my intention to add to the Residues Directive two further substances that are contained in the list of substances at Annex I.
The two substances I intend adding are dioxin and PCB.
In addition I informed the ministers that I wished to have monitoring take place in other Member States to determine the existence and levels - if any - of dioxin as a result of background environmental factors.
The second issue that was of concern to me and to which I drew the ministers' attention was the existence of sludge in foodstuffs.
Some of you have mentioned this morning the importance of feeding stuffs.
The final issue I want to address this morning is the question of international trade and the relationship with the World Trade Organisation.
All of you know that Articles 152 and 153 of the Treaty, as inserted in Amsterdam, give the portfolio for which I have responsibility considerable horizontal rights in relation to the examination of all Community policies.
I look forward to discussing all these issues with you in the future and, specifically, as I have already said, at the Environment Committee later this month. (Applause) Thank you, Commissioner Byrne.
The debate is closed.
The Commission is very concerned about the devastating effects of AIDS in the developing world and the apparent inability to stem the epidemic drastically and provide appropriate care for all those affected and infected.
In developing countries, where 90% of all HIV infections occur, AIDS is reversing hard-won gains in improving the quality of life.
In many hard-hit countries AIDS has already reduced life expectancy by more than ten years.
AIDS is also rooted in and exacerbating poverty and inequality.
We are eager to do more both by providing more money, and by working with the countries, our Member States and international partners to devise effective strategies that curtail the spread of HIV, cushion its impact on the health sector and provide care for those already afflicted with AIDS.
It is particularly important that the authorities of these countries should be clear in their calls for prevention of the spread of the epidemic.
The latest post-Cairo-plus-five international conference on population and development debated the subject of sexual habits and rights, particularly of the young.
But political leadership and recognition of the problem of AIDS is only the first step.
In a typical developing country it costs as much to treat one AIDS patient for a year as it does to educate ten primary school students for a year.
Some people express moral reservations about using and promoting this type of prevention.
However, I would like to underline that, given the size of the public health problem we are facing, the interests of the population at risk must be given priority over dogmatic positions of principle.
It is most encouraging that an increasing number of developing countries have already given priority to the interests of their population, but there is still a long way to go.
The EU, jointly with its international and national partners, has been generous and timely in its response to the AIDS pan-demic in several developing countries.
Our support has not, however, always gone to the most effective interventions, and has not yet reached the level needed to have the impact required.
We will therefore continue to work with developing countries to ensure that the available knowledge, and our funds, produce better results in the future.
However, only a joint action can reach the level required and we will therefore step up still further our efforts to coordinate with all those involved.
Now, twenty years on, AIDS is reasonably under control in Europe and the United States, although the situation still gives a great deal of cause for concern in certain areas and amongst certain groups.
That is what we have seen happening in Africa over the last twenty years.
My group wants us to become involved here, even if there are budgetary consequences.
AIDS is threatening to become a health catastrophe on an unimaginable scale, particularly in the countries of Africa south of the Sahara.
Of the 34 million people infected since the epidemic appeared in this part of Africa, 11.5 million have already died, a quarter of them children.
In many countries, life expectancy has even fallen again to the level recorded in the 1960s.
The situation in Eastern and Southern Africa is particularly dramatic.
The partnership, AIDS against AIDS in Africa, founded at the Lusaka Conference, deserves firm support from the European Union, both in material terms and in terms of visionary perspective.
They have undertaken to launch comprehensive AIDS or, rather, anti-AIDS programmes in all African States.
Between 1987 and 1997, almost 200 million ecus or euros were spent on HIV/AIDS programmes in more than 90 developing countries.
The education campaigns and condom advertising in Tanzania and Uganda have shown that success is possible.
AIDS threatens the long-term development of at least ten African countries.
In the year 2001 there will be more than 13 million orphans in Africa on account of AIDS.
The European Union must assist these countries in providing this minimum care, and more, if possible.
The fact is, treatment is practically non-existent in most of these countries.
Confronted with this situation, the Lusaka conference maintained an often inappropriate line, promoting abstinence, moral order and traditional medicine.
Madam President, everyone remembers the alarm cry which went out from the eleventh international AIDS conference in Lusaka less than a month ago.
In requesting, therefore, a debate in the European Parliament, I was hoping that we would show that Europe had heard this alarm cry.
Arising from these discussions, there are three essential proposals which I would like to mention now.
The first, naturally, is to do with the budgetary resources which Europe assigns to the fight against AIDS in developing countries.
I am not the first to remind you that the draft budget for the year 2000 anticipates a spectacular fall in the level of our aid, a two thirds reduction of the commitment appropriations from EUR 16.5 to 5.5 million, at the very time when, quite the opposite, it is the strengthening of international mobilisation which is needed.
The second area where we can and must improve our intervention involves, in my opinion, the selection of our priorities in the field.
The Commission favours prevention, which is indispensable, but it underestimates the possible inconsistency of access to treatment.
We should therefore, in my opinion, see prevention, access to treatment and research as indivisible components.
Commissioner Nielson mentioned this problem and, for my part, I would put forward two proposals.
Secondly, Europe could in fact play a decisive role at the negotiations in Seattle on world trade.
In fact, agreements on intellectual property signed within the framework of the WTO allow for States to authorise the local production and distribution at reduced cost of medicines, which are otherwise protected by patent, in "emergency situations" .
In actual fact, implementing this clause exposes the countries concerned to the threat of sanctions by the most powerful groups and States.
The European Union could, furthermore, assist the countries of the South in preparing their legislation in this spirit in order to counter ultra-liberal pressure.
Mr President, it is now over fifteen years since the disease we all now know as AIDS came into the public domain.
Though the number of people suffering from HIV has stabilised in recent years in Europe, the problem of AIDS is still a very real one particularly in the more deprived and disadvantaged urban areas and of course, within the African continent.
A recent study carried out by an organisation in my constituency called Cáirde points to the fact that 80% of people who contract HIV in Ireland are in receipt of welfare payments.
Social exclusion and inadequate income, and living in a disadvantaged or deprived area, are all factors explaining why HIV as a disease mainly affects the more deprived communities in urban Ireland.
Again according to the report of Cáirde, in Ireland almost 3 000 people are HIV positive, and a further 3 000 people are affected when one considers the family members and children of those who are HIV-positive.
We are going to have to give particular attention in our debate on this subject to the solutions being proposed by the African scientists themselves.
I am referring, obviously, to the Lomé Convention, to this partnership pact that is a bit exclusive, a bit special, and that we have always described as the European Union' s response to the former colonies, as well as to other areas, but which mainly addresses the African continent.
Next week, when we meet our African partners in the ACP Parliamentary Assembly - European Union meeting, we must bear in mind that, while Lusaka was a failure, in part this is definitely down to the fact that we did not pay enough attention to this matter, along with other matters.
I hope that this will head our agenda next week in the context of the ACP and that it will become, Commissioner, a proposal that the Commission and the European Union will themselves make, so that we can finally approach this matter in a serious way.
In less than two decades, a very short time in the world of infectious diseases, AIDS has become the leading cause of death in sub-Saharan Africa.
Hard-won gains in terms of development are being eroded and even reversed as a consequence of this epidemic.
It is my absolute conviction that the European Union has to take a much stronger lead in international efforts in terms of AIDS and HIV prevention.
Our aid budget is considerable.
I have four specific questions to ask the new Commissioner.
The time has come to invest in programmes that target more effectively the health needs of the people in Africa.
It is, of course, ironic, as we mentioned in the Development Committee yesterday, that the Budget Committee voted last week to cut the budget line on reproductive health care and HIV/AIDS work by half from EUR 25 million to 12 million, and that we are now discussing the need for investment in this area.
Early clinical trials will begin in January 2000 in the United Kingdom, and afterwards in Nairobi.
In countries like Zimbabwe where 20% of the population are positive, vaccines, in my view, are the only hope.
In a recent study in Kenya 25% of girls between 15 and 19 were HIV positive and 4% of boys.
That kind of situation, President, shames us all.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the AIDS epidemic in Africa is acquiring increasingly dramatic proportions.
The recent conference in Lusaka showed this quite clearly.
Every year, two million people die of AIDS and another four million are infected.
In total there are today in Africa 25 million people who have contracted AIDS and who are virtually programmed to die.
In one tenth of the countries of Africa, life expectancy will not reach 60 or 70 by 2010, as might be expected, and will drop to 40, a rate similar to that we experienced in Europe in the Middle Ages.
This endemic is not just a catastrophe in humanitarian and health terms, it is also a threat to social and economic cohesion and to the demographic balance of the countries of Africa.
In Kenya, therefore, 43 of the 50 employees of the tax department who died last year died as a result of AIDS.
According to the Farmers' Union in Zimbabwe, the virus is responsible for a drop in production of 60% for corn and 30% for animal husbandry.
In Zambia, if projected figures are substantiated, in 2010 there will be a million fewer children than there are today.
We must re-negotiate the agreements signed on intellectual property.
The pharmaceutical industry must no longer be content just to calculate its profit margin in relation to its profitability on western markets alone, and must urgently provide poor countries with triple-combination therapy - at cost price too.
In a few weeks' time, in Seattle, the forthcoming WTO negotiations may constitute a significant stage.
We must also intensify the use of condoms because, in countries such as Senegal, it is known that condom use has played an important role in the decline of the illness.
Because, for a farm worker in the Sahel, a condom costs 150 CFA francs, that is 1.50 Francs, half of his daily wage?
I invite you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and you too, Commissioner, to together call upon the United Nations, the United States, and the European Union to create a world fund for medical solidarity.
Mr President, there is also one matter I would like to raise, and that is the relationship of drugs to this problem.
Whether this Parliament likes it or not, when laws are violated there is always a sad reaping to the violation of law.
The second is that, given the prevalence of AIDS in Africa and knowing that thousands of young people cross the Mediterranean into Europe, via Spain and other countries, and also bearing in mind the incubation period of the disease, which is from five or six to twelve years, we can calculate that a third of these young people are infected with AIDS and are living in Europe.
I also think that the nature of this problem demands a response which cuts across what otherwise often divides us in politics.
In Zimbabwe, it is very useful to obtain clear public statistics, not only about how bad things are there and how many people have been affected, but also about the results it has been possible to achieve over a number of years in neighbouring Tanzania and Uganda, and in Senegal.
The more openly the authorities approach the problem, the more effective the results they can achieve.
There, 25% of women giving birth for the first time are HIV-positive, and more than 30% of women giving birth in maternity wards at the local hospital are also HIV-positive.
They answered that they could only accept and recommend the use of condoms where prostitutes or similar groups were concerned.
We ought, of course, to avoid too rigid an approach to this problem, but there is, in any case, a moral aspect to it which means that it would be wrong of us to accept the fact that people close their eyes to what is going on in certain countries.
The budget problem has been referred to by almost everyone in the debate.
As I said in the introduction, there are now EUR 25 million on the way as an extra input into this area, and this sum has been taken from a variety of resources.
We shall be doing more to open up the EU with a view to better cooperation and coordination with other players, including players in addition to our fifteen Member States.
Finally, I would point out that, in a week' s time when we have the debate in the ACP-EU Joint Assembly in Nassau, I should very much like - if it is possible against the background of the questions I shall be answering - for us to discuss some of these themes there too and pass on some of the same messages which have characterised the present debate.
Martin, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a Council Decision providing further macro-financial assistance to Romania [COM(99)0405 - C5-0097/1999 - 1999/0167(CNS)].
It is intended to grant a sum of EUR 100 million to Bulgaria and a sum of EUR 200 million to Romania, in each case as a long-term loan.
In the case of Macedonia, a contribution of no more than EUR 30 million in addition to the euro loan of EUR 50 million has been proposed because the country' s financial position has been particularly exacerbated by the conflict in Kosovo.
In the case of all the countries, the financial assistance is to be provided in two tranches with the second tranche only being released once economic development and reforms have been satisfactorily resumed.
The amounts I have mentioned for the various States are proportionate, on the one hand, to the estimated deficits in the balance of payments of the individual countries and, on the other hand, to the multilaterally agreed share which the EU has to contribute to these forms of macro-economic financial assistance.
For Macedonia, an external financial shortfall to the tune of USD 372 million is expected in 1999.
Financial assistance is therefore an urgent matter in view of the vital interests which Europe has in stability in the Balkans.
An additional balance of payments deficit amounting to USD 190 million is in the offing.
It, therefore, has a particular interest in the economic and also political stabilisation of Central and South-East Europe.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists last week lent its support in Skopje to the idea of a Stability Pact in South-East Europe and, above all, took up the themes of democracy, human rights and a civilian society.
It must go without saying that the European Parliament will be informed appropriately and in good time about any payments made and about the ways in which these are used.
Finally, steps must be taken to ensure that the macro-economic financial assistance is not misappropriated, as we have seen happen in a dramatic way in Russia.
The Council has requested urgent procedure in connection with the financial aid to these three countries.
In commenting upon this, the Committee on Budgets pointed out the basic interinstitutional problems and problems relating to budget policy which would arise if we were to comply with the Council' s request for urgent procedure in the case of financial assistance for Macedonia, since in this case, the Commission' s proposal contains a subsidy component.
That means that the European Union only acts as an intermediary in obtaining funds.
The money is borrowed on the international markets and passed on to these countries for their use.
For this reason, the Committee on Budgets has proposed to the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy that it should demand a revision of the Financial Perspective in this regard, and positive reference has been made to this in the report.
The response of Parliament to the form proposed by the Committee on Budgets is that it is important in connection with this issue to examine the Financial Perspective and in this way also to ensure that general aid from Parliament and from the European Union really does reach its destination and also to safeguard the possibility of bringing these matters to a favourable conclusion.
In other words, on the one hand, it anticipates a viable balance of payments for those countries and, on the other hand, it facilitates the implementation of structural reforms which are necessary for all three countries if we want to see them face a future brighter than the past.
As regards Bulgaria, EUR 100 million have been granted by way of loan solely in order to support the balance of payments and facilitate the structural changes and reforms which are scheduled.
At the same time, however, we must, of course, tackle the economic repercussions of all this, and there are other problems here which need to be resolved.
Firstly, I say necessary because these countries are trying to adjust to a new environment of economic and commercial relations which are causing them problems, particularly in their balance of payments which, in turn, is affecting the general functioning of the market and economic development.
Therefore, this macro-financial assistance is both necessary and urgent and our Parliament must show its support by promoting these Southern European countries.
In conclusion, Mr President, this aid is necessary, urgent and imperative and yet our contribution is minor compared to the great efforts that these countries are displaying in their adjusting to the new challenges they are facing and which the war has tragically exacerbated.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, macro-economic assistance for the three countries which lie outside the war zone but which have suffered in the extreme during the war in Kosovo is only right and very important.
Support for lasting, successful development in the countries concerned is, however, urgently necessary.
Here, I wish to clearly state again on behalf of my group, that we want to do everything to ensure that Bulgaria and Romania are not left behind in the process of enlarging the European Union.
The Council and the Commission should urgently state their position on this issue at the Helsinki Summit.
However, I would like to clarify certain issues which may help us to understand the Commission' s position with regard to the different proposed amendments.
Firstly, we are talking about balance of payments aid.
Balance of payments aid is very different from the provision of funds for normal programmes.
Balance of payments aid is aimed at boosting a country' s reserves in such a way that it can confront its external payments problems, which always have a compensation: it is always either the provision of services or the supply of goods which is being paid for.
Secondly, in the case of Bulgaria and Romania, the funds are connected to agreements with the International Monetary Fund which have this same objective.
We have never had problems with regard to the repayment of debts, there have never been delays on the part of these countries, and therefore, from our point of view, and in financial terms, they are absolutely viable partners.
In these two respects, we are in absolute agreement.
Given the difference between these funds and the normal projects which supply money to the budget, I am afraid that, in this case, this idea of budgetary control, which we all accept and defend, is not really applicable.
Consequently, we would be in favour of an idea which seems to us fundamental, and that is that the Commission monitors the reforms which must be carried out in the said countries so that the aid may be used correctly.
We believe that this type of control will be sufficient.
With regard to Amendment No 3, the fundamental idea, as has been said, is to try to ensure that a proportion of these resources is dedicated to the provision of the basic social needs of the population.
In this case we are talking about financial support for these countries' reserves in order to help them deal with a certain type of counterpart.
We are not here to discuss whether or not we should support the basic needs of the population.
Nevertheless, for your peace of mind, I will tell you that these cases are radically different from the case you have mentioned concerning Indonesia.
Nevertheless, I do not believe that it falls to the Commission to define internally, with regard to national budgets, how a global budget is to be established given that, as I said before, the Funds in question do not themselves have any particular specific purpose.
We could clearly say the same of Amendment No 4, which has a similar justification and problems of an analogous nature.
With regard to Amendment No 3, however, I would like to make an additional point.
There are specific Union programmes dedicated to this idea of improving administration and dealing with basic social needs.
Please remember, for example, that in the PHARE programme, 30% of the resources are dedicated to "Institutional Building" , which is clearly linked to the whole question of improving administrative functioning which will allow the problems to be resolved.
These are the reasons why Amendments Nos. 3 and 4 do not seem acceptable to us.
However, we are in total agreement with Amendment No 5.
Therefore it would be worded, "the Commission, in accordance with the principles of sound and efficient management, shall verify..." , etc.
In this way we would totally accept your proposal but it would be more correctly worded.
In Amendment No 6, the Commission is asked to inform Parliament before carrying out the second payment of balance of payment appropriations.
We are in total agreement with Amendment No 7 concerning the provision of information before a certain date.
Lastly, we come to perhaps the most problematic amendment, in terms of the form it should take, which is the one concerning the additional loan of 30 million.
Firstly 1999 and then 2000.
We are talking about EUR 30 million - 15 for this year and 15 for next year.
With regard to the 15 million for this year, I can tell you that the figures are laid out in the budget and therefore, we have no problem with meeting these payments immediately.
The problem concerns next year and, in fact, in the Commission' s decision, if the Honourable Members would like to see page 7, in section 4 which refers to this issue, it clearly states that, given the existing budgetary restrictions, there could be some difficulty and an adjustment in Category 4.
The Commission' s proposal dates from November 1997.
On 28 June, the Council adopted its common position.
On 22 September, the Committee on Industry and Energy unanimously adopted a recommendation on this.
The amendments we have tabled - nine in all - call on the Member States to make a voluntary commitment to promote renewable sources of energy.
In addition, the Eastern and Central European States and, as the Liberal Group has rightly requested, the Mediterranean States should also play an important role in implementation.
In Article 5 of the ALTENER programme, Parliament would also like to insert a reference to the new procedures for exercising powers of implementation in order to improve the participation of the European Parliament.
In this connection, I should remind you of the second report being discussed today: the report by Mrs Ahern on energy efficiency.
I am very grateful and happy that you, Commissioner, now have responsibility for this important subject for, as a former Spanish Minister for Agriculture, you know that it is possibly much more sensible to reduce the surpluses achieved in the context of European agricultural policy than to make areas available for cultivation which could be exploited for utilising energy from biomass.
With this in mind, I should like to say a warm thank you for your valuable cooperation and hope that the report will be accepted by a majority in Parliament.
It is a declared goal of the European Union to double the proportion of renewable sources of energy consumed by the year 2010.
Parliament and the Commission were already in agreement on this in the debate on the Green and White Papers.
The close connection between conditions of access to the grid and growth rates in the proportion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources is something we can see from the above-average rates of increase in Denmark, Germany and also Spain.
The Commission had earmarked the amount of EUR 81.1 million for the four-year period from 1998 to 2002 in the ALTENER programme.
We know that this 81.1 million would only be a drop in the ocean, but we cannot, under any circumstances, accept that this sum should again be reduced to EUR 74 million, as specified in the common position.
The ALTENER programme is an important part of the strategy to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions.
Renewable energy sources reduce the dependence on imported energy and an increase in their use will also improve competitiveness.
The ALTENER programme is a step in the right direction.
It is important, however, that, one day before the debate here in Parliament on the Kyoto follow-up conference in Bonn, and also a few days after the second-worst nuclear accident in history (this time in a hi-tech country), we should also place this ALTENER programme in a wider context.
It is against a particular background that we are framing energy policy: we want to protect the environment and we want to cut down on CO2 emissions, so we must examine in particular whether the liberalisation of the European electricity market, as is at present being implemented in a number of Member States, is not counter-productive.
As Mrs Rothe said, 12% is not enough.
It is not enough to see the amounts, which are quite inadequate, that we are going to spend on renewable energies; we should perhaps also take a little time to consider the financial energies which we are expending on other forms of energy, particularly nuclear energy.
We should set ourselves far more ambitious objectives, and this Parliament must force the Council and the Commission to find the resources necessary for this policy.
Together with the SAVE Programme, we have in ALTENER II a way of showing the public of Europe that there are rational ways to meet the challenge of climate change: energy efficiency and renewable sources of energy.
Sadly, we lost one of the driving forces with the sudden death, earlier this year, of John Bonda, but others will carry on his work in the Export Council.
I hope that an indication can be given by the Council in time for the appropriate changes to be made in the first reading of the 2000 budget.
The emphasis on information dissemination in ALTENER II is very important indeed, and I look forward, if it is available yet, to looking at the Agores Centre on the Worldwide Web which is clearly intended to bring together all sorts of information on renewable energy so that everyone can look it up and can be kept up-to-date.
The ALTENER II Programme will work and can work in every Member State and of course, outside the European Union in applicant countries, for example, as well as in the Mediterranean countries where the potential is huge.
Of course, we are also concerned with bringing regenerative, environmentally-friendly energy production to these particular countries in order both to promote the protection of the environment and also of course - this must be added in all honesty - to open up new markets.
The precise text reads: 22 workers have been injured in an accident in a South Korean nuclear power station.
What must be done today, at their second reading is, of course, to renew both of these programmes, but also to improve them, with the help of the opportunities given to us by the Treaty of Amsterdam and by codecision.
We are also aware of the difficulties preventing these sources of energy from entering a free market in which more traditional energy resources are often much cheaper, not to mention the absence of measures designed to promote the taking up of new energies on a voluntarist basis.
We must bear these costs because they are actually quite modest compared to what is at stake: around EUR 7 million.
In conclusion, I shall say that the vote for these two reports represents a pledge to the citizens of Europe, showing the European Union' s will to protect the environment whilst reducing our dependence on energy.
More specifically, on the threshold of the next world conference on climate change which is to be held in Bonn, this sends out a positive sign of our Kyoto commitment to reduce CO2 emissions.
We have EUR 80 million allocated: EUR 30 million for 1998-99 and EUR 50 million for 2000-2002.
It seems to me, firstly, that the amount available is far too little and secondly, if we are expecting a doubling of the amount of renewable energy, there should be a sharp increase in the amount of money being made available over a period of time.
I welcome Amendment No 6 to Article 2(e)(a) (new) about the need to encourage the export of renewable energy technologies from the European Union and to encourage the European Renewable Energies Export Council.
Secondly, we must examine something which is of great concern in Europe: our dependence on third countries with regard to the supply of energy.
As soon as we are able to achieve our objective of doubling our sources of renewable energy supply from the current 6% to 12%, we will be less dependent on third countries, some of which may be facing a difficult future.
I have to say, Mr President, that the first ALTENER programme and later the White Paper on Renewable Energy Sources, which has developed Community strategy and the action plan for 2010, have been possible thanks, and I repeat, to the cooperation between our two institutions, Parliament and the Commission, and that the new European Union renewable energy policy has been put together precisely as a result of a good understanding between us.
As for Amendment No 1, the Commission has always believed that renewable energy policy and energy efficiency policy are closely linked, as some speakers have pointed out, and that the coordination of these two policies is essential.
Perhaps we need a little more time.
Amendment No 3, especially once the working document of the Commission services on the renewal campaign, which has been communicated to Parliament and the Council, has been adopted, is not only acceptable to the Commission but we embrace it with great satisfaction and gratitude.
Amendment No 4 is acceptable in principle, although the Commission considers that it does not so much constitute a third objective of the programme but rather an expansion of the first objective.
With respect to Amendment No 6, I would like to remind you of the favourable acceptance by the Commission of the Parliament' s report on the European Union' s new perspectives in the field of the export of technology and services for the use of renewable energy when it was presented in the plenary meeting on 15 January.
However, it is a question of, rather than requiring a new action, considering whether point 25 does not already reflect this need to prioritise exports in order to improve the position of the European industry, which is world leader in certain renewable energy sources, which some speakers have referred to, because in this field we have clear advantages over other producers.
Amendments Nos. 2 and 7, as well as Nos. 8 and 9, which have reached us in the course of today, have the support of the Commission in principle, although their wording will have to be revised and adapted to a form which is acceptable to the Commission.
Amendment No 5 is in accordance with the initial proposal of the Commission.
This will clearly be the key instrument in order to see whether we are capable of promoting the use of this type of energy within our countries.
And it is clearly through the possibility of providing access to the network, through being flexible enough in the proposals that we put forward, which allow us to cover the different instruments which the different Member States have used and which are not homogenous and are different, that we will be able to guarantee that renewable energy is not only maintained but doubled in the coming years.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
I cannot, however, let the information that I have just received about the nuclear accident in South Korea go unrecognised.
I was very shocked and saddened to hear of the deaths of 22 workers, apparently as the result of a heavy water accident.
That underlines what we are trying to do here today and the need for changes in energy policy and in the budget for energy policy.
The evaluation highlighted SAVE as a valuable policy instrument to promote energy efficiency but stressed that a clear and consistent strategy for pilot actions was required; that dissemination of results is the key to long-term success; and that long-term effectiveness requires better on-going monitoring and impact analysis.
The evaluation also showed that SAVE actions will also indirectly lead to the achievement of the objectives of the non-nuclear energy R&amp;D programme through the creation of a positive environment for the dissemination and implementation of new technology in renewable energies.
The amendments proposed by this report are a direct result of this evaluation.
Energy efficiency means lower consumption, the conservation of non-renewable energy sources and reduced dependence on energy imports, but most of all it means lower levels of environmental pollution from harmful substances such as CO2, one of the major causes of the greenhouse effect.
The European Parliament has often underlined the importance of energy-efficient actions and the Council has also emphasised the need for energy savings and a reduction in CO2 emissions in a series of resolutions.
As the Community has so far not been able to agree on what is probably the most effective instrument for the reduction of greenhouse gases - namely, the taxation of energy consumption - the Commission and the Council regard the SAVE II programme as "an important and necessary instrument" .
Bearing in mind the expected increase in the energy CO2 emissions and the low budget allocated to SAVE II it is rather unlikely that the internationally agreed objectives for reducing emissions could be achieved by this programme.
Given the approximately 1% annual improvement in energy efficiency in final consumption achieved so far, the Commission calls for a target of reducing energy intensity in final demand by a further percentage point per year.
Therefore we have replaced Amendment No 5 by a new Amendment No 13, and Amendment No 11 by a new Amendment No 12.
A number of objectives relating to the emission of greenhouse gases were set in Rio de Janeiro and Berlin.
What is more, the budget is very low, which is why our group warmly welcomes the rapporteur' s proposal to increase the SAVE programme' s budget by EUR 4.4 million to EUR 68.4 million.
The rapporteur proposes improving the energy intensity of final consumption by one and a half extra percentage points per year over and above the percentage that would otherwise be attained.
That is why the PPE group will reject those amendments that prescribe an overly rigid framework.
Energy efficiency is one of the few obvious contributions towards the attainment of the targets set for the EU in Kyoto.
It is very good to start the work of this new Parliament with programmes which can make a difference, both to the environment and, of course, to the competitiveness needs of our Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner, first and foremost, may I offer the rapporteur my warmest thanks for her outstanding work.
The Liberal Group considers promoting energy efficiency to be a key factor in the European Union' s energy policy.
That is why the Liberals will give their full support to amendments 2 and 5 which aim to increase the energy efficiency of the final demand by 1.5 extra percentage points per year.
If we want to achieve our goals, then we really do need to have the courage to set high standards.
So promoting energy efficiency should also be a natural part of any energy policy.
So we need to carefully evaluate the objectives for improving energy intensity in final consumption.
We might risk burdening our production apparatus with costs that will cause our firms to be less competitive with regard to other international competitors who are not bound by these obligations.
Staying with the aim of making our production system competitive and efficient on a global scale, I will now move on to my second point.
I would like to remind you that it is not always effective to promote efficient energy use using extremely restrictive, even intolerable legislative instruments and standards.
I refer here to Amendment 1 to Recital 11, to new Recital 15a and to Amendment 6 to Article 1.
These analyses are possible in transparent markets where the individual end user - firm or consumer - can always assess to what point energy use is efficient thanks to gradual progress in the technological and economic spheres, sustained by sound research and as much information as possible.
Once approved, this programme will become an important component of the multiannual framework programme for energy, providing a greater degree of transparency and better coordination of our programmes in the energy industry, allowing Parliament to fulfil its monitoring role in the interests of European citizens.
With regard to the report of the Honourable Member and proposed amendments, Mrs Ahern, I would like to say that, in principle, the majority of them are acceptable.
In the case of Amendment No 4, as we said earlier in relation to the ALTENER programme, there is a clear need for renewable energy and energy efficiency to go hand in hand.
All of this constitutes one of the basic objectives of the multiannual framework agreement on energy, which is aimed specifically at improving complementarity and coordination in this field.
As for Amendments Nos. 12 and 13, which replace Amendments Nos. 11 and 5, which the Honourable Members have referred to, and which refer to the involvement of Committees, I would like to say that they are acceptable in principle but require another more appropriate wording.
I can say the same for Amendment No 10, which proposes an increase in the budgetary item which restores the Commission' s initial figures.
For this reason we can accept neither Amendment No 2 nor Amendment No 6, insofar as this issue is concerned.
Finally, and in the hope of finding a compromise, we can accept Amendment No 7, despite the fact that it presents a little difficulty, requiring some amendments of its wording.
With regard to two questions which have arisen, firstly, I profoundly regret the nuclear accident in South Korea which has happened just days after the accident in Japan and which has affected a number of workers.
Secondly, I would like to mention the Kyoto objective, to which energy efficiency is clearly of key importance.
The Commission will briefly present - it is included in the agenda of the next Council of 2 December - the action plan on energy efficiency, and then we will have the opportunity to discuss these questions in more depth.
With regard to a final matter which I had left out, which is the participation of some countries in Central and Eastern Europe, I would like to say that currently there are ten countries which are benefiting from the SAVE programmes in order to bring about an improvement in energy efficiency.
When we compare data on energy efficiency we find differences of 1:5 and 1:6 in relation to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
Mr President, in fact, in some cases we are providing external support for these countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
And not only is bilateral support from some countries being used - since bilateral cooperation with countries of Central and Eastern Europe is also taking place - but we should take into account the support which they receive via the SAVE programme and other Community programmes, by means of which companies are contracted - which are involved in such areas as support, instruction, education and the spread of good practice - and, clearly, amongst them there are companies from the European Union.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
But, I think we all have to acknowledge, Mr President, that we have had five years of protracted and tortuous negotiations on everything from apples, pears and asparagus to cut flowers, fish, wine, port and sherry, but eventually now we see an agreement and hopefully, a signing on Monday in South Africa.
The European Parliament and Joint Assembly have played a positive role and have offered encouragement and critical analysis and it is very appropriate that this Parliament is the first parliament to give assent to the agreement.
And yet the negotiations repeatedly stalled because Member States of the European Union allowed sectoral interest to override any need to support South Africa.
Let me now summarise the essentials: The asymmetric nature of the trade agreement is crucial and involves the systematic elimination or reduction of tariff barriers and other duties.
Europe will open up its markets to 95% of South Africa' s exports over ten years.
South Africa will open its markets to 86% of European Union exports over twelve years.
There will be a reduction, naturally, of customs revenues which Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia and Swaziland have become dependent on.
I have had representation from the BLNS countries asking exactly what the position is on that Conference.
Our country, South Africa, is beginning a long journey' .
This Parliament should give its assent to this agreement in order that the European Union can play its part in that momentous journey.
I am therefore particularly pleased to be able to speak on the subject of South Africa, a country whose development I have followed, since my first visit there in 1981, with concern and with hope and, recently, with confidence.
Finally, we can establish economically and politically privileged relations with the country in Africa whose stable development is both in our very own interests as well as in the interests of its neighbours south of the equator.
The first high point in this process of democratisation were the first democratic elections for all South Africans in 1994, the visible expression of emancipation not only for the previously suppressed majority of the population but also, I believe, really for the classes privileged under the old system; a liberation from the self-imposed pressure to justify a system which they themselves knew, at least in their innermost selves, could not be justified and which also isolated them increasingly from people in Europe and North America whom they felt culturally and ethnically akin to.
In the five years of on-going negotiations, the European Parliament and particularly my own group have called for the speedy conclusion of this agreement and its direct entry into force.
On the one hand, negotiations with a total of 24 rounds are surely not entirely necessary and have been dragged on and on due to sectoral or national interests.
On the other hand, however, this has enabled rapprochement and mutual understanding on both sides in precisely such difficult matters as the agreement on wines and spirits or some agricultural products.
This should serve as an example to the national parliaments and should also show our sympathy for the new South Africa, which deserves all our support on its difficult course.
Mr President, with the signing of this agreement and the support which it lends to the South African process, the European Union is acting coherently.
It is acting coherently with regard to its duty to defend the interests of its Member States, coherently with regard to the principles of social equality and progress which we claim as our own, coherently with regard to the type of world which we wish to build together, with more balance and more solidarity, but also coherently with regard to the actions which many of us and many of our co-Europeans, for four decades, have maintained in the effort to put an end to apartheid while dreaming of the establishment of a South Africa with a regime which provides liberty and dignity for all South Africans.
It would have been unforgivable if, when South Africa has dismantled that odious regime, when the South Africans have made history and shown an example by bringing about an admirable reconciliation, successfully overcoming the always difficult transition from a civil war and a dictatorship, the transition from having the profile of a freedom movement to the establishment of a pluralist, democratic and constitutional State, it would have been scandalous if, when the South Africans have not betrayed our trust in their conduct, we Europeans were not able to rise to the occasion and were to betray the trust which South Africa has put in us.
It has emerged from a recent report by UNCTAD that South Africa' s imports from the European Union are likely to increase more dramatically than exports to this market.
We must not allow the SADC countries to be disadvantaged by South Africa' s relations with Europe.
South Africa exports seven times more than it imports.
Inter-state and, more recently, inter-regional alliances both within the European Union and with partners outside is an initiative we can pride ourselves on developing enthusiastically.
Funding schemes such as INTERREG, PHARE and others are a clear expression of this ideology.
This initiative of itself cannot be expected to resolve overnight, as it were, the problems of economic deprivation in the new South Africa.
An agreement that provides for the full liberalisation of 95% of South African exports to the EU over a ten-year period with tariffs eliminated on 86% of its industrial goods is a very long time to wait for a country facing such acute economic and social problems.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Kinnock for her report.
The agreement between the European Union and South Africa, which we are debating today, is of great importance.
I am all the more favourable towards it because the Council stalled the negotiations at the beginning of the year, which sent out a very bad sign to the South African people.
Parliament' s urgent appeal was obviously heard, because the Council finally approved the agreement.
Also, concerns and fears at a regional level in the countries within the Southern African Customs Union have not been given sufficient consideration.
Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia and Swaziland will be losing a major source of revenue as the entry into force of the agreement will lead to a dramatic fall in the level of the sums currently raised by customs duties in their Union.
To grant financial compensation to a country in order for it to stop its improper use of protected names - such as sherry, to give an individual case - sets an extremely dangerous precedent.
It concerns the very philosophy, or rather the ideology, implicit in this agreement.
To claim that the liberalisation of trade is a priori favourable to development certainly adheres to the creed of globalisation which is holding sway everywhere, but reality continually shows these allegations to be false.
The agreement corresponds to an ideology whose sole aim is to mask the pernicious policy of a commercial superpower, the United States, and in this area as in many others, Europe has gone astray as a result of clinging to the Americans' heels.
It gives an additional illustration of the connivance between the Commission and Parliament aimed at divesting the European Council of something that I believe to be its exclusive competence, which is foreign policy.
For all of these reasons, we cannot give our approval to this agreement.
Mr President, whilst we recognise the valuable aspects of the agreement as regards trade, development and cooperation between the European Community and the Republic of South Africa, it has raised some critical questions in our minds, as it has in that of Mrs Kinnock, relating to suggestions to be addressed to the Commission and the Council.
In this way, the good intentions the Member States had towards South Africa as a developing country in 1994 are evaporating.
Thirdly, we strongly recommend that the agreement between the European Union and South Africa should not be to the detriment of Pretoria' s excellent regional trade relations.
South Africa needs new impetus to promote economic growth and drive out poverty at a more rapid pace.
It will be an era in which signs of hope and progress must be translated into economic and social stability and into justice.
Hopefully, it will mean that, in South Africa too, it is felt that it is no longer so very far from the EU to South Africa, either physically or psychologically, and that the gap between words and action is no longer so lengthy as, without a shadow of a doubt, it was felt to be in the period after 1994 and up until 1999.
I welcome that, but there are also other precedents it might set which could be less positive, in particular its impact on other countries in the region.
But, with the free trade agreement in place, products arriving from the EU into South Africa duty-free will also enter the other customs union countries duty-free - there are no tariff barriers between them.
While that might make products cheaper for southern African consumers, the effects on local industries could be extremely severe.
The European Parliament will, I am sure, continue to monitor this situation to assess what effects are being felt by other countries, and to do all in its power to ensure that appropriate compensation is forthcoming as necessary.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, cooperating with South Africa and helping it to put its under-development behind it should be a fundamental duty for Europe, whose ruling classes greatly benefited in the past from the pillage of that country' s mineral wealth and from the exploitation of its poverty-stricken masses.
I will certainly not join the European institutions in their displays of self-satisfaction as they have even had the effrontery to claim that they contributed significantly to the defeat of the apartheid regime in South Africa, whilst in fact, the great powers, including European ones, were overwhelmingly responsible for keeping a notorious regime in power for such a long time.
Our solidarity goes out then to South Africa' s workers, to its underprivileged people and not to those, whether over there or in Europe, who enrich themselves as a result of these people' s poverty.
Many organisations have been unhappy during these five long, tiring years, organisations which are usually involved in the processes of development in Third World countries.
I am referring in particular to fish and wine.
South Africa uses European designations for its own products in our markets and in third countries' markets in return for financial help for our sector.
Whilst South Africans voted overwhelmingly for Nelson Mandela, Europeans voted in no small numbers for Jörg Haider and friends.
These three issues are linked and form part of a European contribution to democratisation in South Africa and this in the hope that the whole of Southern Africa will benefit from it.
Just as the European Community supports democratisation in Central and Eastern European regimes, by means of trade, development and cooperation, so the agreement we have before us is an attempt to help democracy in South Africa along.
Economic growth and development mean that there is more prosperity and less poverty than in the rest of Central and Southern Africa.
At the same time, I would like to ask the Commission how it intends to spend the EUR 125 million per year.
This Parliament' s Committee on Development and Cooperation has put forward suggestions.
Commissioner, it seems that there are still major difficulties in the wine and spirits sector which are preventing the smooth conclusion of the agreement between the European Union and South Africa.
In order to resolve this problem, I believe that it would only need an amendment to Annex 10 of the protocol to the agreement, and I would like you to be able to give us some fundamental points of reassurance on this matter.
According to other information though, it would seem that we are obliged to amend this Annex if it were not validated on 30 September.
I would therefore like to know the Commission' s position on whether this Annex 10 is valid now, six days after the initial deadline, or whether the Commission has proposed an amendment.
Commissioner, we have the feeling that Pretoria has a quite different understanding of this agreement to that of your services and particularly of its Annex 10.
Faced with such a situation, it is vital to avoid any interpretation which is less clear on the designations of origin "Port" and "Sherry" , which are in fact European geographical names which must be protected, and which cannot co-exist in any way with brands of wine from other places, which are allowed to use them with impunity.
I repeat that it is not the agreement itself which is in question, but whether it is possible to make this cooperation agreement compatible with respect for our own principles and with defending our interests.
I feel honoured and privileged that the subject of this remarkable event is the agreement with South Africa, for which I now carry the responsibility within the Commission.
My first visit was to celebrate the years of solidarity struggle.
The second time was when I was representing my country at the inauguration of President Mbeki.
Now I look forward to taking part next Monday, in Pretoria, in the actual signing and launching of this agreement.
Next week we will sign this agreement in Pretoria.
Without going into the inappropriateness in principle of these kinds of suggestions, I wish to underline that both sides are working very hard to find a quick and mutually acceptable solution to the outstanding problems on the wines and spirits dossier.
The trade, development and cooperation agreement that we will sign on 11 October is, in my view, a very good agreement.
For South Africa the bold move towards a trade, development and cooperation agreement with the EU is a symbol of its commitment to economic restructuring and to regaining its full place in the international community.
It confirms a clear determination by the EU to support the process of change and reform in South Africa and reflects both sides' desire to further expand their political, trade and cooperation contacts to the benefit of South Africa and indeed the southern African region as a whole.
It is also not yet agreed that the EU will liberalise imports of South African automotive products within three years, as the report seems to announce on page 9.
In contrast to what the report suggests on page 10, good governance is in strict legal terms not an essential element of the Agreement.
I hope that the amazing precedent to be set here this week will inspire your national colleagues to put this Agreement quickly on their working agenda.
Experiences on other agreements have, however, taught us that it may very well be two or three years before the last EU Member State ratifies the Agreement.
Under these circumstances, I welcome the fact that Council has decided to provisionally apply certain parts of the Agreement, notably the trade and development sections, as from 1 January 2000.
Mr President, I thank the Commission for that response but I did raise the issue of the elements of the support package for the BLNS countries on which it was promised that a conference would take place in Lesotho.
The conference in Lesotho is going to take place on 13-14 October and we are prepared to discuss there with representatives from the BLNS countries, how to structure the support package for those countries.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Nielson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Communication from the President of the Commission The next item is the President of the Commission' s statement on the decisions taken by the Commission at its meeting today.
I can see that it does not draw large crowds, but major objectives are never straightforward.
The first important topic concerns advertising A1 posts.
Last week, we started to make a series of substantial changes at the highest administrative levels in the Commission, on the basis of a complete cultural change in appointment methods.
These increases will be financed through the reallocation within Category 4 of EUR 155 million and the transfer from Category 3 of EUR 10 million.
The third point concerns the Commission' s programme up to the end of January.
In line with this commitment, the Commission has reviewed the areas where a decision of the College must take effect before the end of January 2000.
I will present Parliament with the five-year perspectives in January 2000, as we agreed here, after which our annual programming will return to its normal rhythm.
Our programme is the one we proposed to you and we will present it in an analytical and comprehensive way.
The Commission has adopted the annual report on the competitiveness of European industry which deals with structural changes.
I must add that both myself and Commissioner Liikanen intend to work in such a way that, in future, the Commission can concentrate on the more horizontal issues in business policy, because we now leave discussions on individual industries to other decision-making bodies.
With the help of a comprehensive report by Commissioner Bolkenstein, we have examined the priorities facing the internal market over the next five years.
The action plan ended this year.
The aim of the communication is to establish the potential objectives and the possible actions geared to the internal market over the next five years.
This is another chapter where cooperation with Parliament is of the utmost importance.
Just in the last few minutes, Commissioner Verheugen explained how we are starting to prepare the decisions which we will make next week on enlargement.
Next week, we must approve all the reports on the progress of relations with the applicant countries.
Commissioner Verheugen has already been in contact so that the parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs can be immediately informed about the situation.
Madam President, firstly I would like to reassure President Prodi.
The difference between the parliament of a dictatorship and a democratic parliament is that the parliament of a dictatorship is always full and the Members applaud, and a democratic parliament is not very full because the Members are working in other places.
Mr Barón Crespo, regarding your first remark, I was pleased by your words on the quality of Parliament.
As for the second point, I would say that today we are limited to urgent reforms on the matters which are, as we have seen, absolutely extraordinary.
If we look at that item, then I must say, Mr Barón Crespo, that it is not only external policy expenditure which must be reallocated, but I would say that we must reallocate all items in the budget.
Mr Thors, my attitude regarding this letter is very simple.
I refer, for example, to the type of administration of the budget funds that we transfer to the various Member States.
So we have made these ten changes which are, however, of fundamental importance.
Mrs Frahm, this really is a question which would require a conference in order to reply.
Mr President of the Commission, a sorry story of child abuse in a Commission nursery has appeared in the Spanish press.
This story came to light in 1997 and it would appear that the people involved have still not received their deserved punishment and that the Commission has still not initiated a thorough investigation, nor taken the contract away from the people who have it at the moment and who are responsible for the situation which has been created there.
There is a series of irregularities in the granting of this contract, as well as irregularities in the operation of the nursery in question.
Mr Prodi, what do you intend to do about it?
Madam President, I am being made aware of this problem for the first time.
Have you, Mr Prodi, and your colleagues, in fact taken account of the opinion held in this European Parliament and by many voters that this whistle-blower deserves the very opposite of a reprimand?
They are a signal of the new era of which you speak and I wish to welcome that on behalf of my group.
We are dealing with a very serious and very important question of procedure.
I think that the most serious thing is for us to lay down these rules in a small committee.
Now, in my opinion we have three levels: the President, specific Commissioners devoted to different areas and routine, which must be conducted in the fastest and most transparent way possible - using the Internet or written communications - because it does not merit being the subject of a debate.
We must preserve direct communication when there is going to be a debate.
Madam President, in this House this morning, Commissioner Byrne replied by saying that he has asked for urgent clarification.
I think it is something which will help create greater openness about the Commission' s work.
Mr Bonde, within the limitations time imposes, this is already happening, as there is an agenda which is definitely not kept secret.
Mr Helmer, I am very pleased to be asked these questions because, for many years, I specialised in the analysis of competitiveness and industrial economics.
However, if you asked me what the primary factor in Europe' s industrial problems is, I would be very frank: the human resources problem as the incentive for entrepreneurship that exists on our continent and, therefore, the whole problem of preparing the financial structures for new entrepreneurship.
I therefore think that the human factor is top of the list of our problems in developing production and the fiscal factor is extremely important.
Here the future of what we understand as Europe is at stake.
Secondly, by making these decisions I have taken a risk, a very real risk, and this too is a sign for the future.
But the future of Europe is at stake here, and it is already an extremely important consequence.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B5-0030/1999).
My answer is yes, in a general way, without targeting any institution in particular, with the Structural Fund appropriations we can finance studies for the prevention of earthquake risk in Greece as well as other countries as long as the Greek Government asks us to.
The prevention of natural disasters, Mr Alavanos, is the responsibility of Member States.
As I have just told you though, if any government - because Greece is not the only country concerned by this: we have seen disasters or earthquakes of varying magnitude happen in other countries too, but they had a less serious effect - anyway, if any government asks us, we are able to support and finance, by means of the Structural Funds, preventive studies which would allow us to determine the risks to inhabited areas, as you mentioned in your question, but also to factories, with the secondary risks of industrial disaster that that would entail.
Question No 29 by (H-0470/99): Subject: Danger of a humanitarian disaster in Afghanistan The civil war raging in Afghanistan is in danger of causing a humanitarian disaster, particularly now that winter is approaching.
Between 100,000 and 120,000 refugees have already been forced into the Panshir Valley and the Northeast region controlled by the military commander Massoud.
Echo has plans to provide aid amounting to EUR 1.5 million to all the displaced persons staying close to the various front lines, namely in the Panshir valley - where there is talk of displaced persons following the fighting in April and May - and in Kabul.
The practical details of these forms of humanitarian action are being established in collaboration with our partners in the field.
In reality, Europe is very slow, it does too little, and I find this neutrality that you mentioned quite scandalous.
My question concerns humanitarian aid to the Panshir valley, that is, the zone controlled by those resisting the totalitarian and criminal regime of Kabul and the Taliban, whose horrifying treatment of women we are only too aware of.
There are more than 100,000 people there, men, women and children who, as winter approaches, will experience an unprecedented humanitarian disaster in the Panshir valley.
I ask you to give a straight answer to the question of what we are going to do for these women and children who are now hemmed in, in the Panshir valley.
And our mandate in connection with what Echo is doing in the field is a humanitarian mandate.
I have not in any way expressed a positive view of the Taliban regime.
Directly after the Dzurinda Government took office at the end of October 1998, the Commission, on the initiative of my predecessor, set up a bilateral high-level working party to once again give Slovakia' s preparations for accession the necessary momentum.
The Commission will adopt this report on the development of Slovakia on 13 October, i.e.
The Commission is particularly strong in its support of the non-governmental organisations essential for the development of a mature civil society in Slovakia.
Mr Posselt, I would, incidentally, like to point out that PHARE resources for Slovakia in the year 1999 reached the level of the previously highest volume to date with almost EUR 70 million.
Secondly, I would like to ask whether you consider it conceivable that in Helsinki, Slovakia will be ranked among the countries with which discussions are to be held?
As regards the question about universities, I shall accept that as a suggestion.
Commissioner, I would like to ask a question on the economic situation.
It is therefore important to stabilise the economic situation.
The Accession Partnership currently under discussion with Slovakia will include appropriate programmes in this area.
The resources already envisaged for Slovakia will indeed serve, as you know, the development of infrastructure or "institution building" , but they can also be implemented as instruments for the regulation and further development of the economy.
Question No 31 by (H-0498/99): Subject: Aid for civilian population of Serbia With their economy and production in free fall, the people of Serbia are heading for a difficult winter.
It is true that no EU aid is being provided under the Tempus programme, but that is due to the fact that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia does not fulfil the criteria established by the Council in connection with the PHARE programme to which Tempus is linked.
With regard to the environmental consequences of the Kosovo conflict for Serbia, I would refer you to the answer given to question no. 1512/99.
I think that the very size of the EU' s humanitarian aid to Serbia clearly underlines the fact that we wish to make a positive contribution to benefit the population, and we have, up until now, been in a position to identify clear, well-founded needs of a humanitarian nature.
Whilst Serbian academics have been banned from international scientific circles, we are concerned about the fact that students in Serbia have no contact with foreign educational institutions.
Having said this, there is another humanitarian issue yet to be resolved: that of the 3000 or more Kosovar prisoners still being held in prisons in Serbia.
The sum of EUR 45 million is money we have spent so far.
Question No 32 by (H-0514/99): Subject: Ban on imports of American hormone-treated meat Will the Commission provide a summary of the findings of those of the 17 scientific committees that have completed their investigations into the risks posed by hormone-treated meat?
First of all, a clear distinction needs to be made between the 17 scientific studies and the opinion delivered by one of the Commission' s independent scientific advisory committees.
In February 1998, following the criticism of the WTO appellate body, the Commission launched 17 studies with the aim of providing additional information concerning risks in areas such as toxicology, abusive use and environmental aspects.
The Commission also asked its Scientific Committee on Veterinary Measures relating to Public Health to deliver an opinion on the potential adverse effects to human health from the administration of the six animal growth promotion hormones.
The report that I referred to, that was published by the SCVPH in April this year, specifically identified that there were residues of one of the six particular hormones that were being checked for - that is, 17 beta-estradion.
That particular hormone is found in 80% of the tests that have been carried out.
As you say, both issues are important.
But in his presentation to Parliament this morning, President Prodi identified both health and food safety as being of primary importance and made it clear that they take precedence over trade.
Access to this site is also free on the Internet and it is consulted, by the way, by millions of citizens every month.
For example, as the person responsible for education within the Commission, I have already looked at the question, with the Ministers for Education, of how we can ensure that as many young people, as many schools as possible, have Internet access.
I know that in Nordic countries, it is relatively easy to set up this access, but this is not true for other countries in the Union.
Question No 34 by (H-0469/99): Subject: Commission's plans for combating drug abuse and preventing the use of drugs in sport The World Championships in Seville turned the spotlight once more on the issue of drug-use among top sportsmen.
In the context of this study, we have taken into account your Parliament' s resolution of December 1998, as well as the conclusions of the Council Presidency following two informal meetings of Ministers in charge of sport.
We are also working, in this matter, in close collaboration with Member States and the Council of Europe within a working group which has already met several times.
Moving on to the creation of a world-wide drug-testing agency, I can tell you, Mr President, that today, the Commission is already working on this issue.
I met some of them yesterday and they told me that the Commission had to act very quickly in order that we should become, as the European Union, part of this world-wide agency.
In parallel with the Union' s possible membership of a world-wide drug testing agency, we feel that a European plan is needed, a plan which will make us all responsible, with all fifteen Member States marching to the same rhythm in the fight against the plague of drug taking in sport.
We will then be able, from next year, to propose concrete measures to you to be put into practise in our Member States.
Thank you, Commissioner.
As you know, Mr Andersson, the Treaty of Amsterdam clearly specifies that there must be a European body competent in this area, but we must also take subsidiarity into account as well as the autonomy of the world of sport.
The measures that I would like to present to the College and to Parliament will therefore be measures which have the assent of Member States and which will guarantee this autonomy.
I am also responsible for youth programmes.
I have already discussed this with colleagues who are dealing with these matters in Parliament.
As has just been said, in February this year the World Conference on Drug Taking in Sport took place and it was decided that an international agency to combat drug taking in sport would be created.
The European Union does not want the agency to be based in Lausanne, at the headquarters of the International Olympic Committee but, nevertheless, wants to have it in one of the Member States of the European Union.
I do not think, however, that the most important issue at this stage is where the agency should be located, because it has already been decided that it will be based provisionally in Lausanne, for two years, until a definitive decision is reached.
We will be taking these steps at a world-wide level in conjunction with the Olympic Committee; indeed, it is together with this body that we will take our seat within the world-wide agency on drug taking in sport if, as I hope, the decisions go the way we would like them to.
In parallel though, we must develop a programme for fighting drug taking in sport across the fifteen Member States which the Member States themselves will have to set in action.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
Questions to Mr Patten The budget allocated to information activities is very small.
The Commission is aware of the scope and possibilities of different communication media and carries out twice - yearly public opinion surveys with two questions, on how citizens are informed about EU affairs and how they would prefer to be informed.
Free dissemination of our own production material via the Europe by Satellite service and cooperation with Euronews have proved effective measures, but we cannot go further than this free availability.
However, I am very mindful of the fact that the problem of lack of information and communication is much more widespread as far as the public at large is concerned, proved by the low turn-out in the European elections.
If we want to operate in the different Member States, we must respect the letter and also the spirit of national prerogatives.
The Commission cannot, of course, take a political stance, but it can take a stance on the information available to the citizen.
I think that in the future, in order to reach the wider public as efficiently as possible, the Commission and Parliament should join in their efforts to inform the public of what is happening in Europe.
If we can, in conjunction with the Member States and Parliament, make use of television, we will certainly do so, but we cannot set up access to that medium if it is not felt that there is a demand for access to it.
Annex II, Conduct of Question Time under Rule 43, part B (3) states that the time limit of 30 seconds should not be exceeded.
Mr President, Mrs Reding, thank you for your explanations.
Questions 36 to 39 will be replied to in writing.
Question No 40 by (H-0494/99): Subject: Holding of a first annual EU­India Summit In its report A4-0066/99 of 12.3.1999 on the Commission Communication on the EU-India Enhanced Partnership, Parliament 'calls on the Council and Commission to propose to the Indian Government the holding of an annual Euro-India Summit' .
Can the Commission say what action (including representations to the Council and the Indian Government) it has already taken or intends to take with a view to holding the first of such Summits in the very near future?
In more general terms, does the Commission not think - in the light of the various crises and the growing threats posed by the many anti-democratic regimes in the region - that the development of a strategic, political, economic and cultural relationship between the EU and India (the world' s largest democracy) would make it possible, within a single policy, for the wish to establish special political and economic relations with countries governed by the principles and rules of democracy and constitutional government to be combined, in a significant and exemplary fashion, with clearly conceived trade and economic interests?
When I met Mr Jaswant Singh, the Indian Foreign Minister, last week on 30 September, I emphasised to him that I intend the EU-India relationship to be a very close one reflecting India' s strategic and economic importance.
I am pleased that a number of joint working groups have already met, or will shortly do so, on topics as diverse as consular affairs and environmental issues.
I see that you intend to strengthen greatly relations between the Union and India.
I think, and here I differ a little from you as far as the last part of your answer is concerned, that there must be a counterbalance to the powerful signals given out by the Union to other parts of the world, which are nevertheless close to India, by organising events such as Summits.
European entrepreneurs, the European political classes and European public opinion, just like those in India, need a clear sign which only a Summit can provide.
I want to stress straight away that I totally share the honourable Member' s enthusiasm for developing our relationship with India.
There is an important role to play in helping to sustain those regional relationships.
In this context I should mention the significant personal contribution of Philippe Soubestre Director-General of the SCR.
This is particularly true in development aid where the available resources are never enough.
This means, for example, that we have requests for additional support for existing co-financing projects with NGOs amounting to twice the available budget in 1999.
It is therefore important to understand the difference that exists at the moment between problems caused by applications which cannot be met because of budgetary considerations and the processing of commitments, where the situation, despite difficulties at the beginning of the year, has improved; and it is worth remembering that some of the problems at the beginning of the year had a little to do with the lateness of receipt of commitments in December.
So, I take the question as pressing me to do more but I can assure the honourable Member that I am intent in moving in the same direction as she would like.
Member States have up to now on the basis of Article 296 (former Article 223) exempted trade in arms from the scope of application of European Community Treaty rules.
More projects are currently under consideration in the Council.
All of us therefore have to be more effective in curbing this trade.
I urge the Commissioner to implement the project in Cambodia as soon as possible, and other projects which I know he and his services are considering in a former Soviet Republic and in a South African country.
I hope that when we look at the review that is taking place in the Council at the moment, we will all be able to contribute in a way that will curb the arms trade and enable more money to be made available for development.
He may also have read recently an extremely interesting column in the Times newspaper on the arms trade by Simon Jenkins, which I thought made some extremely important and valuable points.
As the honourable Member knows, we have had discussions with the United States and Canada about small arms, and I very much hope that we can continue to make progress with specific projects in the way he has suggested.
Question No 44 by (H-0543/99): Subject: East Timor Will the Commission state what action it intends to take on behalf of the European Union with regard to East Timor?
The Commission considers humanitarian aid as the most urgent priority in East Timor.
The ECHO services of the Commission are relaunching their temporarily halted humanitarian aid projects worth EUR 2 million.
In addition to that, a series of aid projects worth EUR 3 million is about to be started.
It is going to be costly to run services in East Timor.
I hope that we will be able to help there and I hope that Member States will be able to help as Portugal has already indicated it will.
Now there is an obligation on us to put our money where our mouths have been all those years.
Thank you very much, Mr Patten, for your clear and forceful speech, which we are all grateful for.
Questions 45 and 46 will be replied to in writing.
As the author is not present, Question 47 lapses.
The Council should have adopted a position on this proposal by the end of 1996.
Finally, in addition, we also introduced a processing commitment for the harvested flax and a minimum yield.
We all know, then, that in the Spanish Parliament a committee of inquiry was set up which has looked into these matters as well.
Let us try to redirect the situation because your reply has also been very general.
Mr President, Mr Izquierdo Collado, I would like once again to remind you that I have given very concrete answers, both to the problem and also to the steps which the Commission has taken with regard to it.
Commissioner, this question is part of the electoral stunt organised by the Spanish Socialist Worker' s Party in relation to the recent European election campaign in order to attack the then head of the Popular Party list, Loyola de Palacio.
Good evidence for this can be found in the a posteriori inspections carried out after the election campaign by the Socialist Government of the autonomous community in which this fraud took place.
Mrs Ayuso, I must remind you that you have used up one minute and 36 seconds and that furthermore you have not asked any question.
Mr President, I would simply like to point out that, once again, groups in this Parliament and Members, specifically of the Spanish Popular Party, are manipulating Question Time and supplementary questions to the Commission.
It is truly incredible that this behaviour should reoccur and that every time there is a question from a Member, especially a Socialist, the Popular Party uses Question Time to hide the shame of its government and does not ask the corresponding Commissioner a question.
We are not currently sitting in the Spanish Parliament, nor in the Assembly of the region in question, but in the European Parliament, and I cannot prejudge nor anticipate any principle or respect for freedom of expression of the Members.
I would like to ask a follow-up question to question no. 48.
I already mentioned in my first contribution that this proposal would be presented in any case by the end of this year and, secondly, that this proposal would deal with both flax and hemp.
At its meeting on 18 September, the Commission decided the guidelines for the re-organisation of its departments.
Thus this decision is also in accord with the explanation which I gave in my hearing to the European Parliament Committee on Fisheries on 30 October.
For my part, I retained my question in order to have the opportunity to hear in this plenary sitting, the ratification of your commitment to the Committee on Fisheries.
There is a procedural motion from Mr Knörr, which I imagine will be the last intervention concerning the procedural problems of this Question Time.
Questions 50 to 86 will be replied to in writing.
