Mr Posselt, this issue always raises problems because the Rules of Procedure also state that Question Time shall be held at such times as may be decided by Parliament on a proposal from the Conference of Presidents.
It has always been parliamentary practice to ensure that Question Time takes place but there are exceptions to the rule - as in this case - and if matters on the agenda prevent it from taking place, then it may be that it does not indeed take place.
I would also like to point out that we have very limited scope for action in this respect because the Council is usually only present one day of the week in Strasbourg.
Thank you very much, Mr Imbeni.
Thank you, Mr De Clercq.
Agenda 2000 The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the guidelines for Agenda 2000.
This is an important day for Agenda 2000, because the European Parliament will be determining its positions during this part-session.
Let me underline again at the outset that the Austrian Presidency attaches great importance to constructive cooperation between the Council and the European Parliament on this matter.
Each of our institutions has a very substantial role to play in accomplishing this great reform project.
We will only manage to keep to the demanding timetable set by the European Council in Cardiff if we have an open exchange of views and effective coordination.
I am glad to be able to say today that, to this end, Parliament and the Council have now agreed to initiate a regular, informal dialogue on the general trend of the discussions on Agenda 2000.
The Commission will also take part in this dialogue.
They will give Parliament in particular an opportunity to clarify its positions on Agenda 2000, which it is debating today and will vote on tomorrow.
The Austrian Presidency regards Agenda 2000 as one of its main challenges.
The overall structure of the financial perspective - allowing for the separate description and calculation of the expenditure for pre-accession and the new Member States - and the seven-year period of validity from 2000 to 2006, with a projected adjustment at the time of the first accessions, have met with broad support, although some Member States take the view that the financial perspective needs to be reviewed for each accession.
The Commission is starting out from the working hypothesis that the ceiling for Union resources should be fixed at a constant value of 1.27 % of the EU GNP as from the year 2000.
The Commission presented the report on the functioning of the own resources system to the European Parliament on 7 October and to ECOFIN on 12 October.
The report discusses various methods of further developing the own resources system and resolving the problem of excessive budgetary imbalances.
That enabled us, jointly with the European Parliament, to embark on the technical evaluation of the Commission proposal on 12 November.
There is agreement in principle on the following points and the corresponding technical regulations.
One: there is broad support in principle for the concept of spatial concentration and concentration of the eligible Community population.
The number of objectives is to be cut from seven to three.
Three: in future structural policy, clear emphasis is to be placed on job creation and safeguarding competitiveness and sustainable development.
We take a very positive view of the progress of negotiations on the Commission's three legislative proposals for a coordinating regulation and structural and agricultural policy pre-accession instruments.
We are pleased that the General Affairs Council of 9 November managed to achieve political agreement on the three pre-accession instruments, subject to a reservation about the level of the ceiling of assistance rates.
All in all, we can certainly say that concrete progress has been made on many aspects of Agenda 2000 over the past five months.
Our aim must be to make substantial progress, so that by the Vienna European Council we have created conditions that will allow the decisive final stage of the negotiations on the overall package to start on schedule at the beginning of 1999.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting marks an important step in the process which must, before the end of this parliamentary term, result in the adoption of all the measures proposed under Agenda 2000.
The Cardiff European Council and the recent informal meeting of the Heads of State and Government at Pörtschach expressed the political will to conclude the negotiations on Agenda 2000 at a special summit next March.
My Commission colleagues will discuss in detail our reactions to your reports.
The Commission believes that it has always been clear that a reform of our policies and an agreement on financing in the context of the financial perspective were essential to prepare Europe for the 21st century.
The prospect of future enlargement adds to the importance of the global reforms contained in Agenda 2000.
Parliament's role in this is clearly legislative, first and foremost.
While maintaining a global approach, Parliament has chosen to use every possible option to assert its point of view and, where the Treaty provides for this, to fully exercise its prerogatives.
I would therefore highlight the responsibility of all the institutions to rapidly conclude an interinstitutional agreement that will allow a seamless transition to the codecision procedure.
Such an agreement is generally required in all cases where there is a changeover from the cooperation procedure to the codecision procedure.
The current agreement has proven to be very useful in maintaining budgetary peace and in guaranteeing a moderate increase in expenditure.
In the Commission's opinion, the conclusion of a new agreement that satisfies both branches of the budgetary authority is an integral part of Agenda 2000.
I am delighted that the initial technical discussions on a new agreement have finally begun.
The adoption of the Agenda 2000 package is in the general interest of the Community.
I would therefore ask everyone to intensify their efforts before the Vienna European Council in order to ensure a good starting point for the discussions that must be concluded under the German Presidency.
We regard job creation, the sustained economic growth and the competitiveness of the EU regions as the most important objectives in the reform of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, but also in the necessary reform of the EU agricultural policy.
We underline the need for Structural and Cohesion Fund measures to be environment-friendly, more environment-friendly than in the past.
The group supports the EU Commission's proposals on the Objective 1 criteria, but insists that the European Parliament must carefully examine any necessary exceptions.
We insist that the aid for those regions that will no longer be entitled to aid after the year 2000 should be reduced gradually, while also saying that the transitional stage should last up to six years and that no distinctions should then be made.
Finally, we support the Commission's intention to bring about greater coherence between national aids and measures and EU Objective 2 measures.
Madam President-in-Office, you spoke of constructive cooperation and coordination of our activities.
That means that it must also be in the interest of the Council to enter into an interinstitutional dialogue with Parliament after this first reading, not just on the financial perspective, because that is routine and always happens, but also on the reform of EU policies and on the position of the European Parliament and the Council, which will have to be prepared in future.
We want to decide Agenda 2000 during this parliamentary term, before the elections.
We know that the political, economic, social and ecological future of the whole of Europe is in our hands, in the hands of the Commission, in the hands of the Council, but also - and not least - in the hands of the European Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the success of Agenda 2000 with the necessary reforms it involves is the condition for achieving European integration at the beginning of the 21st century.
Firstly, the top priority is enlargement of the European Union with the accession of the Central and Eastern European countries.
The negotiations to that end must be conducted as rapidly as possible, so that the ten nations of central Europe can share the European Union's common values.
The second major task is to reform the common policies, with particular reference to agricultural and structural policy.
The third task concerns reform of the European Union's institutions.
That is the basic condition: majority decisions in the Council for European Union legislation.
If this becomes accepted practice in the European Union, in the Member States, it would put the political architecture in the Commission at risk.
Under the Amsterdam Treaty, the European Parliament has a new role to play.
The President of the Commission is elected.
The Commission is appointed by agreement between the President of the Commission and the national governments, after which the Commission as a whole is subject to a vote of confidence by the European Parliament.
If we were to have a one-sided Commission in the year 2000, at the beginning of Agenda 2000, that would not be a good start and it could lead to a conflict with the European Parliament, at least with my group.
Mr President, we believe that Agenda 2000 is a good measure of the current mood and state of the European Union and of the Commission's collective vision for the evolution of the European project.
As a proposal, it is adequate rather than visionary, minimalist but capable of generating consensus, interim in nature but a step in the right direction on a necessary journey towards enlargement, the primary financial challenges of which are recognised but postponed for another day.
For all its limitations, Agenda 2000 is the only proposal on offer, and the ELDR Group urges the Council to make rapid progress at Vienna with a view to its full adoption at Cologne next March.
We support the proposals for concentration and simplification of the funds and urge that the partnership process offer a greater role to local and regional authorities and wider consultation of civil society.
The CAP must be affordable in terms of the budget, consistent with the market realities of world trade and consonant with the future needs and requirements of enlargement.
CAP reform should recognise and respect a model of agriculture predominantly based in Europe and family farming but it should also respect high standards of food quality, animal welfare and environmental sustainability and encourage the promotion of rural development.
The ELDR Group has an open mind on new ways to finance the CAP but insists such proposals must not lead to patchwork renationalisation.
Finally, we respect the need for fairness and balance in Member State contributions to the budget but we firmly reject the concept of juste retour , and ask States to bear in mind their European responsibilities as well as their national preferences, because agreeing the financial arrangements is indispensable to this project.
It does not, in fact, contain any concrete proposals but makes an underhand attempt to undermine one of the basic principles of the CAP, perhaps the most important, that of financial solidarity - which is also a form of moral solidarity -, through poorly concealed proposals to renationalise the CAP by creating national envelopes for the beef and milk sectors.
As if Agenda 2000 and its legislative proposals were not enough, the Commission has now attacked agriculture and European farmers, especially the most fragile, in its report on the system of own resources by proposing the partial reimbursement of expenditure as direct aid from the CAP.
Finally, in Agenda 2000, the least-favoured regions will continue to be least-favoured and the most-favoured will become richer and richer.
Mr President, the challenge of the enlargement of the European Union can and must be approached in such a way so as to ensure that we achieve the major objectives in the process of the construction of Europe and particularly those concerning economic and social cohesion.
This is why we feel justified in our severe criticism of Agenda 2000, because it was drawn up in haste as an irreversible decision and without being thoroughly assessed.
Public opinion in the Member States sees the debate as one that centres on own resources and the insufficient ceiling of 1.27 % of Community GDP, as well as on the much disputed allocation of solidarity through the Structural Funds.
That is the major difference in terms of this debate with the Delors stage, when successive increases in both resources and the size of the Structural Funds were proposed.
The debate does not adequately address the issue and does not bear in mind the fact that we must not only build an internal market but that, above all, we must achieve economic and social cohesion.
Our main criticism in relation to the common agricultural policy is that there is no overall view and it only refers to certain sectors of production.
The reforms of the COMs will lead to substantial price reductions that will be compensated to a very small extent by income support and premiums for private storage.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after all the solemn declarations in Brussels, Luxembourg and London about the historic significance of enlargement, it now appears that the Council is moving down a gear.
Decentralisation of funding is now a reality, fortunately, but we have still not settled the question of the participation of representatives of the applicant countries in the advisory committees deciding on projects.
The recent report on nuclear safety by the Court of Auditors notes the Commission's embarrassing failure to improve the safety of nuclear power stations in the applicant countries.
We therefore urge that the Union should appoint a European mediator to promote a more dynamic policy and bring this issue to a successful conclusion.
Mr President, there is a real temptation today to compare what our debate on Agenda 2000 could have been with what it has become due to a lack of sufficient political will.
The enlargement of the EU gave us a unique opportunity to examine together the principles on which our Community is based, to consider a new institutional structure which would be viable with 25 or 30 Member States, and to envisage the budgetary reforms which would have given meaning to continental integration.
We should surely have started among the 15 Member States and with the applicant countries by reaffirming, and not just in rhetorical introductions, the special values of humanism, solidarity, justice and peace which form the European model, and the objectives of the proposed enlargement.
We have not even used all the financial resources that existing treaties allow us to use for enlargement.
The debate is closed.
I am going to present the report on the proposal for a Council regulation on coordinating aid to the applicant countries in the framework of the pre-accession strategy.
Let me begin, Madam President, by reminding you of a very basic but extremely important fact: enlargement is an essential political project not only within the context of Agenda 2000, but also for the European Union.
I sincerely hope that the Vienna European Council will reach a political consensus in this regard and, in particular, that it will take account of the inclusive and global nature of this process, without creating new differences and divisions between these countries.
I also take note of some of the things that the Austrian Presidency has said and that I have interpreted as meaning that Parliament's proposals are being taken on board.
I believe that this may help the process.
In this respect, we would like to emphasise that the strategy must be developed through the instruments we have, that is, our joint actions and common positions.
I must say that the Commission, which put forward the three proposals for a regulation somewhat hastily, has changed its position and amended these giving far greater weight to the PHARE programme.
The enormous challenge now facing us is as follows: how can we on the one hand ensure that the applicant states are ready for accession, but on the other hand make the European Union and its structures ready for enlargement?
In this context, the pre-accession instrument for structural policies for the applicant states, in short ISPA, represents an important link between countries within and outside the Union by giving support to the applicant countries for urgently needed investment and gradually bringing them into line with the methods of operation and mechanisms of European structural policy.
The success of the pre-accession strategy will depend decisively on whether all the available instruments, that is to say ISPA, PHARE, pre-accession aid in agriculture and also Interreg are coordinated as far as possible in the context of cross-border cooperation.
Focusing also means concentration on a few projects or project packages of relevant size.
The Commission is right to propose a minimum investment of 5 million euros, provided this is supplemented by the provision that smaller investment sums up to a certain percentage of the resources can be allocated to smaller applicant countries and also in other justified exceptional cases.
As in the case of the Cohesion Fund, we shall have to ensure a good balance between the two areas.
But ISPA is more than merely a cloning of the Cohesion Fund.
The partnership principle must be applied from the outset and as widely as possible.
Madam President, the applicant countries are all busy adapting their farming sectors in order to be ready to join the EU on time.
If the EU is to introduce a new instrument at this point to help the applicant countries in this pre-accession adaptation process, therefore, the help we provide must be strongly geared towards obtaining short-term results.
However, the proposal to demand that they draw up a rural development plan by 1 January 2000 incorporating all the programmes they have chosen seems far from fair, in my view.
The services of the committee must be accessible to the administrations of the applicant countries and to the Commission's departments, in close cooperation with the EU representations in the applicant countries.
The system of twinning between institutions in certain Member States and those in some of the applicant countries, in the field of veterinary and plant health inspections for example, should also be supported.
The monitoring committee set up for this system should naturally continue its work under the new arrangement with our support.
Madam President, it is appropriate that we are launching this latest enlargement of the European Union this year, which is also the year we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Berlin airlift.
That was a remarkable international effort in the interests of European peace, stability and democracy.
It is already very clear that this enlargement of the European Union is going to require the same kind of international effort if we are to see it through successfully.
Having said that, any solutions to these problems have to be accepted by the people of Europe, both our own voters and the voters in the applicant countries.
So our solutions have to be practical and acceptable.
Opinion polls in the European Union at the moment show that people are either indifferent or hostile towards enlargement, so we must actually sell this project, both within the European Union and in the applicant states.
Madam President, the regulation on coordinating aid to the applicant countries in the framework of the pre-accession strategy is an extremely important step along the road towards the enlargement of the European Union.
Madam President, the Liberal Group supports the amendments by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy to the Commission's commendable proposal to streamline aid to the applicant countries.
We oppose the proposal to make the entire enlargement dossier a foreign policy joint action.
The Liberal Group is delighted with the objective assessment of all the applicant countries.
The Commission has rightly said that the two groups are not set in stone, and the efforts they make must be rewarded.
We do not have to decide yet on moving certain countries from group II to group I.
Madam President, those countries are building a constitutional state.
If there is one thing of value Europe can transmit to them, it is that very concept of the constitutional state, democracy, citizens' rights and the ability to exercise them in every way.
Madam President, today's debates take us into a crucial phase for defining the next Community financial framework and the guidelines and rules due to govern some of the most important policies and instruments.
We have no reservations, in principle, about enlargement but we cannot say the same about the approaches chosen by the Commission to carry it out.
For our part, we are clearly in favour of the former option.
This is the objective result of its proposals to maintain a ceiling on financial perspectives at current levels of 1.27 % of Community GNP and the subsequent reduction in that ceiling for the current 15 Member States to 1.13 %, or freezing the structural actions for an enlarged Union at the current 0.46 % of GNP.
This is now also the result of its proposal to renationalise CAP costs.
That option would inevitably result in the sacrifice of economic and social cohesion.
The Council representative says that our neighbours await European Union support for tackling their reforms and adopting the acquis communautaire .
Madam President, I have some comments to make on this pre-accession strategy, resulting from my experience as rapporteur on the subject of the association of certain CCEE with the education, youth and culture programme.
To start with, I fully support the rapporteur's point of view.
Firstly, this pre-accession phase cannot be considered without taking into account the link that exists with certain Community policies and their necessary development.
Secondly, the goal of coherence and efficiency involves the reaffirmation of the political objectives in the enlargement process.
This is why it is unfortunate that, in this second phase, the PHARE programme concentrates more on technical operations to the detriment of more political reforms, for example in the social or cultural area.
Furthermore, in this obstacle course which the applicant countries must tackle, and which is modestly referred to as the adoption of the acquis communautaire , I fear there is a tendency to be content with appearances and to sometimes fail to assess the adherence of these countries to Community policies in terms of values and beliefs.
Madam President, we were very pleased to hear from the Commission that good progress has been made in the run-up to the negotiations with the applicant countries on accession to the European Union.
We must not set the bar too high for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe to join.
They belong to western Europe, and after a period of Communist domination they are now looking to the countries of western Europe to help them achieve their legitimate aspirations to security and prosperity.
This enlargement will be much more important than the previous ones.
Since its creation in 1972, the National Front has constantly fought against this Iron Curtain, which was built by the Communists to enclose the people of Eastern Europe in an enormous concentration camp.
In his first speech to this Parliament, Jean Marie Le Pen denounced this oppression.
The Commission has assessed the financial cost at over 500 billion francs between 1999 and 2006.
The countries of Central and Eastern Europe have been ruined by over forty years of Communism.
France's regional aid will be reduced by 20 %.
I would even add that we have used this same model in the employment programmes in Europe, where we have also used the combination of guarantees plus loans.
Madam President, enlargement of the EU to the Central and Eastern European countries brings with it both opportunities and risks, not just for the applicant countries but also for the EU.
I should like to examine the consequences from the agricultural perspective of the Seapared programme.
The agricultural population of the West will increase by 50 % and our land will be increased by 30 %.
The cost is ECU 500 million per year but I am not going to talk about this as it could be resolved if necessary.
Structural Funds would then be needed.
The West's regrettably hyperproductive agricultural model must be applied with, if you will pardon the expression, concentration camp-like livestock farming, the consequences of which we have seen in the West.
The second is for the revision - currently underway - of the financing of not only the common agricultural policy but also the whole European Community, with the ensuing problems of France losing too much, Germany losing even more and part of the common agricultural policy being nationalised under the pretext of the cost of the accession of the Eastern European countries.
Thirdly, the accession of these countries must not be used as an excuse for challenging our CAP.
Madam President, first let me thank you and the House very warmly for your forbearance in allowing me to deputise for the rapporteur.
Unfortunately I could not be here at the set time because I had to talk to one of our partners about the conciliation procedure this afternoon.
As you know, an important decision is pending there for our British colleagues.
So we found it very welcome when this Fund was proposed in 1994 and accepted by the Council, because it created the basis for covering the guarantees in Central and Eastern Europe.
In the report it has now submitted on the use of these funds and the risks they are designed to cover, the Commission concludes that the target amount of the Fund should be brought down from the existing 10 % to 8 % of outstanding capital liabilities.
The rapporteur, as also the Committee on Budgets, reached the conclusion that the Commission is right in saying in its report that, according to its estimates and analysis, the total of outstanding loans carrying a more than normal risk was about ECU 1.075 billion as of 1 July 1998.
It would not even be necessary to draw on the amount allocated in the budget for loan endowments during that financial year, which is to say ECU 338 million in 1998.
Far more important, however, is Amendment No 1.
Madam President, enlargement of the EU with the accession of the Central and Eastern European states and Cyprus is not just a project starting with the new century, it is also a task for that century.
Moreover, we all too often forget that the same people are still working in the lower echelons of this administration, who are of course now endeavouring to work under the new system.
But we should gear parts of our pre-accession aid much more specifically than in the past towards retraining the administration.
On the other hand, it is probably less necessary now for western Europe to finance new studies.
But above all, as European democrats we should also be thankful that we can take part in this historic process.
We are facing a difficult task, namely how to bring about an economic and political balance on a continent that was once mercilessly divided both economically and politically.
When we look at the opposition between national interests, which are often considered in a short-sighted way, we may see short-term difficulties here and there, but in truth we want enlargement because it is also to our advantage, and not just to the advantage of the applicant countries.
One thing is clear: until now we have enjoyed the benefits of strengthening trade relations between Central and Eastern Europe on the one side and the European Union on the other.
Our citizens may have gained the impression that up to now all this has simply cost a lot of money; but the reality is that we have actually earned more than we have spent on these countries, simply because of the imbalance in trade relations.
I believe we should make that clear to our people too if we are to mobilise the necessary political support for this accession process.
We must also take the time factor into account, since it is an important factor if we want the citizens of the applicant countries to continue giving their support.
As regards relations ahead of the pre-accession strategy, we agree with the rapporteur and with those who assert that the criteria defined at Copenhagen must be respected: the constitutional state, democracy, existence of a market economy, respect for the acquis communautaire .
To be complete, the construction of Europe must unite all its peoples.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I detect in our joint debate a discrepancy between a pre-accession strategy that is admirable and full of ambition and an Agenda 2000 that should prepare the Union for welcoming the applicant countries and in fact involves the necessary alignment of our common policies.
We cannot engage in a bilateral process with each Member State.
Less than a year after the adoption of a list of applicant countries that the EU could initially integrate, we now see that the map has already changed.
We need to debate and consider the frontiers of the Union, the political objectives of the Union, the methods for decision-making and governing with more than 15 countries, and the methods for defending this body and for making its voice heard in world affairs.
A favourable opinion from the European Parliament will be an important step towards obtaining approval for the increased aid package for integrating the applicant countries of Central and Eastern Europe into the European Union.
In financial terms, the Commission is proposing to double aid for the applicant countries to ECU 3 billion per year for the period 2000-2006.
The Commission has proposed that a number of important measures be renewed - and in some cases they already have been - such as the accession partnerships and the participation of the applicant countries in the Community programmes.
The PHARE programme has been reorientated and now focuses on just two priorities in preparations for accession: firstly, institution building, and secondly, investment for the adoption of the acquis .
However, the Commission has proposed that two new instruments be set up alongside PHARE, one for agricultural development and the other a forerunner of the Structural Funds, known as SAPAR and ISPA.
Half of the ECU 3 billion per year is to be allocated through these two instruments.
The three pre-accession instruments will together enable us to tackle many of the problem areas identified in the 1997 recommendations and later in the periodic reports.
The Commission proposed this regulation to bring coherence and to prevent duplication between the three pre-accession instruments, first PHARE, second the structural instrument ISPA, and third the agricultural development instrument SAPAR.
A number of Parliament's amendments propose changes on the subject of general principles such as the constitutional state and respect for the constitutional state, democracy and human rights.
In accordance with the proposals put forward by Parliament and the Member States, responsibility for coordinating operations under the three instruments, and particularly the pre-accession aid guidelines for each country, is to be given to the PHARE committee in its capacity as a management committee, as provided for in the new version of Article 9 drawn up by the Commission.
In response to Parliament's insistence that the decentralisation of PHARE aid should be a condition for granting discharge for the 1996 budget, the Commission has redrafted Article 12.
Parliament and the Council are to be kept informed of the results of the inspection and evaluation of how the beneficiary countries are managing the aid through the reports provided for in Article 13.
It is therefore difficult for it to accept that this responsibility should be shared with other authorities, as proposed in the amendment to Article 12.
The first group contains a number of amendments which the Commission is considering incorporating in the proposal, either in the recitals or the articles of the regulation.
We must abide by the rules in the coordinating regulations which ensure coordination and consistency between all forms of aid granted as part of the pre-accession strategy.
The amendments I am referring to here are Amendment No 26 on technical assistance for institution building, Amendment No 28 on standardisation in the transport sector, and Amendments Nos 29 and 32 on participation in Community programmes such as the fifth RTD programme and the LIFE environmental action programme.
Finally, there is a group of amendments where the Commission prefers to keep to its original proposal.
For example, we feel that the allocation of 2 % for technical assistance is enough.
To sum up, the Commission can agree to incorporate the substance of Amendments Nos 19, 39, 43, 51, 55, 56, 58, 63, 65 and 67 in the articles or recitals in question.
We can see just how important this instrument is from the situation of farming and rural development structures in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, with increasing privatisation, the level of productivity, the size of holdings and the quality of what they produce, the level of self-sufficiency and the proportion of the active population working in farming, in some cases up to 35 %.
The measures will be implemented through operational programmes and applied decentrally by the applicant countries.
The co-funding percentage that we are proposing for SAPAR is the same that also applies for the Member States qualifying for Objective 1 under the Structural Funds.
Of the amendments adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Nos 6, 7, 16, 20, 25, 28, 37, 38, 39, 42, 43, 46, 47 and 50 and, in part, Nos 3 and 33 have already been taken into consideration in the text amended by the Council.
Amendments Nos 3, 13, 15, 19, 36, 40, 45 and 49 are dealt with in other regulations such as the new coordination regulation.
Amendment No 1 deletes the proposal to transfer the financial management of the Fund to the Commission.
Finally, the Commission accepts Amendment No 2 provided that certain changes are made to the wording.
This delegation is led by the Speaker, Mr Sid'ahmed Ould Baba, and I would point out that this is the second interparliamentary meeting with the relevant delegation of the European Parliament.
We voted on 12 amendments with one vote.
During yesterday's debate, Mr Sainjon put forward arguments justifying this request.
We are in fact going to adopt a report which Mrs Mann has had the goodness to adapt in accordance with the new political situation.
The current context involves a Transatlantic Economic Partnership dealt with in a Commission/Council agreement and, more recently, in fact just a week last Monday, in a Council agreement on an action plan which we have never seen.
This is the first current event which means that we risk voting on a text which is out of date in terms of the policy and the issues and which, more seriously perhaps, risks causing confusion and even contradiction in Parliament.
In conclusion, the second current event is the American position on bananas.
I believe that the context in which we debated this in committee, and even yesterday, has changed.
The next summit between the United States and Europe will take place in early December and this particular report will be discussed there too.
I have pointed out that Parliament would like to have a new report.
I would ask my colleagues in this House to agree that we vote on it today, and that we also vote in favour.
However, we also have more general substantive reasons and, without wanting to offend Mrs Mann with regard to her excellent work, we do not share all her assumptions, particularly not those contained in the initial recitals of the draft resolution, which assert the similarity of the models of society on each side of the Atlantic.
Mr President, this will not become the rule here in Parliament, but in this case the European People's Party entirely agrees with the Social Democrat rapporteur.
I am therefore against the ideological and hyper-critical attitude of the Greens, and ask for this motion to be rejected. (Parliament decided against referral back to committee) Mr President, I found it difficult to understand the translation of the amendment from the Liberal Group in the earlier work and it is even harder to understand Amendment No 1 from the UPE Group.
Here again, the question is whether all chat systems are compatible and whether everyone can afford to buy the necessary equipment.
I am pleased to endorse the European Parliament's support for this resolution, which marks the tenth anniversary of our original resolution, first calling for the official recognition of sign language for Europe's 500, 000 profoundly deaf citizens.
Today in Portugal and in Finland, use of sign language is a constitutional right.
Yet in four member states there remains no recognition of sign language, and in others, the gap between legal rights to sign language use and actual practice remains huge.
A4-0424/98) We should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on an urgently needed report.
Furthermore, it is absurd for MEPs to have to adopt a position on 143 pages of technical data, drawings, and so on.
I voted against the report for the above reasons.
This report gives me an opportunity to draw attention to a problem about which the public is becoming increasingly concerned: the proliferation of euro coins.
In addition to the euro coins minted by each of the 11 Member States in the euro zone, it seems that states that have a monetary agreement with one of the Member States in the euro zone are requesting that they be allowed to mint euros with national faces.
It is rather curious, not to say unacceptable, that these changes have been made at the last moment when the minting of the coins has already begun, at the end of a full-scale campaign to promote the euro throughout Europe and after many technical studies and numerous hearings of experts!
A little more precision in the first place would obviously have helped the introduction of the euro.
We agree with the proposals put forward in the report, in particular as regards the following: a clearer focus on the social dialogue, a move to incorporate provisions relating to individual rights in the social sector in the Treaty, an action programme against discrimination, legislation on sexual harassment, the need for stress to be included in legislation on the protection of employees, and their right to information and representation in the workplace.
The report warrants a number of amendments which constitute urgent matters in themselves.
We agree with many of the rapporteur's proposals to improve the new Social Action Programme, for example on promoting worker involvement in company decision-making and strengthening the rights of employees' representatives, as well as the proposal to promote civil dialogue - we think that biannual forums are inadequate.
Social Europe is first and foremost the Europe of homelands, national preference and social welfare.
Unlike the rapporteur, we believe that, in the context of the internal market, social matters must require unanimous approval by the Member States.
Decisions taken on social matters have such extensive effects on all labour relations and on the lives of our citizens that all decisions taken by a qualified majority, where these are compulsory and therefore imposed on all the Member States, are dangerous for all citizens, whether working or unemployed.
We have therefore voted against this report which is dangerous in addition to being demagogic.
In paragraph 2 of the report, Parliament expresses its disappointment that the Commission is increasingly resorting to the use of regulatory instruments in the field of labour legislation.
It is also very important to encourage the European social partners to commit themselves to a binding agreement.
With its new social action programme, the Commission is trying on the one hand to justify recent developments in the area of social policy, and on the other hand to set the general framework and philosophy of its future action, while at the same time offering a limited number of specific proposals.
As regards its justification, it is compelled to recognise the fact that unemployment 'persists' at high levels and that in many Member States the proportion of those employed is very low, but it still insists on the recipes it has been following in recent years, in other words the need to promote 'a new balance between the needs of companies for flexibility and the needs of working people for security', as elegantly expressed in the attempt to sweep away the acquisitions and rights of working people.
The Commission says that the policy pursued by the EU and its Member States on employment has brought 'noteworthy results'.
The Commission makes special reference to the celebrated Local Employment Agreements as a means to create new jobs.
We are not overlooking the fact that some of the proposals are positive, such as those relating to stronger insurance protection for itinerant workers.
The report by the Committee on Social Affairs, though it contains some positive statements and proposals on some of the issues, accepts the policy framework consisting of the triptych of employability, adaptability and 'self-employment' for working people who lose their jobs.
A4-0417/98) We should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on an urgently needed report.
We do not support the call made in paragraph 2 for VAT to be reduced.
It is clear from the report that an important part of the European Union's drive towards integration is to ensure social convergence.
However, it is problematic for the EU to combine these initiatives with its attempt to establish common European guidelines for Member States' employment policies and to encourage social convergence in the EU.
We believe it is crucial for the EU system to respect the different social and labour market policy traditions in the Member States.
Establishing social convergence is therefore a step in the wrong direction, because for a number of countries, many of the Commission's proposals will in the longer term result in a gradual dismantling of their social security systems, thereby actually worsening the situation of the disabled and other vulnerable groups in society.
Combined with the monetary policy contained in the Pact on Growth and Stability and the requirements for Member States' monetary and financial policy, we believe that this economic strategy will ultimately result in the Danish social policy model being put under pressure.
I welcome the fact that our rapporteur has raised the question of coordinating economic policies and, in particular, of using tax harmonisation as one of the main weapons in the fight against unemployment.
I am also delighted that he has emphasised the need to develop entrepreneurial spirit, and that he has stressed the need for better targeted use of the Structural Funds in order to promote employment.
There is nothing to stop a company appealing for greater flexibility in working time whenever the opportunity presents itself.
But to want this decision to be taken, at all costs, at the highest level of our European institutions would be pure nonsense.
Amongst other things, the proposal in paragraph 6 of Mr van Velzen's report, concerning a European Pact that should include the coordination of economic and financial policy, goes too far in our view.
I will vote in favour of the van Velzen report.
Lastly, the plea for a reduction in working time is rather feeble as the objectives do not provide figures or dates and the 35 hour week is never clearly stated.
More serious still is the wording of paragraph 19, which links flexibility to a reduction in working hours.
In this respect, this report sees reconciling work and family life once again as a problem for adults who experience difficulty in finding someone to look after their children.
Technical and empirical studies have failed to show that an overall reduction in employment taxation would increase employment.
But as we all know, other jobs are threatened by traditional problems such as skills shortages and by new problems such as the knock-on effects of financial market crises in East Asia and other parts of the world.
The stark fact that more than half of all unemployed people aged 25 or more are classed as unskilled underlines the depth of the challenge we all face in the EU to raise our skills and raise our competitiveness in the global economy.
A4-0392/98) We should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on this important report.
We should like to point out the significance of paragraph 13 on the number of representatives in the new composition of the Standing Committee on Employment.
We are unable to support the report on adapting and promoting the social dialogue at Community level, because we believe that the basis for the dialogue between the partners in the labour market is ultimately the establishment of what will in fact be EU agreements.
At the same time, we think that it is problematic for the partners in the labour market, as it says in the report, to be involved 'in economic policy in the context of EMU'.
Particularly in recent years, the labour market has been a focal point of EU regulation.
I therefore welcome the Commission's statement that it wishes to inform Parliament, comprehensively and in good time, to give it the opportunity to deliver its opinion before Council makes its decision.
I agree with our rapporteur that the Commission's positive attitude should be interpreted as the first step on the road towards Parliament's full and complete participation in this procedure.
None of the actors in economic and social life can be kept out of the social dialogue against their will.
SMEs should also be involved in the social dialogue, in the same way as other parties involved.
What has just been said is particularly valid when it relates to data on the enlargement of the European Union to include the applicant countries.
However, we voted against this report due both to some irrelevant aspects and to its shortcomings and omissions.
In fact, the Peter report does not talk about the persecution of the national trade unions in France.
National authorities and EU institutions should stress the importance of encouraging negotiations between self-governing and independent partners, rather than legislation.
Power is unevenly divided in the labour market.
The report is well-intentioned and is favourable towards the setting up of a real dialogue between the labour market partners, but it does not contain any meaningful analysis of the division of power in the labour market.
I note that paragraph 7 mentions the proposal to set up a number of 'advisory committees'.
As this procedure will relate both to sectors which fall under Community jurisdiction - goods and public markets - and to sectors which fall under national jurisdiction - services and intellectual property - one would be forgiven for thinking that representatives of the Member States would be engaging in negotiations alongside the Commission.
The Commission will negotiate with the United States, both on behalf of the Community and on behalf of the Member States, by means of a global mandate.
This procedure casts an interesting light on Paragraph 5 of the new Article 133 of the Amsterdam Treaty, currently being ratified in France.
This text provides for the Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission, to extend Community competences to include international negotiations on services and intellectual property.
I also note in passing that this procedure - which would deprive the French Parliament of its right to approve the ratification of Treaties as laid out in Article 53 of our constitution - seems as reprehensible as a very similar procedure on the movement of persons provided for in Article 67 and which has already been censured by the Constitutional Court in its decision of 31 December 1997.
Therefore, we must keep a watchful eye on the content of this future agreement, particularly as regards the level of public aid.
It is unthinkable that some of our partners impose draconian conditions whilst they themselves are exempt from such orders.
Although I do share the concerns outlined in the text as regards health, consumer protection and the environment, I am more cautious and worried about promoting core labour standards together with the United States.
Therefore, whatever the common values and interests which unite the European Union and the United States, the very different attitudes to development, social policy and protection of the environment, as well as the need to preserve cultural sovereignty with all its diverse components, make the principle of privileged transatlantic relations in itself rather a deceptive one.
The United States' attitude towards the banana market, the fact that it announced unjustified protectionist rules and used pseudo dumping as an excuse to tax steel, all highlight the fact that opening the market is a good thing for the United States when it is to its own advantage and a bad thing when its interests are challenged.
Europe could, for example, create socio-taxes and refuse products made using child labour or carried out without the least respect for ILO standards.
The issue of environmental standards is equally important.
Lastly, the ambiguous attitudes of the Commission and of Leon Brittan have weakened the EU's links with the United States.
Fortunately, the Council has rejected the MAI and the NTM but, in a bid to protect itself from fresh manoeuvring, it has drawn up a restrictive framework for monitoring the Commission which, in fact, puts Parliament on the sidelines, and this has extremely serious implications for the future.
American domination and the Americans' lack of respect for the rules cannot continue.
Multilateral agreements or bilateral agreements cannot be signed without such standards.
The European Parliament can no longer be kept out of these negotiations.
And in order to make itself heard, Parliament should have formally voted for this report to be referred back.
Therefore, by voting against this report, I would like to express my severe discontent with the way Europe has backtracked and capitulated to the United States.
The FPÖ rejects the report on 'The New Transatlantic Marketplace' because first we need a comprehensive and public discussion of the objectives and impact of this kind of partnership.
The rejection of the Brittan plan was intended to throw dust in the eyes of all those who reacted strenuously to the creation of a new transatlantic market which would put working people in Europe in an even more difficult position.
Characteristically, in order to prevent possible reactions, the Commission has chosen the method of sectoral agreements on which the European Parliament delivers non-binding opinions, instead of a framework agreement requiring Parliament's approval, thus avoiding any possibility of greater control and intervention.
There is also serious concern about the provisions for further liberalisation of public procurement and about the services and the coordination envisaged in the context of the new round of multipartite negotiations on investments, agriculture and intellectual property.
The report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs we are debating, despite the few welcome comments it contains, accepts that framework overall and we will therefore vote against it.
We share the rapporteur's desire to improve trade relations between the EU and the USA.
The kind of close dialogue called for by the London EU-US summit earlier this year should be established as soon as possible, to help both parties in the new transatlantic community to defuse and hopefully avoid such disagreements in future.
Mr President, the very title of the Barón Crespo report on the proposal for a Council regulation on coordinating aid to the applicant countries in the framework of the pre-accession strategy summarises the faults and handicaps that afflict European integration, which, at the dawn of the 21st century, is still trudging along very slowly.
Economically speaking, I also believe that we are taking the wrong path by refusing to fight in the world economic war, by not accepting the principle of Community preference championed by Maurice Allais and which I have so often pleaded in favour of in this House.
So they are partners, with whom we are working together, and when we look at current developments in, for example, the field of trade, we find that here there is unfortunately a dramatic imbalance against the applicant countries and that we must ensure that this imbalance is corrected, since we can only be partners if we work together on an equal footing in this economic area as well.
That means that the European Union, the 15 Member States, must also do their own work first, especially in a sector that always tends to be pushed to one side, the agricultural sector.
On the one hand they are to adopt an acquis communautaire , the European Union rules, while on the other hand the European Union has not taken any major step forward in even formulating the agricultural reform, the new agricultural policy.
Social policy plays an important role in this enlargement!
Only recently, Parliament took some ECU 200 million from the PHARE programme for the 1999 financial year and allocated it to other areas of external relations.
In the light of the irregularities that have occurred in connection with PHARE, I am against supporting agriculture in the Central and Eastern European countries with funds from that programme while EU farmers have to accept massive losses as a result of Agenda 2000.
Mr President, Commissioner, people can only say the kind of things the previous speaker has just said if they believe they can turn back the clock.
The fact is - and I am assuming that we all want this integration process - that the quality of the EU enlargement process very much depends of course on the quality of the preparations for it.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs was particularly concerned with social and employment policy questions.
We must firmly support social policy mainstreaming.
If that applies in Europe, it also applies in the integration process.
Mr President, as a member of the European Parliament representing Portuguese voters, I should like to make three points very clear: we are in favour of the enlargement of the European Union and the negotiation procedure under way; -we are in favour of the institutional review that is needed to strengthen Europe internally and for its external representation and presence; -we are committed to the debate on Agenda 2000, the reform of the common agricultural policy, the new framework for the policy of cohesion and regional development, own resources, and so on.What we cannot accept is the attempt by some people, behind the scenes, to break off the contract of internal solidarity enabling the various European regions and countries - especially those with delays and development problems - to participate fully in the European project and to offer their peoples legitimate hopes of progress within a political and economic area without first-class citizens and second-class Europeans.
My country and other Member States have made an enormous effort and, against all the odds, they have succeeded in meeting the conditions for participating fully in the euro.
The Commission's proposal on agricultural reform, as set out in Agenda 2000, goes mainly in the right direction.
Amendment No 47 by Mr Schiedermeier calls for just that possibility, which is in our view quite self-evident, namely that we can determine our own priority support areas with our own money.
My CSU colleagues and I regard this aspect as so important that our vote on the Hatzidakis report will depend on whether Amendment No 47 is accepted.
Mr President, in creating the pre-accession aid programme for applicant countries the Council was aiming for a flexible system.
While we are discussing whether the aid given by the European Union will prove to be adequate, it is worth remembering that the main force for change in the enlargement process is not and cannot be the Union's present bottomless purse but a natural desire on the part of the applicant countries to achieve the standards required for EU membership as quickly as possible.
Mr President, the substance of our policy and the grandeur of the historic political enterprise which we call the European Union is expressed through the policy of economic and social cohesion, in other words through the practical expression of solidarity towards the less favoured countries.
The Union's political and economic interests make it necessary to outline a strategy which will create a climate of security and hope for all parts of the European continent, which will abolish the divisive lines of the past, and which will guarantee a decent life for all social groups and will in practice confirm the principles of European humanism and the values of peace, equality, democracy and solidarity.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, official negotiations opened on the accession of six - or, as we keep saying, 5 + 1 - countries to the European Union.
We see that in those days, Europe was facing problems with dictatorial regimes, that we were at war, and that in founding the European Union we were endeavouring to establish a system of democracy, market economy and security in Europe.
He said that we do not want enlargement of the Union - we are in fact Europe, and we should try constantly to move closer towards the same principles in a common Europe.
I believe a comprehensive concept for the accession strategies is quite simply necessary in order to prepare the applicant countries for the single market and political union.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Beyond that, I wish to refer to some points in the report that Mrs McCarthy and I prepared, which I regard as particularly important.
I also wish to stress that we oppose the Commission's proposal that there should be an effectiveness reserve amounting to something like 10 % of the resources.
We consider that at least in the first phase they should be held for the same Member State. (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, as co-rapporteur for the general regulation on Structural Fund reform I welcome today's debate and the opportunity for Parliament to present its first reading on the Agenda 2000 package of proposals.
Public support for the European idea is often most positive where citizens can see the tangible signs of European policies which enable poor communities and regions to participate in the benefits of European Union membership through training projects, business development, infrastructure and new opportunities for the regions.
We have to reaffirm the positive role we can play in regeneration and job creation.
Much debate has centred on whether drawing an arbitrary line at 75 % GDP, without taking into account underlying trends, is an approach which will deliver a genuine list of priority areas.
The Commission is in favour of a strict 75 % rule, yet there are exceptions in the Commission's decision.
Paragraph 5 in our text is a political position; it does not argue for flexibility but states that Parliament reserves the right within the framework to scrutinise exceptions and to demand their inclusion in the annex before delivering its assent.
The deep-seated structural problems of coalfields, steel and textile areas, as in my region - the east Midlands - cannot be turned around quickly.
If it needs to be part of the regional policy agenda and a priority for Member States, then it deserves a separate Community initiative.
This gives the Structural Funds a forward-looking perspective, which is appropriate for the next round of funding.
It is not intended to cover the ground the Commission has proposed in Article 49c.
We have the opportunity to maximise our European funds and boost regeneration.
I ask the Commission and the Council to join me in agreeing a partnership between Parliament, the Commission, governments and our regions to ensure that the deadlines are respected.
Mr President, it is a great pleasure for me to present the report on the cohesion fund on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy.
Last March the Commission presented its proposals to Parliament for the next programming period running from 2000-2006.
These proposals are set out in a series of draft regulations and as far as the cohesion fund is concerned the Commission has tabled two sets of amendments.
The first set concerns the articles of the regulation itself and the second set concerns Annex II to the regulation which sets out in detail the provisions for implementing the basic principles.
My report on the cohesion fund respects the main guidelines set out in the Commission's proposals and also welcomes the fact that the Commission fund will remain largely the same.
Eligibility for the cohesion fund as stated in the report will apply to Member States with a per capita GNP of less than 90 % of the Community average.
These countries - Spain, Greece, Ireland and Portugal - simply do not have the same level of basic infrastructural facilities which typify the rest of Europe.
The Commission's funding proposal is therefore consistent with generating long-term growth and promoting economic and social cohesion.
The recognition of this by Agenda 2000 proposals is very welcome.
Certain innovative measures contained in the Commission's proposals are in principle correct.
As far as project financing is concerned, a single advance of 10 % as a first payment is too limited.
The initial phase of a project is crucial from a qualitative point of view and a significant percentage of the total available money is generally necessary to guarantee the commencement of a project.
Even though I am extremely sensitive to the Commission's concern to keep the total cost of the plan and the annual breakdown in line with implementation on the one side and the progress of work in line with the advances paid on the other, I still consider that a 10 % advance is too limited and it would be too heavy a burden on less-favoured regions to support the initial phase of a project.
In view of the difficulties encountered in the previous programming period with regard to financial corrections and, more precisely, reducing, suspending or cancelling aid in the event of an irregularity, it seems to me that the appropriate response is to reduce or cancel the advance only in respect of the irregularity and not the entire project.
By the same token the principle of automatic cancellation of assistance, in other words the cancellation of any commitment for which a payment application has not been made by the end of the second year, should certainly encourage Member States to implement their projects within time limits.
Finally, I wish to express my concern over the consequences of a strict application of the mid-term review as it stands in the proposal.
As the democratic representatives of the citizens and peoples of Europe we are debating what should be the guidelines for the Commission's policy in Europe for the next seven years.
In this set of proposals, the ultimate regional financial instrument is the ERDF, which, under Article 130c of the Treaty, is assigned the role of redressing the main imbalances in the Community.
The Commission's proposal does not offer a great deal that is new to a Fund that is as broad and versatile as the ERDF and that, in addition, has generally worked very well.
The European Parliament report combines economic and social cohesion with European territorial cohesion by developing regional planning.
Our report is in favour of maintaining the Community initiative URBAN, which, along with INTERREG, has clearly brought added value to the Community.
Support for Interreg has been unanimous and there are great hopes for Interreg III, both in its traditional field of cross-border cooperation, in which the European Parliament is now asking for the explicit inclusion of inter-island and maritime cooperation, and in its new section C on transnational cooperation between large regions of Europe - a field that is also very closely linked to regional planning.
Finally, the report includes a broad development of specific business activities aimed at promoting small and medium-sized enterprises and cooperation between enterprises, services for enterprises, renewable energy sources and respect for the environment.
Therefore, as well as having a good technical document, we now also have a good political document.
I think we have done a good job at first reading and I would like to conclude by thanking the Members in the various parliamentary groups and committees who, with their amendments, have contributed to enriching this report for which I had the honour of being rapporteur.
Today, I would particularly like to make my voice heard in this House - in order to represent the regions that are dependent on fisheries, whatever their aims - in strong support of the position widely held by the European Parliament's Committee on Fisheries on the future FIFG regulation.
Commissioner, the fisheries sector needs a serious, rigorous, single and horizontal structural regulation that covers all its measures and gives legal certainty to its potential beneficiaries.
Mr President, this is really a first-reading type debate under the Hughes procedure and I must say that I shall welcome the new rules for the Hughes procedure when they come about and hope that the second reading will be subject to them.
It is a rather technical report about the Commission finding more money to be available to fund the already agreed policies.
As I say, it is a technical report and it will be my intention to resist amendments which are about policy and not about the subject of the report.
It would take too long to list the five resolutions on which the Budgets Committee is offering an opinion in my name.
The amendments are to all five reports and are technical amendments.
The first thing to emphasise is that the Social Fund is the only labour market instrument we have at European level.
It also accounts for an impressive 10 % of the budget.
Over and above that, we should be using Social Fund support not only to develop new forms of work, but also to do more to test them.
This point is particularly important to me because taking Portugal as an example, in that country alone 600 000 young people are profiting from education under the Social Fund.
In Spain the figure is 152 000.
Turning now to the second controversial issue, everyone here knows that mainstreaming for women is not enough to reduce the discrimination against them in the labour market.
This situation involved serious management problems, administrative inflexibility, a lack of coherence and a lack of transparency.
The 1994 reform covered all the areas of the European Union dependent on fishing as it was in the form of a common policy.
In addition, as part of this reform, Community initiatives appeared for the first time.
It is incomprehensible that we should be presented with a document in which details are not even given of the measures to be taken and in which structural action in the fisheries sector is not clearly expressed.
What Parliament is proposing in view of the lack of coherence, the contradictions and the discriminations that we find in the Commission's proposal, is something as simple as a single legal framework, a horizontal regulation within the framework of national programmes with the aim of maintaining the coherence necessary to fulfil the objectives of the common fisheries policy.
This more pragmatic approach would enable us, on one hand, to cover all the structural measures and, on the other hand, to cover all the regions that really need those measures to be implemented, disposing of ideas such as that introduced by the Commission of selecting areas for the new Objective 2 on the basis of employment criteria and not of fishing activity.
To this I should add that, in general, regions that are dependent on fisheries do not have a particularly high level of unemployment.
The regulation would enable the fisheries sector to have its own structural policy so that it might maintain its competitiveness, and would enable the Member States to resolve internal issues, taking into account the particular characteristics of various sectors.
In addition, this system would mean that there could be considerable simplification in terms of programming, as many existing regulations that are complicated, and at times inconsistent with each other, would disappear.
In short, we need to establish a single legal framework that brings together all the Community regulations on fisheries and that includes all the measures on modernising and renewing fleets, joint ventures, processing and marketing, socio-economic measures, aquaculture, etcetera.
In short, we need measures that enable the fleet to maintain its competitiveness in an open global market.
We must not forget the achievement that meant that the Edinburgh European Council adopted the decision to consider structural action in the fisheries sector within the framework of the Structural Funds.
With the proposal that the Commission is presenting we have an alternative that goes against this decision by trying to take part of the structural action out of the Structural Funds to the detriment of the European fisheries sector.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioners, firstly on behalf of my group, I should like to thank all the rapporteurs for their reports on the Structural Funds, and if I single out Mrs McCarthy and Mr Hatzidakis by name, then it is only because they have done the lion's share of the work.
From a geographical point of view also, Objective 1 regions should receive assistance amounting to exactly two thirds of Structural Fund resources.
We urge strongly that the choice of the Objective 1 regions should in future be based on the strict application of the criterion of a regional GDP per capita which is less than 75 % of the Community average.
As far as the Cohesion Fund is concerned, the opinion of my group is divided.
Others, including myself, consider that the Cohesion Fund has already achieved its most important goal as far as the countries participating in Economic and Monetary Union are concerned, by significantly helping to bring about nominal convergence.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party would like to express its support for the principle of strengthening economic and social cohesion in all the territories, all the states and all the regions of the European Union.
We would like to affirm the need to maintain the level of 0.46 % of gross domestic product for the Structural Funds.
The main objective of the Structural Funds, along with economic and social cohesion, must be to encourage job creation through the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises.
In the Commission's document we support the concentration of the Structural Funds with the aim of making them more efficient, and we also agree with the simplification of procedures in order to bring more transparency to the management of the Funds.
We support the principle of subsidiarity and the recognition of the important role played by regional and local authorities, especially the authorities in those Member States where the regions also have legislative powers.
We are in favour of consulting civil society and non-governmental organisations in drawing up the programmes.
We are also in favour of decentralising the management of the Funds and making it more flexible, but we know that this means strengthening the control mechanisms in order to guarantee that the Funds are used appropriately.
We support, too, the reduction in the number of objectives from seven to three and we believe it is necessary to make State aid, as established by Article 92(3)(c) of the Treaty, compatible with the Structural Funds, especially in Objective 2 regions where the two types of aid need to be compatible.
We must also highlight - and I said this a few times in committee, Commissioner - the problem of rural areas, and in those areas unemployment and population decline must be looked on as important factors.
Our group unreservedly supports the establishment of a percentage for performance, and a reserve percentage for each objective and in each Member State in order to encourage greater efficiency in its application.
Finally, we also support the Cohesion Fund for Member States whose gross domestic product is less than 90 % of the Community average.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the McCarthy-Hatzidakis report quite rightly welcomes the Commission's extremely valid objective of simplifying standards in terms of structural policy.
Parliament has a duty to draw the attention of the Commission and the Council to the need to closely link the aim of economic and social cohesion to that of cohesion in the European area, which is clearly expressed in the Varela report.
As strict as it may be, the definition of the new Objective 1 in the report on general provisions, by tolerating limited exceptions, gives Member States the opportunity to improve the coherence of national zoning as the procedure is transparent and the list of eligible regions is annexed to the regulation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the central question in the report on the Structural Funds is whether or not the European Parliament approves of reducing the financial resources earmarked from 0.6 % of Community GNP to 0.34 % in the next Community support framework.
As for the FIFG, we support the strategy of the report aimed at unifying regulations on activities in this sector, but we do not feel it necessary or even appropriate to present such a complete document at this stage as, for that very reason, we have not been able to sufficiently discuss all its implications.
The common fund is the only useful solution and the Commission has still done nothing in that regard.
Most importantly, in the Structural Fund Regulation, we have finally been able to introduce sustainable development as the central objective.
That is why today, Commissioner, I expect you to give us some idea as to how, in view of this dilemma, enough time can be found for the democratic participation stipulated in the Structural Fund Regulation.
We are called upon to support the German Government's plan to conclude the Agenda 2000 package in March.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on my own behalf and on behalf of 60 other Members in this Parliament that belong to the Socialist Group, the PPE Group, the Liberal Group, the UPE Group, the GUE/NGL Group, the Greens and the ARE Group who have jointly tabled Amendment No 49, I would like to draw your attention to a specific point that has not been considered in the report we are debating today.
The Commission, as you all know, proposes three routes for qualifying for Objective 1: A) The first option involves having a low per capita income.
It is not consistent that some regions of the Union should be able to qualify for Objective 1 due to their low population density and others should not.
The consistent solution is that which we propose in Amendment No 49, that is, directly including in Objective 1 the criterion of low population density.
European Union support for my own area through difficult and dangerous times gave us hope for a better tomorrow and helped us to maintain our position for almost 30 years.
I understand why there has to be a 75 % benchmark.
Mr President, I will begin with recital C of the report, which specifies that the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund are the principal instruments of economic and social cohesion in Europe.
Of course, it would have been useful to distinguish more clearly between cohesion between the various Member States and cohesion within the states themselves, especially cohesion between rural and urban areas.
On this first point, namely cohesion between Member States, it is difficult not to think along the same lines as the rapporteurs, given that the high number of appropriations allocated to some Member States is necessary for the sake of efficiency.
Nonetheless, we should not forget the need for cross-border cohesion, as there is still a great deal to be done in this field.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a Parliament we want single programming for the fisheries sector.
The Commission's proposal closely resembles the fragmentation theory: in substance it seeks to divide the sector along existing territorial lines and abandons the option of unitary management for the European Regional Development Fund, the European Investment Fund, the European Guarantee Fund and the European Social Fund.
These delimitation problems should not arise in future.
Mr President, firstly I should like to congratulate the Commissioner on putting together a proposal which is generally uncontentious among the 15 Member States and on all sides of this Parliament.
I want to focus on three specific areas: timetables, the criteria for Objective 2 and access to funds.
I know it is primarily a national problem, but how do we make sure that organisations can easily access European funding without being put off by the bureaucracy?
I pay tribute to all my colleagues on the Committee on Fisheries for presenting a set of very realistic proposals.
The 1994 reform ensured a common approach to all Union areas dependent on fisheries.
These measures were complemented by the socio-economic measures of 1995, as I outlined in my report on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries.
The Edinburgh Summit did not endorse Parliament's proposal for a separate objective to deal with fishing.
This Commission proposal is a retrograde step and does nothing to improve the lot of the fishing communities.
The proposal is too general.
The Commission is hoping to obtain our imprimatur.
The agricultural funds are apportioned on an annual basis while the fisheries funds are provided on a multiannual basis.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to say that the provisional report on the Structural Funds regulation makes important advances - that we support - in strengthening the principal of cooperation by increasing the number of people who will be involved in preparing, implementing and monitoring the programmes.
However, there are important aspects with which I am bound to disagree, such as the approval of the Commission's proposal that the resources destined for the Structural Funds should be fixed at 0.46 % of the European Union's annual gross national product.
In addition, the report even contradicts itself.
The cohesion funds could usefully be transformed into a structural instrument not directly linked to the trans-European networks.
In my own country, Ireland, for instance, the railways are in a state of dangerous decay whilst most of the funding has gone to roads.
Our amendments also stress the importance of cross-border links.
The Highlands and Islands of Scotland are certainly remote and have a low population density of 8.9, as probably everybody knows by now.
There are two points I would like to refer to: one was made by one of the government Ministers to me recently, Gus MacDonald, who admits that but for the wages of all the oil rig workers - of whom very few come from my area - we would be well under 75 %, and I think it is a very unfair situation.
The Commission has done a marvellous job of supporting the Highlands and Islands.
We have spent the money wisely, as the Commission must admit.
We even had a visit from hurricane Mitch - the only bit of Europe to get it - at 240 kilometres an hour over my area.
Mr President, the Arias Cañete report is an excellent step.
The unanimous position of the Committee on Fisheries, adopted after consultation with fisheries representatives in the Member States, should have attracted the attention of the Commission, and especially that of Commissioner Bonino.
In the field of agriculture, a specific regulation on rural development has been drawn up.
Mr President, the amendments tabled by our group reflect this aim.
Mr President, the Alleanza Nazionale delegation does not believe the objective of strengthening economic and social cohesion can ignore special situations involving structural handicaps, as in the case of island regions.
The new regulation cannot ignore the precepts of the new Treaty of Amsterdam which recognises and emphasises special features in Article 130a and the statement on the islands.
On Objective 2, we note that the Commission's proposal to apply a certain population ceiling to the various Member States may penalise some regions in comparison with others.
In Italy the Commission's proposal to include regions leaving Objective 1 in Objective 2 would penalise the centre-north regions.
Instead the concentration of the Structural Funds by reducing the population assisted ought to be balanced and equitably distributed between all the Member States.
We are not asking for greater allocation of resources to regions in this group, only Structural Fund intervention for the whole of the programming period.
Finally, we agree on the reduction in the number of Community initiatives from thirteen to three, but we think it is essential to maintain the URBAN initiative in order to implement a homogeneous policy throughout the territory.
Mr President, the Interreg, URBAN and Leader initiatives are breeding grounds for social and economic innovation which we must preserve at all costs.
We have discussed pre-accession strategies in the applicant countries, which involve driving forward as intensively as possible the process of economic and political accession to a common Europe.
I support the Commission's proposal on eligibility criteria and funding contributions for Objective 1.
Regarding the Objective 2 criteria and the issue of population density I would hope for some flexibility according to circumstances.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the first report on cohesion reveals to what extent the structural policies have had a strong levelling off effect.
In particular, the Cohesion Fund has played a fundamental role in achieving convergence among the Member States, although some of them still have not reached the level of 90 % of the average GNP in the EU.
The conflict between the need to invest in these infrastructures and the need to make budgetary cuts, for countries taking part and not taking part in the euro, justifies the maintenance of the Fund.
On the other hand, the Cohesion Fund is fundamental for sustainable development in environmental terms, as was stipulated in the Amsterdam Treaty.
It would be unfair for the poorest countries, which have made the greatest efforts to meet the convergence criteria, sacrificing expenditure in fundamental sectors, to be now deprived of this instrument for cohesion.
But the Cohesion Fund is not just an act of generosity.
We must not forget that it also enables money to be returned to the more developed states in the form of the acquisition of know-how and capital - in some cases, such as Portugal, as much as 50 %.
Mr President, in spite of their growing share of the Community budget, the Structural Funds have not allowed us to get to the root of regional imbalances.
They have barely compensated for the negative consequences of implementing the single market and preparing for the single currency.
The participation of elected representatives, of organisations and of citizens - democracy, in other words - is vital for the effectiveness of the Structural Funds.
And moving beyond the Structural Funds, the question of future financing of the European Union is also being raised.
The 15 % figure reflects the level of European experience.
It has to do with labour market policy, the process agreed upon in Luxembourg and above all employment policy in the third sector.
Secondly, the Commission suggests that we maintain the present criterion for Objective 2.
I am in favour of strict compliance with this, and not ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, with the inclusion of an Employment Chapter in the new Treaty, a process began which led to the adoption of the employment guidelines in Luxembourg last November.
The Commission has undoubtedly put a major effort into making the Fund as flexible an instrument as possible, without losing sight of the need for it to serve the achievement of European objectives.
Those objectives can be summarised as the development of proactive labour market policies, the promotion of social inclusion, the development of educational and vocational training systems to promote lifelong learning, the development of systems and models for the organisation of labour geared to producing a qualified labour force capable of facing up to the challenges of change, support for entrepreneurship and for the world of scientific and technological research, and the development of actions geared to promoting equal opportunities in the labour market.
An important part of this is the proposal to devote 1 % of the Social Fund's resources to funding small projects run by non-governmental organisations, entrusting them to intermediate bodies on the basis of simplified procedures.
The Commission has already begun an important experiment in this area.
For this reason, the Jöns report proposes setting a minimum of 15 % of the Social Fund resources to guarantee that equal opportunities for women and men also remain a priority when the regulation is applied by the national and regional services.
Mr President, Commissioner, I come from Brittany, a region where fishing is a vital and dynamic economic activity, a keystone in development and employment and a balancing factor in land management.
In Brittany, as in all regions dependent on fishing, we must preserve the means for building newer and safer boats, we must continue to modernise our ports and the fisheries industry, to upgrade our production and to train young people for a noble profession which, despite what is sometimes said, is a profession of the future.
The Greens believe Community financing under the CFP should be limited to vessels no longer than 24 metres.
Our proposal takes account of the environmental aspects - sustainable fishing is incompatible with a fleet of large fishing vessels - and the employment aspects, because large vessels certainly employ fewer fishermen.
Mr President, this proposal for the reform of the Structural Funds is broadly positive in intention.
The elimination of the Leader Community initiative in favour of the rural areas is a clear example of the lack of interest in mountain areas and people.
The Commission communication on the Agenda 2000 document has provided a very good and solid basis for regional and structural policy reform.
It is particularly important to simplify the administration of the Structural Funds, to place more reliance on regional and local authorities, and to concentrate resources in regions that have the greatest development problems.
The Commission's proposal is founded on the principles of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which took account of the fact that important environmental matters have gained greater prominence in the eyes of our citizens.
Furthermore, the role of NGOs has to be acknowledged as part of a real effort to bring about greater transparency and better publicity.
By making the role of partnership between the environmental authorities and NGOs more visible and genuine we can make it much easier for citizens to become involved in regional and structural policy projects.
For reasons of fairness, I want the 'phasing out' to be not four years but six, as you know is the case with Objective 1.
Above all else, within the context of subsidiarity it should still be possible for us at least to use own resources without the Commission constantly stepping in.
We must remember that when the Treaty of Amsterdam is ratified and comes into force it will have an employment chapter.
In particular, we should like to applaud the Collins report, which is faithful to the spirit and the letter of the treaties by strengthening the Commission's proposal to maintain the Cohesion Fund for countries whose GNPs are lower than 90 % of the European Union average.
We do not know for certain what we are going to be allocating in the future.
Our support for this report is, therefore, as provisional as the report itself.
We shall decide upon our final position only at second reading.
Mr President, it is quite right that we should recognize here the efficient actions of the Member States that have received Structural Funds during their short but already ample history.
If it is established, the performance reserve - at least as it is in the Commission's current proposal, with a figure of 10 % - will in practice be a political instrument that is unnecessary and even counterproductive.
Other complementary indicators should have been taken into account, such as inequalities in health resources, the decline in working population or environmental problems.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no-one challenges the principle of or the need for the reform which has been proposed, but it is practical details of the reform which give us cause for concern and raise questions.
This region suffers from high unemployment, as high as 25 % in certain areas.
But the discussions of the last few weeks have shown that there is reason for us to fear that the representation of national interests and the horse-trading that accompanies it - something which we have so far only seen in Council - have spread to Parliament too.
The price we will pay is a long list of exceptions, and less money for the regions that really need it.
The Cohesion Fund must be concentrated on the Member States that are having difficulty in complying with the hard criteria.
As a consequence of the amendment, I would also, as is only logical, urge that the contribution be raised to 7 % to ensure that funding is not taken away from the other initiatives.
Mr President, I should like to begin by making the point that I believe that in the current phase of the European Union's development regional policy is perhaps more important than ever before.
One of the encouraging things we have seen over the last few years is the reduction of the gap in wealth between the rich and the poor Member States.
There are two things I should like to emphasise with regard to the report.
But also there is a crying need for more partnership between everyone who is involved in the process of economic development: the social partners, local authorities or regional government as well as the Commission and central governments.
The second point concerns the principle of concentration.
Certainly the resources would be put to very good use there, based on the principle of concentration and partnership.
Therefore, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Fisheries on the framework regulation, I have proposed the creation of a single legal instrument that would enable us to draw up a regulation on fisheries Structural Funds - the FIFG - which, being horizontal in nature, might bring together all the structural actions involving the fisheries sector, as the Commission itself has already done for the agricultural sector.
This need for a single sectorial legal instrument was easily understood by the various parliamentary committees and the change proposed will - I hope - be incorporated at this first reading.
The fisheries sector does, in fact, need to have access to a series of structural measures that must be the same for the entire sector, regardless of the region in which a particular fisheries enterprise is established.
This essential horizontal nature is destroyed by the regional planning that the Commission's proposal establishes for Objective 2 regions.
The result of this will be enormous programming difficulties in the fisheries sector and serious risks of relocation of enterprises, as they will establish themselves in those regions where there are regional programmes or where the regional programmes are more favourable to them.
It was therefore necessary to correct this tendency so that the Member States might have the flexibility needed to establish the most appropriate level of programming for the fisheries sector, regardless of the region concerned.
Commissioner, you have seen that many Members have spoken on the subject of fisheries.
The Commission has done its best.
We therefore think that the excellent measures that have only just been launched under the Community initiative should be retained in the new Community initiatives in the future.
Finally, as Karin Jöns said, we insist that 15 % of the Social Fund should be used for equal opportunities.
The Commission itself has proposed it, and we all know that special measures are needed.
Mr President, the structural funds have been a great success for Europe in Ireland.
On the whole, the bulk of the funds have been used very well though there have been some instances when European funds were used for projects which threaten to undermine our environment.
Our government has put together a package which must fail the Eurostat test for structural funds which requires eligible regions to have less than 75 % of average European GDP.
The structural funds for Ireland are in danger of becoming a victim of this particular plan.
I can only hope that there is sufficient goodwill in the Commission and in this House to ignore the dithering and mismanagement of our government. (The President cut the speaker off) Ladies and gentlemen, I have to interrupt the debate at this point.
The debate is therefore adjourned.
Situation in Central America and EU action The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the situation in Central America and European Union action.
We regard the European Union as representing above all a community of values and of solidarity, a Community whose members must show solidarity not only among themselves, but also and in particular with all other states and their inhabitants.
In Nicaragua, despite the tradition of political polarisation, the disaster appears to have led to a new approach, towards a more pragmatic and consensual policy with regard to the current problems.
It seems inadequate and also illogical to provide humanitarian aid without at the same time cancelling at least a major portion of the debts of the hardest-hit countries, Honduras and Nicaragua, which are also the most heavily indebted countries in the region - the foreign debt of Honduras is 92 % of its GDP, and that of Nicaragua 300 %.
The aid measures by the international community are now under way.
The share provided by the European Union - the Member States and the Community together - is substantial, and is a reflection in humanitarian terms of the Union's importance and weight.
I have therefore asked for this subject to be placed on the agenda of the next Development Cooperation Council, which I myself will be chairing on 30 November, and expect practical proposals on long-term aid measures to be discussed there.
Pending a more complete analysis, the Commission approved an aid programme of almost ECU 7 million under the emergency procedure provided for in Article 13 of the regulation on humanitarian aid.
We were thus able to make a very timely and substantial contribution to the international aid effort as early as 4 November.
The first aid programme is being carried out by the German and Spanish Red Cross, in cooperation with their sister organisations in the countries affected and 11 European NGOs already working on ECHO projects in the region.
However, this second phase of emergency aid will also need to include a recovery element in order to prepare for the transition to more structured recovery work and aid for economic reconstruction.
In the short term, in other words in December this year, the Commission will put a funding proposal to the Member States using an urgent procedure, setting out a framework for future action.
The development programmes planned for 1999 will be reviewed and adapted case by case, in close consultation with the beneficiary countries.
Current projects may be strengthened or restructured to help with recovery or reconstruction.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first I wish to thank the Council and the Commission for the emergency aid.
It is perhaps not always a matter of course in this House for us to thank one another, but I do want to express my open praise for them here.
My second point is that longer-term reconstruction aid should be given not only to the states of this region, but also towards the integration of the region.
Now that so much has been destroyed, infrastructure measures, roads, telecommunications, energy networks and so forth can in fact also help to turn this region, inhabited by something over 30 million people, into a common region.
The European Parliament, with the support of the Council and the Commission, has always expressed strong political support for the integration of this region.
Mr President, in my opinion, such a plan has to contain several components.
The first component relates to the budgetary dimension, and the response given by the European Union to this situation has to be in line with that of the Member States.
I have to say that I feel particularly proud of how my country, Spain, the Spanish Government and the whole of Spanish society have responded to this situation.
I think that, as an arm of the budgetary authority, the European Parliament must set an example of generosity and flexibility in this budgetary dimension and mobilise as many resources as possible.
This plan also needs a credit component and, in my opinion, as part of the plan's strategy, the Commission should endeavour to propose a whole series of measures that, taking advantage of the scale of this tragedy, are aimed at increasing the European Investment Bank's credits to this region.
I would ask, Commissioner, that in addition to the components I have just outlined, the Commission make use of its imagination.
I think that it is time to look to the future and view this tragedy as an opportunity to further unite the inhabitants of Central America and encourage them to double their efforts in pursuit of regional integration and greater solidarity.
To sum up, Mr President, I call on the Commission to spare no resources and to mobilise all its efforts.
Mr President, I just wanted to add a few words to what my colleagues in the Socialist Group and the Group of the European People's Party have been saying in relation to the urgent action - and subsequent action - that needs to be carried out by the European Union, at both Council and Commission level, in the areas affected by the disaster.
Mr President, Hurricane Mitch has devastated Central America, destroying everything in its path.
As a member of the interparliamentary Delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico, last May I had the opportunity to visit Honduras with a few colleagues and we were able to see how, even in the capital, Tegucigalpa, the hand held out by the Union was already a lifeline for these populations before the hurricane struck.
However, we must also bear in mind - and I think that many non-governmental organisations are highlighting this fact - that if there had been housing in this area that was not substandard, a civic network that could have predicted what could happen and, in short, if there had been greater consolidation of human rights in that area, the hurricane would not have been as devastating.
However, in the short time I have left, I shall inform you of what was said to us by some Members and certain Central American organisations at a seminar held last week in Brussels.
Unfortunately, this has not always been the case in the past.
Fourth, a call must be made to have these countries' debt written off.
This is why the total amount of debt should be earmarked for specific recovery projects in the area.
Mr President, a disaster on this scale calls for reactions going far beyond those of the past.
In Central America, ladies and gentlemen, as is almost always the case, the weakest have lost the most.
We must welcome the rapid response that has been given to a situation that required immediate solutions.
Mr President, we have been shocked to see the devastation in Central America.
In fact, the catastrophe in Central America is not just a natural and a human catastrophe, it is also, and above all, a political catastrophe.
We have always thought in terms of regional interdependence.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to convey my sincere sympathy and dismay to those who live in the countries of Central America.
I shall continue in German.
Nicaragua and Honduras were in any case two of the poorest countries in the world, and now they are even poorer.
In the long term, I believe these countries will have to become members of the Lomé Convention, because how can we in fact justify withholding the Lomé preferences and financial resources from these countries, which are the poorest in the world and now becoming even poorer?
If we want to be really honest, we really will have to do everything in our power.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Central America is devastating: 12 000 people are dead, 18 000 missing.
In Honduras, 90 % of the banana harvest has been ruined and 70 % of the roads are destroyed.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission and the Council for their presence.
The area affected has been set back several decades and its efforts to heal the deep wounds of its most recent past have been undone.
My sincere congratulations go to the Commission for responding immediately - mainly in the form of humanitarian aid - and also to the Member States for acting with equal speed.
Governments need to solve the problem of these countries' debt through an act of strict justice, as a useful tool to cooperate in kick-starting their economies.
The tragedy of pain and death was caused by the hurricane and it is up to all of us to alleviate its consequences and help build a future for the people.
Mr President, as a vice-chairman of the PPE Group, with responsibility for relations with Latin America, I would briefly like to express the feelings of solidarity our group shares with the victims of the tragedy, as well as our delight at seeing that this popular and official sentiment of solidarity has been so strong.
Finally, we must welcome the huge amount of aid generated in Europe, not by each state on its own, but by all of them together.
These three names perhaps best reflect the European aid given, aid that will certainly not be lacking in the future.
Mr President, the countries of Central America which were devastated by hurricane Mitch were already seriously afflicted by the aftermath of years of civil war.
The need for land reform is more pressing than ever.
We must redouble our efforts to help.
The Council, the Commission and Parliament should facilitate the use of unspent funds in our budget for relief.
A donor conference is to be held in Washington on 10 and 11 December.
I imagine, and I am sure that this goes for Mr Marín and probably also the presidency too, that once the situation in Central America has become a little clearer and financial decisions have been taken and a reconstruction programme has started, we will certainly begin talks between the European Union and the countries of Central America within the San José framework.
Thank you, Mr van den Broek.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has always underlined the need for a comprehensive, just and lasting peace settlement in the Middle East.
The Union has therefore fully endorsed the content of the Madrid and Oslo accords which set the current Middle East peace process in motion.
The United States and the European Union reacted to this difficult situation by making even greater mediation efforts, during which the EU special envoy in the Middle East, Miguel Moratinos, repeatedly put proposals to the conflicting parties on ways of bridging their differences.
On 23 October this year, after difficult negotiations between Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Arafat, an agreement was finally reached at Wye Plantation near Washington, largely thanks to the efforts of the United States and President Clinton, but in which King Hussein also played a crucial role.
In signing it, the parties to the conflict revived the Oslo process by withdrawing further Israeli troops from the West Bank in return for comprehensive Palestinian security guarantees.
The European Union will support the implementation of the Wye Memorandum in all areas where it can make a constructive and further contribution.
The USA has convened another donor conference at ministerial level in Washington on 30 November 1998, in order to assure continued support for the Palestinians.
The talks with all the regional parties were very open and substantive.
For example, it seems urgently necessary for the EU to establish a common position for the forthcoming donor conference in Washington on 30 November to which I have referred, so that the Union can take a firm stance there.
We must initiate, coordinate and support extremely comprehensive and concrete cooperation measures at political level and in all other areas.
We must admit that steps were taken in this case, despite the bomb attack, whereas in the past the Israeli Government and Parliament always used such events as a reason not to take any steps towards peace.
My final and very important point is this.
However much my group fully recognises the right of the Palestinians to unilaterally declare independence if the appropriate agreements cannot be reached with Israel, we should nevertheless strive all the more to ensure that agreements are reached, either agreements on independence or agreements on postponing that deadline, if Israel accepts the principle that there will be a Palestinian state.
The European Union must endeavour in the immediate future to ensure that this date, 4 May 1999, does not signal the beginning of a new crisis, but that we have a joint declaration on independence by that date or, in the event that the deadline is postponed, that interim agreements are reached and the Israeli Government fully recognises the principle of a Palestinian state.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner and the President- in-Office of the Council for their statements.
I rise today with a certain diffidence because I was hoping, as I am sure many colleagues were hoping, that we would be much further down the track of reaching peace in the Middle East.
I am also glad that the Knesset has approved the Wye Accord and that we can move forward hopefully to see some greater security within that agreement.
If UDI were the result of the lack of a peace process and a peace agreement in the final status talks, that would be a disaster for everybody involved.
The resolution which Parliament is going to adopt tomorrow emphasises this.
I believe Israel always intends to discuss more with the United States than with the European Union.
We also welcome the fact that the Israeli Government has finally reluctantly agreed to hand back an extra 13 % and that the Palestinians have agreed to cooperate with the Americans on security guarantees.
Human rights organisations have rightly pointed out that maintaining law and order must not be allowed to lead to large-scale human rights violations which would have negative consequences for both sides.
Since the developments on 23 October, it is clear that constant external pressure is needed to keep the peace process on track.
The decision to give the go-ahead for the construction of more houses in Har Homa and Hebron was another wrong signal, and undermines the mutual trust that is essential for lasting peace.
I welcome the fact that the European Parliament is making another critical but supportive contribution here today in a special debate on the subject.
Mr President, it is to the credit of the Wye Plantation accords that they have reignited a peace process which we may have feared dead and buried.
They also contain negative aspects, such as the role bestowed upon the CIA.
The Knesset's agreement is a positive sign.
The Wye Plantation agreement cannot be seen as a finishing line but rather as a starting block leading to a peaceful and lasting settlement which respects the right of the Palestinians to their own land, in the spirit of the Oslo accords.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, it gives me great personal pleasure to congratulate the members of the Knesset, on behalf of my group, on their successful adoption of the Wye Mills Memorandum between Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Arafat of the Palestinian Autonomous Authority.
I do so in the awareness that the peace process in the Middle East is not just a question of foreign policy and the European Union's association agreements, however important both aspects are, especially in the context of the Barcelona programme.
The peace process in the Middle East is a key question of our political and religious culture.
Urged by the President of the United States and already rejected by more than half its parliamentary majority, the Israeli Government is moving forward but dragging its feet.
Europe, although unfortunately still not involved in the diplomatic progress, is nonetheless very active and very much part of the construction of this country; this Europe is their brother and wants them as its new-born partners.
The basic conditions for lasting peace in the Middle East are, in my view, the establishment of secure and recognised borders for Israel and recognition for the Palestinian nation's right to self-determination.
European Union aid should be targeted on this, and it should also be an important consideration in any trade agreements that are concluded.
Outsiders must show restraint, including the European Council and the European Parliament.
Let us make this well-being our objective in our policy on the Middle East.
Yesterday, I criticised a report which appeared in an important left-wing newspaper from my region, La Dépêche du Midi , taken from the Sunday Times , which I hope was wrong and which stated that Israeli laboratories are working, and I quote, 'on the production of ethnic biological weapons, containing genetically modified micro-organisms that would harm Arabs but not Jews.
I hope that this will be denied and that the Sunday Times , given the information by the Israeli Embassy, will tell us that this is not true.
But, in addition, the domestic situation in Israel is tragic and I acknowledge that Benjamin Netanyahu's role is not, of course, an easy one.
Furthermore, in Tribune Juive , Jean Kahn, president of many organisations and rapporteur for the Committee of Inquiry on Racism and Xenophobia, describes the meetings held in Israel by the Sephardim where speakers claim that Hitler, alas, did not complete his work with the Ashkenazim.
So, the reality in Israel is not simple: it is one of real hatred and the climate of a civil war.
It is not any simpler in Palestine, where Yasser Arafat is struggling to control the situation and where, at times, his days appear to be numbered.
Madam President-in-Office, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, without any hesitation or beating about the bush, I should like to say that, as far as I am concerned as chairman of the Delegation for relations with Israel, I am extremely pleased about the signing of the Wye Plantation agreement.
After months and months of wrangling and of difficulties, this agreement, ratified today by the Israeli Government and by a large majority in the Knesset in spite of the two attacks that have taken place, is a major step forward.
Of course, all has not been resolved but a new step has been taken on the road to peace.
But who would have imagined, in May 1943 - a bloody year if ever there was one in Europe -, that five years later The Hague would launch an appeal for a united Europe and that then, eight years later, the Treaty of Rome creating the EEC and the Common Market would be signed.
This can be seen in the fact that Netanyahu needed the support of the Labour opposition to guarantee the ratification of the Wye Plantation agreements, as well as in the increasing difficulties experienced by Arafat in his attempt to win over the more fundamental and radical sectors.
The 15 Member States are currently involved in an in-depth debate on how to reach the desired objective of acting with one voice on the international scene and ensuring that this voice is strong and listened to by the rest of the world.
Madam President-in-Office, Mr President, I think that we now have a unique opportunity to make the voice of the European Union heard in the peace process.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to add my voice to those who have agreed to support the Knesset's ratification of the Wye Plantation Agreement, with one exception, however: they have added a number of conditions that, to a certain extent, almost amount to a denunciation of the Agreement.
For 50 years we in Europe have struggled with the nature of co-existence in a crowded land.
Next year marks the anniversary of the conquest of Jerusalem in 1099 by Christian armies, in moments of medieval glory mired in murder.
For instance a capital in Jerusalem is different from Jerusalem as a capital or the capital.
It is a challenge to the creativity of the Commission and indeed of this Parliament and of all of us as individuals.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the signing of the Wye Plantation accords have given rise to a fresh wave of optimism that the current deadlock will be broken and substantial progress made towards peace in this part of the world.
To attempt to solve each conflict separately would be to erase all historical, ethnic, religious and cultural characteristics which fuel nationalist or fundamentalist attitudes, and would be to forget the international strategies that aim to control raw materials and maintain spheres of influence by means of military alliances.
At the same time, however, it is sad that the agreement was reached in the United States, under the aegis of the United States and not in Salzburg or Vienna under the aegis of the European Union.
And secondly, establish the presence of the European Union in all procedures involved in the implementation of and compliance with the content of the Wye Plantation agreement.
I referred a moment ago to the donor conference now scheduled for 30 November in Washington.
Of course one could now say that we are rather sad and a little offended about this.
In principle the airport is scheduled to open very soon, on 20 November, on an emergency basis.
Mr President, the Commission has an important role to play in this matter.
In fact it is the only tool available to support peace in the Middle East that the international community has available to it at this time.
We greatly applaud the fact the Knesset has taken the necessary steps in the recent past.
There may be many hurdles to cross insofar as the Accord is concerned but both political and economic support should be provided to all of the parties to maintain the momentum.
The debate is closed.
In committee we also expressed the need to guarantee the planning and implementation of the Structural Funds in all its objectives and to promote the principle of equal opportunities, but in a balanced way.
It is true that there are serious distortions in the labour market that are detrimental to women and to the disabled.
Madam President, I think today's debate has demonstrated substantial agreement between the approach of the Commission and the position of Parliament, agreement on concentration, simplification, efficiency and partnership.
The Commission is already willing - it seems to me - to review the reserve proposal.
Madam President, I would like to have talked in general terms but, given recent developments in my own country, I will confine my remarks to our future strategy.
The cuts in the Community initiative go just too far.
In Objective II, let us be clear that giving help to the poorest regions is not the same as giving help to the poorest people.
On the question of services, a redundant bank teller or hotel receptionist is just as unemployed as a redundant factory worker.
I welcome the fact that the Commission has supported our representations on this, but the regulation still needs clarification.
And regional funding, just as much as social funding, should respect principles of non-discrimination.
Madam President, the cohesion policy is an element of solidarity for the most disadvantaged regions.
This procedure may seem fair, but one change needs to be made.
It has 350 000 inhabitants, with an income that is below 75 % of the European average, a level of unemployment above 20 %, a socio-economic fabric that urgently needs revitalising and, what is more, is an area adjoining two autonomous communities that are currently Objective 1: Castilla-León and Cantabria.
Therefore, including the left bank of the Nervión and Ayala in Objective 1 would leave no island in the European aid map.
It is therefore necessary to consider the possibility of taking account of exceptions in the Objective 1 map, so that specific and objective needs for support will have their share of the Structural Funds, above and beyond political and administrative limits.
Aid for training and employment for the new Objective 3 could be lost for Objective 2 areas: industrial areas.
Madam President, I would like to speak about the proposal for a regulation on structural actions in the fisheries sector.
It is impossible to take, in principle, anything but a critical position with regard to this regulation.
This critical position is justified by the current situation of the fisheries sector, and by the proposals that are being made to us in this regulation, even though they are not very specific.
It is important to emphasise - and you are all perfectly aware of this - that the common fisheries policy currently relies almost exclusively on the Structural Funds.
On this issue, both from a quantitative as well as a qualitative point of view, it is impossible to take anything other than a critical position.
The Community fisheries sector is currently undergoing a profound change in order to survive and be competitive in a globalised economy.
The action that is taking place requires the provision of sufficient funds to finance the various aspects that make up the common fisheries policy in its various facets: conservation and protection of resources, international agreements, markets, structural measures, social aspects, etcetera.
The lack of sufficient funding would lead to the collapse of a sector that is vital in coastal areas and that is labour-intensive, both in the actual fishing sector and in the processing industry, and the loss of this would result in a considerable outlay of public resources.
From a quantitative point of view, there are a series of uncertainties that are making its future difficult.
The fisheries sector needs a regulation, or at least a specific objective, that is of a horizontal nature, as well as a single legal instrument, a basis like the current FIFG, which should be strengthened on the basis of the criteria put forward by the Commission in the proposal to create a rural development fund.
This is what we are calling for, Madam President, in our amendments.
This is indeed a temporary mechanism - as was said yesterday afternoon -in that it no longer applies once they reach 90 % - as a transitional measure -, and due to the fact that these less developed countries are obliged to pursue austerity policies under the terms of the stability and growth pacts.
Apart from these substantial reasons, what is at stake is our credibility vis-à-vis a Treaty where the conditions of access to the Fund are made perfectly clear: a per capita GDP of less than 90 % of the average Community GDP and the definition of a programme of nominal convergence.
I have listened to many speakers in this debate and, possibly because they have been rushed due to the short amount of time we have, they seem to have given an impression with which I do not agree, because they have tried to say to the Commission that its proposals are not sound.
However, I know that in the Commission you have been positive and courageous.
You have been courageous in designing the structure of cohesion, courageous in proposing the Cohesion Fund and succeeding in the legal ruling, and courageous in proposing a balanced and sound amount to be set aside for this Cohesion Fund.
I welcome this increase in funding, but it should be noted that the period from 2000 to 2006 is longer than the previous period, that figures must be compared in real terms and not in current terms, and that investments in the Union's infrastructures have fallen from 1.5 % to 0.9 % of the GDP in recent years.
I therefore think that the figure is as relatively poor as that put forward in the Council regulation that we are now amending and for which I was rapporteur.
At that time, I said in this House that the funding anticipated for trans-European networks only represented 0.6 % of the funds needed in order to build the infrastructures planned for the 1994-1999 period.
We are in a similar situation despite the fact that the funds have been doubled in current terms, and there is therefore still a clear contradiction between the needs in terms of a real Community policy on infrastructures and the funds that are available from the Union.
In addition, as I was also draftsman of the opinion on the Cohesion Fund, I must make the following observation.
According to what has been determined, if a Member State that is receiving money from the Cohesion Fund does not fulfill the convergence criteria, such as public debt and public deficit, it will stop receiving funds.
However, some people say - and today we have heard speeches to this effect - that if a Member State that is receiving money from the Cohesion Fund has fulfilled the convergence criteria, it should stop receiving that money.
I will only add that this was not the spirit of the temporary committee that was set up in order to implement the Cohesion Fund.
Although we can approve the general content of the report, which adopts the Commission's suggested principles of concentration, simplification and decentralisation, we cannot vote in favour of the final version.
We believe that the 75 % criterion should be adhered to strictly.
Also, we consider that our democracy will be tarnished if the House does not vote in favour of our Amendment No 46 which, in the interests of greater transparency, stresses that the non-discriminatory use of Structural Funds appropriations must be ensured in the different regions concerned.
Madam President, Commissioners, quite an important objective in the Council Regulation is that the ERDF resources should mainly be used for measures which are favourable to employment.
Firstly, we know that, in general, flexible models and new forms of organising work also lead to more jobs.
I would propose that we set up innovation centres where innovative young entrepreneurs can obtain the appropriate knowledge and guidance to create new jobs in young companies.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, just a week ago I organised a conference in my hometown of Cuxhaven, an important fishing location in Germany, to look at the reform of the structural measures in the fisheries sector.
In December 1992, the European Council in Edinburgh agreed upon the principle that areas dependent upon fisheries should receive privileged assistance within the context of the structural policy.
However, in the new Regulation on the Structural Funds, the Commission no longer respects this principle.
Does the Commission realise that companies in Objective 2 areas are going to consider relocating to an Objective 1 area purely and simply because the conditions there are better?
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today Parliament is dealing with the first step in the reform of the Structural Funds which will govern the cohesion policy of the Fifteen up to 2006.
On the subject of the Community initiatives, the reduction from thirteen to three is acceptable if the surviving Community initiatives really have the added value compared with the existing funds and the trans-European regional character that must be at the basis of this type of initiative.
I would like to raise three points in particular relating to the proposal by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Secondly, we need action to promote the status of women, and thirdly, we need to address the possible role of the social funds in implementing Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam on non-discrimination.
Madam President, Commissioners, one of the most important aims of this reform is concentration.
The more regions are classified in the highest category of assistance - Objective 1 - either because people do not wish to accept the 75 % threshold or because they find ways to avoid complying with it, the harder it becomes for us to achieve this important Community objective satisfactorily.
That is acceptable neither in the present Community of 15 Member States, nor in the light of the coming enlargement.
In my view the 'phasing out' suggested by the Commission is in itself a fair way of dealing with the regions that have reached the 75 % mark.
But let me give you an example by way of clarification: a region that has reached 74 % in 1999 would evidently remain at the top level of assistance for another six years and then ultimately enter the 'phasing out' stage by 2011.
I hope that if we ever reach the situation where the Republic of Poland fulfils the 75 % criterion during membership - and of course neither I nor any one of us knows when that might be - then our Polish friends will not insist upon staying in the top level of European assistance for more than 12 years from that date.
This applies particularly to the financial framework of 0.46 % of GNP, the selective assistance for regions whose development is genuinely lagging behind, the reduction in the number of Objectives and Community initiatives, the strengthening of the principle of partnership and the significance of the Programme Monitoring Committees in the decentralised programming process, and the emphasis placed on equal opportunities and sustainable development.
I would very much regret it, though, if in crucial areas such as concentration, which is essential, Parliament did not summon up the courage to push through the principles which have been acknowledged as the right ones, regardless of the specific interests of individual Member States, regions or sectors.
That is why the Commission cannot support a number of proposals on implementation in the report.
We also need to see to it that previous overlaps between measures under Objectives 2 and 3 are avoided, and that we achieve real coordination between promoting investment and the labour market in the regional Objective areas.
But we want to make sure that regional measures to promote human resources, measures which fit perfectly into the regional investment and development strategy, have at their disposal the necessary resources from the Social Fund.
This incidentally is also in keeping with the necessary increase in the influence of the local and regional administrative bodies in determining the strategy of regional development, which you rightly call for in many places.
I think that would also take account of some of the problems that you have mentioned here.
In the past I have always made this point clear, and it should be made clear here as well.
I am still disappointed that the Council and Parliament constantly called for improved efficiency in the Structural Funds in the past, for better provision to be made for penalties and better evaluation and monitoring, but now they are almost flatly rejecting the opportunity to actually create a system of incentives to safeguard an efficient management of the Structural Funds.
It has already been stressed many times that the Commission is prepared to consider changes to its proposal, not however to compromise on the principle.
In order to make it easier for Parliament and the Council to agree to the efficiency reserve, the Commission is prepared to discuss the size of the reserve, and to think for instance about whether it could be restricted to 10 % of the amount of resources earmarked for the last three years.
The Commission is ready to discuss this constructively with the Council and Parliament, because I think that we can all agree that the reserve is a crucial element of the Commission's proposals to improve efficiency through a combination of simplification and decentralisation, better evaluation and more rigorous financial management.
It also seems to me a contradiction that in the reports we are constantly reminded of the need for coherence between all Community policies, and yet now our proposal is being rejected for going too far.
A final important point on the general regulation has to do with Parliament's role in the application of the Structural Fund Regulation.
Nevertheless I am prepared to comply with the practice hitherto, which has developed on the basis of the Klepsch-Millan Code, and elaborate a new code of conduct which includes information being provided to Parliament in advance on general implementation issues.
You know that in this promotion period, we also kept to this and thus took account of Parliament's position in our final proposals.
But it cannot be reconciled with the institutional balance, or with the principles of subsidiarity and decentralisation, for Parliament to have a say in the implementation of structural policy at Member State level.
And the second is that, if there is too much detail, the text of the regulation will not only become largely unreadable, an observation that has already been made here, but there is also the hidden danger that it will lose the necessary flexibility and possibly even in future exclude different types of assistance which may be important for regional development, and which correspond to a real bottom-up approach.
The Commission is prepared to change the text in accordance with the spirit of these proposals.
The same applies to the need to improve coordination with PHARE, TACIS and MEDA.
The Commission can accept the amendments which aim to extend the innovative actions and pilot projects.
We can take on board the following amendments wholly or in part, or incorporate them into other recitals and articles in the regulation: Amendments Nos 1, 3, 6, 7, part of 11, 19, 22-26, 29, 34, 35 and 55.
The Commission shall consider whether the proposed rule on the advance payment of 10 % will lead to difficulties in view of the short duration of the project, and whether the proposal needs therefore to be amended.
The Commission has difficulties with paragraph 5, as we do not think it expedient for the future distribution of funds between different Member States to be laid down exactly, in advance, in the annual budget.
The Commission cannot endorse the request in paragraph 8 that 'phasing out' also be introduced in the Cohesion Fund.
It is hardly likely that upon attainment of the level of 90 % GNP nationally, compared to 75 % regionally under Objective 1, there would be a sharp economic shock when the assistance comes to an end, especially as these countries will continue to profit from Objective 1 assistance by means of the 'phasing out'.
We can therefore take on board either the whole of, or the essence of, 18 of the 30 amendments to the report.
With the Regulation on structural measures in the fisheries sector, we are proceeding in two stages, with a basic regulation and an implementing regulation.
As you know, there is no Commission proposal for the implementing regulation yet but the Commission shall shortly be adopting one.
Therefore, in the light of the Commission's exclusive right of initiative, the amendments today cannot be taken on board as such, even though I regard them as an important part of the general discussion.
The Commission will soon present its proposal for a new implementing regulation to replace the present regulation.
Then you will see that the fisheries sector is not at a disadvantage compared to agriculture and that, taken together, the two instruments cover all EU regions.
This Commission proposal will also contain many of the basic ideas from your amendments.
Thank you, Commissioner.
We would like to have codecision, we would like to propose our own performance reserve, but that is not our job.
Madam President, Mrs McCarthy, we are not going to draw up an actual legislative proposal yet, but a paper which we would like to discuss with the Council and Parliament.
We agree on nearly all the major points of substance in the Commission's proposal for the future operation of the Social Fund, the importance of preventing and combating unemployment and the vital link between the Social Fund and the European Employment Strategy.
I also know that Parliament has concerns about the Commission's proposal, that Objective 3 - the main focus of the Social Fund activity - should apply only outside Objective 1 and Objective 2 areas.
This is a concern which is shared by many of the Member States.
Our original proposal in this area was framed with the objectives of simplification and flexibility.
It is all the more important for the European Social Fund with its focus on inclusiveness, developing human resources and on involving local organisations.
I am happy to accept the first part of Amendment No 12, the first part of Amendment 38 and Amendment 63, which clarify the importance of partnerships particularly involving NGOs in the distribution of small grants by intermediary bodies.
I want to take the opportunity to thank you all for your continued support for our proposal in Article 4(3) of the draft regulation, that at least one per cent of the Social Fund appropriations should be available for such an approach.
An interesting fact here is that we have had more than 600 applications for a pilot project action that we have undertaken.
In keeping with our emphasis on equal opportunity I accept Amendment No 6 clarifying the aims of the fund in relation to equality between women and men.
I also accept the principles behind Amendments Nos 19 and 60 for specific additional measures to encourage women's participation but we need a clear wording here.
The general regulation sets out very clearly that the principle of mainstream equality of opportunity should apply at all stages of programming in all of the Fund's interventions.
Accordingly, Amendment No 47 dealing with equal opportunities at the evaluation stage is therefore already covered in the general regulation and is not therefore necessary.
I am pleased that you broadly support the five Social Fund policies that we have proposed in Article 2 of the regulation.
Amendment No 15 - the first part - Amendments Nos 17, 18 and 19 are in line with the Commission's intentions and I am happy to support them.
Similarly, the clarifications that you bring to Article No 3 - the eligible activities - to Amendments Nos 21 and 24 and in principle Amendments 23, 27 and 31, these are very welcome too.
However, there are three main groups of amendments which the Commission could not accept.
The key principles behind our proposals for the new Social Fund are simplification and flexibility.
Specifying certain target groups at the start of a seven-year period would act to the exclusion of other groups and would deny the Social Fund the flexibility to intervene in support of any further vulnerable groups which might emerge during the programming period.
For this reason I am unable to accept the new Article 1(2) proposed in Amendments Nos 14 and 58, the second part of Amendment No 15 or Amendment No 39.
The Social Fund must support a more all-embracing approach to combating inequalities in access to the labour market.
I accept Amendment No 3 (first part) which makes this very clear, and Amendment No 7, subject to some rewording.
The second major amendment which the Commission has difficulty with is Amendment No 20.
This seeks that a minimum of 15 % of interventions be devoted to adaptability and equal opportunities.
However, specifying a figure in Article 4 would not allow Member States the necessary flexibility to respond to the needs identified by their ex ante evaluations and in their national action plans for employment within the annual employment guidelines.
Finally, the third group of amendments concerns technical assistance.
These are Amendments Nos 7, 19, 23, 27, 31 and 60.
I hope that I have adequately explained why the Commission cannot accept the remaining amendments.
The Social Fund is above all concerned with people - their jobs, their skills, their prospects in the labour market.
I therefore believe that it is absolutely right for the European Parliament to have a strong input into this regulation.
Thank you, Mr Flynn.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m.
I think that this sets a good example for future Councils.
With regard to the Council, I would like to express our concern about the way in which Agenda 2000 is being handled.
For example, I read the Council's thoughts on the horizontal regulation where you specify that the main issues are the need to include 'environmental conditionality', the need to regulate aid, the need to fix a ceiling for direct aid and the need to determine how budgetary resources are redistributed.
This gives the impression that, so far, four or five months have gone by and all the Council has really done is to read the regulations.
Above all, I would like to know when you intend to conclude your discussions, because I think that after five months things should have progressed a little more, especially if we want to meet our deadline of the Vienna European Council in December and, in particular, so that by March, which is the date we have fixed, we will be in a position to give our opinion on the issues involved in Agenda 2000.
For example, when reference is made to 25 % of the aid, what aid is being referred to?
The other issue that I feel needs to be highlighted with regard to the Commission is that it recently endorsed the studies carried out in Bonn and Amsterdam on the possible consequences of the 1999 reform.
If this were the case, it would be important to know whether or not you plan to strengthen the area of rural development.
In this respect, I think that it would be appropriate for us to consider the possibility of promoting rural development - not only that linked to agricultural issues, but also to non-agricultural issues - so that we can approve the reforms that are currently on the table.
Of course it is essential to seek a majority but, as every trade union knows, to secure a 3 % pay rise you must start by asking for 6 %.
It must say more clearly what we intend to do, and it must also give a clearer indication of the resources that will be available to us in the future.
I have even criticised a considerable number of my parliamentary colleagues' amendments for trying to do just that.
If the implementing provisions subsequently spell out everything that can be done, we should then find a way, if possible, in which Parliament can participate in a Commission measure as a goodwill gesture, even beyond the scope of written agreements.
Parliament knows that the Commission is on the right road, but that road is not yet very clearly signposted.
Let us try to work with you to mark out this route and perhaps also to find a means of bringing home to the Member States, in all their diversity, that rural development is not simply a matter of financing non-agricultural activities but that, by bringing stability to rural areas, it ultimately benefits agriculture and the agricultural economy.
Madam President, I am pleased that this oral question on the agricultural part of Agenda 2000 affords me the opportunity to continue our dialogue with the European Parliament which has started very promisingly, in my opinion, in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
In view of the situation with regard to speaking time, I should like to give a very condensed report on the progress made by the Agriculture Council in examining the Commission proposals with a view to transposing them into statutory instruments.
As you are also aware, it is the intention of the presidency to engage in further talks with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development as soon as we have the results of the forthcoming Council meeting.
We are all conscious of the challenge posed by Agenda 2000 in general and particularly by the special status attaching to the common agricultural policy in that context.
The model was endorsed in the conclusions of the Luxembourg European Council.
The European Council itself, moreover, has expressed the view that the Commission proposals offer a basis for further reform of the common agricultural policy.
The Austrian Presidency expects to engage in highly constructive cooperation with the European Parliament in this matter.
As far as the Agriculture Council is concerned, may I tell the honourable Member that tangible progress has been made since the meeting of the European Council in Cardiff.
To this end, as I explained at the start of my remarks, the Agriculture Council is to adopt a report at its meeting this week for the Vienna European Council.
Since I assume that the timetable for dealing with Agenda 2000 which was set by the European Council in Cardiff will be adhered to, I believe it is desirable that agreement be reached as quickly as possible on the unresolved issues, so that the Agriculture Council is left with a limited number of key political issues to discuss at its March meeting.
There is actually quite wide-ranging agreement that this approach should be pursued in the domain of crop farming, irrespective of the size of the reduction in the intervention price and the amount of compensatory aid.
With regard to beef too, the great majority of the delegations consider this approach useful, again notwithstanding the amount of the reduction in the intervention price or of the compensatory aid.
Some delegations, however, doubt that this approach alone can control the supply situation and recommend provision for measures specifically designed to control supply, which would mean a smaller reduction in the intervention price.
As far as dairy products are concerned, the positions of the delegations differ widely.
While most of the delegations wish this quota to be retained, some Member States are calling for it to be abolished by 2006.
The more flexible approach and the general objectives are considered on the whole to represent substantial progress.
This is an issue with extremely important implications for the future of our farmers and the entire countryside.
There is unanimous agreement in the Council that vital importance attaches to rural development policy as the second pillar of the common agricultural policy.
As far as the financial regulations are concerned, it is logically obvious that the discussions on those can only be concluded at a later stage, particularly in the light of the negotiations on other elements of the Commission proposals, the results of which will have to be reflected in the provisions of the financial regulations.
My own point of view on the question of horizontal regulations is that these proposals include innovations which must be examined extremely thoroughly before they can actually become common political guidelines.
As for compliance with environmental requirements, there is general agreement on the need to promote the attainment of environmental targets; this, incidentally, is wholly in line with the European agricultural model that all the relevant bodies want to see developed.
I hope that I have managed to provide you in this brief summary with all the most important information on the work that has been taking place in the Agriculture Council and on the prospects for future progress in connection with the agricultural element of Agenda 2000.
An increase in consumption in the newly industrialised countries of Asia in particular, combined with limited scope for increased production in those countries, will stimulate trade in agricultural produce and boost price levels in the world market.
Even though the problems in Asia and Russia have put a temporary damper on economic growth, that will not significantly affect developments in the longer term.
Well, as far as the cereals market is concerned, our analysis shows that unless our policy is changed, this year's intervention stocks of 14 million tonnes will have risen to 51 million tonnes by about the end of 2005.
The beef estimates also confirm the urgent need for reform.
Our three principles for the reform process remain unaltered.
Market reforms must therefore be supported by a more active rural development policy throughout the entire Community.
For the sake of coherence and to avoid conflicts, rural development and market policy ought to be more closely linked, which should be done by using the Guarantee Section of the EAGGF to fund rural development outside Objective 1 areas.
For instance, some Members of this Parliament have already indicated that it might become necessary to establish a new equilibrium between market policy and rural development policy.
The fact is that we now have comprehensive studies from two universities which have analysed the economic impact of the proposals.
Even if amendments have to be made, we must fully uphold the principles on which we have chosen to base the reform process.
Mr Görlach is right to say that the second pillar is not yet as strong as the first, but we - at least we in the Commission - are certainly prepared to do our bit to make it as strong as possible.
The main goal of rural development policy is to provide a framework within which coherent programmes can be created throughout the Community.
I welcome the rapporteur's endorsement of these primary aims.
For example, a number of amendments seek to restrict rural development programmes outside Objective 1 and Objective 2 areas to farmers only.
For these reasons, we have proposed in Article 31 that the measures for the promotion of rural development be broadened.
Two of today's amendments in particular, namely Nos 55 and 56, would considerably prejudice the proposed agri-environmental measures.
The result of this could be that the agri-environmental measures would conflict with the compensatory payments and extensification premiums under the common organisation of the markets.
The second amendment which would be incompatible with our draft regulation provides for the introduction of aid for the marketing of regional products.
For that reason, I am not in a position to accept amendments today without detailed examination.
Finally, there are a number of amendments - Nos 22 and 27, 31, 35, 38 and 65 - which relate to the jurisdiction of the Member States and the Commission.
The Commission will, however, examine whether it can incorporate some of these ideas into the detailed implementing rules.
However, I cannot accept the amendment in its present form, because our intention is to produce the implementing rules as soon as possible after the Council has adopted the regulation.
Finally, I am gratified to note that the report endorses the main objectives of the Commission proposal, and I therefore hope that Parliament will support the principles of our rural development policy as set out in our draft regulation.
And our motion for a resolution on the Agenda 2000 agricultural reform is geared to that very point.
The second concern is the one this debate on the cofinancing of income support raises in me.
If we want to grasp the opportunity of the debate on budgetary resources to talk about expenditure, and hence about the CAP, fine, but what drives us are the real problems of the CAP - the unfair distribution of its benefits - which the President of the Court of Auditors also described to us in this House yesterday.
I think it would be wrong to erect an ideological wall against the renationalisation which the cofinancing would provoke, and see it as a demon.
If, as is proposed, the reform of the CAP is limited to a reduction in prices and their compensation by means of aids indexed to productivity rates, then we shall be carrying out a reform only for the more efficient farmers.
The European Parliament has reached a broad consensus on the CAP but the question of financing at this stage cannot be allowed to poison our debate, nor should it be allowed to divide us.
The main problem with income support in future will be that once the Central and Eastern European countries have joined, they are sure to apply for it.
In my report a few months ago, I gave a detailed account of how this should be approached, and I hope that the Austrian Presidency will bring this matter up again in its discussions in future.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, as the Commissioner explained to us a few moments ago, in answer to the protest from certain Member States who make net contributions to the Community budget, the Commission has just drawn up a report on the own resources of the European Union, with a view to readjusting Member States' contributions.
The Commission puts forward three options, one of which is the national cofinancing of direct aid to agriculture at a level of 25 %.
This proposal may be tempting at first sight as it would have a considerable effect in terms of readjustment for certain Member States whose agricultural sectors are smaller than the Community average.
Also, national cofinancing represents a real threat to financial solidarity among Member States.
The Commission's proposal poses a serious threat to the common agricultural policy and could mark the beginning of its renationalisation and, over time, its disappearance.
The progressive and underhand dismantling of the CAP would irreparably challenge European unity as the CAP is the first Community policy which, for 50 years and despite battles fought over agricultural matters, was able to give strength to the cohesive force and spirit of solidarity that are characteristic of the European Community.
CAP reform is necessary but it should not trigger the collapse of Europe.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I think firstly that the Cunha report - which is an excellent report - brought to light the contradictions, imbalances and effects of the 1992 reform.
I do not think it is right that the Commission should propose Agenda 2000 to us without having completed the task of presenting a report evaluating the effects of the 1992 reform.
With the development of the international financial crisis, it would also have been desirable to use more specific tools for analysing these measures and the effects that the international crisis might have on this sector.
I would like to add a few thoughts on the subject of co-financing.
What is proposed is not a policy of solidarity, because the real economic policies - the internal market policies and the common commercial policy - are not reflected in the budget.
Therefore, presenting matters in terms of net balances is inappropriate and very inaccurate.
Perhaps we are seeing there the hand of a Member State, and the Commission should be more generous and not give in to certain pressures.
Allow me a final thought: what is happening with Agenda 2000 is an example of institutional game play within the context of Europe.
It is very important to keep to timetables, but it is just as important to take the right decisions, with the appropriate methods and pace of debate and with sufficient transparency.
We import 70 % of proteins for livestock farming, but also 50 % of honey and a considerable amount of citrus fruits, fish, wood and even sheep whilst, at the same time, troubled rural areas remain unused.
This reform should stop making intensification a priority.
Madam President, the proposal for a regulation on support for rural development from the EAGGF incorporates all of the existing measures relating to Objective 5a of structural policy.
I find that the Commission proposal lacks realism and does not take into account the negative impact that the 1992 reform of the common agricultural policy had on the economic fabric of rural areas.
A large number of these amendments have already been adopted by different majorities in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, thereby showing both the Commission and the Council how much importance we place on rural development for a healthy balance in European society.
As regards financing the CAP, we are opposed to any system where Member States cofinance a common policy due solely to the fact that Article 2 of the Treaty of Rome lays down the principle of financial solidarity.
If this is not the case, then it must be stated clearly and without pretence in order to allow Member States to renationalise agricultural policy to defend their own interests themselves.
Madam President, CAP reform is dictated by outside considerations, particularly in the eyes of the Commission, and it should now be clear that developments in the international arena, with the crisis in Asia and Russia, mean we must be more realistic about export possibilities for our agricultural products.
In addition, it is also in our interests as Europeans to note that, currently, the United States is once again being forced to strengthen public support for its farmers.
These are new arguments to justify our CAP and the European agricultural model within the WTO.
But I would also like to draw attention to more internal aspects of our forthcoming reform.
More importantly, we must make our CAP more coherent, as the Cunha report suggested.
From this point of view, I would like to warn against the initiatives and decisions in favour of Member States cofinancing the CAP as this measure, if it were taken, would challenge the whole principle of financial solidarity, one of the basic tenets of the CAP.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his cooperation and his willingness to compromise.
A report on the funding of measures for rural areas is very difficult to deal with, not only because of the host of amendments but also because of the diverse needs of the Member States.
Alongside regional policy, agricultural policy plays an important role in the development of rural areas.
While regional policy focuses its array of instruments and resources on supporting the rural population and the economic base of small and medium-sized businesses, agricultural policy supports the farming community through the EAGGF.
In other words, measures which primarily affect agriculture must be financed from this fund, whereas measures that affect rural areas without having any link at all with agriculture and the multifunctionality of rural areas should actually be supported within the framework of regional policy.
I am naturally a staunch advocate of transparency in the production chain, of environmentally acceptable production methods and of high standards of animal welfare.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, Agenda 2000 aims to facilitate the eastward enlargement of the EU and to prepare for the next WTO talks.
The Agenda 2000 timetable was decided at the Edinburgh summit, and the ELDR Group is pressing ahead with the agreement of reforms laid down in the timetable.
The new situation prompted the Commission to draft a report on own resources, proposing as one solution the partial assumption of the burden of funding agricultural expenditure by the individual states.
This national funding of Common Agricultural Policy expenditure is already routine in Finland, for example, which acquired the right to finance aid itself during the transition period, in order to ease the integration of Finnish agriculture into the EU single market.
The national funding of agricultural expenditure must be very strictly regulated, so that farmers in the Member States receive equal treatment.
The Agenda 2000 reform, therefore, should have given more weight to the needs of the worse-off regions, as was called for in the Luxembourg resolution.
The Agenda 2000 reforms further reduce the share producers get from the market place, which is a particularly serious problem for the worse-off regions.
The share of direct aid in the income structure for the Finnish farmer has now grown too large.
Madam President, in the available time it is not possible to deal with the many challenges facing European agriculture or the role of farming as a central pillar in rural infrastructure.
The age profile of farmers is deteriorating and young people no longer see farming as a sustainable career.
Large-scale commercial enterprises should not be allowed to usurp funding which should go, in my view, go to family farming.
Rural development is being put forward at the moment as a second pillar for agriculture.
Rural development, as proposed, can never hope to address the serious problems facing the rural and agricultural communities throughout the European Union at present.
We are the people who have to point the way forward.
Madam President, we need to be serious in this Parliament about achieving genuine reform of the common agricultural policy for the 21st century.
Those amendments recognised the reality that in the conditions of the 21st century European agriculture will be much less labour-intensive and more mechanised in almost all sectors.
It is therefore essential to see rural development as support for the creation of a range of additional occupations in rural areas, not just those relating directly to agriculture and food processing, important elements though they will certainly continue to be in such areas.
We are not the farmers' committee and we have a duty to look beyond personal vested interests and towards the interests of all those citizens living in rural areas who will not find jobs in agriculture.
To achieve the latter we need LEADER type programmes to assist small-scale enterprises to develop new jobs in high technology as well as in tourism, traditional crafts and skills and environment-enhancing projects.
Madam President, I have listened very carefully and have participated actively in many debates on the major elements of Agenda 2000.
It is very clear that there is a strong move to reduce farm prices to world price levels and the levels of Eastern Europe to save money.
This approach requires EU farmers to sell their products below the cost of production and depend for their income solely on partial compensation.
In fact, you yourself, Commissioner, used the word subsidy.
The Court of Auditors report this week is a good example.
The system is also acting as a deterrent to young people making a career in farming.
Farmers in my country are already suffering a huge decline in income.
Beef prices to farmers are 40 % lower than two years ago.
The point has been made several times this evening: because we need new economic platforms in rural areas.
That should allow us to proceed more steadily, taking careful steps towards a well thought out reform which the farming world really needs.
Madam President, Minister, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this important debate must end with approval of a document on the reform of the CAP.
What must be avoided is renationalisation of the CAP and reduction and weakening of the spirit of internal solidarity.
Madam President, Commissioner, 80 to 90 % of Europe is countryside.
A vast area of Sweden consists of countryside, but only a small fraction - 10 to 20 % - of the population lives there.
If no one lived in the countryside, half of Sweden would be uninhabited.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, Agenda 2000 is most certainly one of the issues that has caused the greatest activity in the European Parliament over the past ten years.
The length of the debates and the number of meetings that all Parliament's committees have devoted to it lead us to expect a far-reaching project.
Once again, we are ready to pretend to help our poor, each of us entrenched in our own little states, made more callous by our narrow-mindedness.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, nobody doubts that a reform is necessary and nobody doubts that the common agricultural policy is not entirely fulfilling the role assigned to it in the Treaty.
When this policy is judged from the point of view of its contribution to economic and social cohesion, the level of criticism is sometimes outrageous.
However, in my opinion, the most worrying thing is that with a reform process that is so highly complicated, particularly given the small amount of resources set aside for rural development policies, the debate on the Community's own resources has become involved.
In this context, it is true that the Commission has restricted itself to presenting a report with various options, but our experience in the Community means that we are accustomed to fearing reports, White Papers and Green Papers drawn up by the Commission.
Co-financing direct aid to incomes represents not only a breakdown in the principle of financial solidarity, but also a violation of the principle of 'means necessary', as laid down in Article F.3 of the Treaty on European Union.
This would lead to the paradox whereby enlargement would take place at the expense of the 'cohesion countries', whose relative share in category 2 has been considerably reduced and that, in addition to this, the reform of CAP funding would also affect those countries again.
Moreover, Commissioner, that does not take account of the fact that, according to the information provided by the Commission in June, the list of direct aid that Directorate-General XIX has used for its calculations includes a much smaller amount of aid than that which is considered direct and subject to regulation in the reform that we are currently dealing with.
Madam President, the common agricultural policy was established in the 1950s, when there were only six Member States.
The Commission has submitted its proposals for specific changes to the agriculture policy, and we are currently studying our attitude to the reform of the CAP in several parliamentary committees.
On the contrary, future agricultural support needs to be much more targeted.
Price support should be replaced by increased direct aid for those farmers who really need help.
The agricultural policy cannot continue without change if European farming is to participate in competition on the world market.
And the CAP currently swallows up more than half the EU's total budget, and with enlargement things will become even worse.
It is important to realise that we have to organise our common agricultural policy so that it meets the current demands both for the present Member States and - not least - for those which join in future.
Madam President, Commissioner, the farmers in the new federal states, like farmers everywhere, are following the decision-making processes in the realm of agricultural reform very closely.
With regard to this second pillar, to which we all look forward eagerly and which ought to become strong as quickly as possible, under no circumstances must we permit the rules governing the first pillar to break down the last bastion of employment in these regions.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, I shall begin with the point I feel is closest to the statement made by the Commissioner, that is, we cannot carry out a 'reformlet' but it must be a real reform - I would even say a great reform.
The problem facing us at the end of this century is not one of production.
The problem is one of justice, a just policy to defend people living in the countryside.
As they stand, they are the enemy of quality, the enemy of the environment, and the enemy of jobs, because the crops that the Commissioner gives most of the finances to are those with the highest levels of unemployment: cereals currently receive 43 % but producing cereals is the least labour-intensive of all the types of farming that exist.
The aims of agricultural reform in the Agenda 2000 document are in principle very much a step in the right direction, taking account of the decisions taken, for example, at the meetings in Amsterdam and Cardiff.
The aim is to make agricultural policy more environmentally-friendly, and to serve the needs of the consumer to a greater extent.
As for future agricultural policy in the European Union, the issues have been gone over at many summit meetings.
Thank you, Mrs Myller.
The Council and the Commission have indicated that they will forego their statements if there are no further questions, as seems to be the case.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m.
