Mr Schiedermeier, I must apologise to you on two counts.
An open economy, as ours in the Union already is, could not continue to expand if the rest of the world went into recession.
Many-headed giants are only frightening in fairy-tales.
To start with our own response to the need to review with these weaknesses, Parliament is required to adapt its procedures to the new powers conferred on it by the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Parliament has organised its work so as to make it possible for Agenda 2000 to be debated and approved at second reading, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The present situation is obviously undemocratic and unacceptable where such a sensitive issue is concerned.
It can only be remedied through the involvement of this House.
In 1958, the Council was a directorate composed of six members.
It is equally important for the Commission to carry out its duties with the good of the Union as a whole in mind.
We are now called upon to rise to great challenges: the enlargement of the Union to Central and Eastern Europe, Cyprus and Malta, the strengthening of internal security to create that great area of freedom and justice, and the development of our external action.
They are successes we would never have thought possible only a few years ago: economic convergence and the participation of a broad group of states in economic and monetary union, the beginning of the accession process for new Member States, the first steps in implementing a common employment strategy.
This has given European integration a new quality, one which also presents our common policy with new challenges and means that we must redefine our future journey along the road to integration.
So the road towards a new Europe is not a road into the unknown, for these European values act as clear signposts.
We can rightly say that, even before its official introduction, the euro has already gone through its baptism of fire.
It has proved a pole of stability in the international monetary system in regard to the financial crises in Asia and Russia, and now also in Latin America.
That is also in our own interest and will ensure that we have the conditions for stability and growth in the Union.
To that end, we need to make the appropriate reforms to the international financial architecture.
But we also need an economic policy mix that is effective enough to fully exploit the potential for growth in Europe.
We will be discussing the questions and expectations of the heads of state and government in relation to this subject in detail in Pörtschach.
Without exaggeration, we can say that 1998 will enter into the history of the Union.
But I believe that the prospect of joining our European Union has also played its part.
But we must also ensure that this process is an open one and obeys objective criteria: open for those states that satisfy the conditions of the Luxembourg decisions in the light of the Copenhagen criteria; objective in relation to the extent to which the performance of the individual candidates satisfies the accession criteria.
In that context, the European Council in Vienna will also be looking into the progress made by all applicants for accession in fulfilling the accession criteria.
The applicant countries are our partners in the enlargement process and our colleagues in tomorrow's Union.
Everyone must realise that enlargement of the European Union must be carefully planned, so that both the existing Member States and the applicant states can prepare for it.
I am assuming that the appropriate transitional periods will be fixed in sensitive areas, such as the free movement of workers and services, in the interests of the applicant countries but also in the Member States' interests.
The negotiations on the future of the common agricultural policy, on a balanced structural policy, on financial support for the applicant countries and on the efficient use of financial resources for the Union for the first seven years of the next century are without doubt a touchstone for the solidarity of our Community.
The Austrian Presidency is working very hard to carry forward the negotiations in order to achieve this objective.
Let me strongly emphasise, however, that this will require the necessary will and solidarity on the part of all the Member States.
I also know that you in this Parliament are taking a very close look at all the aspects of Agenda 2000, to help ensure that it can be concluded in good time, and let me stress how important cooperation between the Council and Parliament is in this particular process if Agenda 2000 is to be achieved during the current parliamentary term.
Our citizens probably regard a successful employment policy as the biggest challenge on the road towards further integration.
Anyone who remembers how strongly some Member States resisted a common employment policy before the Luxembourg summit will, I hope, be glad to note the very definite swing in opinion today.
Employment policy has now become a fixed component of European economic policy. (Applause) And we are becoming ever more persuaded that we must pursue an employment policy at all levels, at global level just as at European and national level.
As you know, the structure and the problems of the national employment markets differ.
Accordingly, the draft report on employment which the Commission submitted last week shows that the Member States have prepared very different packages of measures, in each case adapted to their particular problems.
But in my view that still means that we must develop a monitoring system to clearly reflect how seriously we take the whole process; here too the Commission's report on employment offers very positive suggestions.
Clear aims can also be self-chosen aims that can relate to each Member State's specific problems.
Clear aims by no means preclude the need to include the social partners in the responsibility for employment policy.
We must simply make better use of that potential in future.
That is why I hope we will soon manage to find a solution that enables us to conclude the fifth framework programme on research and technology, in which we emphasise this need.
Mr President, I have listened to your statement with great interest.
When we meet you, the heads of state and government and the President of the Commission in Pörtschach in four days' time, you will have a chance to take stock and to consider the improvements needed in order to make Europe more acceptable to the citizens of the Union.
We began to discuss the future of Europe in Cardiff; this process should be intensified in Pörtschach and be continued at the Vienna European Council and during the forthcoming presidencies.
In my view - and all the heads of state and government I visited during my tour of the capitals in the last few days agree - Pörtschach will send out the signal that a single market and currency are not the be-all and end-all of European integration. (Applause) We will have to discuss a timetable for enhancing economic stability and employment, internal security and Europe's political role in the world.
Let me now address two points that I am sure will not be raised at Pörtschach.
Nor can there be any question at this point of embarking on those institutional reforms on which no agreement could be reached in Amsterdam until all the Member States have ratified the Amsterdam Treaty.
What must be discussed at Pörtschach is our institutional future and, even more importantly, how to breathe life into the Amsterdam Treaty, which of course already contains a number of new measures to bring the Union closer to the people.
As President-in-Office of the European Council, I have invited you, Mr President, to Pörtschach because I am convinced that it is up to all of us together to determine this new road for Europe to follow, for I am sure that the European Parliament can and will make a significant contribution here.
But we should remember that other major integration projects, such as the single currency, were also rejected as utopian in the early days.
I personally am convinced that in future the European Union will need a stronger common foreign and security policy.
Europe must be visible to the outside world and manage to speak with one voice if it is to be able to take common action with its partners.
Transatlantic relations will always play an important role here.
The men and women of Europe expect us to view the challenges of the twenty-first century not so much as a risk but as an opportunity, and to tackle them openly on the basis of our European values.
Today's debate comes just ahead of the informal meeting in Pörtschach on the future of the Union.
I am well aware that there is an ongoing and lively debate on the subject in this House.
I think that this is a particularly appropriate time to be considering tomorrow's Union: the single market is nearing completion; the euro will be with us in less than 100 days from now, opening the way for a new stage in Community integration; further enlargement is on the horizon; and the reform of our spending policies and the financial perspective are on the agenda.
Realities such as unemployment and insecurity undermine confidence and have an indirect effect on people's attitudes towards the European Union.
These are the real challenges I would like us to take up in Pörtschach on 24 and 25 October next.
Most of the 300 or so proposals for directives and regulations that were contained in the 1985 White Paper have now been adopted.
Between 1995 and 1998 the number of new legislative proposals that the Commission put forward in its work programmes has fallen steadily.
An agreement must be found on the financial perspective for Agenda 2000.
Then we must make the most of the high level of integration achieved by our countries.
The euro will arrive on 1 January 1999.
Legislation is still possible and frequently necessary, but it is not the only option, nor the most effective in all cases.
Because this is an area where powers are and will remain very much in the hands of the national authorities.
It works with the other institutions, including the European Parliament.
The figures we have published this week in the communication entitled 'Subsidiarity and proportionality' show that 35 % of the Commission's legislative proposals are the result of international commitments, and that at least 20 % are prompted by requests from other quarters: the other institutions, in particular the Council and Parliament, the Member States and business interests.
These are the areas where we must focus our efforts to build new policies.
What we must do is modernise it in our own countries and promote it in international forums.
These are the ideas we must keep in mind as we review the way the Bretton Woods system is structured.
I would add that the European model could serve as an example of a high level of integration in economic and financial relations between states.
The reason why Europe is a haven of stability at the moment is that monitoring mechanisms and better practices have produced results.
Here we have a Union that has radically transformed relations between its Member States and with its neighbours.
It is a Union with a single market that is unique in the world.
And we must strengthen its political dimension through a common foreign and security policy worthy of the name.
That is the first step, but after that we will have to establish the new instruments we need in a new spirit.
The advent of the euro adds a new dimension to the debate on Europe's place in the world.
We cannot possibly let the Union have no say in bodies such as the International Monetary Fund or the G7 Finance Group.
The new Treaty recognises how important this issue is.
So here is another classic example of an area where the Community's new ways of operating need to be applied, particularly as it is vital that those involved trust each other.
The Commission and the Council will be submitting an action plan on justice and home affairs to the Vienna European Council.
If it is a priority for ordinary citizens, then it must be a priority for the Heads of State or Government.
I propose that a special meeting of the Heads of State or Government be held in 1999 to discuss this crucial issue alone.
I would now like to turn to the third area in which changes are needed for the Union's future: institutional reform.
The European Union cannot sweep the issue of how its institutions work under the carpet.
The institutions of 1997 are the same as those of 1957.
But there are no longer six Member States at the Council table.
The Treaty of Amsterdam still has to be ratified by a number of Member States, but a number of measures that do not require any amendment to the Treaties can already be envisaged.
I am convinced that a great deal can and must be done without further ado.
I am happy to say that there is a growing awareness of the need for much greater coordination, in both the European Council and the General Affairs Council.
Since 1995, much has been done to improve internal management and budgetary discipline.
Since 1995, as I have said, the number of proposals for new legislation has declined.
Since 1995, there has been greater consultation before proposals are made at Community level.
And, before the Treaty of Amsterdam enters into force, the Commission will formally amend its guidelines on legislative policy.
We will be developing this reform throughout 1999, through in-depth debate on the tasks and role of the Commission in tomorrow's Union, through a detailed analysis of our internal structures so that we can reorganise them around new priorities, and finally through far-reaching efforts to modernise our management.
I fully intend to use the new powers that the Treaty of Amsterdam confers on the President of the Commission to see this work through.
The key elements have already been identified: reducing the number of Commissioners and re-weighting the votes in the Council, while also extending qualified majority voting to all areas.
However, we undoubtedly need to do even more than this if we want the Union to function more efficiently.
As the Commission has said in Agenda 2000, it is probably premature to discuss the details before the process of ratifying the Treaty of Amsterdam has been completed.
But we do need to start thinking about the content and the timetable for these reforms and to set clear deadlines from 1999 onwards.
The Commission will make its thoughts on this known in due course.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here, in a few words, you have the message that I intend to convey at Pörtschach and subsequently.
As always in the history of the Community, the main challenge is to translate ideas on Europe's future into action.
Mr President, when I see how far we have come in recent times, it gives me confidence in our shared determination and capacity to make the Union a true model for the world of the 21st century.
Mr President, it is with great pleasure that on behalf of my group I welcome to Parliament the first Chancellor of Austria to hold the presidency of the European Council.
I thank him very much for being here to take part in our annual debate on the state of the Union and listen to our views about the future of Europe.
It is, in my view, a sign of the times that our heads of state and government are meeting in informal session to discuss the direction in which Europe is travelling.
If Pörtschach can breathe new life into the vision of a united Europe by pointing the way forward on these three concepts - peace, prosperity and security - then it will be setting a new and relevant agenda for the coming years.
Europe is a tool to deal with the problems which confront us across the continent and globally.
With economic turbulence continuing from the Far East to Russia, with increasing pressure on Latin American economies and currencies we have witnessed a paucity of political leadership.
President Yeltsin has struggled to keep a government - any government - in the Kremlin and we have all been compelled to watch the personal and institutional trauma of the American presidency.
It is Europe which is promoting innovation in the global economic and monetary structures.
It is the euro which is creating a significantly new element in Europe's favour in that economic turbulence.
The questions which are crying out to be answered are the same throughout the Member States and the same issues that are demanding answers in the European discussions as well: how to create jobs in a global market; how to reform the social welfare systems of Europe without denying help and support to those who truly need it; how to save the environment for the future; how to deal with the scourges of racism, drugs and terrorism; how to train and retrain individuals to cope with the challenge of information technology; in essence, how to create a dynamic, prosperous economy with social justice.
But amongst the people in our Member States, the institutional debate is long past its sell-by date.
That is common to all parliaments, particularly to new ones, such as we are.
But today the Union has even greater vocation.
Those who give more than a cursory glance at the global environment in which we are working cannot fail to see the significance of the European Union: its ability to act together for its 370 million citizens; the potential power of its economy with a single currency; its opportunity to offer a coherent chance to its young through coordinated action for employment for the future; its traditions of tolerance and openness and its sophisticated social model.
If all of this can be harnessed with a greater and expanded model of cooperation in foreign and security affairs so that the Bosnias and Kosovos of this world can be prevented - not just stopped once they have begun, but prevented - then we are truly offering something new for the future.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I think we can assume, Mr President-in-Office, that we all endorse your call for a European social market economy model.
The incorporation of visa, asylum and immigration policy into Community law provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty is a step in the right direction.
We must also regard the process of enlarging the European Union as a factor of security policy.
This is an extremely important project, in view of the situation in Russia.
If we focus clearly on this objective of exporting security, our citizens will find it easier to identify with the process of enlargement.
The people of Europe, whom we represent here in Parliament, will also find it easier to identify with a common foreign and security policy.
The evidence of the European Union's impotence in the Balkans and in the Middle East does not exactly enhance the people's confidence in this Union.
And, above all, we must restore the credibility of the EU as a whole and of its institutions.
Mr President, ours is a Union that has shown itself capable of extraordinary achievement when it combines vision with political will.
Vision and political will have brought us to the threshold of launching the euro in 71 days' time.
Internally and externally our economic relations are set to reach a new plane.
My group believes that to do this the presidency must develop proposals to ensure that the European Central Bank, together with the Euro 11 Council, assisted by the Commission and accountable to this Parliament, fully develops the external representation of the euro.
There are few areas where our policy pretensions and our actual effort stand in starker contrast than in the area of common foreign and security policy.
My group believes that foreign policy is an area where decidedly we need more Europe, including a Europe with a security and defence capacity.
The great prize which it offers is political and security stability across the wider continent.
For the ELDR this is a Union both wider and deeper with a political and social as well as an economic mission, but also with the institutional capability to see it through.
We welcome the green light given to Cyprus but it now requires a deeper EU-led engagement to resolve that problem under the aegis of the United Nations.
My group commends in particular the progress made by the Baltic States, in the economic field in Lithuania and in human rights in Latvia.
Concerted action can have a positive effect, provided it is not founded on the values of the lowest common denominator nor on any retreat from the 1951 Geneva Convention's fundamental approach to asylum-seeking as an individual human right.
Finally, we remain concerned about the fight against fraud in the Union, an issue with serious potential to undermine the institutions.
We believe it is important to maintain a sense of proportion, but also where there is wrongdoing to ensure full accountability which so far, regretfully, has either been unforthcoming or begrudging.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the informal meeting of the Heads of State or Government, due to take place in Pörtschach at the end of this week, should mark an important stage in the history of the construction of Europe.
But this method has today reached its limits.
With a single currency, which must undoubtedly be used to promote employment and growth, the European Union, enlarged towards the centre, the east and the south of our continent, must have the will, if it wants to survive, to play an international role that corresponds to its economic power and its historical and cultural heritage.
The European states will not be able to go on avoiding the following question: what immediate and effective action could they take if the borders or territorial integrity of a Member State were threatened by a third country?
Our group believes that the institutions of the European Union should focus their efforts on three main aims: to create a social model, to make progress towards institutional reform with a view to political union, and to strengthen internal solidarity, extending it to the countries included in enlargement.
The major features of the social model are full employment, the conservation of the environment and democratic control of the economy.
As regards institutional reform, we are hoping for something more than a rhetorical message from the forthcoming summit.
We hope for compromises concerning the balance - a new balance - between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament; the strengthening of democratic accountability and the development of a genuine spirit of European citizenship, compatible of course with the existence of the Member States.
Such a peace is already being achieved in Northern Ireland, following the end of terrorism and the political dialogue championed by our colleague and recent Nobel prize-winner John Hume.
Elections are to be held in the Basque Country this coming weekend, in a peaceful atmosphere we totally support, and which the European Parliament must support.
We want to see more women on the Union family photos when a summit is held in Europe.
It is in this area that the political union must exercise its authority in order to also impose global political regulations.
To conclude, our colleague Mr Voggenhuber will be speaking about the European summit in Pörtschach, but I would like to end on two points.
The drama of foreign policy which is once again being revealed over Kosovo is that there is not in fact any common foreign policy at all.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the European Council, Mr President of the Commission, on the eve of the informal summit in Pörtschach, the first summit under the Austrian Presidency, what state is the Union in?
Recently, in Vienna, a number of Members of the European Parliament attended the ceremonies commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in which Austria participated, and we can vouch for its efforts in this respect.
A statement from you in this direction would be very welcome.
As regards the necessary reform of the institutions as a result of enlargement, I know that you are waiting for the final ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam before you really tackle this issue.
In a third fundamental area, that of the Union's finances, the Austrian Presidency can make a valuable contribution on resources and expenditure.
Finally, can we avoid reviewing the method for calculating the contributions of our different countries?
Once again, the Union has appeared hesitant and absent on the international scene in recent months.
Given such a mass of institutional problems, the Treaty of Amsterdam takes the wrong route, that of the super-state that reduces the quality of democratic control in Europe.
That is why our group has tabled a completely different resolution with detailed proposals, which is also, in fact, a programme for a Europe of nations, and for a Europe that is based on national democracies, which alone are capable of adequately representing our values in the world ahead of us.
In my opinion, it would be quite an achievement if, on the eve of enlargement and the adoption of the euro, Pörtschach were to contemplate the deepening of the Union and Europe's new position in the world, because both the external representation of Europe and a means of balancing stability with growth will clearly have to be addressed.
If employment really is one of our aspirations, how can we establish a link between Europe and employment policies unless we create a relationship between stability and growth?
It is therefore necessary to continue building a European democracy and to determine a new balance between the institutions of the Union.
We have sent an important political message to national parliaments by drawing up this resolution together with some of their representatives.
I agree with what he said: there is a need for both more and less Europe.
For example, our foreign policy has need of appropriate institutions, and in the field of employment it should be possible to take decisions at European level, but by the same token there should be more delegation of powers when it comes to implementing decisions, so as to create a fresh equilibrium between the Member States and the Union, because there really is a problem here.
Last of all, I believe that certain things can be done without amending the Treaties; others cannot.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, on behalf of our group, I wish you a warm welcome on this first occasion that you have addressed Parliament.
I should also like to thank you for paying homage to the historic work of German Chancellor Helmut Kohl.
This debate on the state of the Union is taking place in a climate of uncertainty.
Together, our countries have regained the monetary sovereignty which they had each individually lost.
Although there was scepticism among some, hostility among others and indifference among a great many more, we should consider ourselves fortunate that we concentrated our efforts on this monetary union.
I believe we are now in a position to enter into new undertakings.
Our group therefore wonders whether it would be possible to speed up the harmonisation of legislation on internal security.
Its independence and right of initiative must be safeguarded.
In these three institutions, we always conduct a positive debate on the state of the Union.
Today, I should also like to pay tribute to him and say that his message must be accepted by all of us as an essential message for Europe.
The problem with the European Union is not the much-discussed Brussels centralism; it is the weakness in decision-making, the poor capacity to resolve problems on the part of the national governments and therefore of the Council.
The focus of power in the European Union lies in the Council, the heads of government and the national governments.
We in the European Parliament, the Members and the Commission will gladly help to promote the project of European integration in the interest of all our citizens.
But without doubt it is primarily up to you, up to the national governments to do so.
The recent direction which this debate has taken is profoundly depressing for those of us who want to see a European Union which is capable of having a positive impact on the development not just of the present 15 Member States but also on the new democracies in Central and Eastern Europe which have applied for membership of our Union.
The proposal to renationalise 25 % of the CAP budget is nothing less than a partial dismantling of the common policy in agriculture.
This review should lead to a reform of both the CAP and the structural policies in order to prepare for enlargement but, equally, in order better to serve the interests of the people concerned by these policies in each of our Member States.
The continued viability of family farms in all our countries is under threat because of a number of serious factors, such as the BSE crisis and often unfair competition from third countries.
Farming and food production are the essential elements in the economies of rural areas in all parts of the Union.
Madam President, we appreciate the desire of the President-in-Office of the Council to make progress towards a genuine political union, in order to promote employment and the development of the social model.
We believe that it is particularly essential for the European institutions to assume their responsibilities in the face of the international financial crisis and the very real slowing down in growth that is bound to ensue.
The present circumstances force us to review the effects of the budgetary stability pact and the EU's monetary policy on the different national situations.
The Community is going to have to take initiatives to support economic activity and, in particular, to create plans for sustainable development.
The resolution by the Committee on Institutional Affairs is right to recommend qualified majority voting and to balance subsidiarity with solidarity.
The Commission cannot move forward without a Council that assumes its political responsibilities.
The European Parliament itself has a duty to promote public debate on the basic choices in economic, financial and social policy, in cooperation with the national parliaments and the civil society.
It must therefore reconsider its duties towards citizens, employers and trades union bodies, with a view to allowing them to become more involved in our institutional system.
Many of us fear this meeting will turn out to be the most expensive boat trip in the history of the Union.
But so far the Council has not even managed to produce a binding timetable.
Since the decision on monetary union, we have been promised that European integration would be given a social dimension, that instead of a market and money-based Europe, we would have a political union, a social area.
No sign so far of a coordinated economic policy, of an end to fiscal and social dumping throughout Europe!
Mr President-in-Office, there are some things we do know about the future of Europe.
We know that it can only succeed as a democracy, that it must overcome the division of Europe, that it can only flourish in a climate of social peace.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, from one year to the next, the report on the state of the Union sends out the same message of self-satisfaction.
Mr President of the Commission, your message appears to me to convey a certain weariness, because we are all aware of the artificial nature of the construction of Europe.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when Chancellor Kohl and Jacques Chirac wrote to Tony Blair a few months ago calling for Europe to be brought closer to the people, they were speaking from the hearts of many.
But it does not want any quarrels about Agenda 2000 or net contributors.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, what does the future of the Union depend on?
It undoubtedly depends on two major advances.
The first is related to the need to define, codify and validate, through democratic consultation, the nature of the contract between the Union and its citizens, on the basis of the European social model and the values we hold dear.
We must also provide ourselves with the tools to exercise our responsibility and to assume our dynamic role, in the midst of global chaos, in order to contribute to better regulation.
The agenda is already very crowded.
It is only the start: you must then also make a success of Vienna, whose timetable is very full with the national action plans on employment and the question of the external representation of the euro.
We know full well that the issues at stake are very complex, that the deadlines are short, and that the process of enlargement is already under way.
Let us now look briefly at the broad institutional guidelines as we would like to see them, on the basis of the proposals made by the chairman of our Committee on Institutional Affairs.
I have nothing against the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance, but they are not the most important generator of social transformation.
I would like to make a last comment on subsidiarity.
This principle must not serve as a pretext for renationalisation.
Madam President, two questions spring to mind in the context of this debate on the state of the Union and the Pörtschach informal summit.
First, what is the true state of the Union, and second, what can we hope for from the Pörtschach informal summit to help us out of the state we are in?
I believe, following the recent elections in a number of Member States - and the declarations by the Prime Minister of a certain small but rich Member State which is part of the European Union, threatening to veto the whole of Agenda 2000 if he does not receive a cheque like the British one - that what we are witnessing is, at the very least, a renationalisation of the Community debate.
For its part, the Commission must overcome its internal differences - it should be remembered that the ECHO case has shown up the differences between four Commissioners - and resolve to work in tandem with our Parliament, setting a course for the project of European integration.
I believe that this fact and this decision cannot be repeated and confirmed often enough in this House.
In my country, Flanders, there are still a great many problems connected with the transposition into Belgian law of the European directive of 19 December 1994 on voting rights for European citizens.
Both the Maastricht Treaty and this binding directive itself were approved with a simple majority in Flanders, despite the fact that under Belgian law a constitutional change to voting rights should only have been possible on the basis of a two-thirds parliamentary majority.
This supremacy in practice of a European directive over the Belgian Constitution means that Europe can override the constitutions of the Member States, which to my mind cannot be in line with a correct interpretation of the Union as a union of states in the sense of the binding Karlsruhe decision.
But we must take this process seriously, and it must be followed by further steps towards genuinely enhancing Europe's role in the world.
I also believe that if we give this sign that we are taking a positive attitude to the enlargement process at the beginning of the negotiations, we will also be able to hold a very open and honest debate on the Commission's progress report in Vienna in September.
We will get a discussion going, because it makes sense to determine rules for Members before the elections to the European Parliament.
Firstly, the report that the Commission presented for the purposes of the decision on own resources does not contain any Commission proposals or guidelines on future own resources.
However, the Cardiff European Council instructed the Commission to examine several lines of thought, precisely in order to facilitate negotiations relating to the Agenda 2000 proposals for reform.
The Commission has done its duty simply by indicating the possible lines of thought in order to make the negotiations in the various Member States easier.
However, at this stage, the Commission has only made the negotiators aware of the possible lines of thought in one direction or another.
As for the rest, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with all those who have told me that, in order to ensure its future, the European Union must be closer to its citizens.
You know that this was, in fact, the leitmotiv of my investiture speech before the European Parliament, and I support all the efforts of the Austrian Presidency in this direction.
Europe is not just a market and the euro is not an end in itself, but they are important instruments for defining and promoting a European model of society, a model of growth based on the spirit of solidarity, where economic and social cohesion must remain one of the fundamental pillars of the construction of Europe.
This must be the spirit behind the debate on subsidiarity: in my opinion, subsidiarity and solidarity are two sides of the same coin, two sides that cannot be separated if we truly want to build a Europe that is closer to its people.
As for the rest, I am convinced that Europe can fulfill its responsibilities on the international stage, within the framework you mentioned, Mr President-in-Office.
That is where the European Council must intervene, and where the deliberations of the Heads of State or Government can give fresh impetus so that Europe can face up to its responsibilities to its own citizens and its partners, as well as its responsibilities on the international stage.
Thank you, Mr Santer.
In a world ravaged by one crisis after another, European stability is regarded highly even by those, who, for various reasons, have opposed European cooperation.
This is seen, for example, in opinion polls, which show that the single currency is growing in popularity while, at the same time, support for the European Union, which gave birth to the euro, is diminishing among our citizens.
A common economic and monetary policy requires greater coordination on economic policy between the Member States than ever before, in order to guarantee effective development in the future.
In economic policy we have to pay special attention to those areas of European cooperation which our citizens judge to be important.
The international economic crisis is unfortunately creating pressures for Europe too.
The initiative still to be discussed this year on the EU's northern dimension will create much-needed sustained and systematic cooperation between Russia and the EU.
In economic cooperation with Russia we have to stress the absolute necessity of making genuine structural changes, such as in the banking and administration sectors, and for this we need to redirect the TACIS cooperation programme for Russia.
We are seeing a certain increase in consensus on the idea that institutional reforms are necessary, but at the same time, this consensus tends to relate to very subtle aspects.
This lack of fundamental thinking is what is causing the drift I was just referring to, a minimal drift towards reforms that are almost non-existent.
I think that it is time to show concern about this drift and to protest against this worrying development, for enlargement requires a fundamental reform, not only of the Treaties, but also of our customs, our administration and our political will.
As the former French Prime Minister, Raymond Barre, put it, in the European Union, the more we are, the greater the problems.
Madam President, the informal summit next weekend and the one due to be held in December will be of major importance for political life in Europe.
Moreover, the European elections in June 1999 and the reappointment of the Commission are approaching.
As far as the content is concerned, I think that recent election results in the Member States have clearly demonstrated people's desire for proactive policies, such as on employment, their refusal to allow the market to determine most political decisions and their demand that the social model that workers struggled so hard to achieve through this century should be maintained and developed.
Article 138a of the Maastricht Treaty is more or less a dead letter.
The responsibility comes down to the national parties.
Secondly, fleshing out the concept of European citizenship, another aspect of European democracy, is proving very difficult.
Not enough non-national Community citizens take part in European and local elections in every country of the European Union.
Fourthly, how can we make European political life more interesting, with a little imagination, but without amending the Treaties?
Neither Jacques Delors, nor the members of his association, myself included, are exactly frivolous people.
Europe is increasingly being seen as a single area.
For a long time now, we have been living in a Europe that is a successful, uniform economic area, but so far we have not had a corresponding legal area to regulate and protect economic activity on the basis of social justice.
The Amsterdam Treaty is certainly a huge step forward, but it also represents a major programme of work for the European Union.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the future of Europe presents us with some major questions, to which we must not give trivial answers.
The crux of the debate on subsidiarity lies in the fact that the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties have shifted the EU power structure more towards common policies, and that this fact has simply not yet been recognised in national policy-making.
Without it, the European Union will not manage to achieve Agenda 2000 and enlargement eastwards.
The German writer Peter Schneider is constantly being disappointed in his hope for a perfect Europe because the dynamic of a strong and viable internal market created by a single currency is not being reflected in other policy areas.
That is why monetary union offers the European Union an historic opportunity to successfully master the consequences of globalisation.
The crises in Russia and other parts of the world on the one hand and the progress in price stability on the other show how very important the euro is to European and international monetary stability.
Here I would appeal to the presidency of the Council and also to the Commission finally to give Parliament an equal say in coordinating economic and employment policy and finally to conclude the interinstitutional agreement with us, so that we can play our part in promoting this important and necessary progress in the Union.
We in Parliament organised the democratic dialogue with the European Central Bank; the first monetary dialogue has taken place, but now we also need to see progress at political level, as also at international level.
The euro will prove to have its own dynamic and establish itself on the markets and among the people.
We also need to organise measures for the real economy, so that as from 1 January 1999 this euro-11 zone can contribute to constantly improving the state of the Union.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I share many of the views already expressed in this debate.
I would nevertheless stress that 1998 has undoubtedly been a landmark year in the history of the European Union: it has seen the establishment of the single currency, a crucial push towards closer integration among our countries going well beyond its face value.
Thanks likewise go to the governments, which have ceded part of their own sovereignty for the purpose of attaining a major, historic common goal and, first and foremost among them, the government of Chancellor Kohl, who has left the leadership of his country after 16 years but has ensured himself a place in the history of the Union.
However, this success should not distract our attention from the fact that the Union needs to rest on a more solid foundation if it is to play a more important, determining role.
The serious problem of unemployment, the inadequacy of the common foreign and security policy, as well as the long-awaited reform of our institutions, in my view constitute the real challenges which still require an appropriate response.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the main aspects of this debate are Agenda 2000, the stubbornly high levels of unemployment and the early warning signs of an economic recession.
On Agenda 2000, I have to say that it only makes sense if it helps to strengthen the economic and social cohesion of the European Union.
We must stop vacillating between Keynesian and monetarist solutions and find a policy mix to overcome this crisis.Thirdly, the economic recession.
The debate is closed.
I do not think it is a good example of progress in the Union for an e-mail to take almost 5 days to go from Brussels to my constituency office.
However, aspects which may have to do with the internal environment of the workplace, the working environment, are not included.
I shall be voting in favour, on condition that the individual Member States are given the right to maintain or introduce stricter requirements - in other words, only if Amendment No 6 is carried.
It is to be welcomed that the Council's common position meets the main demands from the first reading in Parliament.
Lange report (A4-0364/98) The proposal for a directive to reduce exhaust emissions from heavy-duty vehicles is part of an overall Community strategy and follows on from the directives reducing emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles recently adopted by Parliament and the Council by conciliation procedure.
The new set of agreed proposals goes far beyond the original text included in the European Commission recommendations and will certainly guarantee that new passenger cars and light commercial vehicles will in the future be less polluting than in the past.
The legalisation before us today is an intrinsic part of the programme of reform being implemented by the European Union to comply with the guidelines laid down by the participants at the Kyoto conference.
These vehicles must therefore be covered by the Community strategy for reducing CO2 emissions as soon as possible.
The report is basically a sound one, and I voted in favour.
Spaak report (A4-0357/98) The report by Mrs Spaak on the progress achieved by the Union in 1997 asks that the forthcoming adjustment of the European Treaties for enlargement be used to try out a more Community-based method of decision-making led by committees of experts.
In addition, I cannot understand why this idea is not taken up in the De Giovanni resolution on the political future of the Union.
Perhaps chairman De Giovanni also has his doubts.
National parliaments must put forward proposals and give their opinions, according to each country's system, before the final Council in the negotiating mandate they vote to give their governments.
We cannot therefore support paragraph 11.
We cannot therefore support what is said in paragraph 20, indent 4.
It is therefore becoming increasingly essential to establish precise rules in order to ensure a new balance.
The slightest hint that the IGC had failed would spell disaster for the negotiations already under way and would bring all the applicants' efforts to a standstill.
We think that the Amsterdam Treaty is good, and we want to see how it works in practice.
We know that negotiations between the European Union and the six prospective members from Eastern and Central Europe who are set to accede to the European Union in the early part of the next century is due to commence in November next.
The President of the European Commission, Jacques Santer, has already gone on the record that another intergovernmental conference will be held to reform existing European Treaties so as to ensure that the enlargement process can take place in a structured manner.
I fully agree with the general principle that decision-making procedures within the European Union must be reformed but any reform must take place in a balanced and open manner.
Certainly the Single European Act introduced the cooperation procedure and the Amsterdam Treaty has extended the power of codecision for the European Parliament in many fields of political, economic and social activities.
I believe that this is very important particularly from the perspective of smaller Member States like Ireland who recognise the importance of maintaining a nominee to the European Commission.
What I am saying here on the record of the House is that any future intergovernmental conference must maintain the right of smaller Member States to nominate a member to the European Commission at all times.
Lindqvist (ELDR), Eriksson, Seppänen and Sjöstedt (GUE/NGL), Gahrton, Holm, Lindholm and Schörling (V), Krarup and Sandbæk (I-EDN), in writing. (DA) Among the events that took place in 1997, the Amsterdam Treaty was signed and over 50 000 people protested against the EU in Amsterdam, while the negotiators - behind closed doors - thought that they were looking after the interests of the population.
We are opposed to the implementation of certain provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty before it has been ratified.
The report also goes further than the Amsterdam Treaty requires with regard to foreign and security policy.
The meagre report submitted to us for our consideration and its sparse content lead us to wonder about the usefulness of a procedure that requires Parliament to give its opinion in plenary on the 'progress' achieved by the Union, six months after the presentation by the Council of a report that is no less meagre and that itself relates to the previous year.
This assessment of the 'progress achieved by the European Union' in 1997 naturally includes a chapter on the common foreign and security policy.
What the non-existence of the European Union on the international stage demonstrates is quite simply its lack of political existence, which is inherent in its nature.
That will not make a good common foreign policy.
They show us that when Europe is not present through its major national diplomatic figures, it is not present at all.
One very clear example of this was the second Iraq crisis where, contrary to what happened during the first crisis, Europe played a significant role of its own in preventing an imminent conflict.
Denying the will of nations to be independent through the procedure of majority voting is even more dangerous for foreign policy than for any other field.
We did not support paragraph 8 which calls for the extension of qualified majority voting to all decisions except those of a constitutional nature.
Parliament's rejection of Amendment No 2 was surprising.
This made the obvious point that any failures in the EU's efforts to resolve the crisis in Kosovo result far more from an absence of political will than from institutional considerations.
Working people in all the Union's Member States but also in the countries about to join have only one way to resist those choices and that policy.
Mr Schwaiger, I have already told Mr Konrad that I have noted what he said.
The NATO decision on 16 October to extend the deadline for the withdrawal of army units and the special police to 27 October shows that we will not countenance any Yugoslav departure from its undertakings.
This mission is to monitor respect for UN Security Council Resolution 1199, adopted on 23 September.
The EU will provide the bulk of the mission, with 1 000 observers or even more.
The hard core of the mission will be provided by the KDOM, the Kosovo Diplomatic Observer Mission.
This monitoring on the ground will be supplemented by NATO airspace monitoring which is already under way.
Secondly, we have a precise timetable for concluding an interim agreement between the Belgrade central government and the representatives of the Kosovo Albanians.
An agreement on the basic aspects of a political solution is to be concluded by 2 November.
The basis for it is the document on the status of Kosovo endorsed by the EU Balkan Contact Group and the OSCE presidency.
Thirdly, it is planned to determine by 3 November the procedure and rules for holding general elections for a provincial parliament and local self-governing bodies, including the courts, monitored by the OSCE, within the next nine months.
Fourthly, Serbia will guarantee the Kosovo Albanians and other ethnic groups in Kosovo full equal rights, covering all national and religious rights, within a Yugoslav legal system.
In Vienna yesterday Austria set out the ongoing and planned future EU activities on the return of the refugees.
In any event, NATO is now prepared for armed intervention if President Milosevic does not comply by 27 October with the concessions he has made on paper.
On the second priority, the humanitarian situation: the main task of the EU special envoy for Kosovo, presidency ambassador Wolfgang Petritsch, is to coordinate the European Union's humanitarian activities with those of the international humanitarian organisations, while also acting as a contact both for the Belgrade government and between it and the Kosovar political leadership.
The presidency responded at once with a declaration on 15 October and a protest by the presidency's ambassador to the Belgrade Foreign Ministry on 16 October.
The representatives of independent media are now in constant contact with the presidency, various embassies, NATO, the UN and the OSCE.
We must make it clear to Belgrade that such measures are incompatible with membership of international organisations such as the Council of Europe and the OSCE and are strictly condemned by them.
We hope we shall be able to report concrete progress at the next Kosovo debate here in the European Parliament.
In order for this progress to be made, the European Union, the Council, Commission and Parliament, the OSCE, NATO and the UN, together with other international players concerned with the stability and fate of the people in this region, will have to continue to take a common approach.
That is not only a prerequisite for the peaceful return of refugees and displaced persons, but it is also absolutely necessary to allow aid workers to do their work without personal danger.
Last but not least, the absence of violence and the fulfilment of the obligations of President Milosevic will also determine the political climate in which a political solution will have in the end to be negotiated.
We congratulate the presidency on all its efforts in the last couple of weeks.
That is why it is important that deadlines are kept, particularly 2 November.
It is also a beginning in the sense that what we now need - and we have seen it all before in Bosnia - is the full commitment of the international community to the stability and security and reconstruction of Kosovo.
I would like to see, as Commissioner van den Broek has indicated, us tightening the sanctions and looking to work on a further UN resolution that goes beyond 1199 and makes it very clear that military force could be used if Milosevic does not adhere in every aspect to this agreement.
I really do not want us to go back to the tragedies, particularly of the last three or four weeks, when the entire situation went beyond anything that any humane person would be prepared to listen to and be prepared to watch.
The negotiations are a tactical ploy by Milosevic, they are his survival strategy.
Posterity will remember our impotence in Bosnia and Kosovo in the same way that our parents remember Hitler's first years in power, when he exploited the weakness of the western powers.
Perhaps in a few years a painter will create a similar work which he will call 'Srebrenica'.
On the contrary, we must praise and thank the USA which fortunately - unlike ourselves - is able to step in when we disintegrate because of our divisions and national special interests.
The European Union must exert every possible diplomatic pressure to back the agreement achieved and demand respect for democratic principles and human rights, together with the reforms mentioned in connection with Kosovo.
However, NATO military intervention in an independent state outside its jurisdiction and without the agreement of all the permanent members of the Security Council is also no simple matter.
What is more, no real action has been taken for over ten years in support of peace and the non-violent protests of the Albanian population under the leadership of President Rugova.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Kosovo is still problematical and confused, and Milosevic remains utterly unreliable.
Despite NATO vigilance and the presence of a few OSCE observers on the ground, according to the press the bombing in Kosovo has resumed over the past few days.
We wonder why the European Union, so attentive to human rights issues, is not drawing up a more effective and hard-hitting policy.
Two weeks ago, I stood here fearing that NATO would be intervening in the Kosovo conflict.
We then also expressed support for taking a hard line against the government in Belgrade, but at the same time we hoped that this would not result in a rift within the United Nations and that a political solution was perhaps still possible.
Both parties are responsible for implementing the agreements.
On this basis, and after full implementation of UN Resolution 1199, we can begin negotiations on the future of Kosovo, without preconditions.
The solution which has now been achieved could be described as the least worst solution, but it is nevertheless a solution which could mark the beginning of a process in which the problems concerning Kosovo can be resolved.
We in Europe should provide the necessary support.
I am pleased to hear that NATO is now ready to intervene militarily if Milosevic fails to honour his undertakings by 27 October at the latest.
Implementation of Security Council resolution 1199 has not even been negotiated with Milosevic, only the points he wanted to discuss were dealt with.
Yesterday I listened carefully to the eulogies that were bestowed on our colleague Mr Hume, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, for his work towards an agreement in Northern Ireland.
A Hume mission must go there, and quickly.
I have no doubt that our Parliament is determined to put pressure on the Council, as shown by its applause yesterday, in order to avoid not only destruction and death among the Serbian people, but also a real outbreak of violence in the whole region.
And here we are making a mistake.
So it is difficult to decide how to judge his present concessions in the Kosovo conflict.
It was indeed Mr Holbrooke who negotiated this agreement, but he acted on the basis of our instructions and, as you know, within the Contact Group.
We now have that political agreement, but of course I think it is most important to continue exerting military pressure.
That is at least a first step.
I see no point in continuing with my speech, since neither the relevant Commissioner nor the Council is present.
They should develop one as soon as possible, having done the same thing for much more remote areas, and of course it will have to be a policy with a long-term European and Community perspective.
I have been saying for some time that we will not achieve a peaceful settlement in Kosovo without the threat of military attack.
As I said, this would not just engender corresponding support for the forces of nationalism, for example in Russia, but perhaps also keep Milosevic even more firmly in the saddle.
That is why we should not play with fire, Mr President, but keep to a sensible but hard line, as we have done in the past.
The Commissioner has just correctly stressed that he has no confidence at all in agreements with Milosevic.
I wonder whether this is really a good policy, and whether Mr Holbrooke, who - as I have understood it - was acting in part on behalf of the European Union, could not have achieved a better result.
Secondly, it was unfortunately again the United States and not the European Union, even though Yugoslavia is our neighbour, which led the persistent and difficult negotiations and pressure that produced this peaceful resolution.
I would like to ask why it is that the European Union, the Commission and, indeed, all of us are so keen to take up the cause of Kosovo, of the Kosovo Albanians, and even resort to military threats, but when it comes to occupied Cyprus or the Kurds, the Commission is happy not only to turn its back on threats and political pressure, but even to manipulate policy so that finance for Turkey can go ahead.
Thank you, Mr Cushnahan.
The debate is closed.
Economic crisis in Latin America The next item is the statement by the Commission on the economic crisis in Latin America.
There is a difference between the real economic situation and the situation of the financial markets.
This difference is particularly marked in countries like the Latin American countries, which basically have a fairly stable economic situation that offers some good prospects, while at the same time being threatened by financial uncertainty.
In 1997, Latin America's economic performance was the highest in decades.
Average growth in the region was over 5 %.
Per capita GDP rose by more than 3 % and inflation tended to fall throughout the region - certainly not to the level we consider acceptable here at home, but what is important here is the trend.
All the Latin American governments have also set themselves the aim of achieving general economic stability through reforms, and the majority of these governments have carried out some radical reforms, based on sound financial management and economic openness.
This means that the economic decline in Asia will certainly affect some countries more than others, and that despite greater diversification and the increasing importance of the processing industry and the services sector, raw material exports will continue to play an important role and therefore also make some countries economically vulnerable.
The Asian economic downswing will, therefore, necessarily be reflected in these countries' current account balances.
We are convinced this decline can be absorbed.
Although growth has also slowed in Argentina in recent months, we believe the country has solid economic foundations and that the reforms introduced earlier this decade are now having an effect, and a very positive one too.
This guarantees that Argentina will be able to meet its financial obligations by the end of March next year.
It is also a clear sign that the international community will also help other countries - if it proves necessary - which means we have good reason to evaluate Latin America's future realistically and also positively.
You know that we are taking very practical steps in many areas: both political but also, where necessary, financial measures in the area of industrial cooperation, and of course in the area of traditional cooperation.
My group is concerned for the citizens, for social stability and democracy.
We must make a determined effort to tackle the debate on the workings of the international financial system in what is now, to all intents and purposes, a globalised economy.
The joint resolution takes this approach and is a positive step which will have a calming effect and spread confidence in those markets most affected by the crisis.
What the Commissioner neglected to mention was that in the meantime the European Union, its institutions, and almost all the Member States have failed to become involved in the debate and consequently in providing solutions, maintaining a silence which has baffled everyone, our Latin American partners most of all.
It is bad enough that the European Parliament has not made time to debate the situation until today, but it is even worse that the European Commission has shown itself totally lacking in initiative and that the Council has been unable to adopt any decisions on the matter.
Fiscal and monetary discipline, liberalisation and regional integration have been the key elements of Latin American economic policy in recent years.
My group therefore supports the call made at the recent summit of Latin American nations for discussions to be held with a view to establishing minimum rules of conduct where major flows within the financial and economic worlds are concerned.
So you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, how pleased I am that, in the hope of extending it to the Union as a whole and to the Member States, this initiative has been included in the joint motion for a resolution with which this debate will close.
Responsibility for developing the initiatives and putting forward further measures now rests with the European Commission.
In this connection, I think it is worth mentioning, Commissioner, how very low the utilisation of the budget allocation for Latin America has been - barely 2 % in the first six months of this year.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I must say how much I welcome Commissioner Bangemann's statement and the concern both he and the Commission have expressed regarding a situation which is affecting international financial and economic stability.
I have reflected on the reason behind the progressive impact of this international financial and economic crisis which has hit the economies of Latin America so hard.
When we speak as Europeans - in my case, as spokesperson for a group on the left - we do not wish to be prophets of doom, but we do wish to register our concern.
We feel that the responsibilities we have acquired through our role as Europeans require us to respond to the serious challenges posed by the loss of production, loss of employment and drop in salaries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis that is currently gripping more and more regions in the world and therefore also Latin America is not a disease, but the logical consequence of a world economy that has gone awry.
In the face of the growing poverty in Latin America, it would be cynical of us once again to miss the opportunity to incorporate brakes in the financial roundabout.
Fresh money, new investment must remain in Latin America; at least they must remain there for a minimum period, and they must be used to support local production and promote local consumption.
If we do not put a stop to this domino effect, there can be no guarantee that the United States or the European Union itself might not soon be affected, even though their economies are solvent.
Mr President, the scale of the financial crisis that is affecting the countries of Latin America, as it is affecting nearly all countries with emerging economies, and the extent of the impact it is bound to have on the European economies and particularly on the countries in the euro area, have been largely underestimated in Europe up until now.
Our primary task as responsible elected representatives should be, on the contrary, to consider the true reality of the crisis as it stands, even if this in fact threatens to make the introduction of the euro more tricky than we thought and might even lead us to question the possibility of introducing a new currency in the middle of an international financial upheaval.
The declaration that has just been made by Commissioner Bangemann on Latin America is at least a sign, in part, of this essential return to realism, and we are beginning to see such signs in various quarters.
The Asian and Latin-American financial crises and their effects on the value of the dollar could indeed be the first asymmetrical shock to affect the various countries of the euro area.
It is in this context that we will be able to judge whether the euro really acts as a shield or whether the countries of the euro area can together withstand the wide gap between the very heavy constraints of the single currency and the shocks that each of the countries is going to suffer as a result of the crisis, to different degrees, in different sectors and at different times.
Chile is the country where investment is being made and where financial reserves are increasing.
In 1973, the situation was different.
Then a republican officer took a stand: General Pinochet.
These countries are certainly stable economically.
Let me refer you to paragraph 9 of our motion for a resolution, in which we call for a special fund - something which has been discussed in the past - supported by the international financial institutions, to help Brazil cope with the present difficult situation.
We would be exactly where we were in the early 1980s, namely confronted with a disastrous situation in which the ordinary people, the people of Latin America, have to pay the price for the inability of the financiers to maintain order in the world.
It so happens, Mr President, that although those countries agreed to the clause on democracy in their cooperation agreements with the European Union, they receive the worst treatment, in real terms, under the Community budget.
In such difficult times, the European Union cannot and must not shirk its responsibilities, nor may it resort to silence.
Measures should be taken with all due respect for human rights; equitable growth should be pursued in both Europe and Latin America, without applying different standards.
Finally, excessive liberalisation should be avoided, since that serves only to make matters worse, and we should put an end to unconditional guarantee funds, which have contributed to the disaster in Russia.
Today the economic and financial crisis in this region has had very serious consequences, and not only for the people there.
We must improve the quality of management systems, supervisory systems and, in particular, financial systems, on an international basis.
Mr President, dear colleagues, Commissioner Bangemann, it matters little that the fundamentals of the real economy are sound, as you said at the beginning of your speech, because in a monetary economy, a market economy, the disease always comes from the money side.
Brazil has raised its interest rates to 50 %.
Next year Brazil will have negative rates of growth: -2 or -3 %.
You can understand how that will exacerbate the poverty and misery in that country, which are already considerable.
We are asking them to reduce a deficit of 7 % in Brazil to 2 or 3 %, as if they were going to join the euro.
President Cardoso spoke in favour of introducing a Tobin tax.
For four years we have been talking about a Tobin tax and we have not made any progress.
Between $40 and 100 million say the specialists - that money does not exist in the financial institutions, Mr Commissioner.
If Brazil falls, any person in a responsible position will tell you that Wall Street will fall and if Wall Street falls the consequences for Europe will be terrible.
Certainly, the Latin American markets are future markets for us.
Naturally we welcome the idea of a financial package for Latin America, geared to creating new jobs and boosting domestic consumption.
The World Bank has already assisted Argentina; it could obviously do likewise for other countries.
Unless the European Union can assume a leading role in the shaping of a new international monetary system, the much-vaunted launch of the euro could result in partial failure, like a Ferrari without an engine: good enough to display in the shop window, but not to set out on the long road towards international solidarity.
Mr President, the economic crisis in the world today clearly demonstrates the fact that few countries are immune from the consequences of economic shocks in other parts of the world.
If Latin America is plunged into deep crisis, this will inevitably have a very serious effect on the American economy and pose the threat of a world crisis more serious than any since the pre-war era, which could devastate Europe.
However, the present crisis has shown that such policies leave their practitioners vulnerable to events totally beyond their control.
Structural adjustment programmes, liberalisation and fiscal reforms have also frequently involved cuts in health, education and social and poverty alleviation expenditures, and these should have been avoided in the past and must be resisted in the future if poverty is not to be rapidly increased and demand further reduced.
The crisis in Latin America and in the world as a whole should alert us to the necessity of questioning the neo-liberal policies which became the conventional wisdom and seeking to construct a new model of development involving regulation at the global level, a new international financial agreement, reform of international financial institutions and a new deal to reverse the trend to ever greater income inequality and vast poverty.
Mr President, I very much appreciated Mr Bangemann's introduction, and I believe there is no need to stress that - as virtually all the previous speakers have said - the violent financial turbulence which has hit all markets in recent months, sparked by the crises first in Asia and then in Russia, could have particularly serious adverse effects on the economy of Latin America.
This possible development is all the more worrying, given the efforts made in recent years by most of these countries to stabilise their economies and equip themselves for a satisfactory move into world markets.
The first green shoots are nevertheless emerging, as proved by the growing interest in that area on the part of economic operators, in terms of both financial flows, trade and investment in production.
Unfortunately, our assessment is less upbeat in the case of countries claiming to be friends of Latin America, in particular the European Union.
Indeed, despite the Commission's efforts and the support from this House, the selfishness and short-sightedness of certain Member States - more concerned to protect narrow farming interests than to develop a broad-based vision of international economic and hence political relations - are preventing the launch of initiatives which could have extremely important repercussions, primarily for Latin America but also for Europe.
Mr President, I would like to draw three lessons from this.
The second lesson to learn is that the problems of balance of payments or of collapse of credits are not simply problems of credit or of advancing the necessary liquid assets.
The market is the result of a civilised legal and political structure.
There have been others, and the fact that at a given time things may get out of control, for very specific reasons, must not make us give up.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, last spring I had the honour of being appointed rapporteur of a Parliamentary report on a Green Paper dealing with the convergence of telecommunications, the media and information technology.
Bytes are not neutral.
Competition already exists, for example, among the telephone and the cable television networks and between the fixed telephone network and mobile phones.
They will naturally remain a matter for the Member States, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
A new environment for communication services also provides opportunities to improve the quality of life of European citizens by offering the consumer more choice and lower prices.
This is not in keeping with the economic and social importance which the Green Paper on convergence rightly awards to information technology.
The relatively high cost of data and telecommunications in Europe and the lack of security on the Internet means that electronic commerce has so far remained principally limited to the transfer of data between large companies and their suppliers and customers.
Measuring computer use or Internet use, for example, is just one of the elements.
National legislation for telecommunications or for information technology or for printed media alone must therefore be adapted.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder why this curious combination of vulgar Marxism and speculation keeps cropping up whenever we discuss the information society.
According to Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, technology is the motor of development, which is simply not true.
Vague ideas about where market opportunities might exist do not help open up markets; what helps open up markets is careful regulation, investment security, definite rules.
Mr President, in drafting this opinion, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights set itself the prime objective of studying the legal problems presented by the phenomenon of convergence.
This infrastructure despecialization erodes the traditional distinction between telecommunications and broadcasting, and is bringing about a debate on the desirable regulatory changes in this sector.
The Committee on Legal Affairs therefore felt it was important to adopt a functional approach that is not limited to the three options proposed by the Commission's Green Paper.
It therefore calls on the Commission to do its utmost to ensure that digital TV decoders in Europe are compatible in future and to draw up a draft directive to close the remaining loopholes, notably in the protection accorded by consumer law to consumers of goods or services offered via new technologies.
The Green Paper and the report defined convergence as growing together and interchangeability of networks and channels for communication, and, in addition, the integration of distinct technologies in the new forms of applications and services.
The divisions of the past into the technical areas of voice telephony, broadcasting and new services have led to a complex legislative and regulatory framework which has arisen due to a variety of different technologies being applied.
These technologies made the distinction between a telephone call, a television broadcast and an Internet page access quite pronounced in terms of delivery and content.
Therefore, the delivery mechanisms will not greatly affect the way in which these services are delivered or consumed.
The Commission's Green Paper and Parliament's response make those arguments.
It is too soon to say anything for sure, because there are still too many unknown variables.
I wish to congratulate the rapporteur warmly on his first report in this Parliament, in which he has endeavoured to strike a balance between the various demands.
Using my notebook computer, I was able to follow in real time here in Strasbourg.
Lastly, I should like to inform the President and the rapporteur that Amendments Nos 1 to 4 in the Swedish version of the text make no sense at all.
Thank you, Mrs Thors.
Mr President, first and foremost, I wish to pay tribute to the rapporteur for the preparation and presentation of the report.
Such developments represent concrete examples of an information society that has the potential to touch the lives of every citizen in the Union.
The changes described in the Green Paper have the potential to substantially improve the quality of life for all the citizens of Europe.
They will also have the effect of assisting the process of integrating the regions of Europe in the heart of the European economy.
On the separate but related matter of media pluralism, I support the recent initiative by the Irish Government to maintain free access to major sporting events for all viewers.
Legislation must be enacted which ensures the principle of equality of access for all prospective viewers to our important national sporting events, such as hurling and football, all-Ireland finals and, of course, the Irish Grand National.
The Member States of the Union must not lose sight of the fact that cultural and regional diversity can only be protected if national sporting events are accessible to all viewers who wish to see them.
Mr President, there is one aspect of this debate on the Paasilina report that I find especially important and should like to highlight.
This report was approved in committee by 49 votes for, 1 abstention and 2 votes against (those of our group).
We believe that convergence in the sectors of telecommunications, the media and information technologies, in the framework of the information society, should not mean treating everything as if were merchandise, ignoring cultural specificities and identities, or calling into question the notions of creation and copyright, intellectual property or the fundamental concept of public service in this area.
Maintaining current Community regulations and setting up more flexible regulations for the mixed interactive services offered by the Internet fulfill the requirements of public interest and also the need to take cultural concerns into consideration.
This means that priority would be given to a combination of options 1 and 2 proposed in the Green Paper, as advocated at the Birmingham Conference.
Moreover, the European Union, which has already lost the battle of Hollywood, is in danger of losing the battle of Silicon Valley if our various Member States do not realise the urgency of regaining technological control by putting in place a common multimedia policy.
Other speakers here have commented on how this whole world of telecommunications and broadcasting and transfer of data has changed in a relatively short time.
What seems very clear is that the market can deliver on some of this but there is a need for clear rules at European level about much of it to make sure that the European industry remains in the forefront of these changes.
Time is pressing, but very briefly, what two points must be taken into account in this move towards a global regulatory framework?
The second rule is competition.
Whereas, on the one hand, the huge transmission capacity generated by digital technology will reduce the pressure on a shortage of transmission channels and on the public utilities, on the other hand new forms of public or private monopoly could arise - I refer in particular to the Microsoft case, which we are all currently following with interest - and the rules of competition might need to be reviewed in the light of new technological opportunities, so as to reorientate alliances along these lines.
The Paasilinna report recognises some of the risks and dangers of this approach, but it is based overall on the respect for competition law.
I am wondering which is the real Paasilinna, Paasilinna I or Paasilinna II?
It is like the films: Rambo I, Rambo II.
Personally, I am in favour of Paasilinna I and against Paasilinna II.
There are 70 million in the United States.
Silicon Valley is in the process of taking over all our minds, as my colleague Mrs Leperre-Verrier rightly said, and here we are, saying that maybe we could...
How we move forward towards an information society is a very important matter, and I wish to make three points in this respect.
The role of public service companies is the third area I wish to cover.
Mr President, both the Commissioner and Mr Paasilinna are tackling a difficult subject, and I pay tribute to their commitment and efforts in this field.
In short, traditional legislation is changing.
I would therefore ask the Commissioner if on that point he envisages strictly enforcing the rules of competition.
However, it is not right that citizens' rights should be denied in its name and that the interests of the market and the monopolies should be put first.
This debate has brought to mind the first discussion we held on what we have called the information society.
Because he was far more of an individualist than those people.
The competition rules remain in force.
We can telephone through the Internet.
That would be like having a discussion on agricultural policy in the context of economic policy in which every farmer asks whether his son can still be a farmer in the future.
You could say that if Newcastle United played against - I can't think of an Irish club at this moment - let us say some Dublin team, the game must be accessible to everyone.
The problem is that if this game is to be freely accessible, can it only be made accessible by a public company or could a private TV company do so too?
It would have been nice to have answers or contributions to the debate that could have helped us on our way.
I would, however, say that there can be no information society without rights, either in Europe or the world at large.
But that is something different from the traditional rules, directives and regulations we normally produce here.
Thank you, Mr Bangemann.
The debate is closed.
This question was at the root of the debate we had in the Subcommittee on Monetary Affairs and in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on this own-initiative report that I have the honour to present to you.
The first use of these reserves is to enable intervention in the exchange market when there are major disruptions and especially when there are attacks against the currency concerned, which are mainly massive sales of currency that cause the price to fall.
In other words, once the reserve of 50 billion euros has been set up - in fact, as 50 billion euros was planned for 15 countries, this sum is reduced to 40 billion euros for 11 countries, 39.46 billion euros to be precise -, we can estimate that the excess that will remain in the coffers of the banks that are members of the ESCB will represent around 400 billion dollars.
I held the opposite opinion in the debates in the Subcommittee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and I would like to thank my fellow committee members for supporting me on this point, and particularly Fernand Herman, who improved my draft without actually altering it.
It will be, above all, another great world currency, as President Jacques Chirac called it, and its role as an exchange stabiliser will be the first truly positive act in the world monetary system since President Nixon's unilateral denunciation of the Bretton Woods agreements on 15 August 1971.
The euro is a new currency, it has been well received by global operators since it has become clear that it is really going to come into circulation, and on the global monetary market it will find itself mainly in competition with the dollar, while the ESCB will have a reserve of 400 billion dollars.
We therefore need to be extremely cautious and, as a consequence, not lose sight of the fact that the quality of the euro will be assessed according to three main criteria.
The second will be the ability of the directors of the European Central Bank and the ESCB to give credibility to the management of this currency, notably through the amount of outstanding credit that will be granted.
The third will be the response in terms of reserves in the event of 'disfiducia ' concerning our new currency.
I will conclude with two points.
Our committee thus approves the decision dated 8 July to make an initial transfer in gold of 15 % of the exchange reserve assets from the national central banks to the European Central Bank.
The privilege of being a global currency therefore also brings responsibilities in respect of the global economy.
The question now is whether or not Europe is prepared to take on, even if only in part, this role currently played by the United States.
The euro zone will grow rich at the expense of the rest of the world, but are we going to give the rest of the world anything in return, apart from a stable currency to hoard and to pay with?
Although this would not be good for the internal economy, as it would worsen our competitive position, it could prove necessary as a result of our global responsibility.
It would be the quickest route to a situation in which Europe would also contribute to economic recovery in Asia, the former Soviet Union and Latin America.
The Giansily report argues against doing this at present, partly in the belief that a more expensive euro is undesirable at the present time.
In fact dealing with the crisis will entail coordinated action and international cooperation, which unfortunately does not seem to be happening at the moment, especially between countries whose currencies occupy an important position in the world economy.
It is also vitally important to lay down clear rules for the exercise of the powers granted by the Treaty to the national central banks, so that decentralised foreign exchange interventions can be effective and will not go against the objectives we hope to achieve.
And this is precisely where foreign exchange reserves play a major part.
Mr Giansily expresses, in fact he endorses, an opinion that states that a level of exchange reserve assets of around 400 billion dollars would be excessive in terms of international standards.
We feel, however, that the need to have the ability to intervene in order to prevent disruptions on the currency markets has been underestimated.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Giansily report explains extremely well how part of the reserves of the national central banks will be pooled in the future single currency system and how the relations between those banks and the European Central Bank will be organised in order to manage them.
Article 31 of the Statute of the ESCB mentions the possibility of authorisation from the European Central Bank for the most significant operations carried out by the national central banks.
This authorisation is therefore provided for in the Treaty, but it is quite an outrageous procedure concerning reserves that, in principle, remain entirely the property of the Member States.
You know, Commissioner, that the French Minister for Economic Affairs, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, took a very clear position on this before the French National Assembly.
When he was questioned on 31 March by members of our Assembly's committee on finance, he stated very reassuringly that the ECU 50 billion that is the sum of the contributions to the European System of Central Banks will remain the property of the various Member States.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to recall that, two months away from the introduction of the euro, some very important issues have still not been clarified, such as the exact degree to which the Council is involved in defining the exchange-rate policy, the democratic control of monetary union or the resolution of liquidity crises.
The International Monetary Fund has recently expressed its concern about this, stating that there will be an increase in systematic risks to the banking system at the time when the single currency is introduced, due to the fact that a large number of important decisions have not been taken.
A successful speculative attack on the single currency during this phase could in effect have serious implications for the European economy and do considerable damage.
Here the situation is markedly better in the United States and Japan.
With more support for research and innovation, we could manage to make our firms more competitive and thereby give impetus to employment policies.
The report concludes that the 330 billion in foreign reserves can ultimately be reduced.
The American Federal Reserve Bank keeps relatively smaller reserves, and in the future the US situation will be comparable to that of Europe.
The Federal Reserve adopts a policy of benign neglect with regard to the dollar's external value, comparable to what is expected to be the approach of the European Central Bank.
The central banks themselves also have cause to keep an efficient quantity of foreign reserves, since in future part of the income from foreign reserves will be added to the reserves of the national banks.
I should like to thank the rapporteur for this fine report.
Commissioner, it has been said, with slight Gallic exaggeration, that the introduction of the euro is the most important event which has taken place in Europe since 1917.
Conditions inside and outside the Union have changed since the Washington Conference two years ago, at which these matters were first raised, and even since the spring, when the decision on the countries to be included in the first group was taken.
but his plans to use some of the reserves of the euro zone Member States' central banks - an idea shared, as it happens, by Lionel Jospin - for taking a major political initiative to boost economic recovery in Europe, with job creation as the main target, fail to provide the necessary safeguards.
It is true that, with the advent of the euro and stage three of Economic and Monetary Union, the exchange risk inherent in transactions using national currencies will be considerably reduced.
Of course, there will no longer be a need to intervene in the exchange markets in order to stabilise exchange rates between the currencies of the participating countries, and this obviously removes the need to keep reserves for this purpose.
Firstly, even after the introduction of the euro, on 1 January 1999, the exchange reserves of the euro area will still be considerably less than those held by the main Asian countries.
However, China does not have a convertible currency.
By definition, this is essential for the sound running of monetary policy and for defining interest rates.
Thank you, Mr de Silguy.
The debate is closed.
and resumed at 9 p.m.) Protection of workers The next item is the report (A4-0353/98) by Mr Correia, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a Council Directive amending for the second time Directive 90/394/EEC on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work (COM(98)0170 - C4-0310/98-98/0093(SYN)).
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report deals with the Commission proposal amending for the second time Directive 90/394/EEC on the protection of workers from the risks related to carcinogens at work.
The choice of 5 mg/m3 is not based on any scientific evidence but it seems to me to be pitched about right.
We cannot say the same of the types of wood covered by this proposal for a directive.
Bearing in mind that the vote in the Committee on Social Affairs on these amendments was unanimous, we hope that the Commission will accept them and amend its initial proposal.
The carcinogenic effects of hard wood, as we have just heard, have been of the greatest concern to the European Union's Member States.
Those kinds of problems have to be solved under our system by the directives themselves.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has decided to apply the precautionary principle in this matter and propose that the directive cover all hardwood trees.
Now that wood dust is covered in the directive on carcinogens we can only hope that the Commission will produce new proposals as speedily as possible to supplement this directive and lower the limit values set.
Mr President, there is still a need for minimum directives in the field of the working environment, so I am glad that the Commission has taken this initiative.
The Scientific Committee has concluded that dust from other tree species is in all probability also carcinogenic.
The Commission does not explain why it has opted precisely for 5 mg.
The Scientific Committee has not given an opinion on the matter.
In many Member States, the limit is much lower than the 5 mg proposed by the Commission.
Experience from these countries shows that it is a relatively simple matter in purely technical terms to adhere to these limits.
We must therefore, at the very least, oblige the Commission to examine the question of lowering the maximum values as early as two years after the directive has been implemented.
While the other issues are relatively easy to resolve, the problems of hardwood dust are more difficult.
A strict interpretation of the term by Member States, in so far as one is technically possible, could not only signify an end to furniture production, but could also pose a threat to the production of hand-crafted work.
Within a context of globalisation, the EU cannot cut jobs by laying down excessive requirements, which would lead for instance to the creation of yet more jobs involving higher health risks for workers in third countries.
However, I will, of course, be voting in favour of this report.
I have asked the Commission what progress has been made in drafting a directive to ban the use of asbestos in new applications.
Mr President, if we support the social dimension of the European Union, we must give it practical expression by giving priority to the protection of the health and safety of workers.
The aims of the proposal are relatively straightforward.
This is an important initiative within the Community's efforts to guarantee better protection of workers from the risks related to carcinogens at work.
Secondly, with a view to simplification, we are taking this opportunity to incorporate the provisions of the Council directive on vinyl chloride monomer into the directive on carcinogens.
Amendment No 1 stipulates that the provisions relating to wood dusts will only apply to existing places of work after a transition period.
If a Community instrument were to impose such a duty on Member States, it would conflict with the principle of subsidiarity.
What is more, it would set a precedent and, in our opinion, it would be a mistake to suggest subsidising employers to fulfil their responsibilities in terms of the health and safety of their workers.
Amendment No 4 sets out to fix limit values for wood dust at a level which rules out any risk to workers.
The second part of Amendment No 5 is deemed superfluous, given that the Commission accepts the first part of this amendment.
My final comment relates to Amendment No 9: it is unacceptable to the Commission because the date of entry into force of the directive must coincide with the repealing of the directive being replaced.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 10 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to come straight to the point, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights welcomes the Commission's initiative.
The single European market has created an integrated financial market, and this has lead to increased competition and the free movement of persons and capital in Europe.
On 1 July 1994, the 'third-generation' insurance directives came into force, creating the conditions for an insurance undertaking to do business in the entire territory of the Community.
The single market in insurance is based on the principles of mutual recognition and uniform authorisation, and makes it possible for insurance companies that are registered and authorised in one Member State to do business in any other Member State in the context of freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services.
The inexact legal concept of the 'general good' is used in the Third Insurance Directives with respect to services as well as freedom of establishment, and means that in each case of cross-border insurance activity it must be ensured that the application of national legislation to foreign providers of services can be justified for compelling reasons of the general good.
The Court of Justice has partly already clarified matters by means of judgments; some cases are still pending, and there are others in which the Court has not yet intervened.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights very much welcomes the fact that the Commission itself has made it clear in its draft communication that its communication does not in any way prejudge any interpretation of matters by the Court of Justice and is not normative.
As we know, over recent years we have adopted a considerable body of legislation aimed at achieving a single market in this sector.
It is obvious to us all that the single market is just not working in this sector, especially when you look at the high cost of car insurance in my own country, Ireland.
Member States have had sufficient warnings.
The Commission must make full use of its powers under the EU Treaties, especially Article 169, to open up the market.
Member States are adding too many cumbersome requirements to European directives, thus making it difficult for insurance companies to operate in other Member States.
A single European market should be seen as an opportunity rather than a threat.
I am very surprised that she was working in an insurance company 30 years ago: I did not think she was that old, so she wears her age well.
I welcome the Commission's initiative in this area.
Regrettably, this has not happened and, clearly, no real single market in insurance exists at the present time.
Finally, I hope that with both this Commission initiative and the introduction of the single currency, we will witness more transparency, more shopping around by consumers and, consequently, the eventual creation of a real single market in insurance.
In fact, as the report states, the harmonisation achieved through the directive of 5 April 1992 has not prevented insurance undertakings wishing to operate in Member States other than the one where they are domiciled from having to comply with cumbersome requirements imposed by the host state.
True, the relative failure to establish an internal market in insurance is not due solely to the tendency to interpret the general good clause in a biased way.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, both the Commission communication and the report by Mrs Mosiek-Urbahn deal with a central concept in the interpretation of Articles 59 and 60 of the EC Treaty on the freedom to provide services.
We know that in its insurance judgment of 4 December 1986 the European Court of Justice identified the 'general good' as justification of the restriction of this freedom to provide services.
I hope that in future this will be a reason for many policyholders to be thankful to both the Commission and the rapporteur for their commitment to the freedom to provide services.
Almost four years after the entry into force of the third insurance directives, the European passport system which they introduce has already had a major impact on the operation of the market.
Our contacts with economic operators - insurance companies, brokers, insured persons and consumers - lead us to conclude that the main reason for this lack of integration is the Member States' diverging interpretations of two fundamental concepts of Community law: freedom to provide services and the general good.
Clearly, there are legitimate targets for protection by the Member States in the name of the general good, the most significant being perhaps consumer protection.
Improper use of this concept by Member States can be avoided through compliance with the criteria established by the case law of the Court of Justice: non-discrimination, proportionality, necessity and non-duplication.
In order to remedy this situation, the Commission deemed it necessary to draw up the draft interpretative communication in terms which clarify its proposed interpretation of the concepts of freedom to provide services and the general good.
The report from the Committee on Legal Affairs focuses mainly on the question of the general good, which is in fact the main issue dealt with in the communication.
It is clear, however, that this interpretation by the Commission can neither be binding on Member States nor impose fresh obligations on them.
Encouraged by this resolution from the European Parliament, we shall now be even better placed to complete our work by adopting the final version of this interpretative communication.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 10 a.m.
It seems that these preferential tariffs are subject to a certain amount of fraud, and the irregularities that have been uncovered, for example, amount to the very substantial sum of ECU 220 million.
We would also like to add that we must raise the awareness of and encourage greater action on the part of the Commission's delegations in the partner countries, which should play a driving role in this field.
This binding information procedure gives some sort of customs validity to the products for three years.
At the beginning of his report, he rightly points to the importance of the preferential arrangements in Europe's trade policy.
Not for nothing did the Council ask the Commission in May 1996 for a study of the matter and for proposals to improve the system.
What I have in mind is more flexible and simpler rules of origin and improved cooperation between Member States and beneficiary countries.
Amendment No 5 is from our Committee too, and takes up the Council's question.
The Commission's communication is helpful, but does not go far enough on these points.
So it is up to the European Parliament and the Council to act.
The present situation is bad not only for the least developed countries, but also for firms in the European Union.
I say this because I think this system of preferences is viewed from within the European Union as a kind of concession to the developing countries, whilst the developing countries themselves see it above all as a minor concession, in areas where the European Union is struggling and setting import duties which are far too high, largely to protect farm products produced within the European Union itself.
The rules of origin should be radically revised, for example, but perhaps we should concentrate the whole system rather more on the really poor countries and not have to keep adapting the current system in this way.
That responsibility, as the rapporteur has said, has to be shared.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, I am always concerned with speaking out in favour of fair structural conditions.
If we do not close the loopholes that facilitate fraud we will compound our problems, resulting in increased cynicism and hostility towards the European Union.
Mr President, preferential tariff arrangements have become a mainstay of the European Union's external economic relations.
The second type of rules is much more up-to-date and was adopted by the Community in 1992 through the Customs Code; its purpose is to promote trade.
At the same time, I am aware of the administrative shortcomings in certain third countries, which create both economic and legal uncertainty for operators.
These are the guidelines contained in our communication of July 1997, the thrust of which was to prefer a global approach to this problem on the grounds that - as I said a moment ago, and as I think has been confirmed by this evening's interesting debate - to focus on an individual aspect in isolation, neglecting the others, would not lead us very far.
This same reasoning was followed by the Internal Market Council on 18 May 1998.
The Commission is therefore of the opinion that the following should be promoted: first and foremost, a responsible approach by all operators of these arrangements and better cooperation among them; secondly, improvements in the rules on origin; thirdly, greater awareness in the beneficiary countries and an offer of assistance to their customs administrations; and fourthly, an examination with the Member States of customs-related and financial measures to be adopted.
The challenge for the future is the need to combat fraud effectively, whilst at the same time shouldering our responsibilities to third countries and to economic operators.
I am gratified to note that the Committee on Development and Cooperation broadly shares the Commission's intended approach in this difficult area, and I hope that Parliament as a whole can endorse this reasoning.
Mr Rübig, we see assistance and cooperation between administrations and, in the final instance, penalties as complementary.
The debate is closed.
