Many of us will be using the services of the company LSG Lufthansa Skychef.
Mrs McNally, that is a matter for individual Members.
Under this Rule, the President should have asked if there was a speaker in favour and a speaker against the motion, before putting it to the vote.
I think it will encourage the security service to continue its activities for the benefit of us all. (The Minutes were approved) VOTES Mr President, I am sorry to speak now before the vote has begun but my comment relates to the first amendment on which we will be voting.
Mr Donnelly, we will decide when we come to Amendment No 106, and then I will give the floor to Mr Fabre-Aubrespy.
As regards the admissibility of amendments, on the same basis that you have just declared Amendment No 106 inadmissible, I ask you to also declare inadmissible Amendments Nos 83, 81 and 80.
They are therefore inadmissible.
I also ask you to declare inadmissible Amendment No 109, presented as a compromise amendment.
In any event, if you apply Rule 115 you must first ask for the Chamber's approval and I do not believe you can obtain this on this amendment, which was submitted after the deadline and as a compromise amendment between two political groups, and which furthermore seeks to replace all the amendments relating to the same article.
Finally, Mr President, I would point out that the voting order which you give in the voting list does not correspond at all to Rule 115, that we are dealing with an own-initiative report to which Rule 50 applies, that this own-initiative report includes a resolution and that, in a resolution, it is customary to vote first on the recitals, then on the articles, and then on the annexes.
I can tell you now that, as regards the compromise amendment, the House will be asked to decide whether it is possible to vote or not, pursuant to Rule 50.
The precedents are that when we have dealt with similar texts, based on a treaty which is in the process of being ratified but aimed at opening negotiations with a view to the position subsequently being formalised in the treaty, Parliament has previously used the legislative procedure.
On Amendment No 27 Mr President, one of the phrases used in this text we are voting on is not clear to me.
Mr Rothley, you have an opportunity here to tell us your position on Amendment No 41 which is about to be put to the vote.
Mr Rothley, if this phrase is adopted, there are transitional provisions.
After the vote on Article 4 Mr President, according to our voting list, there should be a separate vote on the principle of a transitional regime.
We have taken the vote, Mrs Thors.
We do not put principles to the vote, especially if we have decided on a text.
I pointed that out before the vote.
Just because we have now said that this sentence does not belong at this place in the text but at a different point, you cannot simply rule that the matter has been decided. (Applause) Since you ought to respect the will of Parliament, I strongly urge you to proceed in strict accordance with the voting list and take a vote now on the principle of a transitional arrangement.
The Rules of Procedure say that we normally vote on texts, and the significance of the vote was very clear.
When the House votes, I cannot go back on its decision, whatever voting list there may have been.
The voting list provides an indication for the groups.
I cannot now go back on the vote.
The House has decided that there are to be no transitional provisions, because it has rejected the text in which those transitional provisions were established. (Mixed reactions) Mr President, at the beginning you said this was a very complex, difficult and sensitive vote.
The interpretation you have just made runs counter to the way in which this vote has been ordered by your services.
We were all led to believe, according to the voting list drawn up by your services with ours, that there would be a vote on the principle of the transitional regime.
In Article 4, which contains three numbered paragraphs, you will find in paragraph 2 the sentence 'Transitional provisions shall be adopted for the duration of the fifth parliamentary term'.
According to the voting list, Amendment No 26 still stands, and it does refer to these transitional arrangements.
You confirmed this interpretation on three occasions and you were right because the House did indeed pronounce on the transitional system for the fifth parliamentary term.
But you cannot now put to a roll-call vote the principle of a transitional system for the duration of the fifth parliamentary term, following a very clear vote which you yourself ordered, which took place and in which a majority in this House voted in favour.
You were extremely clear just now and our colleagues must know that, in the House, reference must be made not to a paper prepared by the groups, but to what the President says, who conducts the vote.
Thank you, Mr Pasty.
When we come to the vote on Article 11a, as proposed by the PPE Group, this question will arise again.
If, at that point, the majority wish there to be a transitional regime, they must vote in favour of the text which I am about to put to the vote.
That will depend on the implications of that vote.
We shall then see whether the House simply wishes that Parliament should establish this transitional regime in the future, or if it wishes to do so now by means of the annex.
In this way, everyone can see how to vote.
You have changed the voting order, but before doing so you should have asked whether or not there are 29 Members or a political group which oppose this.
You have put to the vote an amendment which concerned another part of the text when we were busy with the vote on the main text.
However, Amendment No 26 has been adopted by the House, which thus establishes the transitional regime.
Before, I could not go against the text of the Statute, but now the text of the Statute says that there is to be a transitional regime.
Mr President, after the last vote, I would now ask that you put immediately to the vote the other amendments tabled by the other groups to the effect that we should not have a transitional period.
Mr President, this House has voted on the matter of the transitional period.
I want to know whether a proposal in the annex overrules the earlier vote on the draft Statute, namely not to have a transitional period.
Before the vote on point A of the annex 'For the duration of the fifth parliamentary term, the following Articles 1-5 shall apply by way of a transitional arrangement'.
Those who vote against this paragraph simply want to have Article 11a.
That means that the transitional regime will be established afterwards by Parliament.
Those who vote in favour of this text want the transitional regime to be the one in the annex, as adopted by the Legal Affairs Committee.
We have adopted Amendment No 26 which says that this House will establish a transitional regime.
Now I need to know the decision of the House on one point, namely if this transitional regime is the one established in the introductory paragraph of Annex 1 which I have read out.
This is what was proposed in the text drawn up by the secretaries-general and what you have in the voting list.
I have divided the principle into two parts: first the transitional regime itself, then what that regime will be.
Mr President, could we just make it clear, when you ask whether there is to be some other provision or whether we will go ahead with Annex 1, Articles 1 to 4, that if the latter is approved, this does not mean that no vote will be taken on the amendments relating to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4.
No, Mr Tsatsos, we are voting on the text which, in the voting list, is referred to as the principle.
On Amendment No 25 Mr President, concerning Amendment No 25, I think the text needs to be looked at because in the original it is the other way round to how it appears in the English text.
Mr Provan, we are now voting on the original text, paragraph 1.
Before the vote on Amendment No 35 Mr President, I believe that this amendment should be withdrawn.
After the vote on recital E Mr President, it is a pity that you did not let me speak earlier.
Quite simply, we have decided that there will be a transitional regime for the parliamentary term following the adoption of the Statute.
If there is any contradiction between this text and other points as regards the time of entry into force, it will have to be corrected, since it is the text of the Statute which prevails.
If there is a contradiction with this recital, it will be corrected to that effect, but there is certainly a transitional regime.
Before the vote on the draft Statute as a whole I could speak in a moment, but as you said earlier that we are dealing with a legislative resolution, it is indeed Rule 50 which must be applied.
Rule 6 says so.
The Statute must therefore be adopted by an absolute majority of the Members of Parliament.
Mr President, in this context I think we should bear in mind that Article 190(5) of the Treaty of Amsterdam does not specify a majority for this kind of question.
Therefore, only a simple majority is needed for this document to be adopted.
Mr President, this question was discussed in detail by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights together with Parliament's Legal Service.
Mr Rothley, as you rightly say, this would apply if the Treaty of Amsterdam were in force.
As the Treaty is not in force, we are dealing with a legal initiative by Parliament with a view to engaging in a debate with the Council.
We cannot claim that we are voting on a legislative initiative, according to the proposal from your committee, and then say that the Rules concerning legislative initiatives do not apply, because the Treaty is not in force.
On Article 5 of the draft Statute Mr President, it has been pointed out to me that we voted on an amendment to Article 5 of the Statute, namely Amendment No 8, but that we did not vote on Article 5 itself.
Have no fears, Mr Rothley, we have adopted an amendment to this article which incorporated the full text.
Yes, Mrs Schierhuber, you are right, neither assistants nor group officials are allowed to sit in Members' seats.
We have adopted Amendment No 26, which states that the transitional regime is to be established during the parliamentary term following the adoption of the Statute, and we have modified the opening phrase of the annex to this effect by removing 'for the duration of the fifth parliamentary term'.
After the vote on paragraph 2 Mr President, on several occasions you mentioned the oral amendment to the text, saying - and I fully agree with you on this - that what we had voted for meant that we could not keep the concept of a fifth parliamentary term.
Before the vote on Compromise Amendment No 109 Mr President, I talked about this amendment a short while ago.
Mr President, I want to ask you if you consider paragraph 7 to be compatible with our Rules of Procedure and if it is not inadmissible in view of how responsibilities are distributed among the various parliamentary bodies?
We shall therefore first vote on whether to put this compromise amendment to the vote. (Parliament agreed to vote on the compromise amendment) I would inform the House that the groups which tabled the compromise amendment - the PSE Group and the Liberal Group - have withdrawn the phrase 'the Council position vis-à-vis'.
Mr President, you have not answered my question on admissibility in relation to the distribution of responsibilities.
Mr Cot, the opening words of paragraph 7 are: 'Calls on the Bureau to take a decision'.
On the vote on Amendment No 18 Take a look at Amendment No 18, Mr President, which must be seen as an addition to the compromise amendment.
No, we cannot go back on a compromise amendment by means of an addition, or in any other way.
I believe that just now we had articles of the draft Statute which were adopted without an absolute majority - I would ask you to check this - and, in addition, what you have just said about paragraph 2 does not seem to me as if it should apply.
I am sorry, Mr Fabre-Aubrespy.
When we approve a change to the Rules of Procedure which requires an absolute majority, we vote on the text as a whole by absolute majority, but not on the motion for a resolution, which is always adopted by a simple majority.
So when I take a roll-call vote on the motion for a resolution, as your group has requested, a simple majority will be sufficient.
On the vote on Amendment No 18 Mr President, first of all, before we take the final vote, I should like to pay tribute to your services and indeed those of the Parliamentary Groups who have made sure that this vote has gone through as easily as it has.
I would like to ask you to look once again at Amendment No 18.
You have ruled that, the compromise amendment on Paragraph No 7 having passed, Amendment No 18 cannot be looked at.
It is not in contradiction with anything that was in the compromise amendment.
There is even a paragraph referring to Annex 2, which has been adopted, stating all this and calling on the Bureau to take a decision on this basis.
I do not know whether or not it conflicts with Article 1 of Annex 2, which governs the reimbursement of duly substantiated expenses, but in any event it deals with the same subject.
Mr President, when my group presented that compromise text to you, on behalf of ourselves and the Liberals, we sent your services a letter which I am sure is there on your table.
Mrs Green, the compromise amendment covers all the aspects raised.
I am sorry, but that is my opinion.
The question has been dealt with, Mr Willockx, please read the Rules of Procedure.
The Rules Committee will decide whether I have acted properly or not.
The text on which we voted is neither of these things.
This is not the case if we approve a transitional regime.
The amendment which we adopted states that this transitional regime will only be applicable to the term after that during which the Statute is adopted.
If the Council does not adopt the Statute before July 1999 - which is highly likely, or in any case not unlikely - the transitional Statute which we have adopted will apply from 2004 and the final regime from 2009.
Yes indeed, Mrs Carlsson, you are quite right, I should have announced immediately after the votes the names of all those Members who are giving their explanations of vote in writing.
I think that all the Members who have asked to give their explanations of vote in writing will be able to do so, even if they are no longer here at the moment.
Yes, they left when we finished the votes, Mrs Carlsson, and you are right, I should have done it.
It is time - as our German colleague Mr Konrad said just now - that the European Parliament realised that it can only exercise its powers in the legislative field if it respects the Rules of Procedure, leaving aside the fact that the majority can blithely disregard those rules in order to impose its legal point of view on the minority.
Instead of that, the text adopted does no credit to this House because it seeks to solve a problem by throwing the ball into the Council's court, as I said yesterday.
I hope the Council takes this into account.
The proposed additional allowances for the President and other senior parliamentary officials, which the rapporteur had set out clearly in black and white for all to see, are now invisible beneath the silt.
Madam President, I voted in favour of this report but extremely reluctantly.
I would remind you, Madam President, that this allowance is, as you well know, a working instrument won in the last century in order to combat privileges.
I sincerely hope that in future talks, if the issue makes any further progress with the Council and the Commission, on the basis of a proposal approved by Parliament, this flaw in the system is eliminated and that travel expenses will be paid for the genuine costs incurred only.
Say the present proposal were to mean a salary of approximately SKR 56 000 - an increase for Swedish Members of some SKR 26 000 - the new system for reimbursement of travel expenses would lead to some Swedish Members losing out if a common system of allowances and expenses were introduced, since their tax-free profit on travel would disappear.
Again, I would condemn the lack of solidarity demonstrated towards those Members of this Parliament who are less well paid by some very well paid Members, who took it upon themselves in their countries to moralise at the expense of other people.
At present, MEPs receive their main salary from their respective countries and the reimbursement of expenses from the European Parliament.
The European Parliament has sought to centralise and unify everything in Brussels, taking as its basis a principle of equality between Members which exists only in its imagination.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations wants all salaries and reimbursements to be paid solely by the Member States, in accordance with the general principle of Articles 137 and 138 of the Treaty, under the terms of which Members of the European Parliament represent their respective states.
At the European Council meeting in Amsterdam, the Heads of Government agreed that Members of the European Parliament would have common, uniform conditions and that Parliament would put forward a proposal on a common statute.
We have therefore decided to abstain in the vote.
I share the rapporteur's belief that this Statute must be as clear and transparent as possible in order to avoid any questioning of motives or accusations of possible hidden benefits.
MEPs should pay tax on the same basis as their fellow countrymen.
I believe in pegging this as a proportion of a judge's salary.
With regard to travel expenses, we have constantly asked for the system to be changed so that only actual travel costs are reimbursed.
In the report, it is proposed that all Members, irrespective of nationality, should receive the same salary.
Through today's vote on the report on a statute for Members, the Danish Conservative Members of the European Parliament wish to express their support for a clear and transparent statute, whereby in financial terms MEPs continue to be treated on a par with members of the national parliaments in their respective Member States.
The EU is an association of 15 independent states.
Members of the European Parliament represent voters in their own Member State.
The whole idea of an EU tax for Members of the European Parliament is mistaken.
These are all questions which merit a clear debate, both here and in all the Member States.
There should be a link between where one pays tax and what that tax is used for.
The report contains a proposal for improving the system of Members' travel allowances.
If we had agreed - as almost happened - to separate two inseparable decisions, namely the approval of a single statute for Members of the European Parliament - in other words equal conditions for all, regardless of country of origin - and the approval of a new scheme for the payment of travel expenses on the basis of real cost, then we would have established a twospeed European Parliament.
I voted for the report in view of the difficulty experienced in achieving even this half-victory.
To me what matters most is that the discrimination between the nationalities, which is illegal under Article 6 of the Treaty, will be eliminated as a result.
The preamble to the report is to be commended.
In paragraph 6 it is indicated that some private pensions have problems finding markets.
The reserves in those funds belong to their worker-members and must not be gambled away in games on the stock markets.
I therefore abstained in some of the votes.
Caccavale report (A4-0430/98) We welcome the strenuous efforts made by Latvia, not least in terms of adapting its legislation to meet the EU's criteria in order to facilitate membership of the European Union in the future.
Together we need to create a society where people have control over their daily lives.
Bernard-Reymond report (A4-0428/98) The rapporteur would like the European Parliament to 'encourage Romania...
Wiersma report (A4-0427/98) The rapporteur says that it is too early to make a definite decision on Slovakia's application for membership before the end of 1998, but that Parliament should be given another opportunity to express its opinion before May at the latest.
The EU should therefore give the people of Lithuania a clear signal regarding future membership of the European Union.
Swoboda report (A4-0432/98) Last September, we approved the McMillan-Scott report on the development of relations with Turkey since the entry into force of the Customs Union.
I sincerely believe in the usefulness of continuing to deepen our relations.
However, I would say that now, as a result of Abdullah Ocalan's flight to Italy, the EU, OSCE and UN have a real opportunity to begin a peace process and bring to an end the 14-year war between the Turkish army and the Kurds and PKK.
Alternatively, the European Union does not in fact believe that Turkey is part of Europe, in which case it should say so outright and stop pretending otherwise.
Herman report (A4-0439/98) Madam President, it is going to prove very difficult in the future to impose a single monetary policy on a structurally diverse zone.
We have a small foretaste of this today with this motion for a Council resolution on the Economic and Monetary Union's external representation.
If small countries such as Portugal, Austria or Luxembourg have already shown their ability to preside over the fate of the Union, there is no reason why they should be considered as being of less political importance when it comes to taking part in G-7 meetings.
Bearing in mind, in my view at any rate, that the European Union should be based on international cooperation, I cannot support the assertion that 'exchange rate policy can be effective when it is supported by a coordinated economic and monetary policy' (Amendment No 1, recital 8).
Randzio-Plath report (A4-0441/98) It is to the credit of Mrs Randzio-Plath's report on the global monetary and financial crisis that, for the first time, we find the beginnings of doubts expressed about the benefits of the euro.
The report also stresses that 'the effects of crises on the European economy may not be evenly distributed, as individual Member States have different trade exposures to different parts of the world economy', which again expresses the fear that Europe will be the victim of an asymmetrical shock which a single monetary zone such as the euro zone will not be able to absorb without demanding important sacrifices of its population.
However, it was for another reason that we did not vote in favour of the Randzio-Plath report, namely because it ends with a very dubious call for an increase in European investment expenditure in order to halt the slowdown in growth.
On this latter point, we must find a way of reconciling our principles of solidarity with more flexible social protection management.
The international institutions should also be reviewed, including the Bretton Woods institutions such as the IMF, which has now been in existence for 54 years.
The European Parliament is also missing an important opportunity to play its role in the 'democratic dialogue' with the ECB which it regularly calls for, because by being too slow to cut interest rates Europe risks being caught up in a spiral of reduced growth and then having to take urgent action.
I abstained in the final vote on this report because Parliament did not comply with the rules governing a quorum laid down in Rule 112.
