I would just like to inform the House that in the part of Scotland I represent the local authorities of North Ayrshire, Renfrewshire, East Renfrewshire, Clydebank and Dunbarton and East Dunbarton are proudly celebrating today, Europe Day.
Madam President, at last I stand before Parliament to present my report on the future of postal services in the Union, having been rapporteur for what seems like an eternity due to the inability of the Commission to come up with a directive in the first place.
The report I bring to Parliament today on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism is of great interest to the people of the European Union.
I have quite openly and without apology taken the view that the protection of national postal administrations is essential if that social element is not to be lost to the ravages of liberalization or even privatization.
My report, supported overwhelmingly not only by the Committee on Transport and Tourism but by the vast majority of postal administrations and trade unions, strikes a balance between improving present service levels - and I accept that in certain areas improvement is needed - and ensuring that a universal service can be offered to all the citizens of the European Union, irrespective of whether they live in a busy city centre or a sparsely-populated peripheral area.
It is my belief that citizens living in the Shetland Islands or the west of Ireland or in the Pyrenees or the Greek Islands are entitled to the same universal service at an affordable price as the citizens living in London, Paris or Athens.
If you take away both of these areas from the reserved sector, you immediately put some 20 % of the income generated by national postal administrations at the mercy of private operators, the majority of whom are American and, at a stroke, the ability to finance a universal service is put seriously at risk.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy produced an opinion which sought to strengthen and modify where necessary the Commission's draft directive.
Finally we proposed a Community initiative, possibly framed within Objective 4, for the specific purpose of addressing the social and economic effects of the technological developments in the form of a programme which we named HERMES aimed at preventing unemployment by upgrading and improving skills and qualification, which we call investing in people, and in order to facilitate the development of new jobs and new activities.
Madam President, I come from a country which is proud of its tradition of public services in general, and of the postal service in particular.
We believe that the right of our fellow citizens to public services is a fundamental constitutional right which we must defend and promote.
We believe that it is almost impossible to isolate this sector of the market, even if it were desirable in terms of maintaining the service's necessary general economic balance.
I believe this matter needs to be looked at again very closely.
Thirdly, it is impossible to liberalize incoming cross-border mail as long as there are no guarantees in terms of terminal dues in order to put an end to the piracy of some operators who adopt the policy of inadequate tariffs.
Finally, it goes without saying that Parliament must give its opinion on the directive before examining the communication in order to ensure coherency between the two instruments, and should therefore reject any motion for referral back if one should happen to be tabled.
Madam President, I welcome Mr Simpson's report.
However, of all the public utilities that could be privatized and that could be opened to competition, the postal sector is the one that has the most immediate and direct impact in a local economy, simply because the local postman or postmistress lives, works, and raises their children in the area and also in many parts of Europe is the only direct contact that people have with what is going on in the outside world.
Finally, the implication for jobs which this liberalization could have.
Brian Simpson's excellent report recognizes that postal services are, and must be, a vital, regulated part of the European single market and that national post offices should provide high quality postal services to promote easy postal communication for consumers and for businesses.
That is why it is so important to keep in the reserved sector the integrated collection, sorting, distribution and final delivery of the mail as well as cross-border mail and direct mail.
The prime aim of the private sector companies, which are trying to get the EU to allow them to cream off the profitable parts of the postal service, is to make a good profit for their shareholders.
They do not want to see bit-by-bit privatization, as profitable postal services are hived off to the private sector under the guise of EU competition policy.
Defend our European public postal services.
And it is high time we do so, given that the Commission is still threatening to set up competition rules for the postal services pursuant to Article 90(3), which would totally destroy our work here in the European Parliament.
Let me begin by raising four points which we in the Group of the European People's Party regarded as central to our work on this proposal for a directive.
The postal services are fully or almost fully liberalized in Scandinavia while there are some other European countries that have not yet made any efforts as regards their postal services.
That is why we must make sure that the margin for play set by this directive is broad enough to ensure that liberalized markets are not monopolized again and that those countries that have not so far made any efforts in this direction finally take action to improve their postal service.
On the other hand we need a long-term secure provision for the rural and peripheral areas of the European Union.
Amendments Nos 70 and 79 ensure that the universal service is restricted to what is absolutely necessary, so that we can have a good basic provision in Europe, for we consider that important too, but can also allow as much competition as possible in Europe.
Amendment No 71 to Article 13 is intended to ensure that in areas where competition already exists within the universal service, it is not cancelled out again by a uniform tariff, however rational that may be in other areas.
Finally, in Amendment No 72 to Article 15 we propose that the question of crosssubsidies between the reserved sector and the competition sector should be examined not by the national regulative body but by an independent auditor.
The Group of the European People's Party will support the compromises we reached in the Committee on Transport and Tourism on the reserved sector - although we see that as a maximum definition - and on the question of open access to the network.
Madam President, what we see today is a very good example of New Labour.
Madam President, I should like to ask the Commission why there must still be a national level of post in an internal and open market.
Let us take Italy. 29 % of the post arrives according to the standards laid down.
The Simpson report strikes the balance between improving the present service levels and ensuring that a universal service can be offered to all the citizens of the European Union, irrespective of where they live.
I come from a country where we are very proud of our public services.
If the Commission were allowed to go ahead - and I am quite sure it will not -it would do more damage to non-urban areas in the European Union than anybody here could imagine.
Madam President, after having launched deregulation in telecommunications, energy and transport, the European Commission now wants to subject the postal services to the rules of competition.
No reformer or humanist can view communication as a simple commodity to be subjected exclusively to the laws of the marketplace.
It is a right which must be recognized by everybody.
In France, postal workers and trade unions were actively involved in the social movement at the end of 1995 in order to defend the public service.
Reflecting their action, our group brought a number of amendments within the Committee on Transport and Tourism which contribute to the recognition of the public service, the strengthening of the reserved sector with the inclusion of direct mail and incoming cross-border mail, and the respect of uniform tariffs.
Acting on our proposal, the Committee on Transport and Tourism is calling for the development of postal services to be coupled with an improvement in the living and working conditions of postal workers.
After some years of resistance, the Commission has finally submitted to us a text which is 'almost' balanced and which the amendments adopted by the Committee on Transport and Tourism have helped to greatly improve in order to arrive at a coherent text able to satisfy most of the Member States and, above all, able to guarantee users - because they are the central concern in all of this - a quality service at uniform prices in the same country, whether you are on the mainland or an island, such as Corsica or the Canaries for example.
Competition, already at work in certain areas of this sector, will thus also have a framework within which it must operate but which will make it possible to avoid a certain number of abuses which could be damaging to operators and which are shamelessly committed in the name of liberalism and in the absence of regulation.
I must also of course extend my warmest congratulations to our colleague Brian Simpson who has prepared this report with brilliance, assurance and conviction.
But I could not end without speaking of one of those texts which only the Commission is able to produce, referring of course to its communication on the application of rules of competition to the postal sector.
Madam President, the quality of the postal services in the European Union exhibits unacceptably wide variations.
A course is carefully steered between on the one hand retaining a reserved sector with universal provision of services, with the official postal services able to retain their monopoly position and on the other hand in time a restricted liberalization of direct mail and incoming crossborder mail.
The Ferber amendment with limits of 1 kg and 10 kg which links up with agreements of the Member States in the framework of the World Postal Union therefore deserves support.
Madam President, I fully approve of the report by my colleague Brian Simpson, whom I congratulate on the excellent job he has done.
I thus approve of the rapporteur's fundamental positions in defending the public service and proposing a transition to liberalization which shows more respect for the benefits offered by this public service, while also respecting the positions adopted by the European Parliament in its resolution on the Green Paper.
It is also crucially important to postpone the directive's review date for reserved services until after the year 2000, thus five years after the directive enters into force, rather than reviewing it in 1998 when it only enters into force in 1997.
So it is high time to promote the liberalization of the postal services in the European single market, for we need more competition in order to improve the efficiency of the postal services and also to make them more economical for the people and the economy.
Mr Bangemann, we can actually understand that the Commission was naturally reluctant to liberalize the postal services at the same time as telecommunications, for we too believe that we should approach the liberalization of the postal services slowly and carefully, and for two reasons.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a Directive on the development of Community postal services, which we are debating today, has been very eagerly awaited as it must allow us to provide our citizens with an improved service by correcting the wide disparities between the national postal services.
The method chosen by the Commission of presenting a communication on the application of the rules of competition in the postal sector is in this respect a dangerous departure which should be firmly condemned.
The universal service has a price.
The Group Union for Europe is committed to preserving a universal postal service which guarantees equal access, adaptability and neutrality.
Madam President, on behalf of our group's French delegation I should like to say that we support the report's general approach which corrects the directive's excesses and makes it possible to reconcile the lasting guarantee of the provision of a universal postal service and the gradual and controlled opening up of the market.
In so doing, the report conforms to the position adopted by the Council on 7 February 1994, especially in taking measures to avoid the liberalization of direct mail and incoming cross-border mail.
By voting for the Simpson report, with certain amendments, we will sending a very clear message to the Commission not to tinker with the universal public service of the postal sector.
The long-awaited Commission proposal has not led to rejoicing.
The European Union ought to be able to rely on outstandingly good postal services.
The speed with which he has worked might serve as an example to many postal services in the Member States.
I invite the rapporteur and members of the Socialist Group to be bold and to welcome a limited degree of competition.
On the one hand it has presented a proposal for a directive, on the other hand we have the notice on competition rules in the postal sector.
The report brings out the main points: a universal service that really can ensure the basic provision of post for all consumers, even in outlying areas.
The reserved service, which really can support a universal service without the need for public aid to be granted.
The approach the Commission should encourage in future is as follows: regulate competition and public provision in such a way that profits are not always privatized and losses socialized!
Mr President, when we discuss the market in postal services, I think the starting point must be to regard this market as a market no different to any other, as a market which in all essential respects is, and must function, like all other markets and under the same conditions.
Experience where such deregulation has been implemented is good.
Mr President, I began by saying that different countries have different experience of the deregulation of postal services.
The aim of achieving a single market for postal services, with the ultimate objective of improving service to the consumer, had to be managed by bridging the differences between those who were advocating a complete opening of the market and those who believed in liberalizing it gradually and under appropriate conditions.
If we bear in mind that outgoing cross-border mail accounts for 30 % of the incomes of the national postal services, it becomes absolutely understandable why the fact that the Simpson report retained outgoing cross-border correspondence as part of the reserved service, not just to ensure the provision of postal services to all parts of the Union but also to ensure the economic viability of the national postal services, will avert the loss of many thousands of jobs all over Europe.
The universal service provided by our postal administrations must remain economically viable, by which I mean that we must not confine it to such an extent that the result would be an impoverishment of the minimum basic postal service to which all our citizens are entitled.
I will not vote for any amendment which would result in any diminishing of the universal service currently provided in my own country where the post office is an efficient public company which is working well.
But a well-defined universal service must also ensure continuity of good quality service.
In order to protect users of the postal service from suffering due to social conflicts in particular, I had proposed including in the directive a provision obliging Member States to set up procedures for conciliation and mediation between employers and employees in the postal sector in order to prevent social conflicts of a nature to affect the continuity of service.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the House has finally come to decide on the delicate matter of the liberalization of the postal sector.
Because we want to avoid any plan which would produce economic doubts and social failings.
This is why I should like to personally congratulate Mr Simpson who in this report has succeeded in striking the difficult balance between harmonizing measures and the gradual opening up of the market.
Our proposal regarding the content of the reserved sector covering direct mail and international mail meets this requirement.
It is important to consider the alternatives.
If these aims can be achieved by way of competition, of a deregulated market, then why not?
The Commission and I personally have nothing at all against service publique .
Let me say it again quite clearly, we have not brought up the question of privatization.
You cannot be against competition if you have the interests of the consumer at heart.
As most Members will know, when Sweden privatized and introduced competition before their entry into the European Union, it allowed the previous state monopoly to undercut the new competitors and then buy them out.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11.30 am.
Mr President, racism and xenophobia are unfortunately deeply embedded in European culture.
The European Union, European integration is intended precisely as an answer to that racism and that xenophobia, since cross-border ethnic harmony was seen as a sign of civilization and as a promise of the possibility of the reconstruction of Europe.
For that we have LEONARDO and SOCRATES, in which facilities may be found.
Mr President, many thanks to the rapporteur for this excellent report.
ECU 5.4 m has been earmarked for this project in 1966.
Above all not to shrink back in the face of those who have made racism and xenophobia their programme.
You say that racism and xenophobia reached their peak during the second world war.
I have recalled these painful passages in the report because they are the very ones to make the proposal credible.
In particular, I should like to support the proposal for a Council decision designating 1997 as European Year against Racism.
This is not a gimmick, Mr President, or a ritual, but coinciding as it does with the Intergovernmental Conference this Year should clearly express the idea that membership of the European Union is inextricably linked to certain values.
To speak solely of France, Mohamed Azza was killed by a bullet in the forehead on 26 February 1995.
That same week, Ibrahim Ali, a 17-year-old schoolboy from the Comoro Islands, was killed by a bullet in the back.
On 1 May 1995, Brahim Bouaram was thrown into the Seine and drowned during a demonstration by the National Front.
On 4 May 1996, in Sens, Mohamed Qouas was gunned down.
The Commission's proposal for a European Year against Racism responds to these objectives.
To fight against racism is to fight for democracy and to assume a fundamental mission.
I also want to convey to the Commission my great respect for its communication and thank it for the commitment it has shown in this matter.
The only thing is, the European Parliament has been adopting good reports for years, it has put forward numerous proposals and called on many occasions on the Council and the Member States not just to make solemn declarations of intent but to take real measures to combat the growing racism and anti-semitism in the EU.
The Commission rightly spoke of the need to integrate the nationals of third countries, the need for integration instead of forced assimilation, an integration that must be based on the principle of every democracy to grant equal rights to all, equal social and economic rights but equal political and cultural rights too.
We need real protection against discrimination to be enshrined in the Treaty and we need to put an end to every form of institutional racism and institutional discrimination.
In 1984 the Committee of Inquiry of the European Parliament, of which I was the chairman and the late Dimitrios Evrigenis from the Group of the European People's Party was the rapporteur, proposed in its recommendations that there should be a Year against Racism.
I thank Commissioner Flynn for actually bringing forward this proposal which we have been waiting for, as I said, for over ten years.
I will simply draw Parliament's attention to the consequences of point 20 which attempts to legislate on the history of World War II.
In seeking to ban the work by Henri Roc, devoted to the many improbabilities of the SS Gerstein report, the Gayssot Act has made it more widely known.
That is the reason why, in France, the major consciences of the left, such as Roger Garaudy and Abbé Pierre, are calling for the Gayssot Act to be repealed and a free debate on the existence of the gas chambers.
We believe that they deserve the same freedom as that which the European Parliament is demanding for Salman Rushdie or Taslima Nasreen.
I am therefore happy to be able to take part in today's debate on the two resolutions drafted by Parliament, on the one hand, on the basis of the Commission's Communication on racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism and, on the other hand, on the basis of our proposal to designate 1997 European Year against Racism.
We have therefore proposed that the employment initiative be given a new dimension in the context of the European Social Fund.
Pending an amendment of the Treaty, we will as far as possible include non-discrimination provisions in our proposals for legal acts.3.We want to designate 1997 European Year against Racism.
The proposal for a European Year is important, not least in order to increase understanding of the important role the Union can play in the fight against racism.
In short, that would help bring the Union closer to the citizens.The Commission welcomes Parliament's strong support for the proposal.
I know that some Member States are sceptical, not on the substance of the proposal, but because they doubt whether the Commission has powers under Article 235 of the Treaty to present proposals on the matter.
The Commission has carefully examined Parliament's amendments to the proposal, and we will be urging the Council to adopt a number of these amendments.
To sum up, Mr President, I stress that the Commission is grateful for Parliament's support for our Communication on racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism.
Is it therefore right for Parliament to be so alienated from itself and from what should rightfully be its mission that it treats 9 May exactly the same as any other day by holding a plenary sitting, one which furthermore has an agenda containing the adoption of important texts, such as the directive on the postal services?
The result of this is that while the politicians, associations and citizens in each of our Member States are celebrating 9 May, we - the elected representatives of Europe - are faced with the choice between abandoning our legislative responsibilities or being absent from the ceremonies celebrating the founding act which unites us all and bestows upon us our legitimacy.
In future we must certainly ensure that all the Community's institutions, and especially our own, refrain from any activity on 9 May so that its Members can be present at the major annual events uniting Europe and its citizens.
Statement by the President Ladies and gentlemen, 9 May is the political birthday of the European Union.
It is the day on which in 1950 the then French Foreign Minister, Robert Schuman, made the declaration that opened the door to the establishment of the European Communities and thus also to the European Union we have today.
The date of 9 May is not just a holiday for Brussels and the European institutions.
It is Europe Day for all the citizens of our European Union, a Europe Day that belongs as much to the Scots as it does to all other Europeans.
That is certainly what Robert Schuman, the first President of this Parliament, would have wished.
What Robert Schuman and his generation began 46 years ago we must consolidate and complete by introducing the common European currency, by consolidating the single market and enlarging the Union to the south and the east, by improving our ability to act, by creating more transparency, by giving our decisions a broader democratic legitimacy.
Against the background of the history of the European nations, the process of European unification over the last 46 years has been a unique success story.
For Robert Schuman and many others 46 years ago, European unification was the only solution for securing peace and rebuilding the destroyed economy.
We would be poor heirs of Robert Schuman if we tried, in a Union of 15 Member States, to continue unchanged with the institutions and procedures that were suitable for the Community of Six 50 years ago.
The European Union that wants to introduce a common currency and to enlarge towards the south and the east needs to be more steadfast than before, but also more flexible.
I should like to make it clear that 'in particular' does not mean 'exclusively' and that as a result there is no restriction but simply an incitement to take this programme into account because it is a varied programme which concerns 328 biosphere reserves in 83 countries, in the North and the South, because its flexible status is interesting and remarkable examples are to be found, in particular in Germany and Spain, and finally because there is an undoubted scientific follow-up and local populations are very much involved.
The reason I wanted it to be the subject of particular attention was in order to allow the European Union to be involved in the accumulation of know-how and experiences under this programme, for the rest I submit it to the House for consideration. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, the word bannissement in French comes out differently in some translations.
I believe that this vote is inadmissible because it is contrary to the general principles of the rights of the people of Europe.
And this is proposed without even allowing the accused to put his case, denying any opportunity to present a defence, and this in regard to the chairman of a group here in this Parliament and an Austrian politician.
It reveals the true nature of this report.
After the vote on the amendments: Mr President, this has been a complicated matter and a very sensitive one as well.
We will check that too, Mr Kellett-Bowman. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The reason why we vote against the proposal for common rules on the development of postal services in the Community is that the report leaves the possibility open for individual countries to retain their monopolies as regards direct-mail advertising and international mail.
Deregulation of the market for goods and services may be good for the consumers, but at the same time it requires more protection for the employees.
Following the liberalization of a large section of the telecommunications market in Europe and the rest of the world, the Commission now puts forward its proposal to deregulate parts of the legislation that currently governs possibilities for starting and operating a business in the field of mail services.
A multitude of new enterprises would also be created, which would provide jobs for many people.
I present this brief explanation of vote on my own behalf and on behalf of my colleague Michèle Lindeperg, who is representing us both at a meeting in Lyons to mark Europe Day.
There is no point in organizing major information campaigns on this subject if we, Europe's democratic representatives, are prevented from participating due to no fault but our own!
I will not repeat the analysis I made this morning on the proposal for a directive on the postal services.
I believe that universal access to a quality postal service is a basic right of each consumer as citizen, not least for those who live in rural areas or small, sparsely-populated villages and towns.
New technologies are opening up new markets, alternatives to the traditional postal service, such as fax and E-mail.
I voted against the Simpson report today because it is based on a strong ideological streak of protectionism as the best way to preserve the public service ethic.
Philosophically the report seems to confuse liberalization with privatization and seems to regard any competition as being unfair competition.
My preference is for a controlled, careful and managed opening of the European postal market with universal service guarantees as a fundamental requirement and with a strong role for the European Parliament as a partner in managing change.
This will allow the Commission to decide unilaterally by 31 December 2000 whether direct mail should remain within the reserved area.
The Notice procedure, by only taking account of competition most relevant to Articles 90 and 86, ignores regional and social issues.
It would have been more satisfactory if Article 100a had been chosen as the framework for the proposed directive.
Ireland is particularly vulnerable to liberalization of this sector as 28 % of revenue comes from international mail - four times the European average.
I trust that before the Commission makes any final decisions it will take on board the views of those who work in the postal service in Ireland and who will be directly affected by policy changes in this area.
After six years of consultation, today we have finally succeeded in approving at first reading this proposal for a directive which is of major importance for Europe's public postal service operators.
I should therefore like to warmly congratulate our rapporteur, Brian Simpson, for his perseverance in undertaking such a thorough study.
This was necessary in order to maintain an efficient, high quality public service accessible to everybody wherever they live.
A postal service that guarantees quality and good service at a reasonable price, regardless of where one might live or who one might be, is a self-evident social responsibility and is particularly ill-suited to either deregulation or free competition.
We support the amendments enabling Member States to secure certain exemptions from the harmonization provisions, so that they can maintain a good service, for example in sparsely populated areas, and take account of the concerns of postal workers in any deregulation.
On the other hand, we do not support the amendments under which the EU flag or the value in Euro should appear on stamps.
In view of the above, we vote in favour of the Simpson report, in that it represents an improvement on the Commission's proposals.
While the European Commission has brought forward proposals to liberalize postal services across the EU by the year 2001, 80 % of total mail will still remain with national postal services.
I am committed to the principle of introducing a universal postal service in Europe.
However, the postal services in Ireland, and particularly in rural towns and villages are at a better standard compared to our European counterparts.
I am pleased that the Commission recognizes that national post offices will maintain their monopoly over the collection, sorting, transport and delivery of domestic mail up to 300 grams.
I voted in favour of the report.
Competition with other postal enterprises, for example abroad, is important, but must be subordinated to the main task of providing good service to all citizens in the home country at acceptable prices.
Our group has expressed its firm opposition to the proposal for a directive by the Commission opening up the postal services to competition.
The Council must take this into account.
I fully agree with the position the European Parliament's Committee on Transport and Tourism suggested we take vis à vis the proposal for a directive on common rules for the development of Community postal services and the improvement of quality of service.
Nor should the adverse social effects the liberalization measures might have be forgotten at EU level, where the dialogue with the social partners has become an important component of social policy for some time now.
Brian Simpson is experiencing his finest hour.
The citizen has an incontestable right to post and to adequate provision of service.
Meanwhile it will be clear that my Group is not happy with the draft report now before us.
Oostlander report Mr President, for various reasons the ELDR Group has voted for the resolution and the proposal.
Mr President, if the Oostlander report had been adopted 50 years ago, historic figures such as Winston Churchill or Charles De Gaulle could have been brought before the courts of their country charged with racism or xenophobia due to their comments about the Germans during the war.
Mr President, I think it is a pity that this report, which in my view is a very important one, on a day like today, Robert Schuman Day, 46 years after the solemn announcement that Europe wants an ever closer union, that we want to build a common Europe based on tolerance, that a report of this kind was allotted only half an hour today.
We must do our utmost to create greater tolerance in Europe.
In Europe it is not just the people seeking refuge here but also the people we ourselves brought into the Union to work among us, but also all the others who live legally in our Union in one way or another, who must be given the chance not just to integrate but to find themselves in a tolerant society which takes them in and in which they can integrate.
I refuse to allow this confusion and I voted against this resolution.
Or alternatively: the European Parliament 'calls upon Member States to include (immigrants) in social and political decisions, and also to grant them voting rights' .
The whole operation is founded upon a huge misunderstanding: people are going to allow their sovereignty to be relinquished in this area in the belief that they will be better defended, when in fact they will not only be less well defended but will also be prisoners of procedures which will prohibit any autonomous reaction in the future.
We vote for the report because we think it important to combat racism and xenophobia.
We thus also see the convergence policy currently being implemented in the EU creating precisely the negative conditions that are conducive to racism and xenophobia.
The authors of this report intend to pronounce 1997 'European Year against Racism' .
I voted for the report.
It is important to combat racism and xenophobia in all situations.
The motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Civil Liberties, which we voted for overall, approves the Commission's proposal which has now been strengthened by the adoption of amendments which we originally tabled, in particular amendments which contradict the notion of race and which are instead in favour of the knowledge and recognition of other civilisations and cultures and their contribution to the culture of the countries of Europe, promoting equal opportunities for groups of persons who are more vulnerable to discrimination, to stimulate the role of educational and social communication structures in the fight against racism.
But I should like to point out that a report on a subject of such importance, at a time of economic crisis and inward-looking tendencies, could have been the subject of a more searching study.
Respect for diversity has always been one of the founding values of the European Union and the European Parliament plays a major role in this respect.
Myself, I did not vote for two elements in the report.
The discussion of this umpteenth report on socalled racism and so-called xenophobia is one of the few times in this Parliament when one might wish that speaking-time were rather less restricted.
The passage on education and youth in the explanatory statement speaks volumes in that respect.
I voted for the report, but do not share all the views presented.
But to build up central organizations in accordance with the proposal is of doubtful value.
I think this question is best left to the Council of Europe.
It is quite possible to retain internal border controls, while at the same time giving third country citizens freedom to move around within the European Union if they have the right of residence in one of the EU Member States.
This means that our criticism of faith in the EU as a politico-economic market is correct and that it will not bring down unemployment but, on the contrary, will lead to more unemployment.
