Mr President, this issue has been debated two or three times in the Conference of Presidents and a very clear decision was taken that we wanted this report to be debated on Tuesday in its present position on the draft agenda.
Mrs Green is half right.
Out of respect for the work of Mr Anastassopoulos, we then decided to put it back on, but at a late sitting.
It is strictly factual and I, for one, found the information very useful, so I would like to hear why the article in question was not published in the magazine.
For this reason I think we should discuss this issue with Mrs Gradin, the members of the delegation and the members of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
I have to stick to the Rules of Procedure in these matters.
She should be able to ask you, Mr President, to be allowed to make a statement on this subject during this part-session.
Thank you very much, Mr Hallam.
Secondly, the Committee on Budgetary Control can at any stage, precisely because it is not incompatible, seek authorization for a meeting, and I will grant it.
The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs thus made a series of decisions which - and I would like to make this quite clear - are not in accordance with my personal opinion as rapporteur, even if I say this here.
It decided, for example, to authorize admission, for purposes of family reunification, of partners of the same sex, that is to include lesbian and gay relationships, and it also proposed including not only children but also relatives in the ascending line.
According to what we have heard, this will lead to considerable changes in terms of admission for purposes of family reunification, that is, to a drastic increase in the number of relatives admitted to the Member States of the European Union.
In addition, the committee also decided that all third-country nationals who have settled on a long-term basis should have the right to vote in municipal elections within the European Union.
This was not the opinion of the majority in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs.
Thus it is proposed in Amendment No 49 that even the offer of a job can suffice to justify third-country nationals' legal claim to immigrate.
I would therefore make a quite specific appeal to my colleagues in the Group of the Party of European Socialists, asking them to consider once again whether these amendments are actually reasonable and do justice to the interests of this House and of the European Union.
I have here the position of the Bundesrat on this draft legislation.
The Bundesrat is controlled by an SPD majority in Germany, and it has declared itself quite clearly - I could quote it but due to constraints of time I will not do so - against liberalizing further the migration rights of third-country nationals, simply due to the backdrop of huge immigration pressure with which the Member States of the European Union, in particular Germany, are already faced.
Mr President, first of all I want to say that I am in favour of harmonization, or a certain degree of harmonization, in immigration and asylum policies.
With respect to residence authorizations and their renewal, for example, I think the effects are counterproductive.
I cannot see a shopkeeper in my city managing to demonstrate that no Finnish citizen wants to work in his or her shop, in order to be able to employ a Moroccan.
I think we should increase cooperation and dialogue with third countries, but we should also send them a clear signal that it is possible to live among us in a legal and perfectly established manner.
Mr President, the Commission proposal to establish common rules for the admission of thirdcountry nationals to the Member States of the Union is an initiative which in my opinion can only be welcomed by us all, provided two conditions are met.
The proposal does not formulate the right to residence, to work or the right to study.
In this respect we are particularly pleased about Amendment No 80 which our colleagues Mr Nassauer and Mr Pirker have tabled.
It is increasingly less acceptable to distinguish between Union citizens and nationals of third countries who have been here legally for years.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a proposal for a convention which anticipates regulations which, on the basis of the Treaty of Amsterdam, will apply in the Union in other legal forms, namely in the form of Community law.
There is no doubt that all Member States will look critically at the way in which Parliament deals with this procedure.
With respect, Commissioner Gradin, I personally am convinced that your proposal will have considerable difficulty in obtaining a majority in the Council.
It is not acceptable for someone situated within the European Union to have the right to bring his entire family with him, but it would be appropriate for someone living outside the European Union, in a third country, to apply for entry to the European Union for reasons of family reunification.
The European Commission now has a vision in the form of the 1994 act on asylum and immigration policy.
Parliament adopted a resolution on this in 1995, by a large majority.
So my question is: what action will be taken by the Council when another large group of uprooted people arrives from Kosovo, Albania, Algeria or one of the former colonies?
We hope Parliament will be able to decide on a balanced approach, combining immigration control with a good integration policy as regards the immigrants already established here.
We will vote against most of the Christian-Democrat, but also against most of the Socialist amendments, in order to safeguard the balanced approach of the Commission as far as possible.
In conclusion, I would ask the large groups to take their responsibilities seriously in this matter.
The report attempts to lay down certain rules, but they are inadequate to address the problem of economic immigrants, whose unregulated admission into the European Union has endangered our social fabric.
If this convention had been applied a few years ago, there is a strong possibility that Zidane and Djorkaeff, whom you applauded today at the opening of this sitting, would not have been members of the French team.
Tomorrow, 14 July, I will be in Paris to participate in promoting once again the rights of illegal immigrants and to support the action of the hunger strikers.
If I dare to present this French case here, it is because the issue of human rights is universal and because the Commission, in its draft, in anticipation of the Treaty of Amsterdam, already considers it to be a European responsibility.
This is based on a very important right, namely the right to migrate to the Member States of the European Union, for which, under certain circumstances, rules must be laid down.
In these terms - and, unlike you, I am pleased about this - the report was improved considerably by the committee.
However, I will still say it to him: dear Mr Nassauer, without these new residents, democracy, for example in our country, is not democracy but Germanocracy.
In this text, consideration is given to employment, independent economic activities, study, professional training and family reunification.
Regardless of the situation, the Commission is right to call on the Member States of the Union to ratify this convention before 1 January 1999.
We must note, in passing, that it is in no way a question of imposing a constraint on countries and on governments, but is rather a question of establishing minimum rules.
Some people dream of much more restrictive attitudes.
Subject to the approval of the most important amendments, the Group of the European Radical Alliance will possibly be able to vote in favour of this text, since it looks at family reunification and, in particular, dependent relatives in the ascending line, and this encourages entirely commendable behaviour.
Happily, Article 39 seems to allow for this.
Leniency and irresponsibility in this field can only be extremely harmful for third-country nationals who are properly admitted, as well as for those who would like to come and work in the Member States of the European Union.
A real immigration policy, which is truly generous, must be based on four pillars: a policy on development aid, to allow nationals from developing countries to live and thrive, at home, and to contribute to the economic and social recovery of their country; voluntarist family policies, to help the countries of Europe get back on the right path in terms of their demography; a law on nationality based not on chance but on the will of those involved; and public order measures which respect people's rights but which are applied resolutely.
However, in order to avoid injustice, we must also clarify where the weak points of the proposed convention lie.
If we want to help third-country nationals improve their education we should promote this work attitude and remove obstacles.
Therefore we must ensure that concessions are made to people who come to us as third-country nationals, in terms of the right of residence, the right to vote and social law.
When a person is legally resident within the European Union, how, in simple terms, can free movement of citizens of the Union be ensured without infringements of the rights of other EU citizens?
From the point of view of the integration of third-country nationals, we need to think about how nationality is acquired, but that does not form part of the competences set out in Article K.3, nor will it be among the matters to be "communitized' after the Treaty of Amsterdam.
That is already provided for in recital 9, but there is no sense in having a recital which is not reflected in the section containing the legal provisions.
There is also another directive on that - Directive 90/365 - and it is only right to demand the same conditions from immigrants as from the citizens of another Member State.
Everything is able to circulate in our global world; do we really wish to restrict - sometimes for absurd reasons - only people who are forced into their situation?
Our new Treaty rejects discrimination very clearly.
The debate is actually on two separate issues: firstly, the rules on admission of third-country nationals into the European Union and, secondly, the rules on admission of third-country nationals into Member States.
Of course, we all agree that entry into the European Union needs to be managed in some way and we are not in favour - at least not in the PSE Group or, for that matter, in the British Labour Party - of allowing free entry.
On many occasions in the past the European Parliament has argued that legally resident third-country nationals residing in the European Union should have the same rights and the same duties as everybody else.
I have to say to him that I realize it is a difficult subject, but at the moment we are a long way away from something that members of the British Labour Party and the PSE Group are capable of supporting.
According to Amendment No 51, the right to exercise family reunification may be exercise subject to application, which in Germany means following detailed examination.
The conditions for immigration are broadly the same in all the Member States of the Union.
This initiative has already set in motion a debate on how Europe's future immigration policy should be shaped, which is also what I had hoped for.
On both these points my proposal represents a considerable step forward compared with the current fragmented situation.
The alternative is a segregated Europe, with everything that entails in terms of discrimination, social unrest and instability.
I have submitted the proposal to start a debate both here in Parliament and in the Council of Ministers about the factual issues of immigration policy.
It is of course true that the new Treaty will give me the opportunity to use other, more effective tools, but the issues will remain the same nonetheless.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
The Presidency of Parliament considered this subject to fall within the competence of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs.
Because there are many dangerous terrorist or violent movements in Europe and the politically-engaged 'Islamic' fundamentalist orientation is one of the smallest amongst them, as well as one of the least significant.
It is important to establish this.
That is what my report and my resolution purport to do.
Governments will then be able to modify their policies based on experience from their colleagues in other countries.
In my opinion, people who have a different view in the world of Muslims or in fundamentalist circles are not really a problem for the European Union.
I appreciate the fact that we speak our mind clearly in this Parliament, including where the media and our own citizens are concerned: that we have a positive policy, and that we give a clear signal that we take the Muslim citizens in Europe - who contribute greatly to our culture and economy - seriously, and that we accept them as citizens too.
Certainly, the rapporteur deliberately omitted this problem which, I admit, goes beyond a purely religious problem, but other Christian forms of fundamentalism are at work in Europe.
Europeans value their security, yet they also value their freedom, particularly their freedom to lead their personal and private lives as they wish.
I know the rapporteur intentionally avoided this aspect of things and I regret that.
As regards Islamic fundamentalism, it seems to me that the opportunity has been missed to remind certain Member States of their responsibilities - Member States which, for honourable reasons of tolerance, but also for other reasons which are perhaps less worthy, welcome into their territory and tolerate core activities of Islamic terrorism.
I would have thought it useful to remind the Member States of that with this report.
We have said that this report voluntarily restricts itself to these aspects.
Moreover, concentrating on Islam in the framework of a study on religious fundamentalism, which could irritate the Islamic community, could adversely affect the general balance of the report.
The phenomenon of fundamentalism as described by our colleague, Mr Oostlander, raises the question of whether the Member States have at their disposal the necessary means to ensure that our values of tolerance and freedom are triumphant.
Regardless of the rights or wrongs of these two hardline positions, we do not need a report calling on the European Union to pursue a preventive policy against any form of violent religious fundamentalism.
Because of the time I have available, I would like to mention a few specific points which I do not think are very clear in the report.
However, this text does demonstrate a very worrying tendency.
We move from fundamentalism to religious fundamentalism and from religious fundamentalism to Islam and Muslim fundamentalism, Islam being specifically mentioned in 19 paragraphs of this text.
This all happens as if Opus Dei Catholic fundamentalism were not at work within this or that government in our very own Union, or as if Jewish fundamentalism were not at work in connection with European policy in the eastern Mediterranean.
The present recommendation creates more confusion than clarity.
The report is based on a resolution on the dangers of fundamentalism, yet it appears on our order paper as 'Fundamentalism: the challenge to the European legal order' .
The resolution on which this report is based talks about the horrors of the war in former Yugoslavia, with Christians oppressing Muslims - at least that is one element of it - the massacres in Rwanda and Burundi, the blind fanaticism of Rabin's assassins - clearly the intention is to include Jewish fundamentalism - and the suicide bombers in Israel - Muslim fundamentalism.
They are all outside the European Union, but the report appears to be about Islamic fundamentalism inside the European Union.
There are 19 references to Islam, but there are no references to any other religions.
The report likewise fails to mention the fact that people are trying to import this religious fundamentalism into the European Union from the United States.
It does not mention the anti-abortion terrorists who, in the name of Christianity, have murdered those both offering and seeking legal abortions - again a kind of terrorism that people are trying to import here.
The friends of the Taliban pose less danger to Europe than the friends of the Ku Klux Clan who sit in the far corner of this Chamber.
Mr President, I too think that religion should not form the basis of the consensus to live in society.
But I would like to stress that I was one of the people who signed the draft recommendation to the Council which led to this report.
I do not have time to go into more details, but I am going to vote against this report.
However, the boundary has definitely been crossed if there is violence or any kind of compulsion.
The rapporteur complains that Europol will not be able to deal with terrorism for another two years.
However, the Member States and the Commission have both now agreed that the cooperation shall start on 1 January 1999.
In his report, the rapporteur also urges the Union to conduct a consistent and unanimous policy towards governments which in various ways encourage, support or tolerate terrorism.
This is done both through internal coordination, such as through the liaison officers who are put in place, and through continuous dialogue with countries outside the Union.
There is also a worthwhile coordination with the help of various working groups which have been established within both the second and third pillars.
An example of this was the informal meeting in Toledo in 1995 between representatives of various religious and philosophical traditions.
The Commission also supported a similar initiative in Copenhagen in 1996.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, it is my honour to present the report on cross-border cooperation in the framework of the TACIS programme and to ask this House to pass judgement on it.
The economic and political conditions in Russia will have an impact on the whole continent of Europe, and the future of the TACIS programme of cross-border cooperation is closely linked with progress towards democracy.
The European Union can - and must - help the Russian authorities and the newly independent states to address their problems, improve the living conditions of their citizens and promote stability and democracy in the region.
Mr President, my congratulations to the rapporteur, who showed in the Committee on Regional Policy that, with great charm and powers of persuasion, she made a success of this report.
Along these borders with the countries of the east, cross-border cooperation is more complicated than within the European Union.
There are economic, social, cultural and organizational differences, and cooperation becomes much more difficult.
If that does not happen, the problems are certain to blow up in our hands.
The Commission shares this view.
The Commission shares the rapporteur's view that training and development of local administrations must be another priority for cross-border cooperation.
The Commission has allocated ECU 1 million to regional capacity-building initiatives for 1997.
Finally, I should like to emphasize that cross-border cooperation in central and eastern Europe will become increasingly important.
Parliament's report and today's debate have been a useful contribution to the development of the Union's policy in this field.
The debate is closed.
