Mr Blak, I do not think we can talk about the farmers' demonstrations in Greece, which are of course creating various problems that affect both Greek and foreign drivers. (Parliament approved the Minutes) Decision on urgency Mr President, the Council also submitted this request for urgent procedure concerning mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the Member States at the November part-session.
The Committee on Budgetary Control has therefore decided to reject the request for urgent procedure once again. (Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure) Mr President, the Committee on Fisheries has decided to accept the Council's request for urgent procedure.
Mr President, as rapporteur I would like to put the following viewpoint, which coincides with that of the Commission: in the first place, I believe that a proposal for a Council Regulation laying down technical measures must satisfy certain minimum basic requirements, a broad scientific foundation, wide agreement and acceptance, dialogue with the sector and the recognition and support of interested sectors.
This is how I started to work, but the response of the chairman of our committee to this method of operation, which was certainly the right one, was to apply Article 146(4) to me and impose a deadline for presentation of the report.
This is a way of working hard and fast but in a destructive manner. (Parliament agreed to urgent procedure) Yes, Mr President, we rejected this request for urgent procedure.
The Committee on Agriculture is therefore opposed to this request for urgent procedure. (Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure) Mr President, I should firstly like to say something to the Commission and the Council.
I welcome the fact, moreover, that the President of the Commission is present.
The Committee on Agriculture therefore supports this request for urgent procedure. (Parliament agreed to urgent procedure) Commission's 1997 work programme and previous year's legislative programme The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Commission's programme of work for 1997 and evaluation of the legislative programme for the previous year.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, following on from our first debate in October, we are now concluding this procedure with a joint motion for a resolution supported by an overwhelming majority in this House.
Pursuant to our new Rule 49, this resolution constitutes Parliament's contribution to the work programme for 1997.
Over and above the differences between the various political groups, this text reveals very broad political agreement on the essential aspects of European policy, whether with regard to employment and growth, a citizens' Europe, the environment, or external affairs.
In view of this broad consensus, it is important for the Council to give its backing to this programme, which should be a genuine contract of government between the three main institutions.
On behalf of my group, I should like to express our approval of the Commission's planned new legislative proposals.
This year, by the end of November, Parliament had received only five of the 19 proposals announced.
Europe must play a role in this context, through all the policies that it pursues.
The European Parliament endorses the confidence pact for employment and supports the President of the Commission in the face of the Council's reluctance.
It has tabled an amendment to this effect to the joint motion for a resolution, and it would like to secure a broad consensus on this point.
Furthermore, we are calling on the Commission to submit specific proposals on the subject of taxation as a whole.
Faced with the impossibility of introducing the harmonization of direct or indirect taxation, however, the Commission is advocating more consensual methods, such as the establishment of a code of conduct between the Member States, or coordination rather than harmonization.
In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, this resolution will be forwarded to the national parliaments and to all the institutions which are involved in the European legislative process.
I would call on the Council, the national parliaments, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions to respond to the efforts made by the Commission and the European Parliament to ensure transparency and clarity.
Mr President, President Santer, ladies and gentlemen, back in October's debate on the Commission's annual programme for 1997, we raised a number of issues of method and timing: these concerned the procedure and schedule for the presentation to the House of the annual budget, the programme of work and the legislative programme of the Commission.
Since that time, the European Parliament has amended its Rules of Procedure so as to provide a better definition of Parliament's role in the process of drawing up the legislative programme, taking account, what is more, of the fact that the Commission is established as a result of a vote investing it by the European Parliament.
We therefore consider this debate, in which we are both evaluating implementation of the 1996 programme and approving the main lines of the 1997 legislative programme, to be extremely important.
Since it provides an opportunity for further reflection, this debate too ought perhaps to be subject to further assessment of a regulatory nature because the House itself ought better to prepare - and not just through the procedure for reaching agreement between the political groups - its resolution approving the Commission's legislative programme, if it wants to see the Commission acquire a stronger institutional profile.
During this sitting, we shall also be discussing the situation in Serbia.
Mr President, even if formally unexceptionable, within this Parliament, the interinstitutional declaration on democracy, transparency and subsidiarity is becoming very much open to criticism in terms of its ability to translate fine words into deeds.
The programme for 1996 has been implemented to a very limited degree only if you bear in mind that by the end of November the European Parliament had received just five of the 19 legislative proposals announced by the Commission.
We have to have the courage to look again at the question of waste, to review the agreements concluded with third countries which do not contain specific rules and guarantees on democracy and respect for human rights; we must support a proposal for a directive on waste management plans and domestic waste in particular; we must encourage the fight against rampant organized crime, reinforce cooperation between the Member States and promote international organizational initiatives.
Mr President, I believe that the political groups are more or less in agreement in delivering a negative verdict on the manner in which the Commission carried out its programme for 1996.
The blocking of a whole series of decisions within the Council poses an enormous problem for Parliament: 168 dossiers awaiting a final decision - that is a great many; a further 83 awaiting a common position - and no Commission initiatives in this respect.
Mr President, Mr Santer, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I can only endorse what Mr Lannoye and other colleagues have just said.
And this is precisely the point, Mr Santer, that I wish to draw to your attention.
To judge by the work programme which you have presented, I believe that the Commission is seriously failing in its role as a driving force.
It is not with six or seven pages of good intentions - skipping over everything that is not working, failing to state clearly that, with regard to the confidence pact, for example, the Council does not support you, and that in many other areas, the European project has reached a serious deadlock - it is not by avoiding these issues and refusing to put them on the table for discussion, by renouncing, in fact, your role as a driving force, that you will take the process of European integration forward.
But it is you who must provide the necessary impetus.
If you fail to do so, you will perhaps secure a resolution which says 'All is well, your ladyship' , but that is not what will take Europe forward - and the consequences will be very serious for the future of this European Union, in which we all believe so strongly.
We hope to see you return one day with a work programme other than this one which, in our view, is inadequate and falls well short of our expectations.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Commission's work programme, we always find the same generalities about the European Union's objectives: promoting the creation of jobs; preserving the European model of society; strengthening Europe's presence on the international stage; preparing for the challenges of the future - as if ritual incantations could turn hopes into reality.
In 1992, when there was a need to persuade France to vote in favour of the Maastricht Treaty, Jacques Delors predicted that the European Union would generate ten million jobs, just as it was predicted that the creation of the single market would bring prosperity.
Unfortunately, reality rarely corresponds to the wishes of those in power.
Today, there are officially 22 million unemployed people in Europe, as a result of unrestrained free trade with the rest of the world and the forced march towards a monetary utopia.
Indeed, you regard the euro as the principal weapon for combating unemployment.
The introduction of the single currency will not guarantee prosperity, jobs or even economic strength.
Under the guise of harmonization, you will destroy social security.
In fact, the dogma of global free trade is forcing you to reduce wages and social protection to third world levels, as is tirelessly demonstrated by Maurice Allais, my country's economics Nobel laureate.
I have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, 1997 is a critical juncture in terms of setting the future guidelines for cohesion and the regional policy of the EU.
On behalf of my group I would like to make a few brief points on this area.
In the light of all the problems we have had with ineffective implementation, I would like to see the Commission work more strongly on publicizing best practice - good models of using funds effectively.
In terms of the cohesion report, I would like to point to the need for an ongoing evaluation of how other Community policies are supporting the objective of economic and social cohesion.
It is clear that in some of our areas and weak regions where structural funds come into play, they are at risk of being cancelled out, for example, by CAP, where it acts as a regressive factor.
I would like to see a more concerted effort by the Commission directorates to work closely at all levels, not only between Commissioners but also between policy directorates, to take up the challenges of EMU, enlargement and the future reform of the structural funds.
Commission directorates must not shy away from a critical appraisal of their own policies and programmes, because only then can we get the right policies and programmes to secure the confidence of our citizens in the long term and after the reform of the funds in 1999.
The Commission is not a clearing house for policies and the Commission must take forward our structural fund programmes; it must also take forward the territorial and local employment pacts and give direction in this area through concrete actions and coordination activities.
I also believe we now need a full communication on the impact of EMU on regional policies, particularly in the light of the Council's decision on the budget, to cut structural fund payments and to create a false relationship between structural funds, deficit criteria and economic convergence.
I would like to see a communication in 1997 to allow Parliament to take decisions in this vital area of policy.
Mr President, I would like to explain briefly our position regarding the implementation of the 1996 legislative programme and the Commission's work programme for the year 1997; we attach particular importance to the institutional declaration on democracy, transparency and subsidiarity made by this European Parliament and adopted as their own by the Council and the Commission.
We believe, Mr President, that the legislative programme is an indispensable interinstitutional instrument for planning and coordinating Union activities in a transparent manner, and we therefore seek, Mr Santer, an effort in the right direction to achieve these objectives.
We particularly deplore the fact that, of the 19 legislative proposals announced, only a few reached us.
I would like to say a few words about each of these broad categories.
We believe that the structural policies must be extended in order to enhance the effectiveness of the drive for greater cohesion, as regards both regional development and research, transport, the environment, industry and the single market.
In particular, we ask the Commission to table a communication on research and employment, which was initially planned for 1996 but could not be carried out.
Finally, under this heading, we also ask the Commission to produce a report for discussion in this Parliament on the financing of infrastructures in Europe, particularly in the context of the 'stability pact' .
Mr President, I am going to try to reflect my group's views on a Citizen's Europe and in particular to single out elements of the EPP motion for a resolution on 1996 and 1997.
We are living in a period when all of us are involved in this great venture, both at European level and in Member States, and we need to implement to the full the legislation we have adopted here in this House and by the Council.
My colleague Mary Banotti - but not only her - is doing great work in this area.
It would send out a powerful signal to the people of Europe if all those responsible - the Council, the Commission, Parliament and the social partners - committed themselves to achieving the main aims of this pact, and in my opinion the Council is mainly to blame for the lack of progress here, as well as for the fact that the foundations of EMU and of the Union as a whole are now crumbling.
It does not seem to appreciate that every time it blocks Community initiatives such as the confidence pact or incentive programmes for financial or short-sighted national reasons, it is also undermining its most important policy instrument: the Union itself.
The stability pact agreements should prove useful here and should enable the Member States to invest in employment.
I would urge the Commission to put forward some specific proposals in 1997, once the report on the future of social protection has been dealt with.
Mr President, I have four comments to make about the Commission's work programme.
I would suggest that without further harmonization in this field, we are going to encounter major problems with the operation of the monetary union.
I would once again call on the Commission and in particular President Santer to take a firm grip on this whole issue as a matter of urgency.
I would like the Commission to give a commitment that proposals made now in December 1996 and proposals that have already been worked on for some considerable time will not simply be abandoned, postponed, neglected, subverted or watered down in the face of lobbying by vested interests somewhere in the backrooms of Brussels or Strasbourg.
I welcome the fact that, in 1997, the Commission intends to promote the measures set out in the confidence pact concerning the reform of employment systems, the adjustment of structural policy and the conclusion of territorial employment pacts.
In this context, the PPE Group indicates in its motion for a resolution that the rights of participation and codetermination of workers in all companies under European law must be established by mutual agreement of the two sides of industry.
That means that cohesion has still to be a concern for all of us.
And the European Parliament itself must be consistent: for example, at first reading on the budget, when it failed to achieve the majority needed to reject the cuts proposed by the Council, and first and foremost those on the Structural Funds, this was - in my view - a political error, specifically because, as far as the budget goes, its hands were tied in relation to the Council and, to some extent, it accepted the negative message emanating from the Council, namely that this was not the time for development, employment and economic and social cohesion.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of the Community's structural policies, the Commission is attaching great importance to 1997.
However, an important element is missing from the Commission's work programme, namely the announcement of a report in 1999 on the forthcoming revision of the Structural Funds during the next planning period from 2000 to 2005, although the debate on this is currently well under way.
Associations, organizations and a number of regions have already adopted a position.
Consideration must be given to the future of the Structural Funds, in good time and without ideological restrictions.
The same will be necessary with regard to postal services, even if the final decision on this subject has been postponed.
In this sense, the Union's stance regarding the human rights situation in Turkey will be an important issue in 1997.
Mr President, I am convinced that this subject, frequently viewed as a marginal part of the debate, could be in fact be further developed because it is a source of major conflict between both the countries of the European Union and between those countries and non-Member States.
The issue of fisheries is so contentious that, in the view of some reliable international commentators, it may become a source of international conflict, as illustrated by the dispute between Canada and Spain.
In my view, we are also seeing what is now patently unlawful conduct not only in the large-scale but also in small-scale fisheries.
The crisis in the sector is also tending to result in an increase in the misuse of vessels, which are being used for other activities also.
In this sector, it is now crucially important that we put into effect the principle of subsidiarity, a principle that is very often paraded in front of us but not in practice applied, provoking a great deal of distrust.
Mr President, today we are continuing the debate which began in October on the Commission's programme of work for 1997.
To begin with, I should like to thank all those speakers who referred to the broad consensus of the political groups in favour of the course of action adopted by the Commission.
I also wish to thank all those whose observations on the Commission's work programme were far more critical.
Having read again the speeches made in October and listened to a number of honourable Members speak this morning, however, I think that it would perhaps be useful to look once more at the course of action taken by the Commission, in order to remind ourselves of the guidelines it has adopted, taking into account, of course, the European Council's decisions at the Edinburgh summit and the interinstitutional agreement between Parliament, the Council and the Commission concerning the procedures for implementing the work programme, as well as the principle of subsidiarity.
The Commission therefore assesses the appropriateness of its actions firstly in terms of their necessity - can the objectives be achieved satisfactorily by the Member States? - and, secondly, in terms of their effectiveness - would the objectives be better achieved at Community level?
In other words, the principle of proportionality remains an essential criterion of the Community's legislative action.
Another matter which must be mentioned, and which has perhaps been the object of excessive criticism - not today, but in the previous debate - is the use of green and white papers.
When we published the Green Paper on monetary union and the single currency, in May 1995, it enabled us to launch a major debate on that subject.
If you read that green paper again, you will see that it contains all the proposals which were presented to Parliament and the Council from 16 October onwards, and which currently form the basis of our discussions.
I believe that this is essential to democracy, as this is practised in the European institutions, and that we should not underestimate the impact of green and white papers on our citizens.
A further example - and one which has just been mentioned by a number of speakers - is provided by the report on taxation in the Union.
Everyone knows that proposals on taxation and the harmonization of taxation are generally blocked at some stage in the Council.
We sought to reopen the debate by means of a report drawn up on the initiative of Commissioner Monti, with a view to examining the problem of taxation in its entirety and all its complexity.
It is a question not only of direct taxation, but also of indirect taxation and the problems relating to fiscal dumping.
I continue to believe that it is through the publication of green papers and reports, through the broader consultation of all citizens, that we shall succeed in interesting the parties concerned in the measures taken at Community level, at the level of the European Union.
Its object is not to replace the powers and responsibilities of the Member States - the Member States must continue to perform their duties at national level - but to give added value to the Member States' efforts, and to meet the concerns of our citizens, at all levels and in all Member States.
Similarly - and I shall say this again before the House tomorrow, in the presence of the President-in-Office of the Council - I am expecting a clear and unequivocal message in favour of combating unemployment to emerge from the Dublin summit.
I have never seen monetary union as an end in itself, but as the instrument of a policy of economic and social development.
I am pleased to note that, in an event unique in the European Union's history, the two sides of industry have together addressed a joint report to the Dublin European Council, in which they declare their support for the strategy that we have developed for the achievement of monetary union.
But they also support our idea of an action plan in favour of employment, which gave rise to the confidence pact.
That would be as damaging to the internal market as social dumping.
We shall not solve all the problems overnight, but I am attaching a great deal of importance to this in the context of the Intergovernmental Conference, and in the context of the framing of a common foreign and security policy worthy of the name, one which enables the European Union to play its rightful political role on the international stage.
In this context, there is also a need to be vigilant with regard to human rights.
No trade, cooperation or aid agreement is concluded without the incorporation of a formal human rights clause.
The Treaty has other structural shortcomings which the Intergovernmental Conference must rectify, notably regarding the third pillar.
It is true that, in this respect, Europe does not project the best possible image of itself to third countries or its own citizens.
We must provide an appropriate, positive and effective response to these problems.
I am pleased to see from the Irish presidency's draft treaty that, in the Intergovernmental Conference, the vast majority of Member States have fully recognized these problems.
The House will always find me at its side when it comes to taking measures in these fields, within the scope of the powers and responsibilities conferred on us by the Treaties.
In another sense, we must prepare for the future - in other words, the year 2000.
This comprehensive package will be submitted to the Council of Ministers, but not before Thursday.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
It is also stated that this line already establishes a link between the Structural Funds and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, with legal bases allowing for this link to be extended to include the trans-European networks.
The decision that was referred to yesterday in the Committee on Budgets - European Parliament and Council Decision No 1692 of 23 July 1996 - did not have the aim of, nor could have had the effect of, changing the legal base.
If we approve the budget with this amendment, the Commission will be entirely at liberty not to implement the budget in the form in which we adopt it.
Mr President, we are about to start the final debate on the 1997 budget and so in a certain sense it is time for stocktaking.
The 1997 budget can be characterized by a number of paradoxes and contrasts in the financial, budgetary and institutional sphere.
In the first place, from the very beginning, in its resolution on the guidelines, the European Parliament was aware of the special character of the 1997 budget year and the need for a rigorous budget.
Nevertheless, we have now delivered a draft budget which - assuming it is adopted on Thursday - has no precedent because it will be the first budget since 1979 which is below the Commission's preliminary draft estimates.
While Parliament has made real savings in its priorities, the Council has made only apparent savings in the area for which it is responsible.
The ECU 1 billion for agriculture clearly in no way represents a real saving.
In past years, because of over-estimates by the Commission and the Council, there have been considerable returns to the Ministers of Finance and the ECU 1 billion in regional fund payments in a situation where we have underspent something like ECU 25 billion cannot be said to be a real saving.
The second one is linked with the priorities.
The Council and the European Council have repeatedly established priorities but words are always stronger than actions.
Right from the beginning, because we were in favour of a rigorous debate and a rigorous budget, Parliament was entitled to expect a dialogue with the Budget Council.
The Council often reminds me of the three monkeys - hearing nothing, saying nothing and seeing nothing.
Even on 19 November it was not possible to make any progress on any of the significant institutional points which have characterized this budget, namely the legal base, the fisheries agreement and some small changes of category within the various financial areas.
The Budget Council is not a real Council and in the motion for a resolution we ask the President of Parliament, together with the President of the Commission - and I welcome the presence of President Santer here today - to take up this point with the President of Ecofin.
So paragraph 14 of the motion for a resolution says that the Budget Council cannot be considered a reliable and effective interlocutor for Parliament.
I call on the Commission to implement some new budget lines within the 1997 legislative programme.
As far as MEDA is concerned, we have not used it not to penalize or to damage the MEDA countries but to make it very clear that Parliament is serious when it talks about the resolution of 19 September concerning Turkey.
The proposal is to put ECU 100m in reserve for specific actions concerning Turkey.
Finally, we must have a new dialogue on agriculture for next year.
We have started this with our colleagues working in the field of agriculture but it is very clear that reserves in the sphere of agriculture are a way forward - not to destroy agriculture but to put it in its proper setting within the Community's priorities.
Mr President, when we presented the 97 budget for first reading in the October session we were aware of its limitations.
Some of them were general, concerning all the institutions, and some very specific, as in the case of the Court of Auditors' urgent need for more auditors in view of the expansion of the European Union's activities, as well as its geographical enlargement, which required an increase in staffing.
Despite these limitations, we were satisfied that we had met the requirements set out for us by the trialogue held on 3 April of this year, at which Council, Commission and Parliament reached agreement on the effort required for standardization of financial rules and on stringency, transparency and zero growth of the establishment plan; above all, we were pleased with the considerable saving we should be achieving in the 97 budget as a result of interinstitutional cooperation.
We went so far, in fact, as to hope that this would be the first budget to be approved on first reading, but this hope was not realized.
The Council rejected a series of amendments, but after reviewing this rejection and noting that the amendments were in line with the trialogue, since the Council produced no explanation of this rejection, we in the Committee on Budgets unanimously decided to resubmit these rejected amendments.
At all events, Mr President, I would like to say here that we do not understand and cannot grasp the reason for the rejection of certain amendments, when we note, and I say this with all due respect, a certain lack of consistency.
An amendment has even been rejected contrary to the provisions of the Financial Regulation.
I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that the Committee on Budgets has reached a unanimous decision, and seeks a vote in favour of the amendments tabled for purposes of improving cost-effectiveness and improving the functioning, transparency and monitoring of the institutions, all of this in line with the trialogue of 16 April.
Mr President, a short time ago, in this Chamber, we heard President Santer reconfirm the need to develop an economic and social Europe and present to us once again the confidence pact to ensure that, without prejudice to the powers of the Member States, we have at European Union level coordinated efforts providing back-up on the issues of employment and social policy.
This House, however, is showing great consistency and retabling all of its proposals; tomorrow, the Committee on Budgets will be asking the House to vote again for its proposals on employment and the more vulnerable categories - the elderly and the handicapped - so as to ensure that the social dialogue is able to be pursued.
We are also proposing a specific line for the development of pilot projects in the third sector - ' jobs' .
It gives a very negative signal to Europe's citizens.
I should also like to say on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy that we welcome the solution that has been found to the Northern Ireland Peace and Reconciliation Programme, but I would reiterate the views of our rapporteur that it is in fact Parliament that has sought the solution in finding an additional ECU 100 million.
We should be quite clear that the Council has not met its responsibilities in this area.
Therefore I would say that the European Parliament insists on being consulted before those monies are moved into the additional funds for the peace programme.
I should also like to make a point concerning the zero-growth strategy and the decision to cut ECU 1 billion of structural fund payments.
Some regions and some projects have not had their payments in 1994/95, and we end up aggravating the situation of poor implementation and potential underspends.
Only last week we had fine statements from the Council regarding the need to maintain investment efforts at national level, to promote growth, competitiveness and the creation of lasting employment, and now we have funds being cut to meet EMU convergence criteria.
This is a budget to satisfy finance ministers.
The overall satisfaction is, however, accompanied by some disappointment: the budget procedure has revealed serious shortcomings.
The 1997 Community budget contains important elements of rigour.
Some elements of rigour are more provisional: ECU 1 billion are cut both from the Common Agricultural Policy and from the structural funds payments.
The actual rigour of the 1997 budget will therefore only be established during its execution.
In 1997, the decisive year for the successful launch of Economic and Monetary Union, the Community budget must be seen to be in line with the serious efforts being made at national level.
This should permit more transparency and better control of the budgetary costs of these agreements.
The failure to agree between the institutions on the question of legal basis is disappointing.
This will apply, for example, to the new pilot projects for refugees and asylum-seekers.
The Commission would have preferred a significant reinforcement of these activities for 1998 and 1999 by means of a revision of the Financial Perspective.
The undisputed financing of the ECU 100 million still outstanding for the Irish peace process was also part of this proposal.
In these difficult circumstances the Commission welcomes the proposals of the Committee on Budgets for the financing of the Irish peace process in Category 2, for a reinforcement of research and development in Category 3 and for additional infrastructure investment in Category 4.
The Community budget for 1997, as it is in front of you, contains a number of new projects.
In fact, the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgetary Control, under the leadership of their chairmen, Detlev Samland and Diemut Theato, have from the beginning used pressure and encouragement in support of the Commission's efforts for a new culture of financial management.
Let me conclude by thanking the rapporteurs, Laurens Brinkhorst and Juan Fabra Vallés, as well as the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Detlev Samland, together with his colleagues, for their hard work towards a successful conclusion to the 1997 budget procedure.
Of the seven years that I have been involved in the budget process, this has been the most unsatisfactory.
Firstly, the two strategies which our group supported were not agreed by Parliament as a whole, and that put us in a very weak position when we were trying to negotiate with the Council.
It is best summed up by an amendment to the resolution which was put forward by Mr Colom i Naval last night in the Committee on Budgets, which reads: ' Parliament regrets that the Council has rejected a minor revision of the financial perspective to allow for the priorities voiced by the budgetary authority within conciliation contrary to what has been decided by common accord on several previous occasions' .
For the sake of getting those 314 votes in Parliament we will not jeopardize the extra money for research and development, neither will we put the TENs money in jeopardy if there is that possibility of it getting into Category III.
We as a group have always maintained that we should uphold those agreements which we have entered into.
In this particular year there are three points I would like to make in summarizing the point of view of the European People's Party.
We have done this in terms of information policy, where we have seen a remarkable change-around by the Commission in its willingness to come to some radical decisions on how information policy should be developed.
We are supporting that 25 % of the funds should remain in the reserve so that in the institutional working group, which is now well established both for general and specific reasons, we are able to come to a proper decision between Parliament and Commission as to how the funds should be operated.
Similarly, in terms of small and medium-sized businesses, tourism and DG XXIII, we have also seen some change once funds are put in the reserve by Parliament on first reading and we come to the second reading.
Obviously the third example, Turkey, is a much more sensitive question, and we have not yet been able to get the right balance of confidence between the institutions: between, on the one hand, the Commission's view of the code of conduct and therefore its desire to have its freedom of manoeuvre and, on the other, that of Parliament, which does not yet have the confidence that the Commission will do what we have asked it to do.
This is the first point - that we will continue to use this instrument to be able to ensure that Parliament's priorities are properly asserted in the budget and legislative process.
I would expect some progress to be made in the elimination of the distinction between obligatory and nonobligatory expenditure, once we come to a conclusion, either in Amsterdam or a little bit later next year in the Intergovernmental Conference.
Lastly there is the point that if the European Council is going to continue to put out statements that it wishes to top up money for the trans-European networks, or wishes to be able to put more money into research and development and then does not provide the new money to go with that, then obviously we are going to continually find ourselves in the kind of situation in which we found ourselves in this budgetary process.
Otherwise, I think this House will find that when it comes to the revision of the financial perspectives, enlargement and all these bigger questions which we are heading for, then there can only be trouble in future between the two arms of the budgetary authority.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are examining at second reading a budget which, despite its shortcomings, has the support of the UPE Group, since in the end it is entirely in line with what we were advocating: no additional fiscal charge on national budgets in 1997 because of the Maastricht Treaty.
I believe that whilst this pause in the rise of payment appropriations represents a special effort for 1997, the significant increase in programme authorizations safeguards the future and respects the financial perspective.
Moreover, the adoption of this budget will make it possible to preserve the interinstitutional agreement, even if we have to agree that the Council presidency did nothing - that is the least that can be said - to ensure that the dialogue, and subsequently the trialogue of 19 November, bore fruit.
I should like to offer my sincere thanks to our colleagues, Mr Samland and Mr Brinkhorst, for their hard work - even if they may think that it was somewhat in vain.
In this respect, I would repeat the ancient words of wisdom pronounced by our rapporteur last night, towards midnight: ' dura lex, sed lex ' .
The months that have just gone by could be characterized as 'the battle for ECU 300 million' , which is divided into three groups of ECU 100 m.
Let us hope for the success of these two programmes.
In releasing forthwith 50 % of the appropriations placed in the reserve at first reading for Euronews and undertaking to re-examine the financing arrangements for the latter at the end of March, the Committee on Budgets has demonstrated wisdom and understanding.
ECU 20 m have thus been earmarked for the promotion of quality beef, and that is the least that could be done to make it clear to European consumers that cattle which are fed in accordance with traditional and controlled methods should not be confused with animals which are victims not so much of the madness of cows as the madness of men.
In placing ECU 100 m in the reserve against the MEDA programme, for the reason that these appropriations might be earmarked for Turkey, we are anticipating an allocation of funds which is not provided for in any document and, in a way, we are throwing the baby out with the bath water.
Mr President, the deep convergence of options taken by the Council and those adopted by the European Parliament, in vital areas and at first reading, would virtually dispense with the laborious exercise that we have been indulging in over recent weeks.
We distance ourselves, as everyone knows, from the restrictive option adopted at first reading, with a view to the single currency and, particularly, with an eye already on enlargement.
As for the essential part, we are still in favour of inscribing 300 million ECU for the trans-European networks, research and Ireland.
As for the inscription of the networks in category 4 (external policies), we think that this is tantamount, on one hand, to a once and for all abandonment of unemployment as a priority (with the abandonment of the networks themselves) and, on the other hand, a new means of reinforcing the funding of enlargement, more directly and at the expense of internal objectives.
The ECU 1 billion cuts in both agricultural and structural spending are simply loans for 1998 and 1999.
But of course, I am forgetting that there are also some positive priorities which have to be financed from this budget.
Quite frankly, the damaging fiddling with the ECU 300 million can only produce an embarrassed smile, since who could possibly understand the petty wrangling over the socalled revision of the financial perspective, or believe in good faith that the ECU 100 m for the trans-European networks is a job-creation initiative in itself?
The fact that ECU 100 m for the peace process in Northern Ireland was incorporated into the package which was finally agreed is the only ray of light.
Moreover, this budget only has the appearance of austerity, since commitment appropriations - and it is these which we must keep in check - will increase by 2 %.
The political procedure represents a first-class show of incompetence.
It is because of the fact that the Council of Budget Ministers is the last in line in the whole institution, that it has nothing to say or to decide, and that as a result, absolutely no political discussions have ever taken place with the Council!
I think that farmers particularly in the peripheral regions in Ireland, Northern Ireland and Scotland have to be grateful to the Commission, Parliament and the Council for the prompt attention which has been given to this problem and the resources which have been provided to meet the worst crisis those people have faced in a whole generation.
I want also to recognize that in spite of the need to contain spending we have met our commitments in the area of regional policy and we have gone on to increase commitments for the structural funds by 8.05 %.
Finally, I want to say that in spite of all the talk about the necessity to cut back, this budget represents 1.22 % of GDP of the European Union.
Mr Samland underlines this.
The importance of containing spending and being careful has nothing to do with denying the needs of the Community in so far as budgetary resources are concerned.
We are on course to increase our budget to 1.27 % by 1999.
Let us not pretend that this will be enough resources to provide for the enlargement of the European Union and meet the needs of the states which expect to become full members.
Mr President, at the outset I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the presentation of their reports and to take the opportunity during this budget debate to refer to an increasing number of reports that the procedures involved in applying for EU funding are becoming more difficult, more bureaucratic and more demanding in terms of accounting requirements.
The Commission must distinguish between, say, sums of ECU 5, 000 and sums of ECU 50, 000 and over for smallscale grants to SMEs - and we realize the importance of SMEs and the important role that SMEs can play in the creation of jobs.
We will very soon have the communication on the single currency, the citizen and the IGC.
I believe that all the commitments will be in place by the end of the year.
In this budget, in this game of chess which is the budgetary process, the European Parliament sacrificed its best pieces to the Council on the first reading, and now, on the second, we are without a queen, rooks, knights or bishops, facing a Council entrenched in this stringent and austere stance, with all its pieces intact.
It would have been better not to cut the funds assigned for job creation, Objectives 2, 3 and 4 of the structural funds and internal policies.
And another poor political signal is the failure to guarantee that such zero growth will be an exception and not the general rule until 1999 at least.
There are some very positive moves along these lines, such as the European Movement or the inter-university association ESST.
However, there are many initiatives which are simply a response to a shopping list produced by Members, with no check on whether they are needed or effective.
This budget, taken as a whole, shows a lack of ambition which bodes ill for the difficult challenges the European Union has to face.
We participated fully in the ad hoc procedure and particularly congratulate Mr Brinkhorst, the rapporteur.
We would argue that a ECU 50m promotion of beef-eating would increase consumption by 1 %, which would save 60, 000 tonnes in cold storage, thereby making us a profit of ECU 70m.
But as we have guarantees that all price commitments and policy costs will be met, we feel that our interests have been protected.
In conclusion, we feel that our desires have been met.
Mr President, as regards the structural funds this budget has involved a demonstration of responsibility by the various institutions and particularly by the European Parliament.
Fund implementation rates have certainly varied widely.
With Objective 1 the rate was very high, and with Objectives 2 and 5b these rates have increased considerably, although there is still a shortfall in implementation, particularly in the more prosperous countries, which ought not to be experiencing such budgeting difficulties.
Linking progress with Category 2 to progress in implementation rates means putting one's faith in more efficient management and greater budgetary stringency in the Member States.
For this reason, although it is difficult for a Parliament to accept a cutback in the structural funds, even in accounting terms, we have exercised responsibility and are now transferring to Member States the obligation to spend wisely and to implement the structural funds well, thus avoiding larger cuts in future budgets.
We must remind everyone that the European Union budget is also an instrument for ensuring economic and social cohesion.
If one day - and we hope it never comes - someone takes an initiative which means a real cutback in Category 2, then that person should know that the European Parliament will be against it.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I should like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs for having brought this difficult task, namely the general budget for 1997, to completion.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 19 November 1996 the Council gave a second reading to a budget providing no increase at all relative to the budget for 1996.
I remind you that during the first reading, the European Parliament accepted the principle of zero increase and hence too the reduction of agricultural expenditure by 1 billion ECU and the reduction of sums earmarked for the structural funds again by 1 billion ECU.
During the second reading, the Council approved the incorporation into the 1997 budget of the plan to support beef and veal producers with 1 billion ECU, so approving only as much as it had accepted on first reading.
The people of Europe, ladies and gentlemen, are awakening.
I will take pleasure in voting against this budget of poverty and austerity.
Mr President, the draft budget for 1997 is not the result of a satisfactory budgetary procedure.
But this is not the budget some of us would have wanted and believed possible, as complying with the Interinstitutional Agreement and also meeting the Union's needs in the coming year.
Even the operation of the MEDA programme was threatened until last night.
Parliament split virtually 50/50 on a strategic matter during the first reading - this for the first time, as I should like to remind you - and a blocking minority, although indeed a minority when all is said and done, imposed its view upon the majority in cutting ECU 1 billion from the structural funds - in the payment appropriations of course - in the programmes for industrial restructuring and the reduction of unemployment.
This is something which goes well beyond figures and technicalities and even support for national austerity policies.
Behind the cutback I see a wish to provide ideological backing for national cutbacks in social and welfare policies adopted in the interests of Maastricht.
I see an attempt to discredit the cohesion policy, which is now the Community's second policy, and also, I venture to suggest, the wish of certain parties to lower in advance the bases for calculating the structural costs of our desired enlargement to the East.
We had ECU 400 million that we did not know what to do with, and we have succeeded in finding a home for ECU 375 million of it.
We know that decisions have been taken at the highest level, so we cannot blame the Budget Council.
Mr President, Parliament maintains a network of information offices in the national capitals of each of the Member States.
Their function, as I understand it, is to disseminate information and defend the interests of this institution in a non-partisan manner in the country in which they are located.
Most organizations which operate on a multinational basis have developed a policy of rotating senior staff.
It concerns paragraph 8 of the report where we are making proposals concerning Members' allowances, expenses and working conditions, including the single statute for MEPs.
Taking into account the fact that we have appointed a committee, a sub-committee or an ad hoc committee to deal with this matter, I think it is very wrong that the outgoing President and Bureau should have their arms tied now and into the future as regards this most important subject.
Requirements are updated so as to raise the maximum design speed for tractors from its present level of 30 km/hr to 40 km/hr.
As rapporteur I should like to say that it is very difficult for me to accept Amendment No 4 by the PPE and PSE Groups.
The Council's common position has followed neither the original Commission proposal nor all Parliament's amendments in such vital areas as prevention, substitutive therapies, help for the families or guardians of drug addicts, information for the young, etc.
This leads me once more to support the rapporteur and to endorse his view that 'drug addicts are, above all, people who are ill' , despite the Council's refusal to accept amendments which backed this view with facts.
In my region, for example, we are seeing a resurgence of Ecstasy and heroin.
I therefore very much welcome the fact that agreement has been reached regarding this Community programme on the prevention of drug dependence.
The intended measures seem to me to go in the right direction.
Our strategy in the war against drugs must in fact be a comprehensive one.
And finally, the promotion of substitute products, so as to avoid in particular the spread of AIDS.
I hope that this programme of action will be a great success, and that it will be a prelude to better cooperation between the Member States.
However, we Swedish environmentalists, who represent a country with a restrictive narcotics policy, cannot vote for the action programme for reasons which include the following: It is not clear whether the action programme supports a liberal or a restrictive drug policy.-The aim is to 'coordinate the policies of Member States' (Article 1).
Many speakers referred to the Irish draft of the review of the Maastricht Treaty which includes a point stating that the EU shall 'ensure standardisation of action on certain aspects of illegal narcotics' , and said that the Burtone report is an important step towards this.
There are many good points in the report, the emphasis on information and education for example.
During the now completed debate on the action programme in connection with prevention of the misuse of drugs, the European Parliament has worked actively to ensure that all significant aspects of misuse, and the causes thereof, have been included in the action programme.
As a consequence of this, Parliament has stressed the need for implementation of a broad spectrum of provisions, ranging from general public information to a targeted effort for special risk groups.
Schnellhardt report (A4-0406/96) Mr President, the Green Group in the European Parliament supported the Schnellhardt report, although with very serious misgivings, because the Commission simply removed the section concerning the labelling of alcoholic beverages from the proposal.
I think we are all agreed in the House that there has to be such a proposal, not only because this is the wish of consumers, but also because there are other considerations which make it necessary.
von Wogau report (A4-0390/96) We would like to make the following declaration, just as we have in other discussions of this report, in connection with our vote for this report: We assume that the Customs 2000 programme concerns agreement at Community level on criteria for the minimum extent of controls to be introduced.
This programme, which we can only approve in principle - since its aim is to improve the training of national customs officers and facilitate cooperation between their administrations - has nevertheless undergone several unwelcome changes in the course of the debate.
I shall take one example, which sheds new light on how the codecision procedure operates in practice.
In the matter we are considering today, the codecision procedure has enabled the European Parliament to place the Customs 2000 programme in a context of gradual unification of national customs authorities and of 'the development of the internal market into a real European home market' , as the second recital of the decision puts it.
In point of fact, the term 'home market' appeared for the first time in the Commission's communication of 8 May 1992 on the removal of border controls.
This objective, which the Council was careful not to endorse directly at the time, is now receiving official approval through the second recital, and is even specifically defined as the abolition of differences between the internal market and Member States' home markets.
Furthermore, its economic and social advantages are questionable, as I said here in the House when I spoke on 26 November 1996 concerning the report on the single market in 1995.
The main aim of this headlong rush into unification is, in fact, to iron out any differences which could hamper the smooth functioning of the single currency.
I believe that it will help strengthen the operational efficiency of our customs service at the Union's external frontier.
Gahrton (V), Holm (V), Schörling (V), Lindholm (V), Eriksson (GUE/NGL), Lindqvist (ELDR), Seppänen (GUE/NGL), Lis Jensen (NI), Bonde (NI) and Sandbæk (NI), in writing. (DA) We have today voted against the report on an action programme for Customs authorities in the EU's 'Customs 2000' , since it is our view that the programme fails to acknowledge the individual Member States' sovereignty.
An agreement on the action programme for customs in the Community was finally reached at a meeting of the Conciliation Committee between Parliament and the Council.
This is to highlight the fact that customs officers are also in the service of the European Union and have important European tasks to perform.
It is heartening that, after lengthy discussions between the European Parliament and the Council, agreement has now been reached on the Commission's proposed action programme 'Customs 2000' .
It is worth bearing in mind that the programme is geared towards a further development and modernization of the Customs authorities of the 15 EU countries with a view to ensuring effective control at the EU's outer borders and, thereby, a better management of the internal market.
In its consideration of the proposal the European Parliament has rightly stressed the need for a common computer system and the need for closer cooperation between the EU's Member States in order to combat fraud.
In this connection we must also take account of the Commission's undertaking, in close cooperation with Member States and with due regard for the principle of proximity, to look into possibilities for the ongoing development of Customs officers as part of their technical training, and the general efforts made to strengthen the exchange of experience among the national administrations of EU Member States.
Tsatsos report (A4-0342/96) The European Parliament's report on the constitutional status of European political parties implicitly reveals a real danger of anti-democratic developments.
The establishment of such parties would in fact - as I said in yesterday's debate - be based on institutional confusion, which would weaken the national democracies in a bid to consolidate a European superstate.
This would be a disastrous move, since national politics still underpins democracy in Europe today.
We see, in fact, that the status of European political party would in the first place be denied to organizations operating in a single Member State (paragraph 3(d) of the resolution), which would unlawfully exclude many voters who wish to have their say in the Union through parties - or Members - who maintain their national individuality.
In order to lock the door even more tightly, differences of opinion on the application of these criteria would be settled by an arbitration panel deriving from the Community system (paragraph 7 of the resolution).
Eriksson and Seppänen (GUE/NGL), Holm, Lindholm and Schörling (V), Lindqvist (ELDR), Bonde, Lis Jensen, Krarup and Sandbæk (NI), in writing. (SV) The Greek proposal for the Intergovernmental Conference is that Article 138a shall be expanded to include a framework regulation on the legal status of European political parties along with a regulation on the economic position of European political parties.
We cannot see any pertinent reason to amend the Treaty in this respect.
The lack of popular participation in EU politics cannot be remedied by pumping money into new parties.
In view of the above, we cannot vote for the report.
I voted in favour of the Tsatsos report.
As a former President of the European Free Alliance (Democratic Party of the Peoples of Europe), which has developed from humble foundations in 1981 into an association which now unites over 20 regional, national and autonomist parties in the European Union, I am a firm believer in the benefits of efforts to promote international contacts between political parties.
I have voted against the Tsatsos report because in my opinion the role of the parties lies above all in bringing people together at national level to bring influence to bear within society, the most important forum being national parliaments.
On the other hand, in the European parties whose status the Tsatsos report seeks to secure, it will be impossible for citizens from small countries to make their voices heard.
We think it significant that the discussion of this subject should be taking place at the end of a year in which political parties were celebrating 75 years of existence and, in particular, coinciding with the end of the congress of the party for which we stand, which was founded in 1921 and which started along a long road that formed its identity, something proven once again by this congress.
The politicians in the most powerful parties can obviously never get enough money.
This report is really nothing more than an ode to money as a weapon against the preservation of the political and national identities of the peoples of Europe.
Much of this stems from the different electoral systems used in the countries of Europe.
This is also evident from the fact that Members of the European Parliament are elected using the national electoral systems, and are recruited through the national political parties in each Member State.
Nor can Article 235 be used as the legal basis, for the same reasons.
At the same time, the governments should interfere as little as possible in the formation of such parties, in accordance with the principle of freedom of association, which is recognized in all the Member States of the Union.
We also reject the proposals to subsidize the European political parties.
We appreciate that the situation is different in some other countries, but rules at European level would indirectly undermine the situation in the Netherlands.
The main argument against the proposal is that the formation of European political parties in itself presupposes that the groups in question are in favour of a federal Europe, and the provision of financial support would mean favouring this view over other groups which do not want a federal Europe and thus prefer not to form a European political party.
At the heart of the European Union's problem of legitimacy is the question of democracy.
Universal democracy, in the form endorsed by the majority of the population in modern society, is unthinkable without a network of associations in which the political parties play a key role.
Herzog report (A4-0338/96) The Herzog report on participation of citizens and social players in the Union's institutional system declares a willingness to introduce proper information, transparency and the right to evaluation, concerted action, participation and consultation, all of which are laudable intentions, but the specific ways in which they will be applied are still not well enough defined to be truly practicable, in our view.
For example, the report calls for the establishment at European level of a general right 'of every citizen and every representative organization to draw up and promote their opinions and to receive replies directly or indirectly' .
These points should have been examined before launching any new initiatives.
We also fear that conclusions reached nationally by democratic means could be challenged at European level in the general chaos of consultations, whereby the cleverest and most experienced pressure group could gain acceptance for its opinions, even when in a minority.
We have therefore tabled some amendments showing the lines along which we would like these ideas to be developed: consultations should be held only at a level determined by the principle of subsidiarity; it should be up to the national government to decide which associations are representative and which are not; no association could be deemed representative at Union level unless it had been deemed so within the Member States; and no association should be consulted at European level, in a working group or at a general hearing, if Community subsidies represent an excessive proportion of its resources, for example more than 10 %.
However, these amendments should be seen as merely indicative.
In actual fact, we would have preferred to see a detailed preliminary study launched, showing how the external partners participating in the various EU working groups are designated at present, and how the system could be improved with due respect for all the stages in the democratic decision-making process.
We are largely in agreement with Herzog's report with regard to participation by citizens and social players in Union systems and in the Intergovernmental Conference.
Popular participation will not be increased by giving the European Parliament greater powers as Herzog suggests.
We are directly opposed to the proposal to improve the supply of information on European integration through conventions between the media, the EU and Member States.
The media must remain free from ties, agreements and conventions in order to maintain its integrity.
The aim, according to the rapporteur Philippe Herzog, is to contribute to 'the advance of democracy within the EU' .
It is of course important to highlight the need to emphasise employment and social issues as well as economic issues, but decisions regarding all of these important issues should take place totally at national level.
Mr President, we talked in detail this morning about the problems that Parliament has had with the Council during this procedure, and about the Council's unwillingness, as part of the budgetary authority, to be reasonable in trying to find common ground with Parliament.
The question now is how we should organize ourselves in future.
This is a direct result of the decisions we voted through by a large majority - 420 votes - at first reading.
It hopes to become a member of the European Union, and the Treaty on European Union allows for this to happen.
In short, Turkey is a special case in the group of MEDA countries and must be treated as such, as a country which is closer to Europe than the others.
And in view of the human rights situation in Turkey it is, in my view, both possible and acceptable for us to adopt the same approach as the majority of the Committee on Budgets did yesterday.
This is evidence enough of how Parliament can influence events in that country.
I welcome the fact that we have included a sentence in the Fabra-Vallés resolution on the need to conclude our investigations into payment of our allowances before the start of the 1998 budgetary procedure.
Mr President, the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria for monetary union by the Member States is just as important to us as it is to the Member States themselves.
In the meantime, however, we must ensure that the support funds entered by Parliament at first reading take effect, especially in the areas of employment and combating youth unemployment, education and training, the equal treatment of men and women, environmental and health protection, as well as the strengthening of democracy and the observance of human rights.
However, Parliament must try to thin out the items in question before the next budget, in order to avoid the dispersal of resources and improve the transparency and control of their use.
Can I first of all thank the Commission for their cooperation in operationalizing the request we made in the 1996 budget, where we asked the Commission to present proposals for consideration by the Committee on Budgets and Parliament on harmonization and modification of the agencies' financial regulations; on the question of budgetization of the agencies' revenues, on the question of a policy on property, on the question of their tax status and more importantly on the question of harmonization of the discharge procedures.
But for the budget process of 1998 we need to address the general questions that remain unresolved: the budgetization of revenue of own resources, the question of property, the question of tax and more importantly the question of discharge.
Firstly, on the question of CEDEFOP on line B3-1026, we still wish to place our ECU 1.72 million in reserve, pending the start of building in Thessaloniki.
Secondly, on the question of Bilbao.
There are still problems with this agency and the Budgets Committee are recommending that we put ECU 3 million on the line with ECU 1 million in reserve.
We are not against the creation of new agencies, in fact we have no objection to them.
Mr President, while adequate in the circumstances, this year's budget has shown many procedural shortcomings, not only inside this House but also in other institutions, particularly of course in relation to the conduct of the Council as one arm of the budget authority - a Council which has been inflexible, irresponsible, inconsistent and at times irrelevant throughout this budget procedure.
The United Kingdom consumes £1 billion out of £300 billion of public expenditure and to expect that budget to satisfy the demands of the Maastricht convergence criteria is a nonsense.
That is what Commissioner Liikanen was referring to this morning when he said we are in a crisis of budgetary procedure.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m.
It will become possible to give more accurate cost figures when enough information for that purpose is obtained from studies of a dynamic nature, in other words not static as they have been so far, and ones based on more realistic assumptions.
Consequently, this report is a provisional one and I ask Parliament to render its decision accordingly.
On the other hand, however, we must bear in mind that hasty accession without appropriate preparation would have negative consequences, not only economically but politically as well, because first of all there would be a risk that the new countries would be unable to participate in the Union's main policies for a long time, in other words there would be very many deviations and postponements which would mean that the new members would be joining as second-class partners and not as full members able to participate in the process of creating the European Community, and secondly, it would largely obstruct the operation of the internal market because any who joined subject to deviations would set the elimination of those deviations as a basic policy aim.
It must be said, however, that from a purely economic standpoint the structural reforms in each country applying for accession are definitive factors for successful enlargement.
The mass accession of countries with little in common and which do not all conform to a general economic framework could create problems, and disagreements about who comes first and who second.
A pre-accession period that is shorter or longer depending on the characteristics of each country, a period culminating in the certain and legally well founded accession of the country concerned to the European Union, with financial interventions to support each country's development efforts, is the best solution and is exactly the basic political concept which this report advocates.
The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media nonetheless believes that the countries of Central and Eastern Europe should be allowed to use 10 % of the PHARE funds at their disposal to cofinance EU programmes.
Linked to this, of course, is also the question of what those countries themselves will do until they become members.
We do not yet know, of course, when or which country, of what size, and with what budgetary requirements, will join the Union, but once we do know all that, there will probably be no need for long reports from Parliament, because everything will already have been decided.
But we also owe it to our electorates - and that also means the taxpayers - to try to place this enlargement debate on a rather firmer footing, not least from a budgetary point of view.
If the existing per capita transfers in favour of the poorest states of the Union are continued, that means additional costs of ECU 26 bn just to incorporate the four Visegrad states.
On the other hand, unless we want to compromise the integration process itself, we must maintain and even strengthen the structural policies in the existing Member States.
Finally, as I emphasised in the report I drafted for the Committee on Budgets, the accession of the current candidate countries makes its all the more urgent to introduce measures in the budgetary field, especially concerning size and revenue.
Furthermore, we cannot continue to accept a situation of regressiveness, made worse still by new Member States, in which the poorer European Parliament citizens pay the highest amounts per capita.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Christodoulou has drawn on various sources in producing his very interesting report, as he has said himself, but it cannot be regarded as a conclusive contribution to the debate on enlargement.
In fact, even though all of us in this House are convinced of the inevitability of enlargement, I for my part am not sure that the rapporteur has the same view of adequate funding as do the contributors.
What is more, I think that - in the extremely sensitive period between 1999 and 2002, when the energies of the Fifteen will be taken up for the most part by the transition from the virtual euro to the euro in our pockets - the rapporteur's call for a review of the own resources system, to be undertaken by the IGC, is unlikely to be met.
Mr President, the debate so far already indicates that we are just in time with this interim report.
Of course the question of enlargement is a political choice and the Liberal and Democratic Group has always supported it.
But, at the same time, it is also clear that words must be matched by deeds.
It will not be possible to have an accurate and complete picture of the implications, but we must keep them in mind every step of the way.
We wish Mr Christodoulou's resolution to highlight the implications of the fundamental choices which the Union is making in order to give a clearer picture of exactly what is at stake and what needs to be done in concrete terms to achieve the coming enlargement.
There are three essential points which my colleagues and I would wish to make in this regard and they are reflected in the amendments.
Secondly, there is the question of financial implications.
Either Member States increase the budget and the allocations for the structural funds and the other distributive policies or our current financial solidarity will be affected.
Thirdly, the enlargement has implications for the PHARE programme which will need to undergo a rationalization of its objectives.
In particular, I should emphasize in this context the need, referred to, for considerable transition periods - and even the idea mooted in one report for a longer pre-accession period - or the considerations (not yet finalised) put forward about areas as controversial as agriculture and structural activities, although we distance ourselves from the approaches suggested in this area on the need to reform the CAP.
Finally I should like to mention our disagreement with the report in relation to two specific aspects: the close link it establishes between enlargement and EMU - when we know full well that even the current Member States are not adopting it, because they do not want to or because they cannot - and the requirement for the applicant countries to adopt ultra-liberal economic and social models, particularly shocking given that the report does not mention social issues once.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only when we are sitting beside our Polish, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, Estonian and perhaps other Eastern European colleagues in this House in the year 2009, 20 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, racking our brains with them about Europe and the world, only then will the cold war really be over, only then will the peaceful unification and restructuring of Europe really have been achieved.
It is realistic in that it describes in no uncertain terms the extent of the changes required both of the applicant states and of the present Member States.
Consequently, greater democratic participation is just as much a part of this process as the review of transfer payments.
It is, in fact, too soon to assess the cost of enlarging the European Union to include the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, because a process of dynamic change is under way.
Moreover, the fact that only the financial consequences of enlargement are being examined here today could well give the countries concerned a negative impression of the Union.
It would have been preferable to table this report in the context of a general debate on enlargement, exploring all the political and financial aspects at the same time.
We shall be voting in favour of the amendments seeking to supplement the report by giving it a more political, more positive slant, and we shall naturally withhold our vote if the main amendments are rejected.
Mr President, there is no doubt that, aside from being an economic issue - which it is and a major economic issue at that - enlargement of the Union is fundamentally a political matter and indeed the motion for a resolution before us calls upon the Commission to prepare a detailed study on the future reform of the CAP and the Structural Funds so as to provide a reliable basis for any decision on enlargement.
The impact of enlargement to take in twelve new Member States has to be considered in all its aspects, including changes to a range of policies which could imply serious risks for the Union and lead it to take on a different character.
Budgetary assessments may be made as forecasts of what may happen but they will be valid only if we know what the policy for the various sectors is to be or if we are able to start out - as stated in the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy - from specific alternative political scenarios.
Unless those issues are resolved, it will not be possible to have the kind of enlargement that guarantees the continuity of the Union; and unless a constitutional state and full democracy are established in all of the CCEEs the political priority of enlargement will be left jeopardized.
According to what is, to say the least, a charitable estimate, the cost of this enlargement will be in the region of ECU 3 bn per annum.
And so, already problematic as applied to fifteen countries, in line with the principles of subsidiarity, financial solidarity, Community preference and market unity, the CAP will be substantially weakened as a result of enlargement, and the effect of this will not be on the Community agricultural sector alone, it will have negative implications for agricultural workers in the CCEEs who are therefore likely to migrate to the more profitable agricultural sector.
Haste is never a good thing.
The report by the Committee on Budgets seems precipitate just because it does not place the accent on the priority need to bring about political union.
In point of fact, unless political union is established and consolidated, enlargement will mean for our peoples - the people of the current fifteen Member States of the Union - an increase in unemployment and poverty and will at the same time condemn the CCEEs to greater poverty and make it impossible for them actually to enter the Union.
We are faced with a choice: political union or a free trade zone.
What we are doing here is to set out the financial problems of the future, and this is not premature because the questions will be highly complex.
Mr President, in conclusion I would like to add that we should perhaps consider the need to include in our financial perspective a specific category for enlargement.
Only in this way can we, I believe, give proper consideration to all aspects, from monetary union to structural policies, including agricultural reform for all, in and outside the Community, which we must carry out at the beginning of the next century.
The second major problem is agriculture.
If all the Central European countries were to accede at the same time - which in fact is most unlikely - Europe's utilized agricultural area would increase by 55 %.
I would call upon the House to see this price as an investment in the secure future of Europe.
Accordingly, increased cooperation with Russia is also an element in it.
Similarly, attention should be devoted to unemployment in the applicant countries, which in the case of a number of them is catastrophic.
Mr President, what is our European Union?
Starting from that premise, and in an effort to offset by budgetary means the economic and social consequences of enlargement, the report recommends a rise of at least 30 % in expenditure under the Structural Funds.
The report also concludes that the Union's own resources should be increased, in other words the revenue raised from taxpayers, as if this were infinite.
This insincerity must come to an end, and the Christodoulou report is of some help in this respect, although I willingly admit that it was difficult in our committee too to bring sincerity to the fore.
The Christodoulou report is a parliamentary own-initiative report, which seeks to explain the financial consequences of EU enlargement.
No one should see this report as a means of impeding or preventing the accession of new Member States.
But nor should anyone see it as a means of preserving the status quo for ever more.
Rather, this report should signal that enlargement is certain to go ahead.
Mr President, allow me to congratulate Mr Christodoulou on having drawn up an exhaustive and objective catalogue of the economic and financial difficulties which will flow from the enlargement of the European Union to include, in particular, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
It is a realistic plan, the implementation of which requires two conditions: the will to see it through, and common sense in carrying it out.
In plain language, the future of the Slovak people is of more concern to us than the profits of American trusts or the state of health of large companies in the Far East.
There are already many different estimates of the costs of enlargement.
Economic development in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe is another factor.
Economic development in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe will create more financial room for manoeuvre.
For us, for the European Parliament, no task should be of greater importance or interest - after the cold war and the end of the confrontation between power blocs - than to help make the twenty-first century a European century in the best sense of the word.
Both these goals are associated with a massive financial outlay by the Member States.
The mere fact that the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, with some 106 million inhabitants, will represent 29 % of the population, whereas their GDP amounts to only 4 % of the GDP of the 15 EU countries, shows what unimaginable efforts will be required.
The report from Christodoulou is just one stage in a wider debate and it raises the financial questions for discussion.
One important conclusion, which was pointed out in the report, is that the EU's agricultural policy must be reformed.
Already, this accounts for 50 % of the EU budget.
The work on adjusting agricultural policy must, therefore, be intensified, not only to facilitate enlargement to the East but also to improve the current EU cooperation.
But we should not suggest, as the Christodoulou report does, that the date of accession should be postponed until these countries no longer need transitional periods or any special provisions.
We need to get away from the situation where more than 50 % of the Union's population comes under one or other of the Structural Fund objectives.
If Europe really wants to play an international role and be a substantial political power, it must address this challenge and opportunity.
Enlargement to include the new candidate countries should not lead simply to a large market, but should aim to integrate the new countries and improve their standard of living, modernize their structures and democratize their political system, so that they can approach the economic and social cohesion that is essential.
It is almost certain that economically strong countries will secure greater benefits than weaker ones whose economies are likely to suffer from the competition engendered by the new members.
There is no doubt that both the CAP and the structural policies need rationalization and review.
I wish to make five comments on the debate.
Firstly, we must always bear in mind that the successful conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference is a precondition for enlargement.
Secondly, it is extremely important that every applicant country should be judged on its own merits, without any prejudices.
Thirdly, the Commission is preparing a document - also for next autumn - on the impact of enlargement on all Community policies.
As many people have said here today, the impact of enlargement on agricultural and structural policies is important.
Fourthly, next autumn the Commission has promised the first communication on the financial framework after 2000, including enlargement.
In agricultural policy, the key point is that prices in the new countries will go up, so farming income will increase.
But, at the same time, if we go forward with CAP reform, there may be increased requirements for compensation in the West.
For the structural funds: if, as it seems, there is no great enthusiasm for increasing the old resource ceiling - I have met hardly anyone outside this House who is in favour of it - we must try simulations of enlargement with 1.27 % of GDP which means 0.46 % for structural funds.
So we need adjustments among the present Member States.
On the one hand we must encourage all these ten countries in their efforts to strengthen democracy, to establish a market economy and to accept Community legislation.
The debate is closed.
EU/associated countries relations in agricultural field The next item is the report (A4-0384/96) by Mr Rehder, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the Commission study on alternative strategies for the development of relations in the field of agriculture between the EU and the associated countries with a view to future accession of these countries (Agricultural Strategy Paper) (CSE(95)0607 - C4-0023/96).
Ladies and gentlemen, discussion of the future of rural areas and the continuation of agricultural reform is not only important in terms of the decision to incorporate the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
Anyone who now maintains that a thorough reform should be postponed, and claims that only very general guidelines for the reform are needed, is either burying his head in the sand, so as to ignore the daily reports of scandals and consumer protests, or is guilty of accepting that the reform affects only the 20 % of farmers who take the biggest slice of the subsidy cake.
Our partners in the applicant countries must be told quite frankly, and at an early stage, that because of our bad experiences in the past we are counting on an integrated policy for all rural areas in future, and that this is the only model which can hold good for Eastern Europe as well.
The readiness of many people in Europe to accept a common rural policy, and to make available the necessary resources through taxation, does not depend only on the framing of a socially and environmentally sustainable policy.
Mr President, the development of agricultural relations between the EU and the CCEEs is undoubtedly a vital issue for the Community's future.
The Commission document on alternative strategies for these relations is, in this context, insufficient and lacks justification.
Therefore, the European Parliament should have adopted a set of coherent guidelines to reshape that document and enable decisions to be taken later on on strategies and alternatives.
It would however have been better to waste less time on one-off aspects, some of which are very personal and of little foundation, of the reform and future of the CAP, and instead we ought to have looked at the fundamental aspects on which much serious work needs to be done.
I believe it will be very important to have this support from the House because there is a tendency to raise again and again, in a dramatic and exaggerated way, the problem of the costs of enlargement.
It is rather irresponsible to wave today at citizens, Member States and taxpayers in the European Union, what are - in my view - estimates with no real basis on the costs of the CAP post-enlargement.
I do not believe that any of us today can realistically imagine that the CAP, as it now stands, can be extended to the CCEEs and remain unchanged.
Since you have been kind enough to provide me with the milk price trends of recent years for which I asked you, Commissioner, I note that milk prices in the countries with strong currencies have fallen - yes, Mr Samland - and that only in the countries with weak currencies have prices risen markedly.
Mr President, the first draft text submitted to the Committee on Agriculture recommended a very comprehensive review of the CAP.
As you all know, France firmly supports the prospect of enlargement of the European Union, which should make it possible to build a coherent geographical entity with over 470 million inhabitants.
Agriculture will be one of the main issues at stake in this new enlargement, given the importance of this sector in the economies of the Central European countries.
It is natural that the European Parliament should take a close interest in this matter and its impact on the CAP.
I think the Rehder report contains a number of important points to be considered.
The population of the Union will increase by one third when the countries of Central and Eastern Europe join, but the area of agricultural land will increase by 55 %.
Prices here are almost twice as high as in Eastern Europe, and if we applied them to consumers who spend 30 to 60 % of their daily income on food there would be widespread social unrest.
Here it seems to me that the end result does not deal with the matter in depth; on many occasions it does not even take account of discussions in the Committee on Agriculture, and I believe that the outcome of the final report does not sufficiently refine the Commission's report or produce a critical view of this document.
This reform - and if the Commission claims it still has no serious studies of this matter the example of France could be used, where they certainly exist - has brought about a huge concentration of agricultural expenditure on certain kinds of herbaceous crop production, the disappearance of 10 % of farms and an increasingly reduced concentration of most aids in the hands of farmers.
I believe this to be fundamental when it comes to talking about the problems of enlargement.
But, as a strange paradox, the simplification proposed in the Commission document should not, if we add to it my Group's critical analysis of the implementation of the 92 reform, result in the dismantling of the Common Agricultural Policy, something which is on the table and represents a great danger.
In this connection I would like to recall here that, firstly, we have to bear in mind that the countries of central and eastern Europe are not homogeneous; secondly, that we have to analyse the impact of implementing the 92 reform of the CAP, the free trade agreements and the effects on the CCEEs, so that measures can be adopted in the preaccession period which do not distort the CCEE markets.
Mr Funk, what matters is not to establish a new farm policy superseding the CAP, but the direction to be followed if enlargement to include the countries of Central and Eastern Europe is not to end in disaster.
It has quite rightly been said that our efforts should be directed not at the world market, but at the internal market and the regional markets.
Mr President, the enormous differences between the Community and the applicant countries of Central and Eastern Europe will mean that lengthy transitional periods are required in the agricultural sector after accession.
Union support should therefore focus on restructuring and modernizing the agricultural sector in these countries.
In the discussion on reforming the common agricultural policy, it is generally assumed that further liberalization of the agricultural market is unavoidable.
The same applies in general to the prices and incomes policy.
The future of European agricultural policy is high on our agenda, not only because its budget continues to eat up such a large proportion of the overall European budget, and at the same time fails to deliver many of the standards or meet the needs that the citizens of Europe deserve, but also because of the international commitments made by the European Union, one of which was made in 1993 at the Copenhagen Summit: a commitment to the expansion of the Union to incorporate the Central and Eastern European countries.
Agriculture in the last 30 years has changed within the overall European context.
The rapporteur rightly identifies the need to regionalize the Common Agricultural Policy to account for these differences.
In the cereal sector, for example, success has been short-lived.
We have now reached the pre-1992 output levels but at twice the cost to the EU budget.
Perhaps the biggest failure of the Common Agricultural Policy has been the limited benefit it brings to rural communities as a whole and in some cases it has encouraged harmful farming practices.
We must all recognize that after 30 years the rural economy must be refocused and we must develop a policy to sustain all our rural areas and not just one sector.
The accompanying measures of the 1992 reforms must now be fully incorporated into the Union's policy.
Its significance is particularly relevant for agriculture, whose weight in the economy and society is three or more times greater than the European Union average and whose prices are far lower than those practised ion the European Union making them highly competitive.
There is no doubt that these two issues are inter-related and that the evolution of the CAP must be decided by the 15 current Members of the Union, on the basis of a future option about what they want for their society and not determined by external factors or pressures.
What is happening is that, following the 192 CAP reform and application of the GATT round of negotiations, new situations exists calling for a response, particularly in the regions most vulnerable to the new international economic order.
What we need for the future is an agricultural policy that strikes a basic balance between the three major dimensions: a moderate policy of support for prices and markets, an income support policy, on a regional and not a sectoral basis, and thirdly a rural development policy able to diversify the economic base of those areas more dependent on agriculture.
It so happens that the average level of income of CCEE farmers is lower than that in the European Union.
Therefore enlargement cannot be rushed or carried out at the expense of the effort to achieve cohesion and convergence being made in the existing poorer regions of the Union, mainly those in Objective I.
The 1992 CAP is having to contend with the fact that its programme is limited and, more especially, with the urgent need for a reform that can no longer be delayed.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Rehder report gives a good picture of the problems associated with the present agricultural policy and the way it should develop in the interests of enlargement to the east.
The conditions for agricultural production within the Union vary widely.
The purpose of the Union cannot be to destroy the preconditions for agricultural production in each Member State.
The Rehder report quite rightly stresses the importance of regionalizing agricultural policy and the practical application of the subsidiarity principle.
This would mean that farmers producing in relatively unfavourable conditions, such as those in Finland, will need more support than in the past: enterprise will be completely eliminated from this sector.
Enlargement to the east will increase the area of farmland in the Union by more than 55 %.
The Community's cultivable land will increase by 55 % with accession.
Nearly half the budget of this institution is handed out to farmers and 20 % of privileged farmers absorb some 80 % of this slice of the budget.
In my country, 10 % of all farmers receive something like 90 % of the support.
Cereal production, mostly linked to the big farmers living in cities and which provides least jobs, is that receiving the biggest subsidies, 43 % of all aid.
In my country, the unemployment existing is identical to the number of persons who were obliged to abandon the countryside following Portugal's entry into the EEC.
Mr President, one of the most important and stimulating tasks for the European Union is to enlarge the Union and include the new Eastern and Central European countries as members.
In my opinion, both are fundamentally positive but they highlight a number of problems which must be taken into account.
The majority of economists consider that these prices will increase in the future.
Mr President, I should first like to thank Mr Rehder for his work.
The future enlargement of the European Union to incorporate the ten central and eastern European countries is the most dramatic development ever to be contemplated or undertaken by the Union.
The difficulties being experienced by the existing Member States in relation to reaching agreement on a single currency are nothing compared to the broad range of issues facing future enlargement to the east of which the future of the common agricultural policy and the structural fund review are but two.
A number of the ideas raised and the suggestions put forward in the Commission study will have serious implications for Irish farmers and the Irish agricultural sector.
Creating a Community of 25 countries will eventually involve close to a 30 % increase and will have serious implications for the annual budget.
To make mistakes will be catastrophic not just for the existing Member States but also for the countries wishing to join.
The issue, for example, of renationalization of the common agricultural policy, on the basis that such a development is implied by a process of simplification of the common agricultural policy, means in effect its dismantlement, and certainly would not be acceptable.
Even with a gradualist approach to enlargement and long transitional periods which will reduce the overall cost, it will still be necessary to increase the size of the budget.
Mr President, the enlargement of the European Union - not whether, but how - is the great challenge for Europe in the next decade.
It is a huge compliment to the EU that its achievement in evolving from a Common Market of six countries to a Union of 15 democratic states is such that the states of Central and Eastern Europe, having acquired the freedom to choose, have chosen to apply for membership.
How the present Union responds and adapts to facilitate this expansion, enabling the applicant states to develop and strengthen their newly established or re-established democratic institutions and economic transformation, will be the benchmark by which the history of this and the next decade in Europe will be judged.
Mr President, Commissioner, we have a saying in Portuguese that means 'guessing is not allowed' .
Mr President, it would have been more appropriate in political terms if this report had been dealt with after the review of the Maastricht Treaty.
This report marks the beginnings of a strategy, but it is only a very small first step.
The Commission took up these issues in its position paper on agriculture for the Madrid European Council.
I am also pleased to note that the motion for a resolution supports the Commission's views regarding an integrated approach to rural development, including all aspects of life in rural areas.
With regard to enlargement to the east, I agree with the view expressed in the motion for a resolution, that the restructuring under way in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe should be supported both financially and by the transfer of know-how.
In the light of this aim, the European Union has devised a comprehensive pre-accession strategy.
This strategy includes the gradual, reciprocal opening-up of farm markets in the context of the Europe Agreement, the structured dialogue, the PHARE programme and the White Paper on the incorporation of the Central and Eastern European countries into the common market.
The PHARE programme has proved a valuable tool in the restructuring process in these countries, and there are plans to expand this form of assistance in the coming years.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the question concerning the situation of children in Iraq, the Commission fully shares the European Parliament's concern at the worsening of the humanitarian situation in that country, and especially at the problems to which the most vulnerable section of the population - namely the children - is exposed.
On 25 September this year, the Commission received an appeal for a humanitarian aid programme totalling ECU 31.7 million from the Department of Humanitarian Affairs, which is responsible for coordinating humanitarian aid to Iraq.
In the near future, the Commission is due to adopt a general plan for humanitarian aid to Iraq worth ECU 20 m.
Through this programme, the Commission will thus make available two thirds of the amount requested in the DHA's appeal.
During the period 1991 to 1995, the total value of this aid amounted to ECU 185.4 m.
Moreover, the Community contributed ECU 8 m to rehabilitation projects in northern Iraq in 1994/95.
Humanitarian aid has been provided to both northern and southern Iraq, in accordance with their respective needs and without any conscious distinction being made.
At that time alone, over ECU 100 million was granted and made available to Iraq.
I share your opinion that, at present, we can only hope that these measures will together achieve the effect we all wish to see.
Question No 37 by Gerardo Galeote Quecedo (H-1027/96) Subject: Cuba Could the Commission supply an assessment of the common position on Cuba adopted unanimously by the General Affairs Council, pursuant to Article J.2 of the TEU, at its meeting of 25 November 1996?
The honourable Member asks in his question for the Commission to supply an assessment of the common position on Cuba.
I would also like to congratulate you, Commissioner, on the reference you made to the specific nature of the common position on Cuba, since this Parliament, and certainly my Parliamentary Group, have opposed the embargo policy of the United States Government, and the Helms-Burton Act in particular.
Following this question and your statement, clearly I would like to ask you what specific action the Commission proposes to take to develop the guidelines contained in that common position, and specifically how you propose to ensure that aid is channelled through non-governmental organizations with no link to the regime, as set out in the common position.
With regard to humanitarian aid, I should like to point out that the terms of reference agreed by the Commission and the Cuban authorities stipulate that the NGOs remain the owners of the goods until they are delivered to the final beneficiaries, and consequently also retain control over them.
In this way, therefore, we are seeking to ensure that the system functions properly.
In any event, I am convinced that the strategy we have developed jointly with the Council will have the appropriate effects.
These are the principles set out in the common position, which very clearly links any progress in relations between the European Union and Cuba to a scrupulous respect for and improvement in human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Question No 38 by Freddy Blak (H-0960/96) Subject: Ill-treatment of animals in transit What specific action does the Commission intend to take against Member States infringing the provisions in force on the transport of animals for slaughter?
In July 1995, the Council of Ministers adopted an amendment to the animal transport directive, whereby the animal protection requirements in the transport of animals were considerably improved.
If it comes to the Commission's attention, either through its own investigations or via adequately documented complaints, that a Member State is not transposing a directive properly or ensuring its practical application, then the Commission first makes representations to the authorities of the Member State concerned.
If those authorities then fail to adopt the necessary measures to prevent a repetition of the infringements in question, the Commission will normally initiate the infringement procedure pursuant to Article 169.
Question No 39 by Marie-Paule Kestelijn-Sierens (H-0949/96) Subject: Anti-dumping measures The Commission is proposing to issue anti-dumping measures in the form of higher levies on the import of cheap footwear from China, Indonesia and Thailand.
The Member States were consulted on the findings of the Commission during the anti-dumping advisory committee meeting of 17 September 1996.
In addressing the question of whether measures are in the Community interest the Commission cannot limit itself to the possible effects of measures on certain interest groups only, or one Member State.
It must base its appreciation on all the various interests taken as a whole and on a Community-wide basis in accordance with the provisions of Article 21 of the basic anti-dumping regulation.
Proceedings may take only up to one year, or 15 months in special circumstances.
This proceeding was started on 22 February 1995.
As I also said, on the textile uppers case, the decision is expected to be taken by the end of the year.
But at the same time, we have to be very careful when we look into whether these cases really involve dumping.
I am interested in this criterion of material damage being done to a European Union industry.
We cannot only look at one Member State or one group that might be interested in this matter, we have to take an overall view when we look into anti-dumping questions.
We have to have in mind both the interests of the European Union workers, but also the situation in the countries with whom we are trading.
Question No 40 by Rui Vieira (H-0822/96) Subject: Corruption Various official bodies, in particular those in the area of law-enforcement, are agreed on the extreme seriousness of the corruption spreading throughout the world (in addition to other terrible evils such as drugs, terrorism, gangsterism, the traffic in minors and women and other mafia-style activities linked to organized crime which the European Community has not escaped) and are appealing to the consciences of governments to set up better, more effective, closer, more open and much more urgent international cooperation.
Mr President, the Commission is well aware of the need for action against corruption both in the European Commission and at Union level.
The Commission has already undertaken a great deal of work on rules for improved openness and transparency in public sector purchasing and in support bodies to third countries.
The Commission's response to the European Parliament resolution on corruption of 15th December 1995 gives a detailed account of the actions which have already been taken.
Work continues in the Third Pillar to make corruption by officers in the institutions of the EU and its Member State a criminal offence.
This aspect of international cooperation, as in other matters outside the scope of the Union's Member States, should be implemented on the basis not of palpable results but at least the sketches or outlines of a resolution as that would give a frankly more positive aspect to the Commission's actions and help to give us citizens more confidence in Community institutions.
Forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, but I do consider my response to be concrete.
We are talking about genuine cooperation between the Commission, Parliament and the Member States.
This is the question at issue as, together, we work towards a convention to make corruption a criminal offence for us, for officers in our EU institutions and for people in our Member States.
Mr President, it is true that, during the last decade, Germany has dealt with approximately half the total number of asylum seekers in the European Union.
For example, during 1992, Germany received approximately 60 % of the total number of asylum seekers in the EU.
Since then, the total number of asylum seekers has dropped considerably.
With regard to the distribution of responsibility for dealing with asylum seekers, I would like to remind you that the Council of Ministers have made two agreements relevant to this issue.
The first is a resolution from September 1995 on the division of responsibility when accepting asylum seekers and granting temporary residence permits.
Included in the points for discussion were the differences in our systems concerning the rights and obligations applicable during temporary residence.
As an extension of this initiative I intend to follow up these discussions during the Dutch chairmanship by submitting a proposal for joint action in this area.
During the discussions, which I have recently had with the Dutch presidency, we have also agreed to develop a proposal for joint action on this issue during the spring.
The basis used for data protection in the Europol Convention is the European Council's Convention of 1981 on data processing of personal details and its relevant recommendation on the registration of personal details in police registers.
Consequently, the Commission shares the view of the Member States that it is necessary to register people in Europol's database who are not criminals.
The Convention includes a number of protection mechanisms regarding the type of information which can be used for data processing.
I base my opinion on the proposal document for the regulations governing implementation of Article 10(1) of the Europol Convention.
Generally, there is to be very poor democratic control by the national parliaments on this huge register which could contain very sensitive information on people who are not even suspected of a criminal offence.
If the honourable Member is mistakenly entered into the register he can appeal to the national supervisory authority which will be established to ensure that Europol uses its database as intended.
The President of the committee appealed to all Member States to ratify the Convention during 1997 because so far not one country has ratified it.
Question No 43 by Maj Theorin (H-1000/96) Subject: Combating crime within the EU Sweden's Minister of Justice has said that the action against international crime can be made much more effective without having to amend the EU Treaties.
The fight against international organised crime is a particular area where cooperation must be improved considerably.
Consequently, the efforts of the EU in this important area must be as effective as possible.
They must also be carried out with democratic control and in a form which gives our people adequate legal security.
As an example, I can mention that the Ministers for Home Affairs and Justice decided, at their meeting in Brussels two weeks ago, to strengthen legal cooperation between Member States in the fight against sexual exploitation of children.
At the same time the Ministers also agreed on a multiannual programme called STOP which means that a concrete exchange of experience can now commence.
At the same time, I am disappointed that none of the legally binding agreements which have been made within the framework of interstate cooperation have yet come into force.
The decision which has now been taken on Europol, which will promote the exchange of information between the States of Europe, is an important step in the fight against crime.
I am gratified when I read the current news that both Chancellor Kohl and President Chirac, according to a speech released from a joint meeting, wish to place cooperation between police and the bodies of justice high on the political agenda.
We will not have a European FBI but we will have intensified cooperation which will become more of an activity in the First Pillar.
Question No 44 by Luciano Vecchi (H-0878/96) Subject: New general co-financing conditions for development NGOs The European Union's collaboration with non-governmental development organizations has, for many years, been a cornerstone of Europe's international cooperation policy.
A programme reviewing the general conditions for cofinancing is currently under way within the Commission.
In this context, it is intended that in-depth discussions on the strengthening of the role of the NGOs and their links with the Commission in the field of cofinancing will be held in 1997.
This is, in my view, a procedural problem: the procedures were laid down when the number of projects was small or, at any rate, the resources were limited, and they have been made more difficult in recent years as a result of financial controls.
Bearing in mind that, generally speaking, the NGO co-financing projects are well thought-of, I do think that it is necessary - and here I wish to put an additional question to you - to understand the approach being considered in regard to the new co-financing conditions.
Mr President, it is quite true that, thanks to the support of the European Parliament, we have managed to more than double the resources available for NGO cofinancing.
Last year, in reply to a question put to me in the House, I had to express some concern over the question of staffing.
Fortunately, this year I can tell you that not only have we utilized all the available funds, but we have also made good some of the delays and greatly improved the monitoring of the cofinanced projects.
That is all I can say on this for the time being, but I assure you that next year there will be many points to discuss in this context.
On 22 March 1996 the Council adopted the complementary directives which allow the Commission to start negotiations with South Africa on trade and cooperation.
Since then, the Commission and its South African partners have met several times.
As soon as this mandate is made available to the Commission, formal negotiations between the two parties will resume.
In the course of the negotiations, and if necessary, the Commission could return to the Council asking for additional directives in order to conclude an agreement which fulfils the aspirations and interests of both parties.
The negotiations for an agreement on trade and cooperation between the European Union and South Africa are between those countries and not between the European Union and southern Africa.
There is no intention to use this agreement as a model to be imposed on other countries in the region.
European Union cooperation with South Africa's neighbours already takes place under the provisions of the Lomé Convention.
The eventual consequences for the BLNS countries of an agreement with South Africa should be discussed and dealt with, if necessary, in the framework of this convention.
However, so-called compensation measures for losses for customs revenue are not being considered by the Commission.
I just wish to add that in the recent meeting I myself had with Vice-President Thabo Mbeki in Brussels, we agreed that we would enlarge eventually the scope for our discussions to include the possibility of taking into account several of the concerns of neighbouring countries regarding possible equilibrium for trade with South Africa through investment and other complementary aspects.
I thank the Commissioner for his extensive answer and in particular his ad hoc remarks at the end.
As you know, two or three months ago the SADC countries signed an agreement for a free trade area among themselves that will take effect in eight years' time.
Yet, from what I learned a few weeks ago we will perhaps have the mandate in December and will therefore be able to start an assessment with our South African partners early in January.
With regard to the protectionism in some industries in South Africa during the apartheid period, it is quite clear that no protectionist measures will be accepted, despite the fact that there will be some asymmetry in many cases.
At this stage the greatest difficulties will be in the agricultural sector, in which many exemptions have been sought by the European Union, and some of the products for which exclusion has been sought are of great interest to our South African partners.
If there are new areas emerging in the third millennium, in my opinion they will be in Southern Africa and possibly Western Africa.
In each stage of the negotiation we have to assess whether what we are proposing is fair but that will also depend on the response from our South African partners.
At this stage I believe that the negotiators on both sides have great confidence in each other.
As I have already said, I myself will be in very close touch with regard to the negotiations, not only with my own people, but with Minister Erwin and Vice-President Mbeki.
So there is already some concern there with or without free trade areas.
What we can do, and ought to do because we have done it elsewhere, is to try to help those countries in what we call transition periods with measures which correspond to a dramatic change in the sources of revenue from customs to other more normal, traditional and developed ways of obtaining revenue.
We are doing that in UEMOA countries in Western Africa with the proposed Pari system and so there is no reason whatsoever why we should not consider it.
If we come to the conclusion that these countries will be seriously hurt then we are prepared, of course, to consider those measures.
So in that regard I will not exclude any measure, but I would like to consider them beforehand before we engage in a full discussion of the different sectors and products.
I think I have broadly answered your question but, as there is one more question on this issue, I will keep my comments for the last question.
Well, Sir, you have raised the one-million-dollar question in the sense that we are trying to build a free trade area with South Africa; South Africa is trying to build a free trade area with its neighbouring countries; so the triangle logically implies that in one way or another we should be dealing with a free trade area in the region.
So, our agreement with South Africa, whatever the final format, will have to have a clause on the progress of development of the agreement itself to take into account closer integration in the region.
My name in Portuguese means God but it is just a name not a capacity, so we cannot predict exactly what will occur and we have to ensure that if things move away from our objectives, we have the capacity to get them back on track.
Mr President, my last comment is to ask you to keep up the pressure on this issue.
The Commission has had discussions with the Member States as to the nature and the composition of the territorial employment pacts and the ways in which they might be supported at European level.
The United Kingdom Government has expressed certain reservations about putting forward pacts as such but, nevertheless, it believes that the United Kingdom experience would be valuable for the other Member States and it is interested in sharing that experience, particularly at European level.
Commissioner, I think you have answered my question.
The issue is that there is an opt-out and it is wholly predictable that the UK has reservations, as you said in your letter.
They seem to be particularly interested in sharing the good experience that they have insofar as local community initiatives of this kind are concerned.
But it is a matter for the Member States to decide whether they will participate or not.
At present there are about five million people under the age of 25 who do not have the passport to the labour market that a good qualification or indeed a good certificate or schooling would grant them.
Question No 55 by Birgitta Ahlqvist (H-0915/96) Subject: Measures to reduce alcohol consumption The free movement of goods on the internal market also applies to a number of alcoholic beverages.
At European Union level, excessive alcohol consumption and the social and health consequences thereof have been identified as an important public health issue.
However, in conformity with the Council Resolution of 29 May 1986 on alcohol abuse, the Commission has to weigh up carefully the interests involved in the production, distribution and promotion of alcoholic beverages and the public health interests, and to conduct a balanced policy to that end.
The European public heath programmes, especially the action programme on health promotion, information, education and training, identify alcohol as a health issue and allow actions to be taken in this field whenever appropriate.
The Commission obviously follows with great interest the implementation of the World Health Organization campaigns such as health for all by the year 2000 and the European alcohol action plan aimed at reducing the overall consumption of alcohol.
That matter is also being considered in so far as the overall public health situation is concerned.
There is a major problem in drafting a coordinated policy in that there is a lack of comparable data in relation to social and health problems with alcohol consumption and abuse.
The question of drink and driving is a problem we have right across the Union and very strong measures are taken in many Member States to deal with the question.
Of course, as you quite rightly say, excessive alcohol in pregnancy is a very serious matter.
All of these things are considered in our health programme and I have taken on board the message that you are sending.
This continually raises questions on which rules should be applied to workers established in one country who work for a firm in another country and may be posted by that firm to work in yet a third country.
The Swedish Labour Market Agency (AMS) has not been able to give a clear answer in response to enquiries on this subject.
Question No 57 by Jan Andersson (H-0917/96/rev. 1) Subject: Social security of workers where there is freedom of movement The Swedish Transport Workers' Unemployment Fund has given us a concrete example of the problems faced when a person who has moved from one Member State to another in the course of his work becomes unemployed.
This particular question deals with Regulation 1408 on the coordination of social security schemes for migrant workers and it contains the rules which determine in complex cases, such as those quoted by the honourable Member, the Member State where the worker should be insured for social security, and also the Member State which should pay unemployment benefits if he or she becomes unemployed.
However, there are special rules to determine where a worker is insured when he or she works in two or more Member States for an international transport company, such as a road transport company.
In such a case, the worker will normally be insured in the Member State where the company has its registered office.
However, if the company has a branch in another Member State, the persons employed by this branch shall be insured in that State, and that is done in accordance with Article 4(2), sub-section A of Regulation 1408.
However, special rules come into play in the case of a person who, during their last employment, was residing in a state other than in the state of insurance.
If in the example given the lorry driver remains resident in Sweden, while his employment was based in Germany, then these special provisions contained in Article 71, sub-section B of Regulation 1408, will apply.
So according to these provisions, in the example that is given, the unemployed driver who resides in Sweden and returns there when he becomes unemployed may be entitled to Swedish unemployment benefits as if he had been last employed in Sweden.
The answer from Commissioner Flynn is the clearest we have received so far and we will try to pass it on to those at home in Sweden who find themselves in this situation.
Since 1990 the European Union has financially supported research activities on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies through its specific RDT programmes of the third and fourth framework programmes - that would be BIOMED, BIOTECH and FAIR, including research on Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and bovine spongiform encephalopathies as well as on scrapie.
This action plan has been transmitted to the European Parliament and the Council and has been examined at a meeting of the Research Council on 5 December 1996 where an agreement was reached.
It is widely distributed throughout the world with varying incidence and long term studies have been undertaken in the past to look at the possible relationship between the scrapie naturally occurring in sheep and CJD in humans.
Would the Commissioner care to comment if as a result of either programmes supported in the European Union or other programmes that have come to the knowledge of the Commission, we are any closer to knowing the causes of scrapie in sheep?
Secondly, is the Commission able to state categorically, as the Oxford studies have also proved in the UK, that there is still no conclusive evidence of the risk of transmission from cattle to humans.
The question raised by the honourable Member concerns a problem relating to application of the national provision transposing Directive 77/187 in a specific case, rather than incorrect transposal of the directive into national law.
In any event, account should be taken of the fact that in accordance with the aforementioned directive as interpreted by the Court of Justice of the European Communities - I am talking here about Case 324/86 concerning 'Daddy's Dance Hall' - the rights and obligations under the employment contract or employment relationship may, in the context of a transfer, be altered with regard to the transferee to the same extent as they could have been with regard to the transferor, provided that the transfer of the undertaking itself does not constitute the reason for the change.
In many cases, if they have shown reluctance to accept those changes or have supported colleagues who are reluctant to accept those changes, they have found that so-called performance related pay has been withheld and the normal increments that they could have expected under their previous conditions of service have not been paid.
I would merely like to say this: the common position of the Council is the result, in its current form, of a long and fruitful, though sometimes difficult and combative, cooperation between Parliament, the Commission and also, in fine , the Council.
Today, we are examining a common position which takes up no less than 80 % of the amendments voted in on the first reading in Parliament with, between the two readings, a modification in the position of the Commission.
Finally, I would like to thank the Council which, in the last tight corner, managed - and it is known that this is not always easy for the Council - to find in itself the strength to reach a compromise which cost many countries a great deal.
So, as it stands, this common position is very broadly suitable to the European Parliament.
Indeed, we find in it a number of essential elements which we stressed in the first reading, at the forefront of which I would like to mention the public service obligations.
This directive on the internal market will, indeed, be the first act of derived law to establish obligations of public service.
I think that if all of the partners stuck to this route for subsequent directives on the internal market, a balance between the will of the Commission and that of Parliament could be reached fairly easily, it seems to me.
The second point of satisfaction is the fact that this directive will open up the markets, without for all that forcing the Member States to liberalise their own systems.
In passing, let us also take note of a number of points which have been taken up directly from suggestions from the European Parliament.
I could mention others, the transparency of accounts, for example, in short, a whole series of points on which Parliament is eminently satisfied.
This directive, this common position, is a good common position.
Because, as La Palice would say, if 80 % of the amendments appear in the common position, there must be 20 % which do not appear.
We have to remember that electricity is a vital component in our economy.
The compromise that has emerged from the Council, and which the electricity industry has broadly welcomed, represents a somewhat restrictive benefit of economic liberalization to the large-scale consumers.
Moreover the industry has lobbied very hard and, one must say, successfully, to limit its public service obligations and to resist harmonization in environmental standards, social protection for the workers in the industry, and in the field of taxation.
However, we regret that in the vote in our committee the EPP group did not support the cause of the smaller consumers and ignored the many social and public service concerns.
Some have no primary energy sources at all, so it is understandable that national governments should have powers to determine the balance of primary fuel use.
It is that energy supply in Europe should become more integrated, that market structures should slowly be put in place, and that consumers should gradually secure more rights than they have had in the past.
The third important point is access to the system.
I would point out that this also accommodates the difficult situation with supplies to eastern Germany, for example, where it has been possible to mobilize high investment in the short term, whilst still complying with the directive.
A fourth point is the freedom of the Member States to proceed further with liberalization.
The deadline for the completion of the internal market was 1 January 1993, and the Treaty made no provision for exceptions in the energy sector.
As has been said, we should not forget that the common position on electricity brings with it years of proposals and doubts as well as tough negotiations which have resulted in a gradual and cautious partial opening of the market, and this has been a laborious process of negotiation and achieving a balance throughout.
When all is said and done, the complex of Community provisions on energy in itself constitutes a common energy policy which needs only to be given a title.
No-one is questioning the fact that those additions that my committee wishes to see concerning harmonization, transparency of accounts, the protection of employment and co-generation - to mention but a few - could substantially improve the text of the common position, but we should not forget that the common position leaves great scope for subsidiarity and that those details may therefore be better dealt with in the context of the application of the rules by the Member States.
Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second reading of the electricity directive, which is designed to create an internal market in electricity.
It is also striking that the Council has asked Parliament not to exercise its legislative powers when we are engaged in the codecision procedure on this dossier.
The Liberal Group has decided not to let itself be manoeuvred into this corner.
The Liberal Group therefore supports two amendments which substantially improve the Council's common position.
Firstly, there is Amendment No 12, tabled by my group, which concerns the position of the distribution companies on the electricity market.
The distribution companies are in a position to stimulate initiatives at a decentralized level, such as obtaining energy from renewable sources and co-generation.
All the Members of this House, regardless of their political leanings, expressed their support for creating renewable energy sources during the recent debate on the energy White Paper.
Those who oppose the liberalization of the electricity market forget that healthy competition is the only way to ensure that production units are used efficiently.
In this way, the proposal to harmonize and liberalize the electricity sector may be wellintentioned but, by not taking account of the important social and political aspects involved, its consequences are serious.
Secondly, the threat to the public-service character which the supply of electricity must have if a large percentage of its distribution is left in the hands of market forces, as a result of which sectors of the population in a deteriorating situation might see their position placed in jeopardy.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, competition is a good thing when it leads to greater efficiency and is not damaging to the environment.
No one wants to keep the present status quo, with energy supply consisting of monopoly structures.
The Greens are in favour of competition based on the provision of environmentally friendly energy services.
Competition breeds on diversity, however, and that is what we are trying to say with our amendment on distributors, as many political groups have done.
The political signal that we must give is to create an ecological framework for competition in the internal energy market.
The European Parliament must set a course for ecological energy reform.
The European Parliament has to take this opportunity.
A new system of competition in the energy services sector must pursue three objectives: climate protection, ecological energy supply, and a strategy of energy efficiency.
Madam President, the common position which is presented to us today is the result of a difficult compromise within the European Union which, in this area as in others, reflects a considerable heterogeneity.
My group recognises and salutes the impressive work of our colleague Claude Desama, who has made a great effort over the last few months to bring closer together differing points of view on the subject of electricity.
Indeed, we wonder if the fragile equilibrium proposed to us does not present a real threat, in the long term, to the concept to which we are deeply attached, that of a real European public service in the key sector of electricity.
Energy is the basis for all economic and industrial development.
On this matter we have reached the limit of what we, in Europe, can stand.
The French government, for example, cannot be allowed over the coming months, on the basis of this directive, to begin to challenge and dismantle Électricité de France, a publicly-owned company which, over the fifty years of its history, has proved its dynamism and competence.
It is questions like these that we should all be confronting, irrespective of our groups, in our own countries and these are my concerns for France, when transposition of the directive we are examining today is the order of the day.
Consequently, I will naturally remain vigilant, in order that the public service of electricity may remain, in France and in Europe, a model for social and economic development.
In the domain of electricity, this has given rise to an eight-year war to open 30 to 35 % of the market over nine years.
Mr Desama, we could talk about technical things, the single buyer, the opening of the market segment by segment, access of third parties, even about the eligibility of distributors which was rejected by two votes in the committee, as has been the case, moreover, with the whole of this text.
It is indeed a coup de force of the chairman of the Committee on Energy that we are discussing this text at all, since it had been rejected by 12 votes against 12.
It takes 30 or 40 years for a nuclear power station to pay for itself, as it does a hydroelectric power station or a coal-fired power station.
The same reasoning holds true for the cost structure: 100 Ecus of gas-generated electricity represent a 20 % investment for 80 % of fuel, while, for the other types, the proportions are the other way round.
In the end, financial motivations will lead to a Europe covered with gas-fired power stations, which is already the case in Great Britain.
I should especially like to thank Mr Desama, who has worked towards this compromise for many years; it is a sensible one, as he and many others before him have said.
The directive is only a first step, however.
In five or ten years, when fuel cells are on the market, when transporting electrical power over long distances involves fewer losses, or perhaps when one or other of the renewable sources of energy is more competitive, we shall be talking about access to the system in quite different terms from today.
We could see a similar development to that in telecommunications, where technology has actually forced a change in the structure of the system.
This directive is like a bottle of ketchup.
Madam President, my dear colleagues, the directive on the internal market for electricity marks the start of the liberalisation of the market, but its application must still respect one fundamental principle, the obligation of public service, that is, the supply and the distribution of electricity to all citizens, wherever they are, at a uniform price.
The electricity sector, moreover, constitutes an important pool of labour, the maintenance of which is taken into consideration in the common position.
Indeed, the desire to unify the whole of the system in one go would expose the electricity market to certain risks, from which it will actually escape thanks to a progressive and controlled implementation.
So I congratulate the remarkably balanced work as well as the pragmatic and methodical approach of the rapporteur, Claude Desama.
Our group will, however, vote against the tabled amendments.
We consider, indeed, that it is not the right moment at this stage to reopen a debate which has, at the expense of long discussions, achieved a compromise which takes account of the initial position of Parliament.
The fact of not reopening conciliation does not pose a threat to Parliament's power of codecision, in that its contribution has already had a significant effect.
The electricity sector is not spared, with the adoption of the common position of the Council on the directive opening the electricity market up to competition to a tune of 32 % in the year 2003, which in France would lead to the destruction of Electricité de France, which has proved its efficiency.
This exposure to competition is, moreover, in danger of causing massive redundancies, aggravating regional inequalities, compromising security of supply while limiting the capability of States to make long term investments and intervene in choices of energy.
Now, in the energy sector, a short term vision could very quickly become a source of concern and present serious problems with respect to the environment and exhaustion of existing reserves.
The directive undermines the will of States to ensure that they are independent in terms of energy, going as far as to limit arbitrarily their possibilities of having their own energy resources.
Commissioner, Madam President, at Christmas, we in the European Parliament ought also to be generous of spirit, so I would ask all Groups, especially the European People's Party, to vote in favour of the amendments calling for increased use of autonomous energy sources, even if this is only to eliminate the justification claimed by the Spanish Industry Minister who is taking refuge in this directive in order to increase unemployment in many Spanish regions.
Madam President, does our colleague, Claude Desama, permit me to start by adding my modest bouquet of respects to the magnificent pile of praises already placed at his feet?
Here we have ended up with a text approved by fifteen countries, which is to say, the whole of the Union.
And nobody can honestly say to public opinion that we are dealing here with unbridled liberalisation or with uncontrolled and unlimited access of producers to the whole market, with the danger of seeing a devastating torrent carry away entire sections of our economy.
I will approve this directive, along with my group, the European Peoples' Party, ne varietur .
The directive points out that economic preference may be given to coal because all the coal which the States have and require can be used to the extent of 15 % of primary energy.
In Spain, coal currently accounts for 18 % of primary energy - 10 % comes from domestic coal and 8 % from imported coal.
With 15 %, therefore, there is still a 50 % buffer to which economic preference may be given.
Yet we also envisaged support for the amount being 25 % - that at least is what I am requesting.
We have added to an amendment which speaks of 25 % - which would be two and a half times the amount of national coal Spain currently uses - the fact that Member States might be able to apply these measures as a function of their requirements, in accordance with transitional arrangements.
We will be supporting only these amendments, not the others, because we want the single electricity market to begin operation as soon as possible.
Other members of the EPP Group have already explained the reasons why we are in favour of supporting the text without amendment, even though we should have very much liked to have seen more substantial progress in many areas.
These concern, for example, the role of the distributors, such as the companies taken over by the municipal authorities, to give an Italian example; the special procedures for access to the liberalized market for consortia and small and medium-sized companies - another very important aspect that has not been considered; enhancement of the role of those producing their own electricity and independent producers and, finally, to give another very important example, liberalizing further transfrontier trade in electricity.
Finally, I wish to say that it is particularly important for some Member States, such as Italy in which the market in electricity - previously not really a proper market at all - is about to be extensively restructured, that the directive be issued rapidly.
If the Directive is approved and implemented, it will introduce a minimum but common level of deregulation and competition for all the European Union's electricity systems, which all Member States will have to respect.
The Directive will permit market forces to operate in the electricity industry.
Those obligations can be defined separately by each Member State within a Community framework.
We must avoid trying for a sectorial harmonization of the social conditions in the electricity industry.
Madam President, the Commission has accepted the Council's common position, firstly because we believe it reflects the European Parliament's concerns and secondly, we believe the agreement reached safeguards the Union's interests in the best possible way.
If the European Parliament does in the end adopt any amendments - and here, I would like to reiterate again our political will and disposition to see the common position approved as it stands, without amendments - the Commission will examine them carefully and, after tomorrow's vote, we will state our position.
I hope that effect will be positive, and that tomorrow the European Parliament will give out a positive message so that we can make further progress in our discussions about the directive on the internal market for natural gas.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, my dear colleagues, my task will have been much easier than that of Mr Desama, in view of the fact that Parliament and the Commission came to agreement on a position which was, moreover, largely dictated by the extraordinarily rapid technical developments which our operators have had to face.
I would quickly like to review the five points on which there still exist some small differences of opinion.
The first is Amendment No 5 on the definition of leased lines.
It seems to me that, taking account of the objections of the Commission at the first reading, we have reformulated this amendment in such a way as to remove any ambiguity.
The second point concerns number portability.
We have had experience of the fact that, in two countries in which competition has been established, number portability constitutes a fundamental problem in that, even if a competitor offers lower or more attractive tariffs, consumers hesitate to change because that would mean for them a change of number, which is not a great problem for an individual, but represents on the contrary an expensive operation for companies which distribute a great deal of printed matter, publish notices, or which already possess a whole range of documents bearing their number.
We stress a problem of a much more political nature, which is the independence of regulatory authorities which you have left to be national bodies.
Whether it would be the Commission or an institution under the authority of the Commission, we do not much mind, but if we do not set up a European authority with responsibility for seeing that these regulatory authorities do not just do as they please, we will finish up with what we want to avoid, that is fifteen markets which will remain separate.
I want to emphasize and reiterate some of the points that he makes.
The question of the independence of the national regulatory authorities is one on which this Parliament has commented on many occasions.
I would appreciate the Commissioner's comments on the Commission's intentions about a European regulatory authority and how he sees the interlinking between a proposed European regulatory body and national regulatory bodies.
It is true that in the past we have not managed to get the legislation right in this important area.
What is very clear in this proposal and many others is that we have less and less time, not only the self-imposed target date for liberalization, but less and less time for this industry in Europe to be able to survive and compete with the United States of America and Japan.
I would like to ask the Commission - and I know you may not be able to answer now, but I will write to you on this point if I may - if he could give this Parliament an indication of how much of the existing telecommunications legislation has been formally transposed by the Member States and also how many of the Member States really are implementing that legislation and what steps the national regulatory authorities have taken.
Madam President, from 1 January 1998 free competition will apply to the telecommunications market.
Right from the very first discussions on the 31 May, the liberal group have raised the importance of thorough preparation and legislation to facilitate the orderly functioning of this new larger market.
First and foremost the national regulatory bodies must be competent but they must also be impartial and independent.
Our group supports the essential points of the report with particular emphasis on the proposal for an advisory telecommunications committee with representatives from the national regulatory bodies.
It is important that users, the consumers, are well represented on this committee.
The Commission and the advisory committee must carefully monitor and report on developments to the national regulatory bodies and to the players in the market.
In the previous discussion, Parliament accepted the majority of the proposals from the Economic Committee for amendments in legislation and definition of the requirements for general service etc.
The ONP framework directive was adopted in 1990, and the directive on leased lines as recently as 1992.
However, this is something that will probably be a feature of our work in the coming years.
Unfortunately, therefore - or thank goodness, depending on how you see it - we shall have to deal with changes in the coming years.
This concerns in particular Amendments Nos 4 and 6, or at least some parts of them, where the regulatory authority is called for.
We have laid down principles which require the national regulatory authorities to be independent.
We have published a communication on the subject, and so we would prefer not to deal with this problem here in the context of the amendment of the ONP directives.
Personally, I am convinced that some Member States will not have to finance the universal service from public or additional funds.
The idea of a single, consolidated legal text - as put forward in parts of Amendments Nos 4 and 6 - is one I find very attractive.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, my dear colleagues, in the journey towards liberalisation of telecommunications which is being undertaken within the European Union, the text upon which we are to pronounce today comes along very late.
It comes late and its legal value is uncertain.
Now, universal service in the telecommunications sector cannot be considered an appendage to liberalisation.
Europe needs, the citizens of Europe need, public services, services in the public interest.
This should be written into the Treaty of Rome, it should be stated sector by sector, and in the telecommunications sector, the interests of citizens do not boil down simply to the reduction in costs which, in principle, liberalisation should bring about.
Beyond public regulations, which define obligations legitimately in terms of public freedoms or preservation of the environment, the market cannot take account of everything.
Concerning the scope of universal service, the Commission is proposing to us a minimum definition, which would not prohibit Member States wishing to go further from doing so.
We think that it is in the interests of citizens and of operators to have the widest definition of universal service at the level of the European Union.
Geographical uniformity, which should permit a balance between all areas of the territory of Member States, should also fall within the province of universal service.
From today, public access for schools, libraries and hospitals should figure in the basic list for universal service.
Universal service represents a cost which is estimated at between 4 % and 8 % of the turnover of this sector in the future years, depending on the scope given to the notion of universal service.
It is our wish that all operators who will stand to gain from liberalisation, under certain threshold conditions, in particular, which remain to be defined, should contribute to the funding of the said universal service.
The current situation means that new operators benefit from infrastructures paid for yesterday by public operators, the copper wire installations.
The Commission's communication anticipates that, where Member States wish to, they may define a broader notion of universal service than that retained at the level of the European Union.
We hope that the definition retained at European level will be so wide that this mechanism is not necessary, but should it be so, then the universal service defined at the level of the Member State must be financially viable.
Then, these operators turn round to the Member States to ask them to finance the operations which they do not want to pay for.
We want to meet with you at the end of next year, and we ask you to give us some clear proposals as to the scope of a universal service to serve a better information society and as to the contribution of new operators to the funding of universal service.
Madam President, Commissioner, I am afraid that the spirit of cooperation between the Commission and Parliament, which marked the first half of this evening, might dissipate during the second half.
Firstly, you are proposing a minimal definition for universal service, minimum, minimorum .
You acknowledge this yourself, by comparing this definition with that ruled in the United States, which includes obligations relating to the public services of education, social services and regional planning.
The truth is, Commissioner, that you really mean to impose an ultra-liberal definition upon universal service and you are refusing to give any substance to the obligation of public service.
You have a right to hold a narrow conception of solidarity, to sacrifice the notion of universal service lightly to the sacred law of market forces.
That legal subterfuge is not worthy of the Commission.
It is undoubtedly true that a comprehensive universal service for telecommunications in the perspective of a fully liberalized environment is an essential element of the information society.
I would therefore call on the Commission to include special services for these groups in the universal service and to keep the procedures as simple as possible.
The Commission must therefore also keep price developments in the telecommunications sector under constant surveillance.
Our committee urges that all operators on the telecommunications market should contribute to the financing of the universal service, and we would refer here to the resolution adopted by Parliament in May 1995, which calls for the establishment of a public service fund, ' these funds being contributed by all operators of infrastructure and services in proportion to their respective market share and the gross profitability of their revenues' .
We therefore wholeheartedly support the amendment on a public access strategy, but we would urge the Commission not just to do what the operators say here, but also to listen to the consumer organization and, not least, the trade union in this sector.
Madam President, the continuing reduction in technology costs in the telecommunications sector, together with the huge and dynamic developments that are taking place, make it difficult to decide what the universal service should involve in the long term.
But the emphasis must always be on the fact that every level of universal service has its price.
The EU must ensure that people have access to new, advanced services.
Madam President, technology can never be better than the man making it.
The information society gives unparalleled opportunities for people to fulfil their deepest needs and wishes to be able to talk to, express oneself to and communicate with other people and with the surrounding world.
Prime responsibility for achieving this goal must rest with the Member States but this is to be in conjunction with EU bodies, European organisations, companies and international organisations.
Madam President, I should also like to stress how important the decision on universal service provision will be in the short term.
As Mrs Berès says in her excellent report, it seems likely that in the long term these services will tend to become cheaper, so that it will also be easier for citizens to gain access to them.
Madam President, as other speakers have already emphasized, the liberalization of the telecommunications sector is not only an economic and financial problem, but a deeply cultural and social one as well.
When you think that in the United States, more than 60 % of schoolchildren and over 90 % of students already use telecommunications in the course of their studies and would probably no longer manage to prepare their work without them, you can imagine what this difference in the use of telecommunications means for pupils in Austria or other European countries.
The liberalization of the telecommunications sector therefore means that the education system in Europe, which was created with great effort and organized to be the same for everyone, is suddenly no longer what it was.
A special problem in this context is the fact that in Austria above all in recent decades, the profits from telecommunications have been used to fill other gaps in the budget.
It is now easier to make a telephone call in Austria through an international communications network than to use our own national system.
The reasons are obvious: price, competition and the desire to lower the cost to industry, so as to make Europe more competitive against our competitors, both in North America and in Asia.
But, clearly as well, there are going to be unprofitable services and the question is how we can ensure that service levels are maintained and, indeed, improved.
The universal service definition which the Commission has come up with is a good start, but it is not the end of the story.
We need the basic services that are there, but we also need quality, which it refers to as well, and we particularly need affordability, given the problems we face here in the European Union with social exclusion.
We also need to take account of changing technology and what may be the norm in differing Member States: what is the norm in Sweden is not necessarily the norm in Greece or in Portugal.
Therefore, we need to adopt a timetable - maybe a differing timetable for each Member State - because of the level at which technology is being introduced, the level of universal service that they may have.
It is at this point that I wish to distinguish between universal service and universal access.
When the telephone was introduced, everybody had the option to go out and use a public telephone in the street somewhere, and that was all that was available until the market became saturated and most people had a telephone in their home.
What we have in Europe at the moment are areas which have universal access and universal service, particularly amongst the developed states, but also some areas of the Union where we still do not have universal access.
I also agree on the public amenity areas; but we also need to look at private institutions that are caring for people who are socially excluded - such as prisons and private nursing homes - to ensure universal access for these people as well.
At the same time it is vital to ensure that core services are equally available to all at reasonable prices and with a reasonable standard of quality.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the use of means of communication will change radically in the future.
Tomorrow, there will be over a billion people using the Internet for an hour or more, to talk to each other, to find things out or in connection with their businesses.
The thinking on affordability is something which concerns me most about the present blueprint for universal service.
This concept is leading to confusion, because we are constantly having to explain that as well as voice telephony, it also covers data transmission by fax and modem.
Mrs Berès is right to include in her report references to a Treaty change in recognition of public service.
At a time when many citizens are showing signs of losing faith in the European Union this is a very clear example of how we can demonstrate that there really is something in Europe for every man, woman and child who lives in it.
Universal service is also important, less and less in terms of geographic deprivation, but more and more for those citizens who live in the poorest areas of our inner cities where the telephone operators are less and less willing to provide telephones and telephone services.
Universal service is also important because it is one of the very few ways in which the European Union institutions can exercise some real control over this hugely profitable sector of industry.
We should never lose sight of how far the economic developments in this sector have very little political accountability or control contained within them.
There is such a thing as public service, and the Commission acknowledged that only recently in a proposal, but not everything done now and in the past in the area of public service has to coincide with the requirements of universal service.
The rapporteur and others talk as a matter of course about how these two concepts coincide: public service and universal service are the same thing.
Mrs Mann tells me that prices have to fall.
What makes me happy is not delivered by the market, but I know one thing very well: competition and the market is better than a monopoly every time - and not least for providing universal services.
We have also discussed this communication in a wide-ranging debate, in which trade unions and consumer groups have also been represented, and from which a fairly broad consensus has emerged, not least in the Council.
The consensus regarding our proposals is considerably greater in the Council than here in Parliament.
I now turn to the definition of the concept of universal service.
In other words, what is perhaps defined today only in terms of simple access - as Mr Hendrick rightly said - may have to include whole areas of services tomorrow or the day after.
We ourselves are prepared to agree on a system with Parliament and the Council, even if it is not our own, but so far we have not made any progress in these working groups.
We are convinced that, with our definition, the problem can be overcome, and in a few years' time it will not be a problem any more, because all the operators have a considerable interest in covering everything completely.
No, I would simply ask you to think a little about your traditional positions.
The debate is closed.
I should like to know why the Commissioner who is responsible for postal services is not staying with us!
I have already presented this notice three times here in the House.
Madam President, Commissioner, seven years will have passed, more or less, since the first requests of the European Parliament and Council for the Commission finally to formulate some proposals relating to the postal sector.
Because of this it escapes largely from laws on competition, taking account of the non-profitable nature of service to sparsely-populated areas.
Today's debate relates to this second text.
The simultaneous publication of these two texts is moreover strange and unprecedented.
In this case, the Commission has several times threatened to adopt its draft communication, whatever the state of progress of the legal procedure relating to the directive.
The Committee on Economic Affairs, like the two committees from whom an opinion was sought, does not deliver its opinion on the provisions contained in the draft communication, only on its appropriateness and its legal nature.
The Committee on Economic Affairs asks you, Commissioner, to withdraw your draft communication provisionally. 'Provisionally' means that the committee asks you to await the results of the legislative procedure which is in progress.
At the same time, it asks the Council to give its opinion quickly - there must still be some other meetings - and to rule upon its common position on the draft directive.
I hope, Commissioner, that the Commission pays more attention today to the wishes of the European Parliament than it has done up to now, in particular by withholding only a limited number of Parliament's amendments to the directive.
If it has taken seven years for it to formulate some proposals, the Commission ought to wait the time it takes for Council and Parliament to legislate on such a sensitive and complex question.
Madam President, Commissioner, we were facing a problem of coordination of a directive and a communication concerning the same subject: the postal service.
Since the failure of the Council of Ministers on telecommunications on 28 November, we have been faced with a constitutional problem.
There is a general principle common to our internal rights: ' electa una via' .
The communication and the specific decisions made in accordance with the Treaty can only be decisions relating to application, not an alternative route.
It has taken you yourselves thirty years to decide to apply the rules of competition to public services.
Parliament, with a very large majority, amended the Commission's proposal for a directive on these points.
The Commission rejected all of these amendments, and thereby contributed to a deadlock of the situation in the Council of Ministers.
Your stubbornness on this sensitive matter which is lacking in political support gives an argument to those who would like to reduce the Commission's powers.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism on this draft notice, I have the difficult and considerable task of performing a balancing act between the urgent need to ensure efficient and affordable postal services in the long term and the question of the legal basis on which to do so.
It is therefore important for the Council to do its homework and finally adopt a common position, as we in Parliament have also done.
Leaving that aside, we naturally have to establish rules on competition - and it must be acknowledged that the Commission has the right to do so - because several cases have already been brought and are pending before the Court of Justice.
We in Parliament made a number of basic comments at first reading.
We deleted the provisions on open access, because this is not feasible in the postal sector.
I really do wonder if this is the road which we in the European Parliament can take.
At a time when we are making such an effort to help European citizens feel part and parcel of the Union that we are building, in which special programmes are being launched - such as CITIZENS FIRST - to enlighten Europeans and bring them closer, win them over, the Commission is proposing that, against the will of the elected institutions - the European Parliament and the Council - decisions be taken over the process of liberalizing one of the sectors closest to our people, a sector that they feel to be theirs, namely the postal services.
The European Parliament and the Council alike are in favour of liberalizing the postal sectors but we reject the terms of the Commission's communication.
We should work jointly on the draft directive which the Commission has drafted and on which the European Parliament has already approved an excellent report.
If the principles of a universal service and democratic control are ensured, and if the report we are considering takes account of these principles in its final version then it will undoubtedly deserve our support.
Madam President, Commissioner, I have here a letter which took five days to get from Belgium to the Netherlands.
This is what the postal service is still like in some areas of Europe.
In some Member States the postal sector fulfils a special function, such as in rural areas, and we cannot simply ignore this.
We therefore have to recognize that the Council and Parliament are both democratically empowered to take decisions on the postal sector.
But we also have to recognize that the Commission has its own responsibility under Articles 85, 86 and 90 of the EC Treaty.
Does he intend to put forward a new proposal or to use Article 90 of the Treaty?
Mr Cot has already given you the answer to that question.
I think that the people of Europe have a right to a proper service, as Mr van Velzen has just said.
Madam President, it is important to note that the Council on telecommunications of 28 November did not result in an agreement on the directive relating to postal services.
The defeat of 28 November, however, did nothing to dampen the ardour of the Commission for deregulation, and it still brandishes its draft notice like the sword of Damocles which it threatens to let drop in the absence of any directive.
This 'notice' , based on Article 90(3) of the Treaty, would permit the competition rules to be imposed upon the postal service, without consultation of either the European Parliament or the Council, and this is unacceptable.
This totally undemocratic procedure would hold the authority of the European Parliament up to ridicule and would only serve to increase the famous democratic deficit of the current construction of Europe.
As the joint communiqué of the postal services of the European Union highlighted, this communication opens the way for deregulation which would be prejudicial to the interests of the majority of European citizens, to the profit of economic pressure groups which want to appropriate the most profitable postal market segments.
These groups already exert a pressure which is difficult to accept.
Thus, the American postal company UPS grants employees of the Commission a reduction of 50 % on items of private mail.
What is more, for the last year and a half, the Dutch Royal Mail, KPN, has delegated its specialist in international postal traffic to the Commission.
For three years, this person will participate in this way in legislation on the liberalisation of the postal market.
Confirming the European Parliament's majority vote in October 1995, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy asks the European Commission to withdraw its draft communication, which contradicts totally the amendments adopted by this Parliament on 9 May this year to slow the liberalisation process down seriously.
Our group is very pleased that the Committee on Economic Affairs has taken up this position, but regrets that the adoption of certain amendments should have lessened its impact by involving them in liberalisation.
At the same time, it will be a case of remaining vigilant at the level of every Member State, in order to prevent governments from implementing measures in anticipation of the application of the directive.
We have made up our minds to continue our action in association with the sector's trade union organisations, employees and user groups, to secure a high-level harmonisation of the postal services which respects the status of their employees, ensuring the maintenance and development of a quality service founded upon equal treatment of users, and favouring cooperation between the national operators.
The Commission's role cannot be discussed separately from the underlying political concept.
The rapporteur reminded us that it took almost seven years.
The directive was adopted by the European Parliament with some amendments, none of which has been retained by the Commission.
It is therefore essential that this draft communication is purely and simply withdrawn.
It provides a good basis for developing a coherent European policy on the postal sector.
We all wish to see a properly functioning postal service of high quality for the citizens of Europe, with affordable prices and a guarantee of universal service.
In Parliament's debate and vote on the proposal for a directive - and here I am quoting the exact title - on common rules for the development of Community postal services and the improvement of quality of service, we have already established that the notice on the competition rules issued at the same time is unacceptable and entirely superfluous.
The notice takes no account of the need for a universal service.
Since August, the Commission has had before it the study which Parliament requested on the job situation in postal undertakings.
I would like nevertheless, in turn, to stress the seriousness of this situation, with a draft directive blocked by the Council, making way for a communication from the Commission which is far removed from the positions expressed by Parliament on the subject of the postal sector.
In my opinion, there are indeed serious and irreversible risks associated with deregulation, which many of us here have condemned.
My first point is that the absence of agreement in the Council means the absence of the possibility of a real universal service; it is the intolerable risk of seeing no European postal service, no universal service anywhere in the Union, no equal service for all businesses wherever they are located, no universal service for all consumers irrespective of their situation or wealth, and no simply adequate intraCommunity postal service, exist at all.
My third point, finally, is the problem of employment.
I would like to be reassured, but above all I would like the Council of Ministers to listen to Parliament very soon and lay down a common position in agreement with our wishes.
Madam President, firstly I am anxious to thank the rapporteur, who had the difficult task of trying to bring together some fairly conflicting points of view.
That is a situation which we have experienced for years, in Parliament, in Council, and within the other European institutions, which explains why it has taken years to come up with some proposals.
To be specific, we are talking in this case about a text which claims only to render transparent the application of rules relating to competition in the postal sector, and nothing more.
I declare that this is unacceptable from a constitutional point of view, because this is a case in which the Commission is exercising its responsibility in a sector in which its responsibility is clear, and is confirmed by judgments by the Court of Justice.
It is quite simply a case of describing, on the basis of concrete cases, how the Commission will do it.
In seven Member States, there is already complete or partial liberalisation, not because the Commission has imposed it, but because these governments have come to this decision about it.
That is already the case at present and you know how the situation in the postal sector can at times be anachronistic.
Mr Wijsenbeek recalled a recent Court of Justice ruling which, actually, was given against a situation which benefitted the French postal service.
The debate is closed.
