There will be much anger within the EU that the country which voted No to membership of the club seems to have better access to the Commission than we in this Parliament when we tried to raise the matter yesterday.
The Committee on Fisheries and Parliament have always taken the view that we should stand together supporting the European Union in this dispute with Norway.
The aim is to strengthen the existing telematic services in the Member States which are required for the coordination of social security systems.
They had tabled a proposal which would drastically reduce the rights of people working in the Netherlands but living or intending to live in another country.
The amendments which the Commission has proposed aim to incorporate amendments which for the most part have already been made in national legislation.
The Commission welcomes the very positive attitude of the European Parliament on this proposal and Parliament shares the Commission's opinion that Regulations (EEC) No 1408/71 and 574/72 on the coordination of national social security schemes need to be updated in the light of changes made in national legislation.
Parliament also shares the view that it is necessary to give a proper basis in the text of the regulation to telematic services for the coordination of social security schemes.
Parliament also endorses the proposal concerning the extension of the rights of health care benefits to students and to those on vocational training staying in a Member State other than that in which they are insured.
It seems that this derogation puts the Netherlands in a favourable position vis-à-vis the other Member States.
The Commission had already forwarded this idea to the Council in 1995, unfortunately without success.
However, the Commission is again prepared to take over this amendment in its modified proposal.
Finally, there was another point raised by the rapporteur.
DG V is aware of the issue and has received representations from disabled people concerning this proposal.
The vote will take place today at 11 a.m.
When that ship sank with the loss of over 190 lives, the official report at that time concluded that one of the factors leading to the loss of the ship was the lack of concern shown by the company, in that case P &amp; O.
On the Scandinavian Star many people died in a fire.
Most notably, 900 lives were lost when the Estonia sank.
Sadly there are still cases of ferries sailing in European Union waters with excessive numbers on board.
The Herald of Free enterprise sank within twenty-two minutes of leaving Zeebrugge.
Finally, we are asking not only for journeys of 20 miles to be covered but also journeys in excess of two hours which we hope the Commissioner can look favourably on.
In conclusion, we believe that real progress has in the last two years finally been made on the issue of ferry safety.
The work must continue and my report acknowledges the fact that there is more still to be done.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the International Convention on standards of training, certification and watch keeping for seafarers - the STCW Convention, as revised in 1995 - is to bring the training of seafarers more into line with the real conditions of sea transport, in particular the new technological developments on board vessels and modern methods of vocational training.
Let us not forget that almost 80 % of accidents at sea are caused primarily by human error or negligence.
The proposal for a Council directive amending Directive 94/58/EC, which is the subject of my report, calls for all the requirements of the Convention to be properly and effectively implemented in the EU and incorporated into Community law.
Starting out from the need to improve safety at sea, which is the guiding principle behind my report, I have sought to introduce certain changes which, without altering the legal nature of the Convention, are designed firstly to improve and consolidate the proposal for a directive wherever possible, making it simpler to interpret and apply; and, secondly, to remove any legal uncertainty or conflict as regards Member States' obligations in terms of issuing and recognizing certificates and training seafarers.
On the basis of this approach, the main modifications to the original text include the need for a common working language to be established on board all vessels, in keeping with the new SOLAS regulation due to enter into force on 1 July, so that all crew members are able to communicate with one another; the need to better reconcile work on board with the necessary qualifications; a more rational system of recognizing qualifications issued by third countries, subject to a set of quality criteria to prevent the use of under-qualified crews; and finally the tightening-up of the directive on port state control.
I believe that the training of seafarers can help to improve the safety and competitiveness of the Community fleet and, in a broader context, to reduce the number of sub-standard vessels.
The simultaneous adoption of measures to promote the training of qualified crew members in Europe, which is now declining steadily, would be equally beneficial, in my view.
The directive on the registration of persons sailing on board passenger ships will help to improve the rescue work in a crisis situation.
I feel that the directive on the minimum level of training for seafarers should above all be seen in the light of the fact that 80 % of all accidents at sea are due to human error.
When I myself had the privilege of becoming a member of this Parliament several years ago, the first question I asked Commissioner Kinnock concerned this very issue of obligatory passenger lists.
One dark night in September 1994, the terrible accident occurred in which the ferry Estonia sank on the journey between Tallinn and Stockholm.
Information on the passengers on board is a basic requirement in this respect to make rescue work more effective.
This is limited to 20 nautical miles between two ports.
That is why it is essential for the European Union to adapt itself to the standards laid down by the International Maritime Organization.
Last year when we had the disaster with the Sea Empress , which went down just off his beautiful native coast of Wales - I see he is in fact listening - it turned out that the only way of communicating with the crew of the Sea Empress was via the local Chinese restaurant owner because the whole crew was Chinese.
In particular, we voted against certain provisions of the report and unfortunately we are forced to vote against the report, in particular concerning Amendment No 10, Amendment No 32 and Amendment No 33.
But I think that there is still much work to be done on tightening up requirements for crews.
Given the global nature of maritime transport, any measures taken in this field should be at international level.
I am of course speaking with reference to areas which I would describe as delicate or sensitive, where passenger numbers are very high, and where the competition enlivening the single market - or, if you like, the deregulation sweeping through the shipping sector - is creating very real problems, to the extent that very often, even the basic legal requirements are being flouted.
That is another point to be borne in mind.
Mr Watts spoke of the problems of ten years ago on the Herald of Free Enterprise .
But this was the Herald of Free Enterprise , functioning under the flag of the Townsend Thorensen Company.
They very quickly changed the name of the sister ship of the Herald of Free Enterprise , the Spirit of Free Enterprise , to the Pride of Bruges so that it could carry on sailing and people would not know.
Mr van der Waal said that it could be too administrative and there might be problems for competitiveness.
I do not think the victims of the Estonia or the Herald of Free Enterprise would think it was too administrative.
Sea Containers which operates SeaCat and Hovercraft do not object and I am absolutely convinced that the Commissioner with his track record will be 100 % diligent in putting the safety of passengers before that of profit and free enterprise.
Four out of five maritime accidents are due to human error or human incompetence.
The STCW Convention of 1978, blessed by the International Maritime Organization, was updated in 1995 to take into account new technological developments on board vessels and also the more modern training methods currently used.
The big question for the European Commission was whether it should have absorbed the revised STCW Convention lock, stock and barrel, or whether it should pick, piecemeal, the best revised elements.
Last week the ADAC organization in Germany published a report on the results of a safety study carried out in April on 14 ferries in the Mediterranean.
On the Watts report I should like to thank the House for the thorough but speedy deliberation they have undertaken on this new proposal relating to the registration of persons sailing on board passenger ships.
It is clear that the two main issues raised by the committee amendments relate to a need for more flexibility to cope with specific situations and a special interest in safety in the Channel Tunnel.
The objective of more flexibility is pursued in the first part of committee Amendment No 8 and in Amendments Nos 9 and 12.
The suggestion for imposing a registration system for motor cars using railway shuttles which is made in Amendments Nos 5, 7 and 10 falls outside the scope of this maritime directive and the amendments cannot therefore be accepted.
The third part of Amendment No 8 which puts the entire burden of providing information on the master of a vessel rather than on the company is also unacceptable and it may be that this consequence of the amendment is inadvertent.
On the other hand, I can accept an improved wording for the second paragraph of Article 8, along the lines the Amendment No 11.
The Commission is grateful to the House not only for the quality of the report but also for ensuring that this report is on this sitting's agenda, following the vote in the Committee on Transport and Tourism last week.
As the House will know, the new proposal provides for consistency between the training and certification provisions of Directive 94/58 and the new requirements of the International Maritime Organization Convention on standards of training certification and watch-keeping for seafarers.
To fulfil these purposes the changes in the existing directive firstly reflect the entire revised STCW Convention, including both the mandatory section, part A, and the recommended guidance in part B of the code.
I am glad to be able to tell the House that the Commission welcomes Amendments Nos 10, 14, 21 and 32 since they help to ensure that the STCW 95 Convention is reflected without ambiguity in the directive.
The Commission can also support Amendments Nos 3, 4, 8, 9, 12, 13, 17, 26, 27, 31, 34, 35 and the first part of Amendment No 7 because they improve a number of specific provisions of the directive.
We can also agree with Amendments Nos 23, 24 and 25 to reflect the recent revision of the IMO's Solas Convention concerning the introduction of a common working language on board passenger ships.
The Commission cannot support Amendment Nos 28 and 29 simply because they repeat provisions which are already contained in other articles of the proposed directive.
Amendments Nos 15, 16, 19, 20 and 30 cannot be accepted because they seek to change the wording of the STCW Convention provision or to refer both to articles of the directive and to the relevant STCW provisions which are transposed in the directive.
Amendment No 11 regarding exemptions from certain training requirements in respect of near coastal voyages cannot be accepted since the wording proposed is not consistent with the relevant text of Regulation 1.3 of the STCW on the same topic.
Finally, Amendments Nos 18, 22 and 33 cannot be accepted simply because their content is outside the scope of the revised STCW Convention on which the present proposal before the House is based.
As he would expect, the Commission took an active interest in those proceedings but I will give him details in a letter.
I am confident that Parliament by adopting both these reports will facilitate the early achievement of common positions on two important instruments which, both in terms of training and in terms of the management of passenger vessels, will further raise the standards of safety.
In the case of the Herald of Free Enterprise the ship sank in twenty-two minutes.
Before the final vote Mr President, I should like to speak before the vote.
In my analysis, the outcome of the vote on paragraph 2, following the vote on amendment No 6, totally destroys the report.
I cannot therefore leave my name on the report.
This report was before the Parliament before 1994.
Mr Azzolini, there was that view, but the chairman of the relevant committee and the rapporteur did not agree.
Amendment No 12 Mr President, I wish to say something about Paragraph 12.
This is why we cannot vote for a resolution which supports Council decisions by qualified majority, the abolition of the veto in the CFSP, that the European Parliament shall have co-decision power on all budget items and common statutes for all members of the European Parliament etc.
The complexity of European procedures discourages any well-intentioned citizen from trying to find out exactly what it means.
According to the subject, the European Parliament, which is legitimately elected, is consulted for a simple opinion or in a codecision procedure by means of conciliation, following two or three possible 'readings' , in opinion procedures and budgetary procedures etc.
In each case, the majority requirements in the Council differ: simple majority, qualified majority, super-qualified majority or unanimity.
These majority requirements themselves vary according to whether or not the Commission approves of or rejects the European Parliament's opinions.
When it exercises its legislative powers, the Council is the only parliamentary institution to deliberate in secret in order to avoid explaining its decisions to the ordinary people, national parliaments or the European Parliament.
In order to fill in this gap, the European Parliament must take a firm stance towards the Council and remind governments that it is useless fighting for minimum social standards if it fails to give Europe the means to produce substantial and coherent social policies.
Now it is for the governments to take their responsibilities at the European Council in Amsterdam next month.
We are very pleased that a proper chapter on employment is being included in the Treaty, so that the Union has a commitment in proportion to the disastrously high level of unemployment in the 15 EU Member States.
the Christodoulou report (A4-0181/97) Many of the amendments proposed in the resolution are good especially No. 8 where it is proposed that the size of the investment should also be considered when determining if the budget deficit exceeds the permitted level or not.
This is why I have voted against the report.
the Randzio-Plath report (A4-0184/97) The two intergovernmental conferences which paved the way for the Maastricht Treaty each had a specific aim: one, EMU, and the other, political union.
I am therefore throwing all of my support behind Christa Randzio-Plath's report and I share her criticism of the European Commission's 'guidelines' .
I am in favour of setting up a European economic government.
In a market which will soon be completely unified, it is now vital that we approximate social legislation in the Member States in order to avoid situations of social dumping and we must work together to increase the level of welfare in European societies in order to protect its most vulnerable categories.
The single currency is not an aim in itself.
That can only be achieved if we truly coordinate economic policies, for which Article 103 of the Treaty offers significant potential.
We are not against increased inter-state co-operation between EU Member States and between the EU and other relevant countries in order to reduce unemployment and promote integrated environmental stewardship through economic policies but we are opposed to any attempts to restrict the freedom of the Member States to act freely with regard to economic policy.
the recommendation by Mr González Triviño (A4-0172/97) During the vote at first reading, the European Parliament adopted 19 amendments to polish up the Commission's proposals.
The common position on which we had to give our opinion takes up 15 of those amendments.
Until now, air carrier passengers insurance protection has depended on the 1929 Warsaw Convention and the Additional Protocols to it, dating back to 1961.
The text which has been proposed to us meets that aim and therefore should be adopted.
the Watts report (A4-0152/97) At the end of November 1994, the European Parliament, sensitized and outraged by the sinking of the 'Estonia' with 900 victims, demanded that the European Commission set up a programme aimed at boosting safety on board ships.
It calls for the compulsory registration of all passengers on board passenger ferries.
The Commission and the Council must urgently study this possibility in all seriousness.
the Terrón i Cusí reportLindqvist (ELDR), Eriksson, Seppänen, Sjöstedt and Svensson (GUE/NGL), Gahrton, Holm and Schörling (V), Sandbæk (I-EDN), in writing. (SV) We have voted against the report concerning the development of a convention for European information systems.
We disagree with the Council's proposal and therefore, quite logically, reject the Terrón i Cusí report.
These facts come to light, among other aspects, in the proposal to set up a common control authority, comprising two representatives of each national authority and the Commission, without any parliamentary controls whatsoever.
It also applies to the third pillar of the European Union.
Although we agree with parts of the report, for example, on a code of conduct for tax matters or in other words, an agreement between the Member States on voluntary self regulation, we cannot support the basic concept of the report that the principle of unanimity on tax issues shall be abandoned in the Council.
This is why we cannot vote for this report.
We think that Member States should have the right, in principle, to set taxes and that the Council should continue to treat tax matters in accordance with the principles of unanimous decision making.
The undersigned have voted against the report for the following reasons: 1.Economic and budgetary conditions in each country are very different.
Tax policy should continue to be a national matter in the future.
For this reason I have voted against the report.
Probably, the effectiveness of the single market means that measures must be contemplated in order to make the way in which committees operate more transparent in order to guarantee independence vis-à-vis lobbies, when working out legislative procedures, for improving the protection of health and environment.
Nevertheless, a proper reading of the subsidiarity principle would call on us to look at a number of the problems raised by this report, in a more flexible way, in a more appropriate way, which would be more effective than a systematic and sometimes abusive communitarization of the issue.
It is, in particular, true of questions concerning legal systems and taxation matters, dealt with in another report before us today.
The contribution to this difficult battle at European level means, in fact, a desire to reintroduce the principle of Community preferences inscribed in the Treaty of Rome in 1957, but systematically sacrificed on the altar of free trade in the case of trade negotiations... (The President cut off the speaker) The rapporteur expresses enthusiasm for the internal market, for continued integration and for very extensive legislative harmonisation in many of his points.
But we very much doubt, for example, that the internal market has increased the Union's GNP by 130 billion dollars as stated in point 3 of the report.
All such figures are, and must remain, guesses and we could equally well say that the internal market has reduced the GNP by the same amount or that the internal market will increase the level of unemployment by 5 million people.
More serious than this enthusiasm however, is the fact that the rapporteur in several places recommends the replacement of national legislation with Union legislation.
In point 16, the rapporteur states that the internal market will provide the base for a 'tax system at EU level' .
In Point 25 he makes a plea for a 'monitoring system at Community level' and so on.
The information from the Commission that only half the measures in the 1985 White Paper on the internal market have been fully implemented in the Member States is therefore very disturbing.
the Lannoye report (A4-0075/97) British Conservatives recognize the great interest felt by thousands of electors in our constituencies over the issues raised in the Lannoye report.
Recent public opinion surveys show that between 20 and 50 % of European citizens use these so-called 'nonconventional' medicines.
What this report, brimming with initiative, sets out to do is to establish a Community status with the highest degree of health and legal safety for the exercise of these alternative medical disciplines to which all of us - or nearly all of us - resort, as I said a moment ago.
The subject, concerning a large number of ordinary people and concerning a sector as important and sensitive as health, cannot be dealt with by means of excommunications or witch-hunts.
The area of non-conventional medicine, and the possible regulation, via EU legislation, of freedom of establishment for practitioners of such medicine is a subject where Europe needs to proceed with great care.
For this reason, I strongly support those parts of the Lannoye report which call for the Commission to carry out a study of the issue, as expressed in the first part of paragraph 2, and a study on results of research already done under budget item B 7142 into the effectiveness of homeopathy and other non-conventional medicines.
I am glad that the Parliament has rejected that part of paragraph 2 which originally called for immediate legislation, without awaiting the result of any study.
Since the EU does have a real problem regarding the freedom of establishment of the practitioners of nonconventional medicine, I hope that we can now use this resolution as a means of urging the Commission to carry out the study needed, and, possibly to bring forward legislation.
Even so, what is refunded in a health insurance scheme financed from taxation has to be a purely national matter.
In many countries, such as Spain, there is an absolute legal vacuum in respect of these, which only encourages charlatanism, putting the health of consumers at risk.
The aim of the report is exactly the opposite.
the Crowley report (A4-0088/97) We cannot support Mr Crowley's report on the social aspects of housing, primarily on the grounds that housing policy is and continues to be a national responsibility.
in writing. (SV) We totally agree with the basic claim in Mr Crowley's report that everyone has the right to decent housing and that the 18 million or so people in the EU who are homeless or living in poor accommodation have the right to decent homes which are reasonably priced.
Housing policy is and must remain a matter for Member States.
Despite the fact that the report contains many good proposals we cannot vote for it for the above mentioned reasons.
For these reasons, I have voted against the report.
