Decision on urgent procedure Madam President, let me say in regard to this item that we have not yet concluded our discussions in committee, and therefore cannot agree to the request for urgent procedure at this part-session.
Mr von Wogau, another solution would be - if you and the House were to agree to it - for us to vote in favour of urgency now, but to include this on the agenda for the sitting on 22 March.
Either I can table it now or I can wait until you have formally opened the debate on this document, as you wish.
The first is that it is intended to make some of the proposed changes to the Rules of Procedure in implementation of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, which is our fundamental document, must be subject to basic laws, in particular the Treaty.
In my minority opinion which I submitted on this text I list the points where I think the report goes too far.
The first was on the implementation of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Changes to the Rules of Procedure obviously cannot enter into force until the Treaty has itself come into force.
What we are doing here is preparing Parliament for that time.
Clearly the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that are linked to the Treaty will not apply until the Treaty of Amsterdam is itself in force.
I believe a parliament's most fundamental right is to adapt its rules to the constant changes in parliamentary life.
Parliament rejected the motion Madam President, this report constitutes the most comprehensive revision of our Rules of Procedure since the entry into force of the Maastricht Treaty in the early 1990s.
In short, we are preparing Parliament for a new era.
But I am convinced that the package that we put before you today has stretched the elastic to just the right degree and that what we have come up with is a package which we can commend to the House.
The codecision procedure has been rewritten in our Rules, partly to take account of what has been agreed in Amsterdam: the possibility of first reading agreements between the institutions, for instance; the elimination of the Council's right to adopt a text unilaterally at third reading if Parliament fails to reject it.
These changes are incorporated into the Rules and we have done so in such a way as to encourage early dialogue between the Council and Parliament to try and reach agreement early in the procedure, wherever possible.
We have also highlighted the cases where it is the final vote in Parliament which will henceforth determine the entry into force of European legislation.
In another area we have looked at the new provisions giving Parliament the right to vote on the President of the Commission.
The Commission is a political executive accountable to the directly elected Parliament.
We have tried to rationalise our procedures in other ways.
We have a rationalised procedure there, which preserves the right of the Legal Affairs Committee and of the committee responsible, leaves the final decision in plenary but avoids the possibility of filibustering.
In terms of enhancing our scrutiny of the Commission, we also provide in our new Rules for the President of the Commission or another member to come and make a statement to Parliament immediately after Commission meetings, where we so request it, and to be subject to a half-hour period of questioning on the decisions taken at that meeting.
The initial announcement of the decisions taken would be here and the initial reaction would be by directly elected Members posing questions to the Commission.
This would liven up our debates a little bit, make them appeal more to the public, without taking away the right of each group to have its appropriate share of speaking-time.
This package has been put together over almost a year - a year of hard work in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
Madam President, if I were strict with myself I would refrain from speaking because I agree entirely with the detailed report Mr Corbett has just presented.
As this lengthy and fruitful process draws to a close, it is only right for us to express our appreciation to all those who have made it possible to come this far.
The first of these relates to Amendment No 16 to Rule 32 and Amendment No 17 to Rule 33 on voting by roll call on the appointment of the President of the European Commission and the Commission itself.
This clarifies Parliament's role in the appointment of any future European Commission.
Similarly, Amendment No 23 to Rule 39, which in fact takes up but slightly modifies Amendment No 152 by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, rendering it more flexible, ensures that the European Central Bank will make the maximum amount of information available and makes formal provision for its statements.
In addition, and as a result of Amendments Nos 30 and 31, the Rules will provide for consultation of the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions with the necessary distinction between these two institutions to take account of their respective identities.
As I said at the beginning of my speech, we have here a carefully crafted proposal for a far-reaching revision of our Rules, adapting them for a stage when the European Parliament will have greater legislative powers and significant political responsibilities, such as in the election of the President of the European Commission.
It is to be hoped that tomorrow's vote will represent a satisfactory outcome for the work that has been carried out.
Thank you, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz.
Madam President, I referred to our Rules as a way of regulating our communal life, and the lodestar of parliamentary activity.
Consequently, any revision of the Rules of Procedure must inevitably take account of the Treaty, bearing in mind however that there is considerable scope for interpretation when applying the Treaty to existing situations, as there is with any legal instrument.
All the amendments are important, Madam President.
Amendment No 16 on the election of the President of the European Commission has also received a great deal of criticism.
It is also worth mentioning the statements on the broad guidelines for economic policy laid down in Article 99 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, as well as Rule 24 which fully exploits the opportunities provided by the text in question.
There are many other issues I could mention concerning the third pillar, human rights and compliance with the principles of the Treaty.
Madam President, firstly I would like to congratulate the three rapporteurs on their joint report amending the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament in the light of the Amsterdam Treaty.
The fact that many people believe this is demonstrated by the speed at which the Chamber emptied when you said that we would be talking about rules.
I want to concentrate on aspects of the nine other reports by the Rules Committee that have been taken simultaneously, particularly the series of amendments relating to issues concerning the declaration of Members' interests.
With the passage of the Nordmann report and my own report on control and registration of lobbyists in 1996, this Parliament made an enormous step forward in transparency and openness.
A dialogue with the representatives of employees and employers, consumer groups, producer groups, representatives of foreign governments and environmental and human rights organisations is both necessary and desirable.
But dialogue should not turn into ownership.
In these reports a number of holes in the system are being filled in.
Firstly, Amendment No 10 from my own report deals with the plight of former Members.
My amendment gives the Bureau the job of laying down the rights and privileges of former Members without distinction.
Secondly, we have Amendment No 110 in the Wijsenbeek report which changes the rule on declaration of interests so that Members with a direct financial interest must orally declare such an interest before speaking in committee or plenary.
Thirdly, Amendment No 112 in the Spiers report will make the chairs of intergroups responsible for making an annual declaration of any assistance in cash or kind received by such groups and making that available to the public.
Fourthly, Amendment No 111 deals with two problems.
It involves the existing Rule 8 of our Rules of Procedure, more precisely two of its paragraphs - paragraph 3 and paragraph 5 - governing resignations by Members of this Parliament, which can sometimes pose a problem.
But we considered whether we needed to retain the procedure of the resignation letter and the official record, and concluded that the Rules could be simplified by stipulating that notification of the resignation must be made in the form of an official record, as laid down in the existing paragraph 3 and dispensing with the letter of resignation, and that the vacancy will be established as from the date indicated by the resigning Member in that official record.
So the ambiguity on this point will be removed if Parliament adopts Amendments Nos 6, 7 and 9, which I believe met with widespread agreement in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
I would now like to speak on the report as a whole to explain why, on behalf of my group, I am opposed to its adoption.
With regard to the implementation of the Treaty of Amsterdam, I maintain that this implementation is premature, firstly - and here Professor Duhamel might remember that the parliament of the state he represents consists of two chambers - because in fact the ratification debate is currently still taking place in the French Parliament, and also because, with no date set for the Treaty to come into force, the provisions we are going to adopt will come into force in the next part-session, which will be before the Treaty has been ratified.
But the text also goes beyond the Treaty of Amsterdam.
This is the case, in particular, in Amendment No 28 enshrining the practice of interinstitutional agreements, which are legally doubtful.
The report is also imprudent in introducing issues not included in the mandate given by the Conference of Presidents.
It also applies to Amendment No 14 on censure of parliamentary office-holders and to Amendment No 78.
I refer Members interested in these issues to the minority opinion where I have set out my reservations.
Madam President, in recent years, consolidated practice concerning the verification of credentials has established a number of procedures and precedents, which lend a broad interpretation to both the Act of 20 September 1976 and Rules 7 and 8 of the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
Madam President, first I have to present my own modest part in this overall report.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, of course you are right to note or criticise the fact that this report aims far beyond the amendments that would have necessarily resulted from the Amsterdam Treaty and therefore also exceeds its task.
It is an attempt by the majorities to win themselves advantages, and I regret this development because it does not benefit the European Parliament, and certainly not its democratic culture.
Madam President, I wish to speak on Rule 168 (new), in other words Amendment No 109, which is the result of an own-initiative report.
This is the last rule in our Rules of Procedure and it concerns the annexes.
The annexes are not exactly rules, but they are still part of the Rules of Procedure, and with this new Rule 168 we aimed to clarify the structure of the annexes by arranging them under three headings: implementing provisions for procedures under these Rules, adopted by simple majority in Parliament; -provisions adopted in implementation of specific terms of the Rules of Procedure, in particular, for example - as an illustration - Rule 9 on the code of conduct.
We are discussing eight reports by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, in association with the Corbett-Palacio-Gutiérrez report.
Thank you, Mr Fayot.
Madam President, in French I would say 'Madame le Président ', because the position you hold represents a role.
Having said that, Madam President, I shall now return to my mother tongue, Dutch, because the Rules are written in each of our languages and I think we should respect that fact.
Such groupings in the European Parliament often perform a valuable role.
There is not a major problem with intergroups in the European Parliament and the current Rules which require Members to declare any significant support they receive would embrace support received via an intergroup as well.
So, I can endorse these rule changes heartily.
Madam President, first let me express my appreciation to the rapporteurs and congratulate them on their comprehensive work.
The revision of the Rules of Procedure focuses on the innovations arising from the Amsterdam Treaty.
It tabled only two amendments.
The refusal to grant the Commission a discharge last December brought to light a whole range of inconsistencies between the provisions of the Treaty and Annex V of the Rules of Procedure.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Petitions. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Petitions urgently requests the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take account of the following points when adapting the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure to the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
However, the committee stresses the need to build on the successful cooperation established between the European Parliament and the European Ombudsman and to anchor it sufficiently clearly in the Rules of Procedure.
We further propose that clearer rules on submission of the annual reports and special reports on the activities of the European Ombudsman should be included in Chapter XX, Rule 161 (Activities of the Ombudsman).
It is important to insert in the Rules of Procedure more precise rules on the submission and consideration of the Ombudsman's annual reports and special reports by the European Parliament.
If in future the Ombudsman were to submit more interim or special reports on very specialised topics, we would advocate that not all of them should necessarily be considered in plenary.
Corresponding provisions, modelled on Rule 44 or Rule 52, could be inserted in the Rules of Procedure.
Finally, it would be appropriate for a procedure to be introduced in the Rules of Procedure for urgent consideration of the Ombudsman's reports by Parliament, especially with regard to their placing on the part-session agenda.
Madam President, the Group of the European People's Party supports the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
My group has nevertheless tabled a number of amendments - Amendment No 125 and the subsequent amendments - most of which are technical.
It can nevertheless also be argued that a vote as important as the one to approve the nomination of the President of the European Commission must display visible symbols of its significance, and voting by roll call has traditionally always served that purpose.
On behalf of the European People's Party, I should like to highlight a number of points on which either the group cannot agree with the Committee on the Rules of Procedure or where it has tabled political rather than technical amendments to clarify the issue.
Referring again to the three categories of amendments, and more specifically to the political ones, our group is opposed to the so-called 'internal censure motion' provided for in Amendment No 14.
Amendment No 124 by the Socialist Group concerning interparliamentary delegations raises serious legal problems.
The Group of the European People's Party understands the logic behind this amendment, but feels that the democratic principles which must provide the foundations for the composition of each and every one of Parliament's bodies should also be respected as far as these interparliamentary delegations are concerned.
In terms of the legislative amendments, the Group of the European People's Party is totally opposed to the amendment to Rule 53 concerning the legal basis and is therefore also opposed to Amendment No 38.
A large majority opposes the exclusion amendments to Rule 90 and the one-minute speeches in Rule 78.
Amendment No 38 is now proposing that, in the event of a dispute, this requirement to seek an opinion should be replaced by a requirement merely to inform the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
If every committee can determine the legal basis individually, this will lead to still more conflicts of responsibility between the committees and it will be very hard to see any consistency in the basis or Treaty article which the European Parliament uses in its decision making.
My group has therefore retabled Amendment No 138 to the effect that in the event of disagreement over the legal basis, the Legal Affairs Committee must be consulted, not informed.
In that category belong, for example, Amendment No 60 on the agreement between the labour market partners, Amendment No 69 on the Council's foreign policy representative and Amendment No 16 relating to the President of the Commission.
As has already been highlighted by other speakers within this Parliament, there are a number of contradictions and elements within this combined report which will cause us difficulties in the future.
I would specifically like to draw Members' attention to the question of whether we elect the President of the Commission or whether we approve the nomination of the President of the Commission.
Most importantly, it must be remembered that the dignity of the Members of this House and their rights as elected representatives of the people of Europe must be foremost in any formulation of our rules.
Madam President, the rapporteurs have done a thorough and comprehensive job, in fact too comprehensive in my view because the proposed amendments go beyond the innovations contained in the Amsterdam Treaty and therefore also beyond the task assigned to the rapporteurs.
The proposals to amend the provisions on the formation of groups, and also the horizontal increase in the number of required signatures from 29 to 32, unjustifiably weaken the small groupings whose importance to the diversity of opinion inherent in a democracy has indeed recently become more than apparent.
Mrs Bjerregaard is Denmark's representative and a new majority in the Danish Parliament can send a new representative next time.
But now Parliament is saying instead that it should elect or reject the Commission.
The Commission is to be elected by Parliament in almost the same way as a national parliament elects a government.
The June Movement is therefore voting against the new Rules of Procedure, and we call upon the Member States to protest against Parliament's attempt to transform the national parliaments into a kind of junior branch of local government.
Furthermore, the gains in efficiency that would result from such a change are negligible.
Consequently, I am going to vote against these two proposals.
We must devote particular attention here to the regulatory nature of the new legislative procedures, since in its next term, Parliament is certain to enjoy equal status with the Council in a twin-chamber legislative system.
So I cannot accept Mr Voggenhuber's complaint that this change in the Rules means less democracy.
I think, and the three rapporteurs agree with me, that this package of amendments to the Rules should come into force at the same time as the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Mr President, the Commission is aware that first and foremost, Parliament's Rules of Procedure concern this House and its independent internal organisation.
Nevertheless, in the light of the Commission's role in the legislative process, it does have a legitimate interest in the Rules as they do affect us to a certain extent.
I shall single out certain features of the new Rules which merit special consideration.
Firstly, we are somewhat concerned with the new arrangements to review the Commission's proposals in relation to human rights and the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
If the first option were to be applied, the procedure could slow down the entire legislative process and might even contradict the Interinstitutional Agreement on subsidiarity.
I am confident that neither Mr Corbett nor the other rapporteurs are doing so, as they are very much aware that this is a key component of the entire institutional system.
The same is true of the proposals relating to the consideration of the legal basis.
This states that the amount of time allocated to the Commission has to be agreed with the Commission and must in any case be without prejudice to the provisions of Article 197 of the Treaty, according to which the Commission is entitled to put forward its view at any time.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation that is before us concerns orphan medicinal products.
This regulation raises two main issues and several secondary issues.
The first criterion is epidemiological, in this case diseases affecting no more than 5 per 10 000 of the population and, of course, serious, chronic and debilitating diseases.
I think that is an excellent criterion, and I reject Amendments Nos 33, 34, 35, 41, 42 and 43, which seek to limit diagnostic research to curable diseases, as if it were not important to be able to recognise a disease.
That seems ridiculous, to doctors in any case.
The second issue is that of incentives.
I shall not be supporting Amendments Nos 25, 28 and 31, which seek to remove this criterion, because I think it will be quite simple to observe in practice.
I shall therefore uphold that criterion against Amendments Nos 17, 32, 36, 37 and 39 which seek to remove it, but propose to pay the excessive profit - if there is one - to a research support fund for new orphan medicinal products.
And I shall be supporting Amendment No 38, which makes it impossible to extend an authorisation to market a similar non-orphan medicinal product for the same therapeutic indication.
Finally, I support Amendment No 15, which calls for that Agency to receive a special contribution that is sufficient to cover the exemptions from registration fees and is intended to maximise the incentive to carry out research in the orphan medicinal products sector and submit these applications for authorisation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after lengthy preparatory work, this proposal for a regulation is a step in the right direction.
This should explicitly be laid down in the regulation, at least in the form of an emphatic recommendation to the Member States.
The concept of a 'similar medical product' should be given a more detailed scientific definition in order to take into account current scientific developments and the characteristics of the products.
Only through cooperation between the private and the public sector and the creation of favourable conditions for research into new medicines, with the help of treatment and diagnosis, can we respond to the patients' needs.
Mr President, Europe is finally catching up with the United States, which has for some time been encouraging the research, manufacture and marketing of medicinal products intended for the diagnosis and treatment of rare disorders which - although affecting only a small number of people - are serious, incapacitating and often fatal.
Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I should like to express our full support for the proposal for a regulation put forward by the European Commission.
Incidentally, I believe that those groups deserve special public commendation here and now, in the House, for their excellent support of the parliamentary work we all carry out.
I should also highlight the fact that there has been an excellent climate of cooperation and agreement amongst all the political groups represented in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
In my view, it is important to accept the amendment that allows the committee on orphan medicinal products envisaged in the Commission's proposal to operate under the aegis of the European Agency for the Assessment of Medicines.
It is also important to make adequate financial resources available in the European Union's budget on a regular and permanent basis.
Amendment No 18, which I tabled, aims to create a fund to promote innovation, Mr Bangemann.
I urge the Commission to study the operational experience gained in the United States and Japan.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is just as difficult and costs just as much to find a treatment and develop a medicinal product which will save a few human lives as it does to market a medicinal product which will save millions of lives.
If these two factors are taken into account our group will vote for this resolution.
No fewer than 837 drugs have been designated 'orphan medicinal products' in the US over the past decade.
Providing meaningful incentives to ensure development of products to tackle some of the most debilitating and upsetting conditions in the world is clearly a job for a new kind of innovative, public/private partnership.
To succeed, progress must be based on epidemiological and economic criteria which have been worked out in the rather difficult passage of these proposals to this stage.
This is an important development in the context of the many exciting advances being made in genetic identification, treatment and, best of all, prevention of diseases.
Together with the forthcoming programme on rare diseases, plus what I hope will prove an effective new framework for public health policy over the next five years, this initiative offers realistic new hope to those who suffer pain and misery.
Now it is up to all of us to take responsibility for ensuring its future success on behalf of those patients who suffer.
The hopes of many patients suffering from rare diseases rely on our obtaining a regulation on orphan drugs in Europe too as soon as possible.
I believe it is most important that we also include tropical diseases in Amendments Nos 1 and 2.
It is important for Europe to look further than the end of its own nose and also to consider people suffering from tropical diseases.
That is not necessarily the case under this regulation, but we must create an instrument to do so very quickly.
Finally, I want to raise the question of diagnosis, which we have already had occasion to consider in committee.
I believe I can say from my own experience that particularly in the case of genetically-related diseases - which after all means most of the rare diseases - the patients are waiting for prevention and treatment while we, if we only have diagnosis but no corresponding prevention or treatment, sometimes actually produce problems.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a German proverb that fits the bill in the EU as regards orphan drugs.
What I expect of this regulation is that it will provide a strong incentive for the development of these medicines and therefore for research into molecular biology.
Unfortunately, the Commission felt it was unable to follow the US model in regard to providing additional tax relief, tax relief at least in the sense of definite recommendations for action on the part of the Member States.
But experiences in the USA show that tax advantages offer the most effective stimulus for investment in orphan drug development.
It would also be a good idea to set up a special fund for additional support for the development of these medicines.
For the rest, we have been trying for many years to control and counter this situation.
We have made quite substantial funds available for research in these areas in the research programmes, in the third and fourth framework programmes of research.
The fact that we are only now proposing this regulation - I believe the American legislation has existed since 1983 - does not mean that we have done nothing since then.
But we also want to create a range of additional incentives, for instance through the ten-year market exclusivity right.
This kind of market exclusivity right does of course offer an additional opportunity to make profits, but since this market is by definition very small, nobody can in fact count on making enormous profits.
Nevertheless, these ten years are a key element and cornerstone of our system of incentives for research and development in the area of orphan drugs, which indeed are also found in a very similar form in the other existing legislation.
We want to make it more attractive, which is why we believe that the right criteria are epidemiological criteria, because they are objective and in particular because they can easily be applied at an early stage of product development.
As I said, we are at first reading.
Then I want to make a few comments on the amendments we cannot accept, beginning with No 6, which sets out an additional economic criterion.
It concerns Amendment No 18.
Of course we support the view that specific measures to support research in developing countries are useful.
Mr President, may I have an answer from Mr Bangemann to the question I asked concerning his thoughts on Amendment No 30 which I have tabled with Mrs Dybkjær.
That is more or less the same argument I put forward in regard to tax relief and against the fund in general.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
It was established 20 years ago, thanks to the work of Nancy Wertheimer in Colorado, that electromagnetic fields could have not only direct effects, causing damage due to heating - acute thermal effects, as they are called - but also long-term effects, leading to leukaemia and cancer.
Parliament established certain facts in that report, including the need to apply the precautionary principle to EMF effects on the population.
In response to Parliament's report, the Commission saw fit to present a recommendation - now under discussion - concerning the entire radiation spectrum from 0 Hz to 300 Ghz.
As was pointed out in our Environment Committee, this recommendation lays down limits for acute thermal effects only.
But as regards long-term effects, the current wide-ranging debate has brought to light many scientific investigations, some epidemiological and others related specifically to cells and tissue, in vitro as well as in vivo , which indicate a probable EMF effect on cellular connections.
This could cause the epidemiological effects which have resulted in leukaemia and cancer, as well as several other forms of long-term damage, such as nervous disorders, amnesia and so on.
First of all, the committee proposes taking into account the health of workers and consumer protection, by introducing the precautionary principle and the principle that the best available technology should be used so as to keep radiation as low as possible.
That concludes my presentation - which is also on behalf of my group - of certain amendments which take account of long-term effects and others, on the basis of the precautionary principle and of safety levels adopted in some countries, such as Italy and Sweden.
All of us would wish to see by 2001 - not in four or five years' time or ten years' time but within the space of 18 months - a further review of the safety measures used and of these instruments themselves.
Mr President, the Commission's proposal for a recommendation on limiting exposure of the general public to electromagnetic fields concerns all European Union citizens, as this form of radiation has entered all of our lives.
The European Parliament, adhering to the precautionary principle, was the first body to request the Commission, in 1994, to put in place legislation and standards to limit exposure to non-ionising radiation and to undertake actions, studies and research into the impact of electromagnetic fields on living organisms and especially on human beings.
The Commission proposal attempts to fill the legislative gap that exists in the European Union on this issue.
Mixed reactions I am sorry, but this is very important.
Applause Mrs Lulling, I think that Commissioner Pinheiro has heard you loud and clear and that he will be able to enlighten us not on the state of mind of Mr Flynn, but simply as to whether, in accordance with Rule 59, the Commission will or will not withdraw its proposal for a directive.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am able to announce that the Commission will be withdrawing its proposal as requested by the Committee on Women's Rights.
The French text states that Parliament calls on the Member States to legalise induced abortion 'under certain conditions', and we are asking for a separate vote on the phrase 'under certain conditions'.
The English text has 'in certain circumstances', which is quite different.
The authentic text is 'under certain conditions'.
Obviously we do not want to legalise abortion wholesale, without conditions, at least not in my group.
So it has to be 'under certain conditions'.
Parliament adopted the resolution The equilibrium of the societies of Europe rests in large part on the preservation and development of a culture composed of diversity, on the vitality of our remarkably rich languages and, as a corollary, on the rejection of uniformity.
The audiovisual sector plays an essential role in this regard.
The 'relevance' of these statistics needs to be monitored and the statistical data must be collected in the light of a 'need to know' for businesses, but also to manage policies in the sector.
So Eurostat should at least look at employment levels and trends, qualification requirements, and age distribution for this sector, which would give some insight into the policies undertaken at both European and national levels.
It is vital not to forget the essential role of the SMEs in this sector.
But business in the audiovisual sector is essentially done by small and medium-sized enterprises.
Finally, I want to mention that these SMEs will only be able to develop through cooperation at European level and real subsidiarity benefiting Member States and respecting their autonomous policies, taking account of the impact and influence of their national languages as well as their individual cultural diversity.
Anttila report (A4-0073/99) We have voted against the report for the following reasons: 1.Negotiations between the governments on the reform of agricultural policy are still in progress and will be resumed today.
There is no reason for Parliament to comment on individual sections of agricultural policy in the current situation.2.Special decisions which benefit some Members States pose a threat to the reform process as a whole.3.Parliament should not make pronouncements on increased assistance for some countries when the objective is to lessen the heavy burden imposed on the Union's agricultural policy.
The Europe of Nations Group naturally recognises the specific features of arctic agriculture and the significance of the fact that more than 30 different ecosystems have been identified across the Member States of the European Union.
As the CAP's name indicates, it is a common policy.
While it might be possible for us to consider incorporating specific products, such as reindeer, into an existing COM, for example the COM in beef, we should not use the excuse of a specific ecosystem to replace a common agricultural policy with 30 specific agricultural policies.
The regional aspects of the CAP must be recognised in both rural development policy and regional policy.
So these regions benefit now, and will continue to benefit in the future, from specific and significant support to compensate for the higher costs inherent in the ecosystem.
I would remind you that, in the context of regional policy for this region, Community subsidies amount to 75 % of the total cost of structural investment.
Consequently, as paragraphs 3 and 7 were adopted, our group voted against the resolution in the final vote.
Members of our group are attached to the CAP which has been one of the fundamental bases of the construction of Europe as enshrined in the Treaty of Rome.
At some stage in their development all SMEs experience problems arising from their weak capital resources.
So risk capital needs to be developed.
If we take the United States as an example, of seven million jobs created in that country between 1991 and 1995, six million were the result of new SMEs starting up.
Things are very different today in European Union countries, where SMEs with competitive advantages in terms of high technology are penalised in this respect.
We might do well here to draw on the experience of the United States, which created a national control body - the Security and Exchange Commission - by establishing a regulatory body responsible for harmonising the provisions of national regulations so as to allow secondary financial markets to develop.
Newman report (A4-0093/99) The non-attached Members welcome on principle all measures and steps taken both in the EU and in the Member States to combat money laundering.
But we have rejected the report as a whole because we believe that the proceedings instituted against Austria in relation to the Austrian savings accounts are exaggerated and go beyond the actual purpose of combating money laundering.
Vaz da Silva report (A4-0103/99) A long process of contacts and consultations with the arts world in a good many European countries (not just the 15 Member States) is coming to a close.
Not even the Member States seem to be aware of the potential contribution by their artists to their own quality of life and nor do the artists themselves seem eager to emerge from their own circles and discover other practices and other countries.
By taking the initiative to produce this report, the Committee on Culture set out to equip the European institutions - at the vital moment of enlargement and the definition of a new political and financial framework - with a political instrument that will have a huge impact if only they know how to use it.
The fight against violence and exclusion relies upon it.
This report contains a number of excellent points.
And I am not convinced that 'tax benefits for sponsors' is a wise move, as proposed in paragraph 17.
ACP-EU cooperation has proved its effectiveness, and is an indispensable instrument of multilateral cooperation for the EU and the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific, yet it is under unprecedented attack, putting its survival at risk.
The Joint Assembly is also playing a central role in the negotiations for the next Lomé Convention.
In particular, it has spoken out on several occasions in favour of giving greater consideration to the legitimate interests of developing countries in the world economic order.
It must certainly adapt to the progressive diversification of ACP countries and, in particular, to the development of the African private sector, as the President of the OAU, Mr Blaise Compaoré, rightly stressed this morning in this Chamber.
Lüttge report (A4-0057/99) The Helsinki Conference, held from 23 to 25 June 1997, brought together representatives of European governments and parliaments, European Union institutions and intergovernmental organisations, trade unions and employer associations, and financial institutions, representing 51 different countries in all.
The Europe of Nations Group very much welcomes this cooperation to promote a pan-European transport policy based on a partnership among the main actors involved, the states first and foremost.
The first such conference only took place in 1991, in Prague, and it opened the way for the first steps towards a common transport policy between countries bordering on the European Union and its Member States.
Three working groups were set up in 1994 at the Crete Conference: Transport and Market Economy, Transport Infrastructure and Financing, and Horizon 2000 (intermodal transport, new technologies, safety and environmental protection).
Finally, the third conference, which was held in Helsinki, introduced long-term promotion of transport systems which are efficient, respect the environment, and can meet the economic, social, environmental and safety requirements of the public and of businesses.
The aim of the decisions adopted in Helsinki is to implement the following measures: approximation of safety and environmental legislation; -progressive liberalisation of transport markets; -development of intermodality; -development of infrastructure at pan-European level; -creation of a Europe-wide network partnership; -promotion of public passenger transport; -application of intelligent transport systems; -more research and development activities in the transport sector; -internalisation of external costs; -facilitation of transit; -cooperation in the field of data collection.The success of the Helsinki Conference again demonstrates the effectiveness of the cooperation method.
By adopting a group of measures which define the framework for developing the pan-European networks, the Member States of the European Union and their neighbours have developed a useful and practical dossier that is essential to the future of our continent: Europe rediscovered and reunited.
So incentives need to be established to encourage the industry to develop this type of medicinal product to help sufferers not only in the European Union but throughout the world, certainly including developing countries.
The aim of the Commission's proposal is to establish a Community procedure for designating orphan medicinal products and to provide incentives for related research, development and marketing, in particular by granting exclusive marketing rights for ten years.
While the Europe of Nations Group certainly applauds this initiative from the Commission, because it is an example of real cooperation between Member States where a larger market facilitates costly research, we do find it regrettable and unacceptable that the process has been so slow.
This proposal for a regulation was actually included in the Commission's 1997 programme.
A comparable system was introduced in Japan in 1995, Singapore in 1997 and Australia in 1998.
The Europe of Nations Group has voted for the amendments supported by the rapporteur, Professor Cabrol.
The European pharmaceutical industry can take advantage of this type of programme to develop new medicinal products more easily, thus helping to boost the level of research and enhance its reputation.
But there is many a slip 'twixt cup and lip, as shown by the difficulty of actually obtaining truly equal treatment between men and women in terms of access to employment and vocational training.
But the debate we are holding today seems to be outdated, for two reasons.
The first is that the ruling of the Court of Justice in the Marschall case has made it broadly possible to clarify the meaning of its ruling in the Kalanke case.
In addition, it provides a strengthened legal basis for positive action in the future.
We should reject the Commission's proposal and invite it to prepare a new proposal for a directive which takes account of the new factors which have since arisen.
Second Hautala report (A4-0029/99) Madam President, I voted against the Hautala report, or rather against all the amendments except those tabled by the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations, out of inner conviction.
As Christians we cannot pronounce against life and the unborn child is just as alive as the child that has been born.
Perhaps we will be in the majority one day, for in the long term this situation will be a great disaster for our population.
Madam President, there are many aspects of this report which I support because it addresses serious problems in relation to women's health.
However, I cannot support the reference to abortion.
The European Union has absolutely no competence in this area.
As far as my own personal position is concerned, I have voted in accordance with my own conscience, which is that I am opposed to abortion.
I have also supported paragraph 10, simply because if one wants to reduce the number of abortions, one should recognise the right of individuals to avail of counselling about sex education, including counselling about responsibilities in relationships and information about contraception.
I was guided by these particular principles when I voted on this important report.
It is surely rather curious for a report on women's health to call for the alleged right to abortion.
If a report on women's health does refer to abortion in the first place, then in my view there should also be some discussion of the effects of post-abortion syndrome.
By means of the Hautala report the European Parliament has expressed its legitimate interest in the state of women's health in the Community.
Given the stresses of contemporary society and the increasing responsibilities women rightly have within it, it is important to recognise in this way the specific health problems women are facing, or are liable to face.
Is it right that the life of a child in its mother's womb should be dealt with surreptitiously, as one point among so many others, in a report examined between a request for waiver of immunity and a communication from the Commission?
This means a specific health policy for each sex is absolutely essential.
The report deals with work by the European Commission which takes account of this requirement for the first time.
The European Commission must continue to forge ahead, paying special attention to the problem of women's health in its new action programme on health.
Some health problems concern only, or mainly, women.
Women live five years longer than men on average and are more affected by physical and psychological problems linked to ageing.
So we must implement a global approach that includes both a specific health policy for women and employment and social security policies which incorporate a health dimension.
In conclusion, and more generally, I want to stress the importance of prevention as a means of fighting early deterioration of health in general, and the consequent importance of the kind of society we want for ourselves and our children.
Eriksson report (A4-0072/99) The rapporteur starts by observing that the Beijing Conference, the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Commission communication of February 1996, the Luxembourg European Council in 1997 and the Cardiff summit in June 1998 have all stressed the need to ensure equal opportunities for men and women.
It involves a systematic rather than an individual approach, which is why the rapporteur is calling on the Commission to develop an evaluation method to identify the impact of all Community policies and measures on gender equality.
In addition, she gives specific examples of how to promote gender equality in various policy fields, in particular by setting aside a percentage of the Structural Funds for measures specifically for women or by treating social services which provide child care and care for the elderly as infrastructural requirements.
Finally, the rapporteur calls for a working party to be set up between Parliament and the Commission to promote the objective of equality in all spheres of activity of the institutions.
There are therefore plenty of reasons to vote for this report.
It rejects the Commission proposal which is based on the European Court of Justice ruling on the Kalanke case and it calls for a new proposal for a directive based instead on the Treaty of Amsterdam and on recognition of the collective nature of the positive action measures needed in order to achieve equal treatment and opportunities for men and women.
She consequently calls on the Commission to await the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam which requires the Community to eliminate all inequalities and to promote equality between men and women and which allows Member States to maintain and adopt positive action measures in favour of the under-represented sex.
The Commission must withdraw its now outdated proposal and present a new directive which clearly must be based on the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Only constant vigilance on our part to ensure that our equality requirements become reality will allow us to fight against the ever-prevalent spirit of conservatism.
This is why I totally support the rapporteur's proposal calling on Parliament and its political groups to take certain initiatives to effectively promote genuine equal opportunities for men and women within the European Parliament.
The situation in India is appalling as 50 million women are missing because they are eliminated right from the stage of conception.
I believe that the students of the Political Studies Institute deserve as much consideration as Sir Leon Brittan.
Mr Giansily, I would say quite simply that I shared your reservations when I was given this piece of information at the last minute, as you too will have seen.
On behalf of the Liberal Group, I would like to say that many of the amendments proposed by the Greens make the Commission's proposal far more restrictive than is necessary.
I must say that on the basis of the national and international studies which have been carried out in this area, I have difficulty in recognising the assertions which have been made.
We have evidence, Mr President, but we apparently do not have proof.
Mr President, the Commission's proposal for a recommendation on limiting exposure of the general public to electromagnetic fields was formulated against the background of increasing public concern over possible links between electromagnetic fields and health problems.
The fields concerned are created not only by high voltage lines and broadcasting transmitters but by ordinary household appliances that we are all in regular contact with, such as mobile phones and television screens.
Thus there is a solid scientific basis for the proposed limit values.
In fact, we are talking about a safety margin at least 50 times lower than the levels for which possible health effects have been established.
The national authorities in most EU states have already accepted the health basis from which the WHO body derives its guidelines.
The differences in standards have also contributed to public anxieties - consumers wonder why their countries have a different limit to another country.
My group and I are calling for a European research project aimed at harmonising calculation methodologies.
Mr President, there seems to be a great deal of confusion in this debate on Mr Tamino's report.
For example, there is a magnetic field of a few micro tesla in a vertical line from a high-voltage power line of 380 000 volts.
The Commission's proposal fixes a limit value of 100 micro tesla which means that it is endorsing what is already in common practice.
This statement has already been made three or four times but has not been proven by any argument.
Citizens likely to be affected by the line have been campaigning against it for more than 15 years on account of its environmental impact and the electromagnetic fields that would be generated.
But today we are considering the short-term effects of exposure to radiation from electromagnetic fields.
Mr President, electromagnetic fields are increasingly present in our environment.
The 1994 Lannoye report demonstrated the harmful effect of these electromagnetic fields on health and in particular the risk of the development of cancers, leukaemias and diseases of the nervous system and brain.
On the contrary, we must use the precautionary principle and prohibit or at least limit any equipment, even any technology, which endangers human health.
If over the five years since the Lannoye report there has not been enough sufficiently convincing scientific research, this is precisely because some people had much to lose from this.
In any case, it is scandalous to say that this report would harm industrial development, firstly because this is false and secondly, and in particular, because public health must come before any economic considerations.
In conclusion, Mr President, I believe that it is absolutely crucial for further high-level studies to be conducted on long-term exposure, on the one hand so as to protect the public and, on the other, to avoid panic and unemployment.
Mr President, Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has done some excellent work on this report.
Member States must also introduce minimum values for safe distances from electronic equipment and minimum distances in general which must be complied with in the vicinity of people's homes and places of work.
While there are calls for an increase in research into the possible problems of non-ionising radiation we have to ensure that resources are used effectively in the health sector as a whole.
If the precautionary principle is to be respected, then we need to ensure that we have definite evidence that this kind of radiation is not dangerous.
As the rapporteur has pointed out, there is a suggestion that exposure to electromagnetic fields could lead to an increase in occurrences of cancer and other serious threats to human health.
We need to ensure that the precautionary approach is taken.
The Commission seems to base its findings on certain research but to ignore other research that is available.
All the 30 000 people who work in the electricity supply industry were examined in a major study carried out in 1998, and no connection was found between their work in the electricity supply industry and cancer.
More or less everyone in this Parliament uses a mobile telephone, sometimes a great deal, although there are some who believe that mobile telephones are dangerous.
Many of the amendments, in other words Nos 14 to 24, are only designed to create unease and are not based on the necessary scientific research.
Mr President, it is really important that we produce a recommendation for minimum distances from people's homes for mobile phone masts.
In my own country in the last three days there have been front-page articles about the effects of mobile phones and in my local newspapers stories about power lines and their effects on people.
So the Commission proposals are very timely.
The approach of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is also very balanced.
I want to stress two amendments which are important.
The first deals with the application of the precautionary principle, based on the ALARA proposals from the World Health Organization.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report before us concerns limiting the exposure of the general public to electromagnetic fields 0 Hz - 300 GHz, which is the entire spectrum of possible effects.
In the case of electrical devices, laying down minimum safety distances is even more of a problem.
That is why we believe it is right, given also that the Maastricht Treaty commits us to aim for a high level of public health, to propose a common framework of basic restrictions and reference levels under this recommendation.
But let me say that we can accept in whole or in part Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10 and 13.
Then there is Amendment No 12.
That means that we will of course ourselves draft a report for the Union, on the basis of the Member States' reports, and naturally we will take account of all the new scientific findings as they become known.
For example we introduced very strict limits for baby food, even though there are no scientific findings, because in that case it was justified, even in terms of the expenditure involved, to do something although we did not know whether it was necessary.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, the development of the European public health policy has now reached a very important stage.
Many distinguished Members of this House have been prominent in ensuring that the European Union has a role in health policy, to say nothing of the established and growing part it now plays in research or food safety, environmental policies, for example.
The first point to make is that the Amsterdam Treaty thoroughly enshrines that role by declaring in the new Article 152 that a high level of human health protection shall be ensured in the definition and implementation of all Community policies and activities.
I am delighted that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has achieved a broad consensus that the way forward is via clearly focused priorities which offer added value to the work of partners in Member States, agencies such as the World Health Organization, and non-governmental organisations.
I fear we are going to repeat that error in another report later this week.
I would ask the Commission today to tell us of its strong support for proposals which are imminent on combating tobacco consumption.
That is why we not only support the move away from small vertical programmes to horizontal strands but also seek a vastly more integrated approach, based around an identifiable single health directorate so that health truly becomes an integral part of the EU process, at its very heart.
That means appropriate health impact assessments, starting with the Commission's own programmes, and proportionately more officials with the appropriate expertise, as identified in the excellent study carried out by Parliament's services in support of our well-received public hearing last October.
It means partnership at all levels to tackle the greatest public needs and health inequalities most effectively, not least in the current process of enlargement of the Union, where a much-needed further Commission text is imminent.
With its report, Parliament has responded thoroughly, responsibly and with vision to help establish a sound framework for progress.
In 13 tightly-argued recommendations, we have made a cogent case for a new priority for health as part of a European decade for health, which will truly begin to meet the real needs of our citizens.
I finish by thanking all those who have contributed to the communication and to the publication of this report and have worked so hard to take EU health policies to this stage from where we can look forward confidently to the road ahead.
The Commission's presentation of this communication is most timely: in a sense, it establishes a transition between the final phase of that programme and the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty, when there will be a new framework programme.
Finally, for the sake of Europe's women and men, we call for a Community presence in the health arena which offers real protection.
The communication takes stock of what has been done over the past five years, but above all it outlines a new global public health strategy for Europe in the twenty-first century, which will very soon be followed by specific measures, once the Amsterdam Treaty enters into force.
The EU's citizens, who enjoy the advantages of a single market and are about to acquire a single currency, also have a right to a high level of health protection, as stipulated in the new Article 152 of the Amsterdam Treaty.
Whilst fully respecting the principle of subsidiarity, the Union can do a good deal to improve information in this area, to react rapidly to health threats and, above all, to confront the main causes of diseases through prevention.
We very much regret that not all the recommendations contained in the 1993 resolution on health policy after Maastricht were acted on, and that inadequate follow-up was given to three important resolutions adopted almost unanimously by this House in 1996, concerning the European health passport, blood self-sufficiency in the Community and, especially, Alzheimer's disease.
It is our duty to fulfil the expectations of 375 million people who aspire to live in peace and prosperity, but above all in good health.
One final point on enlargement to include Central and Eastern Europe.
Funding comes first and foremost, and Agenda 2000 is currently under discussion.
Secondly, cooperation with Member States and with international organisations involved in health protection must be strengthened.
The European Union is in a position to promote and develop cooperation and information networks at all levels.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this Commission communication on the development of public health policy in the European Community expresses the Union's concern to increase the competence which it has acquired in this area due to the Maastricht Treaty being ratified and which has been confirmed by the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Yet, as indicated by the Commission, this centre would allow us to react rapidly to threats to health.
The other two principles proposed by the Commission for a future health policy are an improvement in information on public health and effective actions for health promotion and disease prevention.
Colleagues have already referred to the lack of action over the European health passport, the fact that health funding remains utterly inadequate, and that even after the BSE scare, insufficient attention is being paid to the linkage between health and food.
Regrettably, the opposite was likewise demonstrated in the previous debate on electromagnetic fields.
The Needle report on the European Union's new public health policy seems to ignore this fact completely.
The Commission notes it, but talks of a large number of 'premature deaths' in Europe.
In the Commission proposal, the age of 68 is the critical threshold.
I would also make the point that Article 153 of the Amsterdam Treaty clearly aims merely to complement the public health policies of the Member States.
Only if there is a clear benefit for Europe as a whole can we make budget funds available, for example to fund the exchange of knowledge of new medicines and therapies and the development of orphan medicinal products.
If we are to make progress as fast as possible in our efforts to improve Community health, we should be creating an incentive for the use of this product in order that a major health gain can be made.
In Northern Ireland it has been discovered by the largest transport operation called Translink that 60 % of black smoke and 40 % of carbon monoxide has been wiped out by using this product.
Mr President, as has been pointed out, Article 152 of the Treaty of Amsterdam decrees that a high level of human health protection shall be ensured in all Community policies.
The Treaty makes people's health a more binding policy aim than previously, not only at Community but also at national level, and it is important to focus attention on how we can acquire that Community added value, so that it is visible at both Community level and national level.
At this point I would like to see the EU implement those matters that are referred to in the Maastricht Treaty and the Amsterdam Treaty but I would not like it to go beyond that or to call on the Commission to do so either.
I would far rather see the responsibility left with the Member States.
I also believe that the regional authorities are not all in a position to establish contacts with the Commission.
Information can be provided but information campaigns are another difficult matter, as we cannot conduct an information campaign that is the same for all Member States because health policy also has to be conveyed in a psychologically very different manner.
Applause Mr President, I support the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection because it positively confirms the importance of public health in Europe and the need to have improved resources at all levels.
However, this debate on health takes me back to the vote at midday today on the Hautala report on women's health and I am astonished that nobody has referred to this.
You can count on me and the 54 Members who voted for our amendment to continue the struggle in an atmosphere of heightened solidarity with the most reactionary women in our countries on this subject.
Mr President, the Maastricht Treaty and then that of Amsterdam have considerably increased the competence of the Parliament and Commission in the field of public health.
I am convinced that my own country, Sweden, would also find the exercise very valuable.
If there is still confusion even in this House about what the priority should be in European health activities, then of course we must first be clear in our own minds what we can do to combat existing weaknesses in the EU health system.
Even the collection of information on, for example, the use of medicinal products, would do a great deal towards reducing costs and making treatment more efficient, because at present the experience gained in particular clinics or by practising doctors is simply not being collected or made available on a Europe-wide basis.
I have been looking at the judgments pronounced in America against the cigarette industry, as you probably all have too.
The risks have constantly been indicated for the past twenty years, not just on the packets but all around us, and here we should not do something that would be very dangerous, namely release individuals from their responsibility for their own, highly personal health and in a sense look after them, care for them and prescribe to them exactly what they must do, from the cradle to the grave.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Bananas The next item is the Commission statement on the trade dispute between the European Union and the United States over bananas.
On 15 February the WTO General Council discussed the EC request for an authoritative interpretation that a member cannot be authorised to suspend concessions in the absence of any WTO ruling on the conformity of the measures complained of.
As you know, this legislation is the domestic legal base for the United States' unilateral threats and actions in the banana case.
This panel will start its work shortly.
This point of principle is very important.
This removes any excuse from the United States to claim a right to take sanctions at the expiry of the 60-day period.
Finally, the arbitrators also gave a clear indication that the American estimate of damage will at least have to be reduced by the amount of indirect damage they have wrongly claimed which should, in any event, reduce the total damage by half.
The arbitrators have requested further information from the European Union and the US by 15 March and their final ruling is expected shortly after that.
These sanctions take the form of withholding liquidation and subjecting imports to a contingent liability of 100 % duties to be imposed retroactively.
From information we have received from European industry this is exactly what seems to have occurred.
The Commission also requested a special General Council meeting.
That took place on 8 March.
The position of the European Union as agreed with Member States is that our own reaction should be in conformity with the WTO rules.
The WTO procedures will inevitably lead to a condemnation of current US behaviour.
In the meantime, the panels launched by Ecuador and the EC regarding the WTO conformity of the revised EC banana regime are due to issue their rulings on 12 April.
With a view to exploring the American position and the possibilities of solving the problem, the Commission has, at the request of the Member States, entered into informal discussions with Washington.
We have made it very clear to the United States, however, that any ideas for resolving the dispute must take into account the rights and economic well-being of the ACP countries.
In conclusion, our approach is two-fold.
Secondly, it is important to stress that we will find out shortly from the WTO dispute settlement system whether or not our current amended banana regime complies with the WTO rules and, to the extent that it does not, we will have to put our house in order.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Sir Leon, this is the second time this year that the European Parliament is reacting to the current transatlantic trade dispute about bananas.
The European Union put a new and revised banana regime in place on 1 January 1999.
It did so after the WTO decided that the previous regime was not in conformity with WTO rules.
But it is not within its rights to pronounce unilateral trade sanctions in the form of punitive tariffs directed against the companies of its transatlantic partner.
This conflicts in every respect with the spirit of the World Trade Organisation and therefore means a breach of the WTO rules, in particular Articles 1, 2 and 22.
My group supports the Commission's negotiating position.
We support the Commission's statement that our side will not impose unilateral measures and we want to remain in conformity with WTO rules.
The European People's Party also finds that the USA has quite clearly breached the WTO rules.
The Commission should not accept this situation and must react against this blatant provocation which to my mind is typically imperialistic.
The United States has shown that it holds negotiations in contempt.
The Commission must also tell the United States that it will not let it undermine the European Union's social and employment policies or try and jeopardise public health and the environment in the European Union.
Mr President, bananas have become the symbol of a looming and escalating trade war which has in fact been simmering away quietly for six years already.
Commissioner Brittan has played a leading role in the debate on world free trade.
Just because Bill Clinton promised the US Congress in autumn 1998 to impose punitive tariffs on 3 March, the WTO rules were bent and broken.
The USA announced and began this massive campaign for free trade a long time ago, without regard for human health or the environment.
The dispute must be settled by the WTO and until that happens all other negotiations with the USA should be suspended.
If we do not achieve our objective of resolving this dispute, then I fear the WTO will slip on a banana skin.
Again, one wonders why they are so greedy as they seem to have 40 % of the EU bananas and the Caribbean only 9 %.
Commissioner Brittan should know this.
In view of the extremely difficult situation on the European labour market, the Commission should therefore take a more pragmatic stance on this question, which unlike the case of meat with hormones does not involve health considerations, in order to prevent the dispute from escalating.
Mr President, what the European Union has to do in this phase of the so-called 'banana war' is extremely awkward.
The United States is now triggering a fully-fledged trade war, which could do serious damage not only to vital export sectors in the Community - and particularly in Italy - but also to transatlantic relations in general.
One has the cynical feeling that in the United States the degree of intensity of their comments perhaps depends on the degree of lobbying which they have had from, as one speaker said, the three companies which control over 80 % of the world banana trade.
I should like to congratulate the acts that have been taken so far by the Commissioner on our behalf and, in particular, to look after our European interests in the context of the WTO and to make sure that the solution is fair to ACP producers.
Mr President, this banal issue is turning into a western entitled 'Once Upon a Time in the West - of Europe'.
Mr President, I should first like to make a minor correction to what my good friend James Elles has just said.
I do support his point of view, but according to him, neither the United States nor the European Union are major producers of bananas.
I am not sure if this is true of the United States, but Europe certainly is a major producer of bananas.
I do however agree with everything else James Elles said and, of course, I agree entirely with Erika Mann.
They may not be correct, but Mr Rod Abbot, the European Union Ambassador to the World Trade Organisation is quoted as saying that 'they will find probably something out of line' and 'I don't expect the answer to be zero because this is a political process as well'.
I have asked the Commission to advise its representative to consider his actions carefully, because any statement by him may later be used against the Union.
The rule of law, international law included, is in everyone's interests.
To a certain extent, the American point of view is therefore understandable, especially when it is shared by some of the EU's own Member States.
Of course, but in point of fact it is free trade that is better than aid.
Mr President, because of this dispute and its impact on the cashmere industry, feelings in Scotland are running very high.
Full support from this House for your attack on the extra- territoriality of Section 301, a re-affirmation of our solidarity with the EU's traditional suppliers in the ACP, an unequivocal warning to the United States of what is at stake here - an ordered regime of world trade which we can build upon or a descent into chaos.
Very often the problem is not so much the size of the banana production in these regions or countries but the important part that it plays in their economy or social and environmental fabric.
We cannot only look at volume or quantities; we have to take into account our communities, our European Union and our ultraperipheral regions, regardless of whether they are small or big producers.
The ACP countries represent a pledge made by the European Union, a pledge that it has to honoured.
Fundamentally, the Commission must continue to fight for the interests of the small and poor regions that still exist in the European Union.
I can assure you that we, the European Union, will take action against the United States, have taken action against the United States, but we shall do so in accordance with the rules of the WTO.
In discussing matters with the United States, as I was careful to say in my opening statement, we will stress above all our obligations to the ACP countries but also to producers of bananas within the European Union.
It is indeed the case that the companies concerned already have some 70 % and more of the market.
I would say both to this House and to our American friends that it is impossible for action to be taken in flagrant violation of the rules of the WTO by the United States and for the United States to believe that can have no impact on our relations generally, important as they are.
That is in the interests of Europe, it is in the interests of the United States and it is in the interests of the world as well.
We all have our nemeses in due course.
Thank you, Commissioner, we are behind you.
I have received eight motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to Rule 37(2).
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11 a.m.
This is for the following two reasons: firstly on a matter of substance, linked to the report's content, and secondly on a procedural matter, linked to the way in which the report was drafted in the Committee on Budgets.
A pirate electronic version is available but not in French.
President Santer rightly pointed out that financial reform is one of the main pillars of Agenda 2000.
The Committee on Budgets therefore proposes a step-by-step readjustment of the own resources system.
This measure will also help eliminate the imbalances between Member States in relation to funding the budget.
Secondly, in principle the European budget must be financed under the same conditions for all Member States.
A rebate is anti-systemic and in no way justifiable, even in relation to financing the Structural Funds or the costs of enlargement.
We have policies created specifically for the purpose of achieving solidarity among the Member States, such as structural policy.
It is obvious that these imbalances can only be eliminated if the largest expenditure heading, agricultural policy, which accounts for almost 50 % of the budget, is not disregarded.
To ensure that the European Union is financially independent, in the long term its financing should be based on new own revenue which does not take the form of Member State contributions.
As a first step towards this objective, a proportion of these taxes should accrue to the Union budget, on the basis of an agreement between the Member States on certain types of tax.
If we adopt this report here on Thursday and make its demands the subject of negotiations with the Council on the new interinstitutional agreement, we will have made an important contribution to the reform of the European Union.
The fact that 241 amendments were tabled gave rise to some concern in the Committee on Budgets.
At the end of the morning sitting, the President put to an informal vote a change in the agenda for this afternoon in order to allow Sir Leon Brittan to attend.
In view of the importance of this report and of the vote on Thursday which will be closely followed, with three minority opinions and roll-call votes, particularly with regard to agriculture, I would consider it deplorable if this House were to begin Question Time without at least one speaker per group having spoken.
Mr President, I would ask you to consult our colleagues because I feel that the groups must be allowed to vote on this in the same way as you put to the vote the possible referral of the report back to committee due to the inadmissibility of the matter.
Yes, Mr President, I am asking for a vote.
Mr President, I just wanted to propose a compromise.
When the opinion of the House was sought on the timing of the Commission's declaration on bananas, we were never told that that would mean cutting short the debate on own resources.
Mr President, I would suggest that we continue the debate here in plenary immediately after Question Time.
Basically I would like to point out that as long as the issue is confined to the fair distribution between the Member States of the own resources that have to be found, we will keep having to deal with conflicting financial and budgetary interests, to bemoan the lack of transparency and lack of ascribability of both revenue and expenditure.
Only if the contribution of each individual taxpayer throughout Europe is taken seriously and evaluated could this dispute be brought to an end.
That is why I particularly regret the rejection of the proposal from our Committee on Budgetary Control that the Commission provide information concerning the possibility of personalising the contributions that feed the own resources system.
We should adhere to the principle of own resources, even if only traditional own resources - duties and agricultural levies - are genuine own resources, which in addition have been regressive for years.
In addition, the Member States deduct these own resources as their contribution and ask for 10 % of them back for their customs administrations.
One should at least check whether this 10 % can be appropriated for the customs administrations in the first place.
At any rate, there is still quite a lot of circumvention and evasion in this area by the Member States.
I am in favour of cofinancing, I am in favour of the phased abolition of the British rebate and I am also in favour of examining the question of new own resources.
She nearly had a mission impossible but we should make a distinction between some very controversial points and the general direction in which Parliament can express itself.
The question is whether, in 1999, we should still have the same amount of finance in the Community budget for an agricultural policy which is in need of review.
In the same way it is very important that the report very clearly says that we should find corrections on the expenditure side in the future.
But again, it is relevant to know that a large majority in Europe does not want to have any specific positions for any specific group of countries or individual countries.
That is a very positive point.
Mr President, thank you for having agreed to put our proposals to the vote.
And finally, will they be sufficient to finance the future enlargement and to allow the Community to keep its commitments with regard to the common policies?
The problem is that, although the rapporteur asked good questions, the Committee on Budgets provided poor answers in its vote yesterday.
The vote on Thursday will demonstrate that solidarity must be maintained between the Members of this House and between the European partners.
Mr President, the first question to be asked about the European Union's own resources is whether they are sufficient for the policies that we intend to implement.
That is why, in our opinion, a clear answer will have to be found to the following questions: do we or do we not wish to continue with the current Community policies - and now is not the time for us to discuss what kind of policies they are - and do we or do we not want to prepare the ground for extending them in the future to the applicant countries?
I am thinking, for example, of the fight against unemployment.
In particular, we should make it crystal clear that there can be no enlargement with this level of own resources.
Therefore, in our opinion, and without wishing to go over the top, we think that this problem can only be solved if we improve the existing system of own resources, in particular by giving greater weight to GNP when calculating the transfers.
In my view, to describe this is as 'the only communitised policy' is just a cliché to hide the fact that in this area, which accounts for nearly half the budget, there is no democratic control.
When the ministers for agriculture meet and decide on their EUR 45 billion, neither the European Parliament nor any regional or national parliament has any say.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame that so little attention is being paid to this very important debate, which we owe to Mrs Haug, because we are in the eye of a major storm which arose in our Committee on Budgetary Control in what I might describe as a spectacularly unacceptable way.
Mr President, the characteristic feature of our four own resources is that they are inappropriate.
In fact, these own resources are serving to reveal the truth.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is questions to the Commission (B4-0144/99).
Ladies and gentlemen, today's Question Time to the Commission is starting 26 minutes later than it should according to the agenda approved on Monday.
Mr President, I am happy to answer this question which concerns an important subject, namely the Environment Institute and the problem of food safety.
Since 1 October 1998, the Food Products Unit has been part of the new Institute for Health and Consumer Protection of the Joint Research Centre.
The main research priorities of the unit within the fifth framework programme for research are to control the safety and quality of food and related items and to detect genetically modified organisms in food and also in the environment.
The unit's activities will also involve developing databases and disseminating the results of research.
This study will be extended to processed products.
I can also cite the development of methods for determining the presence of vegetable oils and fats other than cocoa butter in chocolate.
This study will serve as a scientific basis for the new 'chocolate' directive which is being prepared.
That project was completed in 1997.
The European Union's logo is also painted on the two Land Rovers.
The European Union financed this project aimed at the Misquito Indians for five years.
When this question was raised some months ago, the body concerned foolishly wrote to Managua and said it is not intended to make a visit during this year.
Mr Kellett-Bowman, when the Commission states the obvious, it sometimes provokes a reaction I cannot comprehend.
The President cut the Commissioner off Mr Marín, please reply without engaging in a dialogue, as the Rules do not provide for one.
Mr Kinnock, you have the floor.
In reply I would say that following the Council decision of 16 July 1998, the Commission was authorised to open negotiations with the states whose civil aviation regulatory authorities are full members of the joint aviation authorities but not members of the European Community, with a view to concluding an agreement establishing a European civil aviation safety authority that takes the legal form of an international organisation.
The negotiations will be carried out in accordance with the negotiating directives and in accordance with the ad hoc procedures specified by the Council in order to ensure close coordination between the Community and its Member States.
The Commission has prepared a first draft text which has recently been submitted to the members of the special committee.
Thank you for your reply.
I have asked this question on behalf of the voters in my country who are interested in what you have to say.
Indeed, I think I can safely say that there is nothing but goodwill towards this development which is why, exceptionally, we have a provision which will allow for the operation of the convention on a provisional basis as soon as possible.
Thank you, Mr Kinnock.
The only product of any significance is canned tomatoes, but even they account for no more than 7 % of the market.
As far as the fruit and vegetable market in South Africa is concerned, the country suffered serious problems in the wake of the World Trade Organisation agreements, especially since South Africa applied a highly irrational customs system, often imposing customs duties instead of quotas.
The situation was such that, when we started negotiating the cooperation and trade agreement with South Africa, we had to accept - and did - that the principles of 'stand still' and 'roll back' - traditionally sacrosanct principles in negotiations and free trade agreements - could be subject to a number of exemptions in the case of South Africa, so as to take account of the unusually large reduction in customs duties on certain South African products and, specifically, on goods such as canned fruit and vegetables.
The negotiations that took place forced us to look in detail at our bilateral trade in canned fruits and vegetables and all other products and enabled us to reach a satisfactory solution: South African exports to Europe will continue to take account of our ability to absorb them, the country's export capacity and the Community's own supplies.
You have to take more into account the whole question of, not just giving aid, but fair trade.
As regards canned tomatoes, the largest exports that we had account for roughly 7 % of the South African market.
We have asked South Africa to put us on an equal footing with other countries which have access to South African waters.
Our policy is to have coherence between the CAP and development policy.
The overall amount was 6 500 tonnes of canned tomatoes.
As to trade agreement and refunds, it was indeed suggested at a certain moment in the negotiations that if South Africa would lower some tariffs we would phase out our export refunds.
For the European Union, the difficulty for France is not with the specificity of a given product but the fact that these may rise or may open up the door for phasing out export subsidies altogether, which France is not prepared to do at this stage.
That was why I said I would take it out immediately because South Africa, of course, was ready to accept that.
The second is to try to make the agreement as fair as possible and take account of the special requirements of the other party.
I still believe that this agreement is a good one and have high hopes that on 22 March, perhaps with some fine tuning, the Member States will see the final outcome as positive for the European Union and acceptable for each of the Member States.
The events to which my question refers - the detention of the crew of a Spanish fishing vessel in Spanish waters by the Gibraltarian police - are indeed a matter for international law and do not involve the Commission directly.
The text of the note is as follows: The Commission seeks to ensure the correct implementation of Community directives in Gibraltar as it does in all areas of the Community, taking account of the particular regime that applies to Gibraltar as defined in particular in the Act of Accession of the United Kingdom.
It is mostly a debate between two Member States.
The Commission is really trying to de-escalate and help so you can both resolve this conflict.
On 12 June 1985, Spain signed the Accession Treaty along with the United Kingdom.
Thank you, Mr Morán.
Mrs Bonino, I invite you to respond to Mr Morán's remarks.
It may delegate management of individual budget lines to a Member of the Commission or to a Director-General.
My supplementary question is very precise.
If the report from the experts finds very specific problems within the Commission, will that mean that individual Commissioners will at that time take responsibility for the areas under them and, if appropriate politically, resign individually?
As you know, the EU's current action plan on drugs comes to an end this year.
Our goal is to be in a position to present the new action plan by the end of the spring - in May.
I should like to thank Commissioner Gradin for her reply.
Question No 48 by María Izquierdo Rojo (H-0149/99) Subject: Illegal emigration from northern Morocco to the EU What is the Commission's view, with regard to illegal emigration, of the current situation and possible future developments in the Straits of Gibraltar and north Morocco area?
The battle against the trade in people must remain a priority in the Union.
I have been to the places in question myself to see what is being done, both as regards control of the trade in human beings and the presence of drugs on these boats.
As the honourable Member will be aware, during the four years that I have been a Member of the Commission, I have worked hard to bring about a situation in which we all share the burden.
Thank you, Mrs Gradin.
Question No 49 will therefore receive a written answer.
Question No 50 by Concepció Ferrer (H-0111/99) Subject: Follow-up to the complaint concerning unfair trade measures which has been lodged with the TWO At the end of 1997, in response to trade restrictions imposed on exports of skins and hides produced in India, the Commission initiated a WTO dispute settlement procedure in order to protect the interests of the European leather sector which had been suffering from the harmful effects of those restrictions for some time.
From the initial consultations held in Geneva at the beginning of 1998 there emerged clear confirmation of the fact that the complaint lodged by the Commission was justified.
The de facto export ban on hides and skins by India led the Community to hold formal WTO consultations at the beginning of 1998.
The Indian authorities finally promised in October 1998 to seriously consider the suggestion of replacing the current export licensing scheme by tariff-based measures which could take the form of an export tax.
I cannot promise a result before April.
Although Community legislation provides for the notion of Community origin, which is mandatory in certain situations, US and other third countries continue to make a distinction between Member States in this field.
If our case against the United States on the basis that the measures that have been taken are unlawful is successful, then either the United States will have to withdraw the measures and give us compensation or we will be entitled to take lawful retaliation.
I give the floor to Sir Leon to answer Mr Newens's question.
The onus is on the United States but we on our side are ready to implement the agreements once the United States grants a waiver under Title IV of the Helms-Burton Act as foreseen in the London Agreements.
I would draw the attention of those whom you describe to the fact that, since the agreement was entered into, no coercive action has been taken against any European company or individual under either of the two pieces of legislation.
I give the floor to Sir Leon to answer Mr McMahon's question.
The Commission devotes considerable resources to monitoring those undertakings and 84 exporters have now had duties imposed upon them because they breached or withdrew from their undertakings.
Having found that a number of parties with undertakings were not exporters, those parties were made to withdraw their undertakings, and after it appeared that the proceeds of the Norwegian export tax, which is part of the countervailing measures, were not used in accordance with the agreement, a further agreement between the European Union and Norwegian industries was entered into in October 1998 to deal with that.
I give the floor to Sir Leon to answer Mr Howitt's question.
We have also sought to coordinate policies on Burma internationally in order to make the actions of all concerned more effective.
We took the decision to request the panel to rule on the compatibility of the law with the relevant WTO rules, in particular the plurilateral government procurement agreement in July 1998, after having failed in two years to resolve the matter in other ways.
The National Foreign Trade Council of the United States also challenged the Massachusetts law and the US District Court last November declared the law unconstitutional and suspended its application, so, naturally, we suspended our proceedings in the WTO but the American court ruling is under appeal.
I appreciate that we have a set of rules under the World Trade Organization but it has repeatedly been the position of this House, both in September last year when the actions of the Commission were condemned, and in my own report on codes of conduct of multinational companies, to say that we must use trading relations through the WTO to uphold trading which is ethical, and respects the environment and human rights.
But I have to say that it is a very different question as to whether or not we should use trade sanctions for example under the WTO, where permitted by the WTO, and whether we should just accept that, without consultation and not as part of an international agreement, an individual state in the United States should take action to apply, as it were, its own foreign policy.
It damages the front against Burma for us to find fragmentary action of that kind being taken, which damages the European Union and is not part of a consolidated, agreed international package of action against a particular country which we have profound disagreements with.
Question No 55 by Mihail Papayannakis (H-0107/99) Subject: Transparency of financial relations between Member States and public undertakings In reply to my Oral Question H-0761/98 , the Commission informed me that the Greek authorities had notified it, on 2 July 1998, of the provisions that they had adopted to incorporate Directive 80/723/EEC , as amended, into Greek law.
According to these provisions, Member States must in particular send the Commission a list of their public undertakings in the manufacturing sector by 31 March of each year at the latest.
Commissioner, as far as I understand it, the issue centres around whether the list of companies was submitted or not.
The specific question relates to Defco Food company, which is a Danish producer of processed meat products, and the relationship with Danish Crown, the largest Danish cooperative slaughterhouse, which has a minority shareholding in the company concerned.
So the impact of the merger in this market has to be seen in a wider perspective than the situation in Denmark, while the other problems were mainly related to the situation inside Denmark.
But I do understand that it is a difficult problem for the Commission to solve, so I would like to thank you for your reply.
Thank you, Mr Iversen.
I give the floor to Mr Van Miert to answer these two Members' questions together.
As the problem is currently arising in different ways in several Member States, we are trying to develop a coherent method.
Rule 3 of the Council's Rules of Procedure on the subject of aid states that aid will only be allocated following a Commission decision to authorise it.
In the case in question, we recorded this as unnotified aid given that the measure had actually already been implemented.
You did indeed advise that in cases such as this, it would be wise to delay implementation of the mechanism provided for under Spanish law until the Commission's ruling was published.
Question No 59 will not be taken because the subject to which it refers is included on the agenda of this part-session.
Questions Nos 60 to 111 will therefore receive written answers.
Now the draft report has been voted through in the Committee on Budgets and - this is not just a personal opinion - I admit that it seems not only superfluous but also counter-productive.
We are undermining European political integration with all our comparative injustices between countries, budget balances, cheques and cries of 'I want my money back'.
It is 25 years out of date.
Mr President, the issue of own resources is, and always has been, extremely complex, as the system requires unanimity to change it and, above all, as improving its shortcomings by amending the current decision on own resources would give rise to other shortcomings and would most likely create new opposition.
It aims at the heart of the matter, as Agenda 2000 negotiations have reached a critical stage.
From the point of view of the farmer, it is also a question of whether the new system will be as secure as the present one.
Mrs Haug's report is an important addition to the Agenda 2000 debate, and to the ongoing preparation process for the next phase of the programme.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have noticed in this debate that those countries which are net beneficiaries do not wish to speak about net contributors or net beneficiaries, whereas this is exactly what the countries that are net contributors want to talk about.
It will only divide up EU income and expenditure in a new way, but we cannot object to that in principle.
Mr President, this report gives us the opportunity to raise some important questions of principle regarding the financing of the European Union.
In fact, the European Union's so-called 'own-resources' system - as it functions at present - seems to us to be dangerous for the taxpayer, as demonstrated by the changes in budgetary revenue in recent years.
Numerous studies have shown that when the members of the general public themselves vote for taxes by referendum, as is the case in Switzerland and some states in the United States, for example, they do not vote at all as parliamentarians or bureaucrats would wish them to.
Admittedly, however, such referendums can only take place at local or national level, and it is difficult to imagine a large-scale referendum on tax taking place at European level.
A lot of her report deserves applause but she went somewhat awry when she tried to interfere in decisions that were made at Fontainebleau and were incorporated in the own resources decision, a decision which requires unanimity to change it.
We have spent the last three or four years talking about cutting back on spending at European level, freezing the budget and maintaining the present rate of spending.
Maybe I am wrong when I tell people that when the European Union was founded there was a common agricultural policy not because it made absolute common sense that we took that particular industry and made it common, but because it was recognised that the single market would give great advantages to a skilled, industrialised country like Germany, and the French demanded, as a corresponding benefit, a common agricultural policy.
The report has nothing to say on this.
But solidarity also means that all the Member States must commit themselves fully to combating waste, corruption and mismanagement.
The aim of the future own resources system must not just be to make the revenue system more transparent, simpler and more rational but also to reduce the burden on European taxpayers as a whole.
Mr President, I want to extend my warmest thanks to the rapporteur for what she has done on behalf of the Committee on Budgets and this House.
But Mrs Haug has also paved the way for what we will in the final analysis need on the revenue side, namely European revenue in the form of European taxes.
It will not be the last report by the Committee on Budgets to cause us problems.
Mr President, with the Haug report the European Parliament underlines once again its political commitment to the question of the Community's own resources.
Like its predecessors, in particular the famous Langes report of 1994, the Haug report combines short-term realism and long-term vision.
The Haug report and the Commission report on the operation of own resources published last October are on the same wave-length on many questions.
Both reports agree that the notion of juste retour is unrepresentative of the relationship of the EU with the Member States and misleading in several respects.
Both reports note that VAT resources pose a series of difficulties in terms of transparency and complexity, as well as the possibility of replacing VAT resources by GNP resources.
These differences have also manifested themselves within the European Parliament.
The successful launch of the euro and the difficult negotiations on the harmonisation of certain taxes in Europe could be slowed if too close a link is made with the question of potential Community own resources.
The debate is closed.
This House has tabled a series of amendments, many of which have been accepted by the Commission and taken over by the Council in its common position.
Category C was not sufficiently independent and has been deleted from the text, as requested by Parliament at first reading in accordance with our corresponding report approved by the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
It is now clear that transportable pressure equipment used exclusively for goods transport between the Community and third countries is excluded from the scope of this directive.
It would be fitting to accept this exclusion as it complies with the international agreements in force, although we should like to point out the objective difficulty of clearly distinguishing equipment which is used only for this type of transport.
But it would be appropriate to guarantee notified inspection bodies a right of control, as outlined in our amendments.
The possibility of granting a transitional period has also been raised.
There are other less important changes on top of these.
Mr President, one year ago, Mr Camisón Asensio drew up an excellent report, as this House confirmed during the first reading of this timely proposal for a directive.
The report's view has not changed at second reading and is one that will help increase safety as well as improve conditions for free movement in terms of the manufacture, use and transport of transportable pressure equipment in Europe.
The creation of a single economic area based on a common market remains one of the objectives from the Treaty of Rome that requires constant improvement.
The result of his efforts has been improvement in the Commission's proposal.
The House will know that the Member States that are going to use this provision are those that already have a lot of experience with agreed bodies.
Since Amendment No 4 is a consequence of Amendment No 1, that too is not acceptable.
The Commission is also not able to accept Amendment No 3 for the simple and formal reason - which I know the rapporteur understands - that the report to the Council and the European Parliament on the adaptations to technical progress are laid down in the directives of the Commission which are published in the Official Journal.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
That is why the 1996 decision taken by the Council and Parliament is sensibly entitled 'Guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network'.
During the conciliation procedure the Council and Parliament could not agree on what Parliament called for at the time, namely the need to include ports in the TENs.
The market is crucial to the development of seaports.
But regarding the volume criterion, I believe that a traffic volume of 1.5 million tonnes of freight a year is quite certainly more appropriate for a European network than the 1 million proposed by the Commission.
To make it quite clear what infrastructure means, my report proposes a basic definition of the term.
But if these are to be kept in check, we must also have a basic definition of what infrastructure means in the future networks.
The situation regarding inland ports is somewhat different.
But those inland ports that only tranship bulk freight should have an annual traffic volume of at least 500 000 tonnes of freight.
The Transport Committee is adding that criterion to the report.
There are two other points I would like to address.
The Christophersen Group went to great trouble, and now everything is to be changed again!
But I believe Parliament and the Commission should both forgive and forget here and say yes, while specifying one thing, namely that to be precise project No 8 is a project consisting of several individual projects.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Piecyk for a good report and a resolution which is a leftover from our resolution on trans-European networks.
Since then, we have shown that a lack of efficiency and higher costs both in ports used for inland shipping and seaports have contributed to restricting shipping.
The report on short-sea shipping demonstrated that.
We have discussed the green paper on ports, and we have in fact progressed a long way in our debate on ports.
We are now jointly picking out some priorities and some ports.
It is important for us to consider not only the functional aspect, but also the need for uniform conditions as far as bureaucracy is concerned.
I would therefore urge the ports in the Member States which, through the 'fellowship' of the trans-European network, are now expected to provide a more sustainable transport system, to fulfil the obligation which goes with being part of the transport chain and all its bureaucracy.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Tuesday evening is the time for the Committee on Transport and Tourism, so let us get to work again.
I admit that, Commissioner, and also thank the Commission for improving its proposal compared to the original text.
In particular, I think it is very good that we have a clear delineation between port infrastructure and port superstructure in the Piecyk report.
One of our central tasks continues to be to avoid distortions of competition between seaports through national aid or even aid from the Cohesion Fund or the Structural Funds.
I hope the Commission, Mr Kinnock, will agree with our more precise definition of project No 8.
Unfortunately No 8 was a generally applicable commitment.
That is our task and I believe the Commissioner should do us that favour.
Ports are of course the most important points of intersection in our trans-European networks.
Because, despite the fact that it means two or three days' less sailing time, transport from the coast to the interior is more difficult because the infrastructure which the port requires is not yet well enough developed.
So I am also grateful to the rapporteur for mentioning waterways which are at least as important, the Elbe-Lübeck canal and the Twente-Mittelland canal which was added in committee as the result of an amendment.
Please bear with me if, in the short amount of time at my disposal, I concentrate on priority project No 8, dealing with links between Portugal and Europe via Spain.
The project now submitted could be regarded as a genuine revolution in the world of transport as far as Portugal is concerned.
It fully incorporates the new philosophy which we in the European Union, and particularly in the European Parliament, have always supported.
The fact that Portugal's current Public Works Minister used to be a member of the European Parliament may have something to do with the far-reaching transformation that has occurred in proposals for Community projects affecting Portugal.
The previously planned project consisted of a motorway between Lisbon and Valladolid, and this is also part of the new project, but what has changed in my opinion is, above all, the philosophy behind it.
Account has been taken of ports and intermodal transport, with rail and road links guaranteeing merchandise improved access to ports outside and inside Europe.
What is being proposed in this project - in my view nothing short of a revolution in the world of transport in my country, which is why I ask both the European Parliament and the Commission to support it - will enable Portugal to overhaul its transport system and create a logical and complementary network that will link up the different means of transport and modernise every form of access to the Portuguese ports.
However, the Commission's proposal, as the rapporteur has already highlighted, was delayed and the procedure for the current proposal will overlap with the preparations for the Commission report on the fundamental revision of the guidelines.
In fact, the Commission's explanatory statement in its proposal for amendment constantly refers to the forthcoming review that will take place in accordance with Article 21 of Decision 1692/96/EC.
Mr President, this Commission proposal completes a significant range of measures concerning the trans-European networks, although it has to be said that the solution envisaged will not be the last word on this matter.
I am therefore in favour of a Commission communication which generates a wide-ranging debate with Parliament and with European society, and is not merely a list of projects mediated by national governments.
In my opinion, the classification of seaports on the basis of freight volume should not be related exclusively to an annual volume of 1.5 million tonnes, but should be considered over a longer period of at least three years.
A very clear and accurate analysis of both Mediterranean and non-Mediterranean ports is required.
In 1996 when the new Socialist government came to power in Portugal, policies changed, Madrid moved into line and, at the Dublin Council, the European Union approved the new emphasis on multimodal transport with which we happen to agree.
Two and a half years later we still do not know what actual projects for multimodal links with Portugal and Spain and what economic or environmental impact studies have been presented in Brussels or what their cost and sources of funding will be.
It is curious that as we are changing the designation of project No 8, which relates to three Iberian multimodal corridors, the Portuguese Government has just presented its national social and economic development plan for the period 2000-2006 and refers to four main Iberian corridors as part of the current set of trans-European network projects, namely the Galician-Portuguese corridor from Vigo to Lisbon; the Irun-Portugal corridor; the Extremadura corridor from Lisbon to Madrid; and the Mediterranean corridor from Lisbon to Seville via Faro and Huelva.
The rail network in southern Portugal is the worst in Europe as there are no links with Seville or with Faro airport.
Before dealing with the substantive amendments, I should like to comment on Amendment No 1 - an issue that has arisen repeatedly in the course of this debate - which inserts a recital stating that the European Parliament expects a legislative proposal on the revision of the guidelines, rather than the White Paper that the Commission has announced.
However, it must be said that under Article 21 of the guidelines decision the Commission is requested to present a report and not a proposal for an amendment of the law.
So rather than in any sense being evasive in not immediately coming forward with a legislative proposal, we are, frankly, trying to do the opposite and being more transparent and more inclusive in the approach that we are making to consideration of the TENs guidelines after the experience and after the evolution of the policy over four years in which a great many developments have taken place.
Amendments Nos 2 and 7 refer to the 'Trans-European Rail Freight Freeways' which, as Mr Piecyk said, have been supported by this Parliament as a means of making early progress in reviving rail freight across the Union.
This revision of the guidelines provides us with a further means of encouraging the development of rail freight freeways by making clear that infrastructure investment in the freeways routes will be given priority.
Turning to criteria for identifying ports, the Commission accepts that part of Amendment No 4 gives special treatment to ports in the outermost regions.
However, the increase in the minimum traffic volume stipulated in the proposal from 1 million to 1.5 million tonnes of freight would exclude about 27 ports, mainly in remote areas of the Union.
Similarly, the inclusion of a minimum volume threshold for bulk freight in inland ports envisaged in Amendment No 3 would alter the present approach which is essentially based on intermodal freight.
Amendment No 6 makes more radical changes to the guideline maps, adding new links and creating new categories of ports.
What would, however, create real problems is the introduction of a new concept of superstructures in ports as the distinction between superstructure and infrastructure is far from clear.
The idea of giving a detailed definition of port infrastructure in Amendments Nos 8 and 9, although I recognise the good intentions of putting it forward in that way, has been very thoroughly examined by the Commission.
I emphasise strongly to the House that it is only for practical reasons that are directly connected with the desire of the Commission to get effective commitment to the development of ports.
Summing up, the Commission cannot support Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, part of 4, 6, 7, most of 8 and 9, and 11.
Mr President, I have a similar, short question.
It is not a general revision of the trans-European network strategy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
One of these was that we called upon the Commission to submit proposals in order to give railway undertakings the right of free access to railway infrastructure on the basis of an amendment to Article 10 of Directive 91/440/EEC regarding the operation of international freight transport, along with accompanying measures.
The Commission's new proposal, or rather the package of three separate proposals, one of which concerns the amendments to Directive 91/440/EEC, goes in the right direction but is not sufficiently substantial.
The most important point I would like to highlight is that the Commission proposal fails to make recommendations for the gradual extension of the liberalisation of the railways, as I mentioned earlier, which this House introduced in its resolution of 13 January 1998.
This omission becomes even more apparent when we realise that this issue has stagnated somewhat in Council circles and that the third directive of the package submitted by the Commission is essentially a measure accompanying a policy which is leading to partial liberalisation, which was set out in the White Paper and, above all, in Parliament's resolution of January 1998.
As a result, in line with what I have already said and, most importantly, with the almost unanimous view of this House, which was expressed in January 1998, I put before the Committee on Transport and Tourism Amendment No 10 granting Community railway undertakings free access and transit rights on equitable conditions to the infrastructure in all Member States for the purpose of operating international railway services for the transport of goods.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have the 1969 directive, which expressly provides for the gradual liberalisation of rail transport in the European Union - which was then the European Community - and has not been implemented since that time.
As a result, with this amendment, which was adopted by a large majority in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we are putting back on track the process towards the gradual liberalisation of rail transport, starting with the transport of goods.
Thirdly, this is a significant milestone in the liberalisation of this important form of transport in Europe.
But I cannot agree with those - even if we have close political links in the unions and in other areas - who believe that it would be best to leave things as they stand, or who believe that the difficult problems with the railways had been created by the Commission's proposals.
No, the difficult situation of the railways has arisen partly because many railway undertakings believed they did not need to reform, they did not need to change anything, they could continue operating in a national framework.
And it is a question of equal competition and fairness, not just between rail and road but also as regards the railways themselves, in these individual decisions.
I believe that a profit that bears a proper relation to the costs would be entirely acceptable and could be calculated, and that higher costs could also be charged for certain special investments.
Each country should continue to be able to regulate this as it wishes in its area of jurisdiction.
For I hope we will take a decision on all those matters that the Commission is rightly proposing, such as on the European tax disc, on the Switzerland package and the fair distribution of costs between rail and road.
That is why I hope, Commissioner, that you will be able to accept some of these amendments and that this package will help us finally also to have a European railway system.
Both these proposals may well cause serious problems, especially for small railway companies that wish to participate in the market, while the bigger former monopolies can easily adapt to them.
In my view, before introducing all these detailed requirements, it would have been wiser to wait and assess the long-term effects of the ground-breaking directives approved by the Council in 1991 and 1995, which established the principle of increased competition in the rail sector.
Many countries and regions are worried, and perhaps with reason.
This afternoon we discussed public services, competition and state aid with Commissioner Van Miert in a working group, and it is very interesting to see how things are developing in Europe.
The market will not change this situation by itself.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, let us see what you have to say to Mr Sarlis's and Mr Swoboda's proposals today.
But I also think we must then say that regardless of how high or low we set the transport charges, they must be charged in all the Member States.
Mr President, here too I must congratulate the two rapporteurs.
The proportion of freight carried by rail continues to decline.
That is eight years ago.
I welcome this report on the need to upgrade the railway systems within the European Union, as well as guaranteeing the most efficient use of railway infrastructure to meet consumer needs.
Only last week the Irish Government announced a dual strategy involving the spending of £Irl 430 million on improving rail safety standards, alongside the expansion of commuter train services in Ireland.
As a result of this investment, which I fully support, the suburban rail network will be increased in capacity in terms of over 60 %.
As a Member of the European Parliament for the constituency of Leinster, it is good news because towns such as Naas, Newbridge, Kilcullen, Wicklow, Athy, Arklow, Kildare and Monasterevin must all in the near future secure the necessary finance for the upgrading of their respective railway operations.
Mr Sarlis's report even goes beyond the Commission directives, which do not advocate liberalisation, for example by proposing to amend Article 10 of Council Directive 91/440/EEC.
This is also the case for the first rail freight corridor which was set up on the basis of cooperation between public services.
The nuance provided by the Committee on Transport and Tourism which makes it possible for Member States to provide for authorised applicants is an illusory precaution, since one unauthorised applicant in any given country would in fact impose itself on others.
The second point I should like to make concerns competition.
Rail transport is subject to competition, competition from road transport which benefits from its small-scale use of infrastructure and the extremely low level of social conditions it needs to provide.
Together with their trade unions and the ETUC, the railway workers of the European Union made known their opposition to the liberalisation of railways during a day of large-scale strike action across the European Union.
The European Parliament must reject the liberalisation proposals and envisage instead measures to encourage the development and modernisation of the rail sector and its public service obligations, as well as the development of cooperation and social harmonisation at a high level.
The Greens are in favour of more freight going by rail, and they are for fair competition and against monopolies, whether they are private or state monopolies.
So we are also in favour of breaking national monopolies on the management of infrastructure.
The proposal to end monopolies and separate infrastructure management from railway undertakings is an interesting one but how are we going to guarantee the adequate maintenance of lines that are less profitable in economic terms but that are needed by society?
The consequences of their previous position as state-run operations and the changing market conditions are two things which are totally irreconcilable.
So the proposal to proceed gradually for the time being and with support, involving only international freight traffic, is the right one.
We must strive for equal conditions of competition.
First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank Pavlos Sarlis and Hannes Swoboda for their work in this very important area.
Put simply, the railway sector throughout the EU is in such a perilous state that we have to question whether international passenger services or freight services will still exist in 15 years' time.
Rail cannot compete in the freight sector against road haulage if the service it has to offer takes 67 hours to travel 850 kilometres in comparison with 13 hours by truck.
However, my group recognises that there are concerns amongst railway workers - after all, we are proposing a shift in emphasis that is quite radical.
This is why we have supported a more guarded approach to the introduction of free market rules in other areas outside of freight, coupled with social protection measures, and with the public service obligation a high priority.
My group welcomes that opportunity and supports the Commission and our rapporteurs in their efforts to secure a future for Europe's railways.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate both rapporteurs on the exceptionally hard work they have put in on each report.
I welcome these proposals and the developments towards the liberalisation of the rail sector.
The challenge is to make this a truly single market for European railways.
Mr President, the Commission is proposing a package of directives which seek to modernise the rail sector, but its assumption that intermodal competition is the only way to develop Community railways is incorrect.
The privatisation of British railways at the start of the 1990s led to dissatisfaction amongst the general public and a deterioration in the quality of service.
According to the Sunday Times, British railways have since been less reliable and less punctual than those in Pakistan, India and China.
We are not opposed to increasing cooperation between European railway undertakings, in accordance with the examples set in passenger transport by Thalys or Eurostar .
As regards freight transport, we began setting up freight corridors between France and its neighbouring countries at the end of 1997 at the initiative of the Commission; these have allowed the capacities required for long-distance rail links to be requested for freight.
The Community should instead help to complete infrastructure, set up trans-European networks and facilitate the technical and social harmonisation of railways.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I want to thank the two rapporteurs, Mr Sarlis and Mr Swoboda, for their cooperation in committee.
The EU and the Member States must remedy any shortcomings in this respect if they genuinely are to put forward a credible policy in support of an environmentally friendly transport mode.
Shifting transport from road to rail will help preserve the environment throughout Europe.
Mr President, we all realise that the railways have to be improved in order to ensure their survival.
The Transport Committee's report supports this type of development, which will allow new railway companies to compete.
I shall begin with Mr Sarlis' report on the Commission's proposal to amend Council Directive 91/440 on the development of the Community's railways.
There are two main areas where the committee favours an approach that would be more radical than that proposed by the Commission, and I should like to concentrate on them.
I hope, therefore, that this Parliament will be able to encourage a similar view amongst those Member States which are still reluctant to accept the need for such advance.
Of course the Council still has our proposal to extend Article 10 of Directive 91/440 in a way that is similar to what we are proposing here.
We have consequently required the separation of those functions which determine access to the infrastructure.
I am glad to be able to incorporate Amendment No 6 in our proposal.
In a similar manner, I could accept the proposed Amendment No 11, which would require the same separation but in a shorter time period.
That is why we have to reject Amendment No 4, which would, in practice, have removed this specific requirement.
The first is Amendment No 3, which would remove the laying down of safety rules from recital 4 in the proposal.
The second amendment that we cannot accept is Amendment No 12, which removes the reference to railway undertakings having to provide rail services.
In short, therefore, the Commission accepts Amendment Nos 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11, whilst rejecting Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 10 and 12.
With regard to the proposal to amend Directive 95/18 on the licensing of railway undertakings, we are glad to accept the first amendment but we have to reject the second amendment, which seems to us not to be based on relevant criterion.
The second part of the report deals with the proposal for a directive on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the levying of charges for use.
Mr Swoboda proposed a number of amendments that helpfully sought to simplify this proposal.
We believe that the proposal in Amendment No 12 to include a rate of return in Article 8 (3) is unnecessary since such a provision already exists in the proposal in respect of investments and for passenger services.
Amendment No 13, to reduce the text relating to external costs in Article 8 (5), is not acceptable to us.
Similarly, the changes proposed in Amendment No 15 to the discount provisions in Article 10, set out principles which we believe should apply to this type of business as defined in the ruling in the Zaventem airport charges.
Secondly, there is the question of authorised applicants in Article 19.
The Commission strongly believes that whether or not there is further progress on access rights, the concept of authorised applicants can create more attractive conditions for large purchases of rail transport services.
In view of that we cannot support the demotion of this concept to a matter for national legislation as suggested in Amendments Nos 19 and 5.
To use Mr Swoboda's very useful phrase, we want this application in Community law in order, literally, to Europeanise the prospect of this means of increasing the attractiveness of rail freight transport for major users.
Thirdly, as I mentioned briefly, Amendments Nos 19 to 27 seek to simplify the articles dealing with capacity allocation.
Our proposal does not stop one type of traffic being favoured in those circumstances.
In addition, the ability to grant special rights to enable the development, for example, of new or dedicated infrastructure is already clearly provided for in Article 27 of the existing proposal.
The change to authorised applicants in Amendment No 30 restricts its scope to licensed railway undertakings, thereby negating the objective and indeed the effect of the proposal.
I hope that honourable Members can agree with me that our underlying objectives are similar - indeed almost identical - and that even though we cannot accept all of the proposed amendments, we will endeavour to incorporate the objectives of many of the amendments in our revised proposal.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Ro-ro ferry and high speed passenger craft services The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0061/99), on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the common position adopted by the Council (12893/3/98 - C4-0004/99-98/0064(SYN)) with a view to adopting a Council Directive on a system of mandatory surveys for the safe operation of regular ro-ro ferry and high speed passenger craft services in the Community (Rapporteur: Mr Watts).
In particular, it took the loss of the Herald of Free Enterprise , the Scandinavian Star and, most tragic of all, the Estonia , before ferry companies and governments started to come to terms with the consequences of their negligence.
However, on first reading, the Parliament highlighted the weak wording which would in effect, in my view and that of the Parliament, allow certain ferries to either carry a sub- standard black box or not carry a black box at all.
This unfortunately was rejected by both the Council and the Commission.
I invite the Commission tonight to join with me in putting safety first by supporting our amendment.
On first reading, we also welcome the desire on the part of the Commission to require the data relating to compliance to be made available to the Commission in order to establish a new transparent system accessible to all parties concerned.
The Commission commented in its communication that neither the Commission nor the Council could accept the request by the European Parliament that information on the ferries and craft should be made publicly available.
It is time to make black boxes a mandatory requirement on all ferries and high-speed craft in the interests of passenger safety and confidence.
As the report acknowledges, most of the amendments adopted at first reading were accepted by the Commission in its amended proposal and incorporated in the Council's common position.
I understand the principle but it must be said that a provision of this kind would require the replacement of the voyage-data recorder and, in almost all cases, the replacement of navigation and engine-control equipment in order to ensure the availability of the right communication protocols for feeding information into the VDR.
So, for all those reasons - practical reasons, not reasons of principle - I cannot accept the five-year limitation period that is proposed in Amendment No 1.
Amendment No 2 repeats the request made at first reading for the information on the particulars of roll-on/roll-off ferries and high-speed craft permitted to operate on regular services, including information about any operational limitation.
It is that concern which prompted the Commission to propose that it is for the committee, established for the purposes of this directive, to determine the conditions for access to such data.
The ferry survey database proposed in this directive should be considered as a specialised instrument that is designed primarily to assist Member States and the Commission in monitoring and enforcing the implementation of the directive by providing detailed information on the application of this survey regime.
When the conditions of access to the ferry survey database are elaborated in the committee, my services will give full attention to the need to feed as much information as possible from that database into the Equasis database.
Let us hope that by the implementation of these measures we will make it almost impossible - as impossible as travel by sea can allow - for any repetition of such tragedies to take place.
The debate is closed.
The debate has lasted for more than a year and a half because the position of the Commission and the European Parliament was profoundly different from that of the Council of Ministers.
The European Parliament wanted the choice of city to be based on the quality of the projects, without reference to any contribution made by the Member States or choice made according to Community decision-making procedures, that is, the codecision procedure.
The Council of Ministers had itself opted for Member States to nominate each year, in turn and on a pre-established rotational basis, one of their cities as European capital of culture.
The European Parliament rejected the Council's common position at second reading by adopting a declaration of intended rejection.
We therefore found ourselves faced with a choice: either to continue a dialogue of the deaf with the Council for several months, exhausting the procedure provided for by Article 189 - and I believe that there would have been no winners or losers at the end of this procedure, which would have continued indefinitely - or to see whether a compromise would be possible.
Admittedly, the Council's idea of nominating cities in turn for each Member State has been preserved, but the direct choice of city to nominate by the Member State has been abandoned; several cities in the same country may submit an application.
Finally, each nominated city must make a detailed submission on its cultural project; this is something Parliament had wanted, and was also no longer included in the Council's common position.
We did not obtain the right of codecision in the choice of city to nominate, but the European Parliament may deliver a prior opinion on the nominations; the Commission forwards its recommendations, which are based both on the selection panel's report and the opinion delivered by Parliament, to the Council.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not very often that the Council takes Parliament's point of view into consideration, and this bargaining seems to me to be a positive example of how our institutions work.
However, this compromise would not have been possible either without the constant support of the members of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, and its chairman; they have continually supported the rapporteur's opinions and have cooperated closely - through the amendments they have proposed - on the improvements to be made to the text, as well as taking part in the negotiations along with myself.
I should like to conclude by saying that I hope these amendments which the Council has obviously accepted will be adopted tomorrow by Parliament, and I am convinced that in the concrete follow-up to this decision, the Commissioner responsible and his staff will pay particular attention to the cultural merit of the projects submitted.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the 'European Capital of Culture' programme is a success story.
The Commission therefore presented, in November 1997, a proposal to communitarise the programme with the backing of the European Parliament in May 1998, demanding co-decision for the nomination and selection of cities based on solid cultural criteria.
In a nutshell, the Parliament wanted to ensure that the programme would bring about a real change in the quality of life of the cities and their inhabitants long after the festivities themselves are over.
The governments agreed to the principle of basing the choice of cultural capital on cultural criteria, on the basis of the opinions of a joint panel and the European Parliament, just as the European Parliament intended.
Therefore, as of 2005, the European capital of culture will enjoy the optimum conditions for using the event as an ideal opportunity for inter-cultural collaboration.
The governments are willing to come up with generous funding for this great joint festivity, as was the European Parliament's initial wish.
That is because interinstitutional consultations are playing an increasingly important part in the Community's decision-making process and that is why the Group of the European People's Party will be voting for this report without any hesitation or regret.
Mr President, we support the proposed compromise in order to optimise the way the European capital of culture is selected.
What is important here is the content of the submission, as listed in Article 2a for instance, including the need to promote dialogue between European cultures and those from other parts of the world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, not only for his excellent work but also for having been so patient at an awkward stage in our deliberations.
Article 128 of the Maastricht Treaty stresses the importance of cooperation among Member States to conserve and safeguard Europe's important cultural heritage.
The desire for cultural integration in Europe also means becoming conscious of the European cultural area.
This consensus needs to be found rapidly, so that each European city which is nominated can, firstly, draw attention to cultural trends shared by the European people which that city has inspired and to which it has contributed significantly; secondly, promote cultural events in association with other cities in EU Member States, designed to bring about lasting cultural cooperation; thirdly, circulate these around the European Union; and fourthly, foster dialogue between the cultures of Europe and the rest of the world, but above all enhance that city's historical and artistic heritage by improving the quality of life there.
Europe's architectural heritage is the expression of our different identities and, at the same time, of our common origins, in that materials, elements, forms and spaces meet, unite and divide in constant search of a balance between old and new.
In effect, what we discussed was replacing the intergovernmental procedure that had been used until that point and had also proved to be increasingly cumbersome as a Community procedure that involved Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
Then, in its common position of July 1998, the Council arrived at a solution that was barely satisfactory and that was based on a rota system linked to the Presidency.
The selection procedure was significantly different to the Commission's proposal and, furthermore, Parliament was virtually excluded from the procedure.
The determination of this House and the declaration of intent to reject the common position announced on 13 January gave rise to the so-called 'mini-conciliation' procedure and today we are reaping the benefits of negotiation between the two arms of the legislature, to which the Commission has also contributed.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11 a.m.
