Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 13 June 1997.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of the sitting of 13 June 1997 have been distributed.
Well, four months have gone by and I have received no reply whatsoever.
The Bureau considered that a fuller answer was required, so the question is still pending and due for approval on 10 July in order to give you a fuller reply.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President Santer has asked me to report to you on the economic results of the European Council in Amsterdam and the G7 meeting held last weekend in Denver, Colorado.
There are three principal messages emerging from these two international meetings.
The euro is now an established reality, which is a good thing for Europe and a good thing for the world; the economic climate is developing satisfactorily, and employment has become the first economic priority of the national governments.
The G7 summit ratified the results of the Amsterdam Council.
The European Council in Amsterdam definitively adopted the legal framework for the euro, which, I should remind you, comprises three essential elements: the resolution on the new form of the European Monetary System; the two Regulations creating the legal status of the euro, in other words the monetary law of Europe for the year 2000; and the two Regulations - one preventive, one deterrent - which together with the Amsterdam resolution make up the Pact for Stability and Growth.
The European Council in Amsterdam also gave a specific mandate to the Commission, the Council and the European Monetary Institute on the work needed to place the international role of the euro on a clear and solid basis.
Furthermore, in Denver, the coming of the euro was internationally recognized.
The G7, in its communiqué, emphasized for the first time that economic and monetary union, based on sound economic policies and structural reforms, would make a valuable contribution to the stability of the international monetary system.
Secondly, the economic situation.
As well as a favourable economic climate, the need for structural adjustments was confirmed in both Amsterdam and Denver.
Regarding the economic climate, the Denver summit offered an opportunity to compare the situation in Europe with that in the United States, in particular.
The growth of the Community GDP - which was 1.6 % in 1996 - should reach 2.4 % in 1997 and 2.8 % in 1998.
This return to a higher rate of growth should allow a net increase of two million in the number of jobs in Europe over the two years 1997 and 1998.
Apart from the return of growth, a substantial reduction in European unemployment from its present intolerable, demoralizing level will be achieved through structural reforms - especially those affecting the employment market, education and research - and through improving the competitiveness of business.
The budgetary framework introduced by economic and monetary union, designed to re-establish the balance of public spending in the medium term, will release room for manoeuvre.
Over and above that, however, the need for progressive structural reforms was emphasized by the G7, especially as regards the reform of the pension systems and the role delegated to the pension funds.
That, in essence, is one of the strong messages sent out both by the European Council in Amsterdam and by the G7 meeting in Denver.
In this context, the European Council recalls that sound macroeconomic and budgetary policies go hand-in-hand with strong, sustainable growth in terms of output and employment.
Very symbolically, the European Council put both the resolution on the implementation of the Pact for Stability and Growth and the resolution on growth and employment under a single political umbrella: ' Stability, growth and employment' .
The European Council adopted two guiding principles to strengthen the place of employment at the heart of economic policy.
According to Articles 102a and 103 of the Treaty, the broad guidelines will be extended to cover competitiveness, the employment market, technological innovation, education, training and taxation, with a view to harnessing all economic policy in the interests of employment.
In practice, the Council, acting on a proposal by the Commission, will be able to issue specific recommendations on these matters to the Member States.
In this way, the Council will be able to make recommendations on employment policy.
However, in order to be able to implement these European Council recommendations without delay, the Commission means to give concrete form to this new stimulus to employment, beginning with the extraordinary meeting of the European Council in Luxembourg devoted to this subject.
This Council will decide on the concrete form to be taken by the new initiatives for employment adopted in Amsterdam.
Another will be the ECSC, where it has been suggested that a reserve fund should be set up to use the proceeds of the income available from 2002 to speed up research in sectors linked to the coal and steel industry.
The Commission and Council have been invited to prepare, jointly with the EIB, a report on all these matters - and on many others, too, especially the SMEs - for this special European Council.
Parliament will, of course, be involved in our work.
In conclusion, may I emphasize the fact that both the Amsterdam Council and the G7 summit in Denver have sent out a message of optimism to Europe, a message that will help restore its self-confidence.
The European Union faced a more difficult initial situation than its American counterpart, but Europe today is pushing ahead on the path to economic progress and structural reform.
Finally, I should add that the impending introduction of the euro, in accordance with the conditions and timetable laid down in the Treaty, will provide a further boost to the recovery of economic activity in Europe.
Commissioner, you have referred to the irreversible problem of an ageing population in Europe, and you have also referred very frequently to the need for essential reforms.
Like it or not, Mrs Seillier, we are currently in a situation where the 'baby boom' generation still forms part of the active population, but from 2010 onwards we shall have an extremely serious demographic shortfall in Europe.
Mr President, I was appointed on behalf of this House as rapporteur on the demographic situation in Europe.
After all, it is clear that more and more elderly people are often in need of care which is proving more and more costly.
For this reason, and especially as we prepare for the extraordinary meeting of the European Council in Luxembourg before the end of this year, the proposals and recommendations that the Commission will make will take careful account of your suggestion.
I would add that very special attention will be paid to the problem of pension funds.
I also said just now that funds would be released from the ECSC reserves, especially with a view to creating a research fund for research in sectors linked to the coal and steel industry.
On all these matters, I believe that the mandate is sufficiently detailed and sufficiently substantial to enable to Commission to present specific proposals to the European Council - proposals capable of bringing at least a partial answer to the present problems of unemployment.
Mr President, thank you for taking up the question of small and medium-sized enterprises.
But training is also one of the essential aspects to be implemented in the context of the ambitious Europe-wide structural policies which we must pursue in order to remedy the structural causes of unemployment.
Secondly, bearing in mind the importance of the contribution made by the SMEs in terms of employment, the emphasis placed on these enterprises goes well beyond the aspect of training alone.
I would add, on this point, that the Commission has already tabled a number of proposals and made a number of recommendations which are, or have been, under consideration by Parliament.
They are now in the hands of the Council, but some of them have been blocked at that level, and I deplore that.
Even so, it will not prevent us, as we prepare for the special European Council in Luxembourg, from attaching particular importance to the SMEs and to their role in the campaign against the structural causes of unemployment; and, of course, within that framework, very special attention will be paid to questions of training.
Mr Commissioner, today you have mentioned that the economic environment is favourable to improving the economic position of the Member States.
And secondly, what is the main reason for this change in the Italian position?
And if Italy achieves the ambitions that its government has adopted, it will this year have achieved the greatest reduction in public indebtedness achieved by any European country in the last 15 years.
Having said that, and bearing in mind the facts known to me, I did say that the objectives put forward, especially in the Italian 'Economic and financial planning document' , are sound.
The examination will take place in March 1998, based on the real results for 1997.
What I can say today is that there is no doubt that the situation in Italy is developing along the right lines.
Mr President, measures to get Europe back to work, that was the Commissioner's message to us today from Amsterdam.
If you, the Commission, and if the European Council took the recommendations by this House seriously and incorporated them in your own proposals, we might have different economic and employment policy results from those we have seen in the past following from your recommendations.
First, Mrs Randzio-Plath, if you carefully study the conclusions of the European Council in Amsterdam - something I am not going to do here, though I am willing to go through them with you in person - you will find that the concerns of the European Parliament, especially those expressed in its resolutions on the Pact for Stability and Growth, have been extensively taken into consideration.
That is why the broad guidelines of economic policy are going to be widened - as you will see when we present them next year - to take more account of competitiveness, the employment market, technological innovation, education, training and taxation.
In other words, there is a parallel between the powers of recommendation we have exercised so far in budgetary matters and those that we can extend into the economic field.
What I can promise you now is that these practical matters are one of the essential areas on which the Commission is currently working.
In recent years, those countries which have done most to reduce their public deficits have also seen the strongest growth and created the most jobs.
Secondly, the introduction of the euro will form an integral part of the solution to the problem of unemployment, because the euro will bring Europe greater growth.
It will also enable Europe to eliminate the monetary fluctuations - ' competitive devaluations' as they were once known in certain quarters in France - which cost Europe a million and a half additional people unemployed in a two year period, 1995 to 1996.
I believe, then, that the contribution made by the euro to growth in Europe will also be a valuable contribution to the struggle against unemployment.
And I believe that the role of politicians, of whatever party, today is to give back Europe's citizens that confidence in themselves.
So what we are talking about are specific, targeted schemes that will enable the EIB out of its own resources - out of its reserves, if I can put it that way - to provide easier access to borrowing for enterprises which need loans in order to expand, and this idea holds out promise for the future because the sectors concerned are the developing sectors of so-called high technology.
The ECSC will cease to exist on 23 July 2002.
The interesting point is that the European Council said that since those reserves were set up on the basis of a levy on the coal and steel industries, then when those reserves can be released they must be given to a fund which will enable research to be promoted in the industries connected with that sector.
Thank you very much, Mr Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
So, on behalf of my group, I support the request for reference back to committee.
Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European Socialists I should like to tell the House that the matter was debated at length in the Committee for Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, taking account of all considerations and all aspects.
I put the request to refer the report back to committee to the vote. (Parliament rejected the request) I call upon the rapporteur, Mrs Fontaine.
This House added a few amendments, but approved the proposal as a whole, in a report adopted back in January 1990.
The Legal Affairs Committee once again, after very careful study, answered both these questions in the affirmative.
Finally, and as we did earlier in 1990, we stressed the need for clear information for the employees.
Some of our amendments, adopted from the excellent report by Mr Hughes on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, are particularly designed to enable employee information to be improved.
I hope with all my heart that this House will approve the views expressed by its Legal Affairs Committee and its Social Affairs Committee in favour of this directive and the amendments we propose to give concrete form to our desire for transparency, equity and social equilibrium in the European single market.
Moreover, an attempt was made to put some flesh on the bones of this directive by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and by means of some amendments.
However, the rapporteur points out - and I think this is important - that when we are aiming for a global approach, as we are now - it is clear that the European Union is not responding in this field of company law as might be expected when, strange to say, all aspects of trade are taking on a more international and global character and becoming ever more alike.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission proposal takes account of the principle of subsidiarity, on the basis of the experience gained with the aforementioned 1989 proposal, which failed.
In view of the very divergent rules on takeover bids in the various Member States, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and my group rightly asked whether a recommendation might not have been more appropriate than a directive.
If we are to avoid distortions of competition and make the stock markets more transparent and give minority shareholders at least minimum protection, we need a minimum of legal certainty.
The directive goes into some basic points either too briefly or not at all.
I have the greatest respect and esteem for the outstanding work the rapporteur has done and my request, on behalf of my group, to refer the report back to committee was not intended and is not intended in any way to sound like a criticism of the work carried out by Mrs Fontaine.
This is not the case in Article 10.
She dealt with this matter in committee very well.
The 1989 original directive has already been very well explained in this House.
It also has the excellent reputation because of the takeover panel of having knowledge of these particular matters.
In Article 6 it says that the supervisory authority can be a non-regulatory body.
The takeover panel in Britain has been catered for with that amendment.
Concerning the Commission's hostility to Amendment No 11, in 1995-96 in my country alone 12, 500 job losses were due to takeovers and mergers.
Amendment No 12 calls for those people who have funds or shares in the companies involved through their occupational pension funds - a growing number of people throughout Europe - to be involved in any final decision on these matters.
Having said that, I wish to make a broader analysis centred upon the debate between those wanting to regulate company law by means of a recommendation - which is why a request has been made for this report to be referred back to committee - and those who advocate that it should be regulated by means of a directive or at least a framework directive.
This directive is, in my opinion, insufficient but it is a first and absolutely essential step which we hope will be followed by other steps which are also absolutely essential in the field of company law.
I voted against it in committee and I shall vote against it tomorrow in plenary.
As you know - and this has been mentioned - the previous attempt to remedy this situation was not very successful.
The Commission can accept the majority of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, with slight changes to the wording of Amendments Nos. 1, 4 and 6.
The Commission reserves the right to reconsider its position on this point at a later stage of the parliamentary process.
We find it difficult to reconcile these two amendments with the concept of a framework directive and with the principle of subsidiarity.
We accept Amendment No 14, but with a less rigid wording, and Amendment No 16 only partially.
Finally, Mr President, we have in drafting the proposal taken particular account of the concerns expressed by British MEPs and in Britain generally.
The debate is closed.
This proposed directive introduces changes to the 1988 directive geared to extending the scope of the directive on dangerous preparations to five new sectors, viz: 1) environmental classification and labelling; the original directive only covered the criterion of classification and labelling, with the wording 'dangerous to health' ; 2) pesticides and biocides, as the directive on classification, packaging and labelling of the parasiticides will be repealed; 3) safety data sheets, which the manufacturers must provide for preparations not classified as dangerous; 4) explosives, for which professional users must provide a safety data sheet; 5) labelling of certain sensitisers, by which products containing sensitisers, even below the normal limit for classification, must be labelled.
Citizens have the right to see their health protected and this can be done through clear and transparent information, and legible and easily recognizable labelling.
This proposal is intended to be a real step forward in this direction and it is the result of mediation across the various existing national legislations.
This is why I welcome the Commission's proposal which means we will be making a real effort at European level to deal with these problems.
It is Article 16 of the Directive which concentrates primarily on the working environment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say on behalf of the EPP Group that this proposal for a directive concerning the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations is another good example of sensible European legislation.
I think it is important for the labelling to indicate really serious risks.
But it cannot list another 20 potential or conceivable risks.
Mr President, we are very pleased with the proposal for a directive which somewhat widens the field of application of the original directives, as this is a directive which incorporates in a single document the existing legislation which has long existed in the field of dangerous preparations.
There is the general extension of information to preparations and substances dangerous to the environment, a new recognition of their importance; the extension of this proposal to biocides and pesticides, something which is much-needed and long-overdue; and an extension of the need to provide information on substances which are not necessarily dangerous by chemical characterization but when in use might pose some risks.
This is a positive proposal which is in operation in some Member States already, including the United Kingdom and Sweden.
I have some reservations with regard to proposals to allow the use of common or generic names without, in addition, the full names or details of the substance.
Finally, I should like to thank the rapporteur.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive we are debating today aims to concentrate all the European Union's legislative acts that determine the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations that circulate or are used in the market.
For that reason, it is appropriate for the Commission to put a report before the European Parliament in two years, based on information gathered from the Member States and from professional users, so that any necessary technical amendments or indicated proposals can be set in hand.
But, Mr Bangemann, it would have been a good idea also to incorporate the legislation on this matter that already exists in the three new Member States, Finland, Sweden and Austria, and not to wait for Parliament to point out, in the relevant amendments, that some Member States already have more stringent legislation, which is of course very sensible.
I hope this amendment by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will obtain the necessary majority here and that the Commission and the Council will approve it, because this is a most important point.
I very much hope the European Parliament will not recoil and that tomorrow we will approve the content of those amendments, which have in part already been law in Austria for the last ten years.
The European Parliament thus has a vital role to play here.
The debate is closed.
This is not the conclusion but merely the start and, as you rightly pointed out, Mr President, when you read the subject for debate today, it is a report on the estimates of revenue and expenditure for the European Parliament and the Ombudsman.
Therefore, at the outset, I want to emphasize, over and above the report itself, Amendment No 17 tabled by Mr Wynn which I urged him and my group to submit.
The importance of Amendment No 17 is that in establishing the draft estimates we have gone over the 20 % ceiling of Category 5 appropriations which would normally be the maximum that Parliament spent in accordance with our normal practice.
Therefore, Amendment No 17 contains a firm commitment to remain below the 20 % ceiling of administrative appropriations.
It means that over and above the suggestions that already exist in the draft report on the estimates, the Bureau has to face up to the need to find a further ECU 4m of cuts in the draft estimates and submit that proposal for ECU 4m of cuts to the Committee on Budgets.
The third area that such a rectifying letter will clearly need to cover - and I say this very clearly to the House - is the question about the outcome of the Bureau working group in relation to the transparency and control that was called for by Parliament in its resolution of December last year concerning Members' allowances.
I and the Committee on Budgets will be resisting in the vote this week a number of amendments in relation to those allowances.
If we do not have the proposals from the Bureau for the transparency and control of Members' allowances in that rectifying letter in September, then it will be right and proper for the House to make its own decisions on the recommendation of the Committee on Budgets in the vote at first reading.
The Committee on Budgets has mainly formulated proposals in six areas to work on the basis of the report that had been given to us and, we believe, to improve it somewhat.
I suspect, however, on reflection that the staff did not agree with its Staff Committee either because at the Staff Committee elections where this figured as one of the most prominent aspects of their election campaign, the Staff Committee found that it was 350 votes short of a quorum.
One of the problems we have had in the 1998 budget is that although we move out of the Belliard building in order to occupy the new building, our lease on the Belliard building continues well into the next millennium.
An extremely important part of our building policy, therefore, is not just concentrating on moving into new buildings but making sure that we dispose properly of leases on existing buildings such as Van Maerlant and the Belliard building.
Finally, there was the assessment and updating of strategy in the data-processing sector where the Committee on Budgets are collaborating very well with Vice-President Haarder who has responsibility in this area.
So, the Committee on Budgets has called on the administration to produce an appropriate report with appropriate savings.
But every month means 11 and not 12 part-sessions.
It is important that Parliament get used to saving in all areas and that we do our work more efficiently.
We must transform Parliament from the bogey it is in some Member States into a model, an example of a unique, effective and modern international Parliament working in close cooperation with the national parliaments and with ordinary citizens.
Such privileges are damaging to democracy and create a gulf between us and our people.
The Tomlinson report also proposes that funds be set aside for political parties at European level.
In this context I would like to openly praise the rapporteur and thank him for including in his report a demand which my group has been making in this House for a long time.
The second remark I would like to make concerns the public procurement system in this House.
In this context, I certainly support the rapporteur.
All the requests we, and in particular my group, have put forward on transparency in relation to travel allowances, checks on attendance by means of roll-call votes, auditing secretariat costs and the transferral of the general estimate of these allowances directly to the pension fund, all these requests which I and my group regard as minimum standards for transparency in relation to allowances, will be put before this House for a roll-call vote in September.
Mr President, with just two minutes in which to speak I must of course limit myself to a couple of fundamental comments.
It is a fact that in all Member States - and partly as a result of the Maastricht criteria - our electors are being asked to make huge material sacrifices, with the imposition of new taxes and levies.
In doing so, we wish to retain the 20 % limit and quite clearly a decision will have to be taken as to how to do that.
For example, we will aim at the objective of having common European houses in our Member States by the year 2000.
We have to be extremely cautious about setting up a new system of information without coordinating it effectively with other means of distributing information to parliamentarians.
We will be looking to bring all these elements together and take some sensible decisions as to how our finances should be expended.
Finally, we must be careful not to create a new bureaucratic structure just to check Members' expenses receipts.
But Parliament undoubtedly needs to reach a quick decision about this, as we know that the Court of Auditors is also taking an interest in the curious problem that expenses are paid here for journeys which have not been made.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, my report is concerned with the awareness, raising and dissemination of information about the information society.
That is why the Commission with the support of this Parliament continues to support the multiannual programme to stimulate the establishment of the information society in Europe.
Early into the next century, only approximately 8 % of our population will be employed in agriculture or manufacturing goods and services.
An internal market which, unfortunately, remains inadequate, is resulting in an inadequate European competitiveness.
There is a need for improvement in areas such as combating government assistance to national companies and ensuring fair competition.
At the present time just 4 % of Europe's small and medium-sized enterprises have Internet access.
It must be the EU's task to stimulate the activities of these small firms.
I also believe that a substantial part of the resources under the Fifth Framework Programme must be allocated to activities relating to the information society.
At present just 2 % of the regional funds are used for this.
The same applies to the European Social Fund.
The information society is not only a question of technology, it is also a question of the impact on society.
Hopefully this aspect will not be neglected at the ministerial conference in Bonn.
Attention must also be paid - and this is probably the most difficult part of the European Commission's work - to creating a more flexible market and reformulating the rights and obligations of employees and employers.
The Member States must always remember that a European population given the constant possibility to undertake further training under working conditions which take into account the new forms of work is a formidable weapon in the war of competition with the United States and Japan.
The four policy lines on which I comment in my report are good policy lines.
Mr President, I want to congratulate the negotiators in Amsterdam on not downgrading employment to a question purely of convergence but on deciding that this issue will be discussed in depth at a summit in Luxembourg.
The second major question is the changing role of standards and of the European standardization organizations.
The third question is the legal status of publicly available specifications, also known as PAS, in Community law.
We also have standards that were not developed quickly enough, where the European industry did not decide quickly enough, for example Video 2000, which never established itself.
With the prospect of the introduction of banking codes we can already consider how Europe is to meet this challenge internationally and thereby become more competitive.
I believe the report makes it very clear that both de facto and de jure standards should be applied and that new systems must also be developed.
Mr President, this discussion today of the first report that I have had the pleasure of writing on behalf of the culture committee evokes special feelings for me.
The initiative has three goals: to hasten the entry of schools into the information society, to promote increased use of multimedia technology in teaching and to strengthen the European dimension in education with the help of the tools of the information society, and to put emphasis on cultural and linguistic diversity.
In addition, teachers will receive training and support and all those involved will be given information on the pedagogical opportunities offered by multi-media technology.
Both research and pilot projects demonstrate that information technology makes the acquisition of new knowledge easier and stimulates personal development provided that it is adapted according to need and that the educational content is sufficient.
At the same time I know that parents have an important role to play in reinforcing school work at home.
This is why I have proposed that a pilot project be created within the action plan aimed particularly at young girls.
It is in primary schools and secondary schools that the new technology must be taught.
If we want to bring the project of Europe closer to the citizen, and after Amsterdam that will be more necessary than ever, we will have to embark on large-scale experiments in tele-democracy.
Mr President, you are just ten years old and already surfing the Internet.
Europe's young people are using the new information and communication technologies, which are still a mystery to many adults.
That could link up ten thousand schools to national and international networks and multimedia services in the space of three years.
In Sweden and Finland for example two thirds of schools have access to the Internet while the figure is fewer than 2 percent of schools in Germany.
Young people are the future of the EU.
But, if the EU is to take full advantage of and have its full share in this new market and in these new possibilities, we urgently need to bring about a single, homogeneous internal European market.
A large number of directives are in hand and awaiting implementation.
The Commission must be asked to step up its efforts to secure and improve the operation of the internal market in the field of information and technology.
There is no shortage of fine-sounding words on the subject, but the specific proposals are not particularly impressive.
In my view, the information society is based on two pillars, technological development on the one hand and social and societal development on the other.
The second pillar of the information society is society and its societal aspects.
It is most important to involve the applicants for accession in the regulatory process if we want to have a homogeneous market in Europe.
We could accept Amendment No 2 if the words 'public service' were replaced by 'universal service' .
But this is probably just a question of terminology.
It seems to me that the work on the rules of the open market is reaching completion, so a major obstacle for citizens in the information society is slowly being removed.
And I believe it is in these issues of flexibility in our society that the information society may encounter its greatest difficulties.
A time will come when an ability to use information and communications technology is an absolute precondition for full participation both in working life and in other areas of the life of society.
The Commission should also continue its efforts to develop a European multimedia industry so that it genuinely promotes Europe's linguistic and cultural diversity. (without microphone) ...
emphasizes the dangers of exacerbating social inequalities in the course of realization of the information society, thus recognizing that the new technologies represent an opportunity for society, a step forward, provided they are made accessible to all through teaching and through the universal service, whose responsibilities include that of supplying the necessary equipment to the various public establishments.
We agree with the Ahlqvist report when it deplores the total absence of any new resources to achieve these objectives.
We cannot accept that, in the name of progress, the very foundation of education is being called into question by the theory that apprenticeship should be given priority over education and training as a way of meeting the needs of industry.
The four reports before us do in fact touch on several areas of the information society: finance, standardization, education and training, the change in the value of 'work' , and the quest for dominance by the information technology multinationals.
Well, the Community's five-year programme has a budget of 45 million euros.
I have nothing against detailed research and studies, but we have to consider whether it would not be more sensible to use the ECU 45 million available for the multiannual information programme to stimulate the establishment of the information society in order to implement projects of practical use.
This adds to the marginalization of areas where communications facilities are already inadequate.
Finally I should like to draw the Commission's attention to the fact that satellite communications and state-of-theart data communications ought to be possible throughout the territory of the Union, particularly in areas where the conventional telecommunications infrastructure is inadequate or outdated.
The fact is that the growth per capita during those thirty five years has not been any greater in the USA than in Europe and I am quite convinced that this will continue to be the case in the future as well.
I also think that if we really want Europe to take the lead in specialist technologies, we must base our thinking on the simple fact that eight out of ten Nobel prize winners for science come from the USA.
But we must not forget that education and training are a field where the primary responsibility lies with the Member States.
So I am glad that paragraph 3 specifically refers to the Member States' jurisdiction over cultural and educational matters and that in other passages too the report resists the temptation to prescribe rules to the Member States, offering them suggestions instead.
To say that there is a shortfall here would also mean that 40 years of coeducation was just a waste of time!
That is why my group will call for a separate vote on paragraph 27 and only vote for the first part.
If it is not included, the EU will be unable to do what is required of us, or what we promised at the G7 information conference a few years ago.
We only have two large firms, accounting for just 10 % of the market, that are European.
We are cutting back on resources for research and development in the field of information technologies too.
Let me try once again to put the discussion in context, as some speakers have failed to do.
On 1 January next year there will be competition in this field.
We are internationally competitive in hardware, not just thanks to the large firms people keep referring to, such as Siemens, Alcatel and Philips, but also thanks to small firms from smaller Member States.
We have also embarked on other projects with these cities and done other practical work.
What we are doing under this programme is precisely what has been said in this debate.
Here too there is a gap between the ideal world we might imagine and the real world.
Of course one could imagine a situation in which every Member State had enough money to finance all this from its budget.
But that ideal world does not exist, not even under communism, Mrs Pailler.
There are four parts to this action plan and we hope that we can implement them without additional public funds.
In 1990 we had a 35 % market share and now we only have 29 %, which is a 6 % decline.
But I will be glad to see you at the ELDR Group again... (The President cut off the speaker) The debate is closed.
Mr President, first let me apologize for the absence of Mr Fischler, who would have liked to make this statement in person but cannot do so and has therefore asked me to read out the statement on behalf of himself and the Commission.
The WTO hormones panel forwarded the parties concerned two virtually identical preliminary reports, one for the USA and one for Canada, on 8 March 1997.
When we consider all that, it becomes quite clear to myself and my group - and, I am sure, to the majority in the European Parliament - that we must adhere to our ban.
Let me say a few words on the situation in the European Union and what we expect the consumer to accept.
We are going to run into many decisions and many difficulties in the World Trade Organization unless we have some mutual respect and mutual recognition of what others in the world believe.
The WTO panel is going to come to a decision.
As regards the question of hormones, we all know that they are used also in Europe and the Americans know that too.
Mr President, once again this House is discussing the hormone question in connection with the United States.
I therefore believe that we must support the European Commission in continuing to argue our case for as long as is procedurally possible.
In Europe we have another view of food than in the United States for example or other continents.
We are seeing this already in a number of Member States.
The customer is still king.
Once again, the WTO is giving precedence to commercial interests and the free trade principle over any other human consideration - health, social, cultural or environmental.
Let us recall that when the European Union decided to ban imports of hormone-containing meat from 1 January 1988, the reason was not an artificial, protectionist attempt to prevent trade but an attempt to protect consumers against the harmful effects of hormones, whether natural or artificial - effects acknowledged by many scientific experts and by the European Veterinary Committee.
This commercial aspect is all the more important for them in that the question of growth hormones for meat conceals another: the question of the dairy production hormone BST, the authorization of which in Europe would open up an enormous market for American companies.
Mr Bangemann, I am calling on the Commission to evolve a strategy directed not just at the panel but also at the forthcoming WTO negotiations.
These considerations must be given their due place in the new agreements; for consumer and health reasons we must be able to reject certain things.
The report by the panel of experts remains a provisional report.
I myself invited three of them to a conference in Brussels last month.
They were Professor Metzler from Karlsruhe, Professor Liehr from Texas and Professor Epstein from Illinois.
Everything is based on the so-called JEFCA report which dates from 1987.
And more than a half of the 80 references were out of date in 1987.
I naturally want to support the Commission in the position which it is now adopting and I hope that our resolution will receive unanimous support.
Mr President, Commissioner, the use within the Community of anabolic substances in animal production has been the source of major controversy ever since the 1970s, involving politicians, consumers, scientific experts and the entire international community in a virtually continuous debate.
However, on 7 May this year the joint special group delivered its interim report to the parties - a report which, incidentally, should have been kept confidential as required by the memorandum on the settlement of disputes.
The conclusions of that report are clear and unambiguous.
In its motion for a resolution, our group has called upon the Commission to organize as soon as possible a conference to determine consumer reactions regarding the health aspects of hormone-treated meat.
What we ask, therefore, is that the dispute procedure should be carried forward to its conclusion, to the appeal stage in other words, and the whole of our group is ready to support the Commission.
Corticoids and other hormones, used singly or in combination, cause meat to swell.
That means incorporating more liquid, which means the consumer is buying water at the price of meat.
The interests of human beings, of the citizen, are non-existent, because the citizen is just an uneducated consumer and therefore submissive.
We fought against DES.
That is a right which you, Commissioner, can defend on behalf of the citizen and on behalf of human society.
And that, Commissioner, is why I call upon you urgently to continue the struggle to ban this meat, and hormones in general, in Europe.
Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his statement.
Only in this way can fact rather than fiction govern our decisions on food law and food safety in the future.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I believe we are in a difficult situation, and we are very well aware of it.
That means that in future we will have to consider a much further-reaching strategy, which will have to encompass an entirely new agricultural policy, an entirely new trade policy and an entirely new consumer protection policy.
Since this is a report on the implementation of the Cohesion Fund during the year 1995, attention should be drawn to some of the most important aspects noted in that period.
This confirms that the Cohesion Fund is, as already noted in previous years, still being implemented in a totally regular manner, as there has never been any shadow of any problems concerning slight administrative or procedural irregularities.
That confirms the need which those countries have and will continue to have in the future for environmental and transport structures, since there are still great imbalances within this field within the European Union.
Moreover, and in order to improve the presentation of projects and to make it possible to diversify implementation in the less-favoured regions of the beneficiary Member States, it is considered necessary to step up investment in rail and air infrastructures and waste management; it is also regarded as acceptable for applications to be made with a value of less than ECU 10 million and in new areas such as projects for fighting erosion, for afforestation, nature conservation and the protection of habitats.
Fourthly and finally, the report tackles the central and essential issue of the future of the Cohesion Fund.
Points 16 and 17 reaffirm that the Cohesion Fund is a financial instrument for implementation at national level which should therefore not be confused or diluted with the Structural Funds.
Madam President, the report which we are presenting and debating today studies the seventh annual report presented by the Commission on the Structural Funds for the year 1995, a report incorporating amendments approved in the Committee on Regional Policy, which will certainly help to define and give form to the ideas which we are presenting in the current report.
The year 1995 is of vital importance bearing in mind that it is the first full financial year of the 1994-1999 period of funding for which Austria, Finland and Sweden were finally included.
It must be pointed out that there were over 400 Community initiative programmes presented by the Member States which led the Commission to acknowledge that certain problems were arising because of the complexity that entailed.
Finally, we reaffirm our confidence in decentralization as a method of managing the Funds, although it is appropriate to point out that the current system has an inherent contradiction, since, whilst the management of the Funds falls in almost all the States upon the State, the responsibility for that management falls almost exclusively upon the Commission.
Finally, Madam President, my thanks to all the members of the Committee on Regional Policy for all the series of amendments presented and debated in committee to be debated a tomorrow's sitting and also to the secretariat and, of course, to all those who have cooperated in the drafting of the report.
Mr President, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has been looking at the annual report on the Cohesion Fund by Novo Belenguer.
But when it comes to a dam which is clearly damaging to the environment - and this can also be read in the report - then the Committee on the Environment believes that it is very difficult to understand why such a dam should be seen as an environmental project.
Finally, I should like to stress - and this opinion is also on behalf of our committee and is included in your report - that environmental impact reports should be drawn up by researchers who are not involved in the planning or implementation of projects.
This principle must not only apply to the Cohesion Fund but to regional policy as a whole.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, I should like to begin my speech by mentioning that there are very few people present in the House when we are in fact discussing 34 % of the Community budget, which is intended for the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund and in this case we are dealing with the 1995 financial year.
The subject of coordination seems especially important to me, above all with the regional and local authorities, especially on those aspects on which the regional authorities have significant jurisdiction as regards the Funds.
I therefore, for all the above reasons consider that this report is a positive one, but we must keep a watchful eye on the implementation of the Structural Funds in the future.
Madam President, this Seventh Annual Report has 341 pages.
The overall outturn for 1995 was 82 % of available funds.
Secondly, over the same period the allocation for the PESCA Community initiative is ECU 250 m.
In the case of the FIFG, a number of innovative elements were added to structural policy in the sector in 1994/95.
The 98 % programme authorization rate is still above average in relation to all EU Community initiatives.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the European Commission's annual report on the activities of the Cohesion Fund in 1995 is a very important document, since it provides clear and full information about the Cohesion Fund's operation and effectiveness, records data and trends, and outlines perspectives.
The positive assessment of the Fund's contribution towards achieving the aim of economic and social convergence acquires particular value following the publication, a few weeks ago, of the European Commission's general report on cohesion, which unfortunately makes it clear that the divergences between the European Union's better and less well developed countries have not yet been eliminated, while serious divergences are also to be found within the Member States.
Economic and social cohesion is not a fixed point but a constantly moving target.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, I fully share the concern of the European Parliament in stressing that in the resolution under discussion on the Cohesion Fund ought, since greater regional internal disparities have been noted within the beneficiary Member States, to include an analysis of the possible impact of implementation of the Cohesion Fund on the said disparities within the field of the Commission's assessment of the socio-economic impact.
The Cohesion Fund, like other funds, is essentially intended to promote economic and social cohesion.
This is assessed both by the relative levels of development of the Member States between one another and by the degree of social and local disparities which exist within each Member State.
If there were no criteria for the options, the implementation of the Cohesion Fund itself might actually serve to increase the social and local disparities in the beneficiary Member States.
For that to happen there need simply be a financing of projects exclusively or predominantly in areas with a higher level of development.
I am therefore very pleased to see the Commission, with the express agreement of the European Parliament, assuming a more flexible position on allowing projects with a value of less than ECU 10 million, since this approach will make it possible to invest more in projects aimed at less-developed regions, which helps to offset the over-concentration on aid to the more prosperous regions.
But although it is essential to ensure that there is a contribution from the Cohesion Fund to realise the principle of economic and social cohesion, it is also essential, since this Fund is exclusively intended for the financing of investment in the transport and environment sectors, that it should follow the policies of the European Union in these fields.
As regards the Cohesion Fund it seems clear to me that there are many points on which the European Parliament and the Commission agree.
This is the first time the Commission has submitted an annual report based on a complete year of operation of the Cohesion Fund and it is the first time this Parliament has had the opportunity of examining how the Cohesion Fund has been implemented in the beneficiary Member States.
Without a doubt the Novo report is exceptionally important.
The budgetary implementation of the reference year was almost 100 % for both commitments and appropriations which is a unique and commendable result.
Madam President, the Commission's report is a kind of incomplete account, with many deliberate omissions, of the implementation of Community policy on economic and social cohesion, and of the action and effectiveness of the Structural Funds.
The main problem concerns what the European Union is trying to achieve today with this policy of the Structural Funds, the policy of economic cohesion.
Unless the problem is dealt with in that way, by a radical approach to Community policy on the issues of economic and social cohesion and the development of countries and regions, we will no doubt come back and debate more reports, but with no result.
Excessively large-scale environmental infrastructure places a burden on the citizens and communities of disadvantaged regions and makes them even poorer.
There seems to be no other way of really implementing models of sustainable development, as called for in Chapter 10 of the White Paper.
Mr President, the Commission's reports on the cohesion fund and the other structural funds for the 1995 financial year have arrived punctually.
The working document drawn up in 1996 by DG XIX expressly mentions an alarming underspend of structural funds appropriations, in addition to a great deal of disturbing data and analysis.
The 1997 budget procedure envisages a reduction of the payment appropriations for the structural funds just because of the underspend.
If we want targeted and effective projects which have a concrete and substantial impact in needy areas, we should first of all strengthen the initiatives designed to extend the means of disseminating information through modern communications technology.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 1995 was the first year in which the three new Member States, Austria, Sweden and Finland, played a part in European structural policy.
A while ago this House debated and adopted an excellent report by Mr Rack.
To think that a few days ago saw the end of a summit that apparently placed special emphasis on employment, that once again found that we have some 18 million unemployed in the Union while at the same time we do not utilize these kinds of structural funds, I must say that speaks for itself and we Members simply cannot accept it.
I believe we need one regional policy in the European Union.
I remember certain discussions in which it became clear that everybody in fact agrees on the need to concentrate resources, not just in other countries but in their own too.
The second point I want to mention is the monitoring and implementation of supplementarity.
Another point is the question of the environment.
A bomb of money which is not being spent.
In the long term it is not possible to justify to the European citizen that there is a lot of money which is not being spent while the individual Member States are being required to contribute more to Europe.
This must remain both before and after enlargement.
Madam President, Commissioner, I just want to comment briefly on two points.
I believe we must try to prevent that in time.
Secondly, I would like to make a comment on the principle of partnership.
We still have major reservations in many respects about extending this principle.
Let me at this point specifically thank the Commission for making serious efforts and also taking serious initiatives in this area.
Let me conclude by making one point in this connection: anyone who wants to deal with the crucial tasks in this area in coming years will have to attach considerably more attention to the principle of partnership, because the main task is in fact to use fewer resources more efficiently.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report on the Seventh Annual Report on the Structural Funds for 1995 is the first one to also cover the new Member States of Austria, Sweden and Finland.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this Seventh Annual Report is a special one, not just because for the first time it covers three new Member States but far more in fact because the report refers to the beginning of the second planning period, a time when the discussion on reforming the structural funds was already in full swing.
As with the previous annual reports, once again we note that in practice the beneficiaries face the problem of excessive bureaucracy and more or less inflexible disbursement procedures.
Let me begin by briefly addressing a few questions in connection with the report on the 1995 Cohesion Fund.
I believe the suggestion that we link environmental and transport projects more closely is an interesting one, and we will look at it carefully in the context of what is feasible here.
In the context of the greening of the budget, the Cohesion Fund will also commission independent experts to evaluate the Cohesion Fund's contribution to environmental protection and sustainable development in general.
Let me just point out that the procedure is explained in detail in the Cohesion Fund report for 1996, which responds to your request at the time when we first applied this procedure.
In the report on the Structural Funds - 1995, for which I also offer warm thanks, you rightly criticize the low take-up of budgetary appropriations in the start-up phase 1994/1995, the complex procedures and the high - I think we can say excessive -level of bureaucracy both in the Member States and in the Commission.
In response to the Italian speaker I must say that it is not just the national programmes that are largely to blame for Italy's low rate of implementation, but simply that it is still the case that almost nothing has been done in some regions.
I would be glad if we could make a concerted effort over the next structural fund period to define some kind of criteria for success, in relation not just to the take-up of funds but also to the quality of the programmes and projects, for it is pointless to spend money badly.
You also rightly underline the need for coordination with other Community policies and horizontal priorities, such as employment, the environment, equal opportunities and support for SMEs, which we also proposed in recent years as guidelines for the new Objective 2 programmes, but also as means of adjustment of the Objective 1 programmes in the mid-term evaluation, with a view to job-creation and economic revival.
The Commission will be adopting this package in Strasbourg on 15 July and submit it to Parliament on 16 July.
That is why there are no concrete or official proposals yet at this point.
Nevertheless I believe our past experience has shown the need to pursue this road and I am sure that the debate on Agenda 2000 and the reform of the structural funds regulations will offer us many opportunities for extensive consultation in the coming months.
Thank you, Mrs Wulf-Mathies.
The debate is closed.
Agreement with the Kyrgyz Republic The next item is the report (A4-0032/97) by Mr Chesa, on behalf of the Committee on External Economic Relations, on the proposal for a Council Decision (COM(95)49-11156/95 - C4-0685/96-95/0063(ACC) on the conclusion by the European Union, the European Coal and Steel Committee and the European Atomic Energy Community, of the one part, and the Kyrgyz Republic, of the other part, on trade and trade-related matters.
The partnership agreement of 1994, similar to those previously concluded with other States of the former Eastern Bloc, relates particularly to three main points.
For all these reasons, I ask Honourable Members to vote in favour of the interim agreement between the European Union and Kyrgyzstan, particularly as the Committee on Budgets has given a favourable opinion.
Madam President, let me begin with a few basic comments on the strategy pursued by the Council and the Commission of pushing for purely trade-related cooperation instead of a comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement.
Democratization is faltering and far greater support is needed in this area.
The debate is closed.
My apologies to all my colleagues who are still here this evening.
This is a great pity because the PHARE programme is the European Union's most important instrument in granting aid to Central and Eastern Europe and hopefully it will also be the most important instrument in permitting the European Union's enlargement to include these countries.
I fear that the way this item has been placed on the agenda will have dissuaded many people from participating in the debate, but it is clearly the aim to use this occasion to speak about the future of the PHARE programme.
This is of course a very major investment in the future of a more integrated and secure Europe.
As I said, we have taken the opportunity of the annual reports to undertake a more fundamental appraisal of the PHARE programme, a forward-looking appraisal.
There is a serious lack of clarity about the objectives of the various PHARE projects in the Central and Eastern European countries.
There is also a lack of clarity about how projects contribute to the reform process and will soon be contributing to the enlargement process.
I believe that this must be a very important starting point for the Parliament.
I should also like to draw attention to another important point in connection with the accession strategy.
I hope that the Commission will consider these recommendations, but above all that in future the Commission, and also Parliament, as we must also put our own house in order, will take the discussion on enlargement and the resources to be allocated to it somewhat more seriously.
Since the main points of principle have already been made, let me perhaps make a few comments on our recent experience with PHARE.
I attended it and noted that one government representative after another from the Eastern European states emphasized the importance of the PHARE programmes for the development of the infrastructure programmes in their countries.
The general maps in the two annual reports clearly show how much is being done for transport.
We noticed how much importance is attached there to PHARE as a means of support and assistance for economic factors but also for integration and democratization.
Albania certainly serves as an example of money being spent and not being used very efficiently.
I know it is difficult to convince a country: you will get money but you must change your administrative structures, change your approach, change your political structure.
We consider the PHARE programme an important one that will become even more so with the enlargement of the European Union.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the PHARE programme is, in my view, a legitimate child of the European Parliament.
But, and here I agree with the rapporteur Mr Wiersma, we cannot yet tell whether the PHARE resources are now being used more efficiently than they were in the beginning, whether they are being oversubscribed or are inadequate, whether the misdirection of funds mainly towards EU consultants that occurred in the initial phase has now been corrected.
Of course that makes it difficult for the European Parliament, which attaches very great value to the favourable development of the PHARE programme, to monitor them.
So we also think that there is no point in the long run in drafting reports of this kind but that we must change the monitoring systems, as the Hungarian president proposed a few days ago in the joint parliamentary committee.
If you look at the composition of the Romanian parliament and government now, you will find a large number of young politicians who were initially given assistance in their capacity of members of unions or associations and now hold important political offices and also form part of the Romanian political elite.
But we believe there must be other means of making the successes, which PHARE has certainly had, more visible in the long term, both for the Commission, which has to build on them, and for the European Parliament, which must monitor this expenditure more efficiently.
The European leaders at the Amsterdam Summit did not succeed in reconstructing the European house so that it can accommodate more people without us falling through the floor.
This makes the PHARE programme all the more important in protecting Europe's stability.
Unfortunately, we must now draw the same conclusions as earlier in the evening in connection with the Structural Funds.
The money is there, but not enough is being spent.
In this case there is the possible excuse that the programme was originally technical in nature and had to quickly deal with a wide range of matters at various levels in society without the criteria being really clear.
Also positive is the encouragement of cross-border cooperation which can promote stability in the region and the status quo.
In order to allow these countries to switch to our market system, PHARE should promote legislation providing for supervision of the banks and financial system because, Mr President, we all know that money laundering has also become very widespread in Central and Eastern Europe.
A second point is to reinforce the legal and institutional framework and assistance in areas where the Union is placing greater emphasis, such as free competition, the environment, nuclear safety and a favourable climate for small and medium-sized enterprises.
This brings other demands for project support, both from the Commission and from the local authorities in Central and Eastern Europe.
The Commission must make its procedures simpler and more transparent.
The European Union can actively contribute to this through the PHARE programme.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too must thank the rapporteur for drawing up such a good report.
However, the situation is that PHARE alone is not enough to support the integration process of the Central and Eastern European countries prior to accession to the European Union.
Future projects must be more in keeping with the pre-accession strategy.
More attention will be paid to the development of infrastructure and industry and to bringing the internal legislation of Central and Eastern European countries into line with that of the European Union.
Through support for democratization PHARE will also promote the integration of these religious minorities.
Finally, during a recent visit to East Germany by a delegation of the Committee on External Economic Relations, of which I was a member, it became clear just how important it is for the PHARE programme to be also applied to cross-border cooperation.
In future the PHARE programme will acquire a new role with the accession to the EU of the Central and Eastern European countries.
The funds must be concentrated and spent more efficiently.
As past experience shows, initial and further vocational training will play a quite central role in the accession process as a means of stimulating structural reform in the first place.
So the same value must be attached to training people in these countries as to investment in physical assets.
The decentralized implementing system has proven itself and the delegations have also done good work, given that they include many experts who have worked together very well with the people in the Member States.
But I also think it is important to involve the SMEs in this process, simply because contacts between people and personal experiences are very important.
For one thing it is of course difficult to reach any judgment because of the lack of evaluation criteria; but even if we had them, we could not remove the causes of these shortfalls but only evaluate them better.
In my personal experience, the PHARE programme is still too dependent on the national governments and on their at times very underdeveloped administrations, which means that we keep seeing regional partners drawing up and setting up wonderful projects and programmes, only for the central state then either not to approve them or to drag its feet.
For instance, it is not very difficult to get an infrastructure project approved and running in Poland.
The Committee on Budgets has never wanted to cut the PHARE programme appropriations.
In the rapporteur's view, these Commission reports do little more than sum up the projects that have been executed in those two years.
What we also need is more co-financing projects so that the Central and Eastern European countries can identify more closely with the projects concerned.
Mr Hans van den Broek is presently at a Council meeting in Luxembourg, so I must apologize for his absence and ask you to accept making do with me instead.
PHARE is indeed the European Union's main instrument of cooperation with the Central and Eastern European countries while at the same time representing the most comprehensive international support project for these countries.
On 19 March it therefore decided on new PHARE programme pre-accession guidelines.
In this sense we are responding to two of the rapporteur's main recommendations.
The Commission will look into this question in the context of the Santer package it will be putting to Parliament on 16 July.
On the question of evaluation, to which Parliament rightly attaches very great importance, in 1995 the Commission introduced a new monitoring and evaluation system.
Moreover, in line with the SEM 2000 principles on economic and efficient budgeting, the Commission has set up an independent evaluation body.
We hope to see a critical and constructive dialogue with Parliament on the findings of the interim evaluation and will keep Members regularly informed of progress in this area.
As the rapporteur pointed out, priority should be given to supporting projects that aim at reinforcing democracy, respect for human rights and stability, together with social and economic integration.
At the same time I would point out that cross-border cooperation is already being strengthened by the closer links between INTERREG 2a and 2c with PHARE in terms of both content and finance.
Let me also make it clear yet again that the review of PHARE does in fact involve increasing investment funds from 25 % to 70 % and increasing the TEN budget, which means we will be making some headway in this area too, even if it does not mean we can finance all the dream projects or all the necessary projects.
