Mr President, on the question of Sellafield and the contamination of the Irish Sea, I did not say that the article was edited, but completely excised, at the request, I believe of the nuclear industry, specifically British Nuclear Fuels Limited.
I suggest you write to the President raising this matter. (Parliament approved the Minutes) Decision on urgency Mr President, the overwhelming majority of the Socialist Group will vote for this request to apply the urgent procedure.
One of these absurdities is a guaranteed maximum quota for the Community as a whole, which results in the absurd situation of a substantial cut in aid for producers of those countries that have not increased production, only because another country has produced excess quantities.
In no organization of the market is there a mechanism this unfair.
That is what I wanted to say at the outset, before other Members are invited to speak for or against the motion.
A request was made in April for urgent procedure to take place in June on the reform of the olive oil sector due to come into force on 1 November 1998.
In other words, from the procedural point of view, there is no need for us to debate the question of the olive oil sector reform now, in this urgent manner.
Secondly, the reform being proposed is not just a simple adjustment of a few problematic details, but an extremely farreaching reform of the olive oil sector.
For example, the intervention is disappearing, and this is the first sector of the CAP to be affected by that change.
That is not happening with cereals, milk or meat, but it is happening in the case of olive oil.
So we do not think the matter can be dealt with quickly, without discussion in committee, without a rapporteur and without a report.
I think the dignity of this House is at stake, quite apart from any problems a certain country might have with this sector.
And I can inform you that the Committee on Development and Cooperation has studied this request for urgent procedure and has agreed almost unanimously in its favour, with the exception of just one political group.
The provisional estimate for the 1999 agricultural guideline is about ECU 45.2 billion, that is an increase of approximately 1.9 billion, or 4.5 % in comparison with 1998.
The Commission considers that this climate of budgetary restraint in the Member States should continue in 1999, the year of the introduction of the euro.
Within this specific budgetary context, the Commission is proposing a prices package which increases agricultural spending by ECU 9 million under the 1998 budget and ECU 29 million under the 1999 budget.
The Committee on Agriculture has adopted my amendments regarding the creation of an adjustment coefficient with a view to maintaining equitable levels of income between farmers in all European Union Member States in order to compensate for the possible disappearance of the green rate on 1 January 1999 for the Member States participating in the single currency.
I should like to point out here that some applications show that a 1 % difference in the values of the green ECU and the euro is equivalent to ECU 400 million.
The Commission's proposal on the prices package has a number of deficiencies.
Earlier this morning, we voted on a request for urgent procedure with regard to the Commission's proposal on the set-aside requirement.
I am delighted that the Commission has responded to our request to establish a set-aside rate by the end of June 1998, in compliance with an amendment adopted by the Committee on Agriculture.
The proposal, which consists of implementing the principle of an extraordinary set-aside and raising the set-aside rate to 10 %, is totally unacceptable.
If the current delay in export commitments, 4.5 million tonnes less than in 1997 at the same period - 8 million tonnes less than the normal pattern -, is not reabsorbed, the European Union could find itself in the position, on 30 June 1998, of having about 30 million tonnes of cereals as opposed to 28 million tonnes on 30 June 1997.
I should like to reiterate that the set-aside rate affects the budget as well as farmers' incomes.
The reform is in progress and should be presented to us this week.
In its price proposals the Commission provides for an extension of the quota for permanent grubbing up of vines, while failing to create a quota for new plantings.
I therefore tabled a number of amendments on this point, which were furthermore adopted by the Committee on Agriculture.
In June 1997 the Council asked the Commission to study the possibility of establishing compulsory contracts between hemp producers and processors.
We are all concerned that young people should not eat too much fat, or too much sugar, because all these things can affect our health, but there are pigmeat producers and sugar producers...
I have tried to defend the argument that tobacco growing, which costs between a thousand and two thousand hours per hectare and is therefore one of the lowest-paid in Europe, should continue in the Greek mountains or the Mediterranean areas.
Just over a year ago a new Labour Government in Britain embarked upon a sea change in relations between the United Kingdom and the European Parliament and, for that matter, the other institutions of the European Union too.
Speaking about my own contribution to that development, this is my fourth appearance in Parliament as President of the Agriculture Council and my sixth visit in 12 months in my role as United Kingdom Minister of Agriculture.
Apart from the topics we are here to address today at the June Council, we aim to reach conclusions on other items of business, for example on quotas for the production of potato starch, updating the rules on controlling tuberculosis, brucellosis and EBL in cattle and determining the 1990 set-aside rate for arable crops.
In view of the proposals for reform of the CAP and many of the major common market organization regimes - about which I will be saying more later - the Commission's proposals for the 1998 price-fixing round are centred on those price decisions which are required for legal or technical reasons.
Tobacco is an example of a sector where the Union's agriculture needs to be more competitive and open to the market as we prepare for enlargement and the forthcoming WTO negotiations.
All Member States accept the need for reform and the aim of improving tobacco quality but there is a divergence of views between producer states and non-producer states over the ways and means of proceeding.
Most producer states accept the need for premium modulation as an important tool in improving quality and helping their growers to get closer to the market.
The main producer states also oppose quota buyback as over time it would result in a progressive reduction in the amount of subsidized production.
They argue it would cause rural depopulation and unemployment unless surrendered quotas are redistributed to existing producers or new entrants.
The presidency has been trying to make headway with this dossier, as with all dossiers we have been responsible for dealing with during our presidency, in a fair, open, constructive and impartial manner.
I wish to pay a warm personal tribute to Commissioner Franz Fischler, on behalf of the United Kingdom presidency, for his excellent help and cooperation and constructive working with us throughout the months of that presidency, and, once again, Mr President, thank you for inviting me to open your first debate.
Using Agenda 2000, the Commission wants to introduce a reform that will go far beyond the fragmentary annual adjustments made in the context of the prices package, in order to prepare European agriculture for the future and to provide security for the European agricultural model.
I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for their excellent work of examining the proposals and formulating the amendments.
These propose an adjustment coefficient for prices and subsidies in order to offset the abolition of conversion rates on 1 January 1999 in those countries participating in the single currency.
The Commission is of the opinion that possible loss of income due to the introduction of the euro can best be offset by payment of compensatory allowances.
A whole series of amendments are aimed at increasing prices and direct payments by a blanket 1.7 %.
Secondly, it would result in considerable budget costs - approximately ECU 260 million, which is unacceptable in times of strict budgetary discipline.
In Amendment No 11 the Commission is called upon to submit, as soon as possible, a proposal concerning the rate of setaside for the marketing year 1999/2000.
In two sectors, those of hemp and beef, the majority of amendments are intended to change fundamentally the Commission proposal.
Firstly, Amendments Nos 18 to 22 concern the hemp sector, and their primary aim is to delete the proposal concerning reduction of subsidies.
The Commission is really concerned about the considerable and constant expansion of arable land, and also about the problem of control in this sector.
On 6 May, the Commission proposed to the Council a clear increase in control, to be linked notably to the introduction of obligatory contracts between producers and processors.
This point is incidentally also contained in Amendment No 77, the content of which I will split in two.
In the beef sector, Amendments Nos 48 to 53 aim to reverse the Commission's proposal.
However, in the case of Spain and Portugal, an increase in maximum rates can be directly attributed to an obligation of the Council of November 1996, and we therefore made a corresponding proposal.
A set-aside rate of 10 % would also comply in principle with this request.
Approval of renewed planting, premature replanting, the period of validity of planting rights for wine and a subsidy for grape must, as provided for by Amendments Nos 29 to 35 and by Amendment No 37, cannot be dealt with in the context of this prices package.
The Commission recognizes that these are important issues; it will therefore deal with these in its proposal concerning the reform.
Amendments Nos 41, 85 and 87 aim to increase the premiums for certain higher quality types of tobacco.
On the other hand, one of the main aims of the tobacco reform, which is also being discussed, is to improve the overall quality of tobacco.
Amendments Nos 55 and 94 aim to neutralize the stabilizing effect in sheepmeat by increasing the basic premium by 7 %.
This would mean having to abandon the premium for rural areas and would reopen the debate on the budget made available for this sector.
I will now look at the amendments which aim to extend or introduce derogations.
The exemption was granted traditionally but this year the higher intervention stocks are also to be considered in global terms.
Amendments Nos 6, 10, 49 and 54 refer to the new German Länder.
The derogations in question were granted for a limited period in the new Länder because of specific structural problems.
As far as the base area for arable crops is concerned, I would point out that the proposals of the current prices package provide for a certain flexibility in that the deadline for the choice of partial base area regulation is postponed to 15 September.
According to Amendment No 8, in certain cases it should still be permissible for the area set aside to be greater than its arable acreage.
The Commission is aware of this problem but prefers to deal with it within the framework of Agenda 2000.
Amendment No 36 provides for the derogation on the minimum acid content of wine to be extended.
Amendments Nos 38 to 40 allow suspension of wine growing on small plots of land.
In any case, I am pleased to see in the result that the proposals of the Commission largely did justice to its suggestions, as appropriate suggestions have already been submitted for too many amendments - I am thinking here of the euro, the set-aside rate, the tobacco reform, the hemp agreements and others.
Many of these are considered in Agenda 2000 and we agree that some of these amendments must be examined urgently.
I would ask for your indulgence if I speak a bit longer today because I have another important topic to discuss: the organization of the tobacco market.
As you know, the Commission basically proposes to create effective incentives to improve product quality and at the same time to support those who wish to give up tobacco production.
Community production represents only about one-third of Community consumption and could easily be replaced by imports.
As regards the variable part amounts of the premium in accordance with Amendments Nos 14, 17, 18, 39, 69, 75 and 77, the Commission is of the opinion that at least 35 % of the premium should be graduated accordingly in order to fulfil the aims of quality differentiation and avoidance of social problems to a satisfactory extent.
By means of the possibility of quota buy-back - the basis for Amendments Nos 8, 9, 27 and 28 - the Commission wishes to provide a safety net for economically weak producers who are not in a position to participate in the campaign for improved quality.
I would also like to note that within the framework of the Structural Funds, Member States already have the opportunity to submit projects which would facilitate the transition to other economic activities for tobacco growers.
For this reason, I cannot approve Amendments Nos 6, 26, 58 or 63.
With regard to Amendment No 44, I share these aims but it is neither necessary nor obvious for bought-back quotas to be withdrawn from the guarantee fund.
The Commission welcomes Amendments Nos 24 and 81 and that part of Amendment No 36 which deals with the expansion of the area of application of the tobacco fund.
However, in my opinion conversion schemes and research into new uses for tobacco should be financed by this fund.
Therefore, it is my view that we should persist in our proposal to increase the amount to be made available to this fund in order to be able to finance these new initiatives as well.
Thus, I cannot accept Amendments Nos 11, 23, 25, 48, 49, 50 or that part of Amendment No 36 which refers to this.
With regard to Amendments Nos 52 and 86, I can readily agree to make the report available to the European Parliament.
However, I cannot accept Amendments Nos 13, 34 or 38, as the additional amount offered to the northern producer states is in accordance with the situation of their producers and thus should also be maintained.
Amendment No 20 proposes quota compensation at a national level.
I cannot, therefore, accept this amendment any more than I can Amendment No 22, as we must respect the stability of annual expenditure.
Amendments Nos 41, 45, 47, 51, 78, 79, 82 and 85 are directed towards a change in the commitology procedure.
I, however, am of the opinion that the common market organization regime for tobacco should be subject to the same rules as all other market organization regimes.
I cannot accept Amendments Nos 35, 60, 61 or 68, as it is important to retain structural improvements and freedom of quota transfer.
The evaluation of the new regulation in the year 2000 or 2001, proposed in Amendments Nos 52 and 65, seems somewhat premature but, of course, an evaluation is necessary.
Amendments Nos 1, 5, 12, 19, 32, 40, 43, 62 and 64 would entail enormous changes to the underlying equilibrium in the respective areas that is intrinsic to our proposal, and this is why I am not in a position to accept them.
Nevertheless, I can accept Amendments Nos 71 and 72, which allow the Member States a transitional period for the transition to direct premium payments to producers.
With regard to Amendments Nos 31 and 86, to accept these would not be to increase the quality of tobacco but to reduce it.
In fact, the raison d'être of the real debate on the forthcoming reform of the CAP can be found in Agenda 2000.
With regard to the sectoral amendments, I am delighted that the Committee on Agriculture has taken up my proposal with regard to the authorization of "new plantations' for high-quality wines produced in specific regions.
The Committee on Budgets also protested against the European Commission's proposed approach to the question of aid for hemp producers.
The Commission has chosen the easiest solution: reduction of the premium to discourage a further rise in production.
The agricultural sector has invested in this, and is now being unfairly punished by a savage 25 % reduction in the subsidy.
It is very encouraging to see that the Committee on Agriculture is aware of this problem and has even proposed an increase in the aid per hectare.
I should like to add a last remark about olive oil and draw to the Commission's attention the tensions and distortions that exist between the amounts of olive oil produced, the amount of financial aid provided, and the uncertainty of current methods of inspection.
The truth is, that without European Union subsidies there would be no tobacco industry in Europe.
It will actually cost more money than the present system when we take into consideration the monies from the Structural Funds.
This is not a situation that we in the Budgets Committee want to see continuing and quite frankly the best result for everyone would be to take the report back and come forward with something far more bold and dramatic.
For some years the cereal growers had been used to the market price being higher than the EU intervention price.
But this year the intervention in the EU internal market is fully in the picture again.
Fortunately, the set-aside instrument is still fully intact.
A new set-aside rate of 10 % could result in essential support for the internal price level, but it could also stop the EU from hitting the ceilings of the cereal exports with the export refunds allowed under WTO regulations.
It is useful that these kinds of mechanisms are being put into effect in other sectors as well.
It is good that we are maintaining sufficient flexibility in the EU agricultural system so as to able to continue our trade relations.
The real discussion about the working of the future EU agricultural market and price policy is taking place in the context of Agenda 2000.
When we drafted our opinion on the common organization of the market in raw tobacco, we, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, made two basic assumptions.
We are supporting a product which is responsible for the deaths of half a million EU citizens a year.
Firstly, half of the premium must depend on the quality of the production.
Thirdly, the transfer of quotas between producers will no longer be permitted.
The Fund must look into possibilities for the cultivation of other crops and into other profitable economic activities.
Ladies and gentlemen, my proposals are incorporated in Amendments Nos 29 to 53.
Mr President, Commissioner, what more can be said about the prices package?
That it would perhaps be reasonable to no longer present it in these terms and to switch to a different system that involves our House in deciding basic directions, to offer multiannual guidelines to our farmers who have to make production choices.
Our group believes that now is the time to do this, because the contrast has become so great between this procedure, which before involved long marathons, and the Agenda 2000 reforms which are the real package of farm prices on the table.
We therefore agree with the strategy proposed by the Commission - significant innovation, emphasis on quality - to make the sector more and more market-oriented and to grant aid also to anyone wanting to leave the sector because of lack of prospects.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, Mr des Places, established in his report that average income from agricultural activities, measured in terms of real net product, has fallen by 3.1 %.
I welcome the extension of the derogation for the five new German Länder.
Mr President, I would like to start by thanking the President-in-Office for the warm interest he has shown in the activities of this Parliament over the last six months, and we hope that future Presidents-in-Office will use this as a model.
I believe it would be a delusion to think that, both in the light of the budget difficulties and in the light of Agenda 2000 proposals, we might promise farmers higher prices.
As far as the Rosado Fernandes report is concerned, I must say that my group is very divided on this issue.
We will vote in two ways.
In areas with low-quality tobacco we will have to try to find alternatives so that the farmers living in these areas can also earn their income from products other than tobacco.
Mr Wynn belongs to a group of colleagues within the Committee on Budgetary Control and, whenever the debate turns to matters of European agriculture in general and the products of the south of the European Union in particular, something happens to them and they start to say "no' to everything, as, for example, our very dear Commissioner today.
You also said that you yourself are not against the complete abolition of tobacco production.
But what I have not heard from the Commission today is how much money you will give to teach our children in school that they must not smoke.
Mr President, firstly with regard to tobacco: the campaign against tobacco is a sham, a fraud.
If the Community really wanted to reduce or to put an end to smoking, it should not implement an anti-smoking policy but should, within the context of an anti-smoking policy, reduce and even ban tobacco imports.
Already, prices are insufficient for 80 % of small and medium-sized farms.
However, it is also a fact that the fixing of intervention prices and the intervention system itself create surpluses in these areas and that the prices - in any case long-term - never rise above the intervention system.
As a result, it is a matter of readjusting the market so that farms can obtain higher prices on the market.
I hope that this is given greater emphasis in Agenda 2000.
With regard to tobacco, it is my view that the true scandal lies not in the fact that we are promoting a product which endangers our health, but in the fact that, although only a low level of our production is destined for the world market - premiums are also a form of indirect support - billions are spent here to put pressure on the price in the world market overall.
Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his very good report.
Since the reform of agriculture a number of years ago, to a large extent the price review process we go through has become an unreal exercise and does not recognize the problems that face farmers on the ground.
Yes, I know that there has always got to be change; yes, I know that agriculture has to evolve with the times.
Mr President, I want to concentrate on the Commission proposals for raw tobacco and welcome those sections concerning diversification and withdrawal of quotas as growers move out of this sector.
The EU should be doing the same.
Subsidizing production of food and useful non-food agricultural products is justifiable.
Subsidizing - to the tune of ECU 1 billion a year of taxpayers' money - the growing of tobacco, which kills 500, 000 of its consumers every year, usually after years of ill-health, is completely indefensible.
Those Mediterranean countries where real hardship would be caused must be given ongoing support to enable growers to diversify and assist local and national government to establish alternative job opportunities in the regions currently heavily dependent on tobacco.
But what really worries me, and what I would like to stress to the Commissioner, is that Commissioner Flynn said in this House not long ago, during the last part-session, that he would spare no effort until subsidies to tobacco producers had been suspended.
It really worries me, Commissioner, that a Commissioner said that on behalf of the European Commission.
I do not know if it was said in a personal capacity, but he cannot say that, or at least it is not acceptable for him to say that in this House on behalf of the European Commission, when the subsidies to European tobacco producers are legal and provided for by the rules of the European Union, as part of the aid given to EU farmers.
So notwithstanding any comments we may be able to make about improving quality, agri-environmental measures and so on, if we want to improve this crop we cannot be directly opposed to it, when it represents only 5 % of EU tobacco consumption.
The Commission's pricing package proposal will cut farmers' compensatory prices and aid by 2 %.
As I have said many times before in this Chamber, the European Union is a net importer of nearly 70 % of the tobacco it consumes.
However, our group has tabled five amendments, as we are opposed to the principles of the cultivation contract auction scheme tying the producer to the first processor and the creation of a quota buy-back system.
Mr President, the COM in tobacco must continue and must enable the European Union gradually to become self-sufficient.
I agree that we have to be able to reconcile protection of public health and the environment, but we also have to reconcile the social burden and the social consequences of this product.
Commissioner, we must also improve the management of the research fund, because it has been doing very badly so far.
In the MacSharry reform we were offered maintenance of incomes from agriculture and, at the same time, stabilization of the rural population.
The situation in Ireland is even worse because of our high dependence on beef and sheep meat.
As Jim Nicholson stated, the situation is exaggerated in Northern Ireland and the UK because of the strength of sterling and there is a new and very obvious reluctance by young people to embark on agriculture as a career.
This procedure is fairly meaningless because, taking into consideration the budget constraints together with the GATT decisions, we have very little capacity to influence the price that farmers can obtain for their produce.
This annual procedure should be looking at the state of the agriculture industry, its long-term viability, recognizing that our share in world production is becoming ever reduced.
While the market is becoming bigger, Agenda 2000 does not give us any more of a strategy than we had in the MacSharry reform to exploit these expanding markets and maintain the long-term viability of European agriculture.
Mr President, the Commission proposal concerning the tobacco market is governed by the idea of quota buy-back and, naturally, there are no proposals for improving quality, as Mr Fischler has said.
Mr Fischler, you know as well as I do and as well as all of us here, that in those regions it is not possible to grow alternative crops.
In my view, management has to be regionalized in such a way that this market balance is found in all the major producing areas.
That is simply laying the groundwork for bringing a whole new generation into the trade so that for many years to come, the EU can continue producing poor-quality tobacco that can only be peddled with the backing of hefty EU subsidies.
I searched the report in vain for any support of the Commission's excellent initiative of buying up quotas from farmers wishing to leave the sector.
I searched in vain for new thinking on how to support and educate farmers in these vulnerable areas in how to switch production to non-hazardous products.
Mr President, this is the third proposed modification to the COM in raw tobacco in a very short time.
Three reforms in five years are enough to define this situation as an unresolved crisis.
Europe's tobacco-producing regions are among the least developed in the EU, and no new job opportunities have been found as an alternative to the work provided by tobacco growing.
In this context, Commissioner, I think your proposal is the best one possible, although it may not tackle some of the basic problems affecting the sector, as is clear from Mr Rosado Fernandes' report.
Mr President, the report on tobacco is an opinion on the Council's proposal for certain changes to the market for raw tobacco.
This is quite remarkable considering the debate about the harmful effects of tobacco and the ban on tobacco advertising which Parliament decided on a month ago.
The opinion from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection proposes, among other things, that subsidies from the EU budget for tobacco production within the European Union should end no later than the 2006 harvest.
This objective has also been expressed in Amendments Nos 37, 55, 65, 66 and 67.
The amount of subsidy has been around ECU 1 billion per year, or ECU 7 500 per grower.
Mr President, Commissioner, first of all I agree with the proposal for greater integration between production and processing in farm prices in the case of the hemp sector.
I believe that it is important, Commissioner, that the Commission prepare a specific communication for the Parliament regarding the annual 5 % quota set for research.
I am referring to the Mediterranean regions and also to some of the regions in Italy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to justify the position of the Committee on Budgetary Control on the reform of the raw tobacco sector described in the Rosado Fernandes report.
Our committee thinks the proposed reform presented by the Commission is acceptable, although we want to introduce a series of amendments, mainly aimed at strengthening Parliament's role in the reform procedure for this sector.
We think the right way to achieve that stronger role is through a procedural change, from Article 23 to Article 43(2) of the Treaty.
This question of comitology, which the Commissioner has said he will not support, would guarantee that the Commission had to listen to and take account of the political positions defended by this Parliament in all aspects of this reform, particularly regarding the maintenance of a quality Community tobacco production.
We also regret that the Commissioner does not want to accept this procedural change in other reforms either.
In any case, the road to reform is open.
I think we should involve the European Parliament in the defence of farmers and tobacco producers.
Mr President, Parliament has made a decision to ban tobacco advertising.
The Union's citizens do not want to finance the growing of this harmful crop.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the object of this report is to provide the European Parliament with a set of general principles which can be used as a reference framework for the sectorial reports to be approved later on.
The Commission's proposals must be amended in that respect, because they represent a fundamental analytical error.
That error consists of starting from the principle that all farmers are on an equal footing in the face of the external threats arising from the GATT, which is not the true situation.
Now, the proposal on rural development is clear enough but it should nevertheless ensure the achievement of that object and it is, in fact, a long way from doing so, in view of the sparseness of the financial resources provided.
Fourthly, I think the Commission's proposal for the direct financing of the rural development policy is the right one, because this will make it possible to improve the internal consistency of the CAP and prevent double standards and different responses to different kinds of farmers.
For that reason direct financing should also apply to rural development in the regions mentioned in Objective 1.
Sixthly, although every productive sector of agriculture has its own peculiar characteristics, the fact that direct production aid only goes to those sectors which enjoyed high levels of protection in the past is causing more and more problems for social and political cohesion.
In the long term this is an untenable situation which will force the European Union to think about systems based on other factors than just set-off for price reductions in the future.
Seventhly, it is becoming a fundamental requirement that, in the spirit of the Amsterdam Treaty, the CAP should contribute to the economic and social cohesion of the European Union by creating a basic balance between forms of production, territories and farmers, as indeed has been declared by the Ministers of Agriculture and at the December summit itself.
Finally, and as my eighth point, it is important to emphasize that the Commission must take the coming negotiations on the future of the GATT very seriously.
It has now been proved that Europe is in a unique situation based on multi-functional agriculture and the family-sized nature of its operations.
Its average farm size of 18 hectares is not in the same league as that of its competitors in the world markets, whose average size runs into hundreds of hectares.
On CAP reform, the Agriculture Council has already made a successful start, with the Commission's proposals having been put to a special Agriculture Council on 31 March.
The Council has acknowledged the need for reform in order to establish a clear direction for the development of European agriculture.
There are also the challenges posed to us by the forthcoming World Trade Organization negotiations.
The Council has identified several key issues which will need to be addressed in the next phase of the negotiations on the Commission's proposals.
These include the need for and appropriate extent of cuts in support prices and the timescale over which any such cuts should be achieved, the appropriate nature of compensation for such cuts, the conditions under which Member States may exercise discretion with regard to agricultural support, the future role of production constraints such as milk quotas in a reformed CAP and the appropriate balance of support between production sectors, producers and regions within the Union.
Finally, there is the question of development of the rural economy and protection of the rural environment including multifunctional agriculture.
As well as addressing the need to reform individual commodities, the Council has welcomed the Commission's proposals to address the wider problems experienced in rural areas throughout the Union.
Agriculture is, indeed, an important part of rural Europe but it is only one part and we need to look at what can be done on a European level for rural communities and areas as a whole.
The key to success will be to balance effectively the interests of the Union's consumers and producers and the needs of the environment in promoting a sustainable versatile structure for European agriculture.
The fact is that since 1988 there has always been a systematic saving - between the ceiling of the first category and the agricultural budget - of the order of ECU 1000 million to ECU 1500 million per annum.
Furthermore, the budget has always exceeded the implemented spending.
But I can assure you, were we to see problems approaching, we would support the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in seeking to obtain that extra funding.
In paragraph 57, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considers that enlargement costs should remain outside the guideline but, in our opinion, that contradicts what we said in December: that the agricultural costs of preaccession and enlargement should be covered by the guideline.
In that way, we think EAGGF and the agricultural policy should really form a fund which is part of cohesion policy and not, as people have started saying, an anti-structural fund.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder whether there is any point in having draftsmen of the Committees' opinions, if the Council speaks before hearing them.
The reform of the common agricultural policy which is proposed in Agenda 2000 raises a large number of questions and some concerns.
There is a fear that rural regions will suffer under this reform.
However, the importance of rural development for balanced management of the countryside and the preservation of both the natural and cultural heritage and the specific characteristics of the fisheries sector and the financing needs of the Common Fisheries Policy require the creation of an independent sub-objective specifically dedicated to 'rural areas' and 'maritime and coastal areas', within the new Objective 2.
The fact that the new EAGGF regulation brings together all the measures for the development of rural areas is useful, provided that the EAGGF continues to finance only actions directly connected with agriculture, together with coastal and maritime areas, which must not be forgotten.
It is also necessary for the Commission to put forward firm proposals to link agriculture with its local region: local products, labelling, etcetera.
As well as improving quality, this would help us to safeguard against unfair competition from countries with low wages and without welfare protection.
However, on behalf of my group, I have tabled two amendments which revise the conclusions of the opinion on the basis of the Commission's latest proposals.
This would mean moving in the direction of those who see the CFP as a transitional system, a mere prelude to the complete liberalization of the sector, whereas the aim and the justification of the CFP was to support the fishing industry in all the Member States with coastal areas.
The Committee on Fisheries therefore asks the Commission urgently to propose a horizontal regulation for fisheries which, like rural development, should be financed by the EAGGF and entered in the budget under the agriculture guideline.
The fisheries sector requires a limited volume of credits, but they are of great importance, whether they are required in coastal or maritime areas, which are vulnerable, or in rural areas engaged in mainland aquaculture.
Realizing its mistake, the Commission presented to us a draft incorporating the coastal and maritime areas in the new Objective 2.
The first signs of discussion in the Council of Ministers, Mr Cunningham, do not augur well.
There is agreement on the laudable definitions, like the European agriculture model, multifunctionality, competitiveness, rural development, but as soon as the focus shifts from statements in principle to concrete facts major differences emerge and everything is engulfed in the sea of special interests, with the risk of seeing a very long shopping list.
The first is that the entire debate will be conditioned by the price guarantees of market policy and by their exclusive nature.
In this case, rural policy would still remain the weak pillar of the common agricultural policy, despite the Cork Conference and the commitment of the Commissioners.
Instead, as we stated at a conference in November, structural policy must increasingly become the key policy in agriculture, with emphasis on investments in various sectors, quality and the regions.
If the market is to grow in importance and traditional protections are to decrease in importance, the real market policy sustainable in the future is structural and rural policy.
The second risk is that all the problems with the horizontal regulation of the CAP - modulation, the definition of a maximum amount, cross compliance - will end up being a lost opportunity.
Madam President, I have only two comments on the Cunha report.
Because Mr Cunha has succeeded in achieving a sensible, mutually beneficial co-existence between current position papers by the parliamentary groups and future reports on the production sectors within the framework of Agenda 2000.
Furthermore, the rapporteur has kept to the recommendation by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development not to go into detail in his report, which did not, however, prevent him from - rightly - making the opinion of the Committee quite clear on the focal points of the future Agenda 2000.
Secondly, the protagonist in the Agenda 2000 discussion is price reductions in exchange for more or less sufficient compensation, Commissioner.
A delight to all aficionados of this drink, as the percentage of cereal in this lovely product is by no means insignificant, and the price of cereals is being reduced!
Thirdly, we must prepare for the accession of the central and eastern European countries.
As far as I am concerned, and as far as my group is concerned, we think the third point is by far the most convincing.
Maintaining peace and security in Europe is worth paying for, and the agricultural sector will also have to pay for this, just like other sectors in the European economies.
My group therefore supports the Agenda 2000 proposals in principle.
The prices in Eastern and Western Europe should gradually start to converge, and this means that in our part of Europe the prices will have to fall.
I hope to make concrete proposals to Parliament about this later in the year.
Another omission from the Agenda 2000 proposals concerns proposals in the sphere of agrification.
This does not concern subsidies or excessive subsidies, but simply saying that a certain product originates from agriculture, that it is good for the environment, and that is why we should be required to use it in a major way.
The truth is that attacks on it in the world market, by American criticism, by Fortress Europe, by the Keynes group and by all the groups whose historical situations are very different from ours, including the United Kingdom itself, have naturally made Europe ashamed of the CAP it created and which it now considers to be an illegitimate brainchild.
This report can be no more than a first approach to the reforms contained within Agenda 2000.
In trying to perform an in-depth study of the principles of the 1992 reform, none of the institutions can allow themselves to ignore its effects, which were negative in many cases.
We cannot ignore the huge number of farms which have disappeared, or the effects on the social fabric of the rural environment and land use.
Nor can we ignore the fact that the 1992 reform exacerbated all the imbalances already present in the CAP.
The European Union must understand that it is on the point of taking a wrong turning.
The European Union also needs to demonstrate its true weight in settings such as the World Trade Organization, where its stance has most often been one of passivity and renouncing its own position.
As I said before, Mr Fischler, a policy of price reduction within the intervention system leads to farms being excluded, and is fatal for farms and regions which are sensitive in their production and do not belong to the favoured sectors.
We must move away from the intervention system and instead move towards an integrated development of rural areas, as is intended in the second pillar of Agenda 2000.
It is essential here that we offer a structural policy on a horizontal basis as in many areas we cannot sustain a policy of price reduction or a departure from the intervention system without regional markets being strengthened.
Those who wish to produce for the world market may do so, but they should do so without state aid!
This would lead to an increase in prices on the world market, giving many farmers in Third World countries a chance once again to secure their livelihood by producing food for their countries and regions.
This is, on the whole, confirmed by the parliamentary groups and I hope that the Commission will keep to its plan of also protecting regional development within the EU by protecting against external social and ecological dumping.
This would also help to stabilize the situation in the world market, which in turn would benefit those countries that are weakest in terms of agricultural production.
We applaud the Commission's stated intentions, but tremble at the proposed solutions, based mainly on the so-called inevitable trend to liberalize trade, resulting in a general decrease in prices, and with the development of raw materials on the world market as our only aim.
The competitiveness of European agriculture must not depend upon a single parameter.
The quality of products, their processing, their suitability in terms of international demand and dynamic commercial policies, as well as low prices, are capable of increasing our export potential.
We shall be in a much stronger position to negotiate the CAP in the face of the WTO's demands if we reform the CAP beforehand in accordance with our objectives.
The CAP reform and Agenda 2000 represent a choice we have to make for society.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur on the Commission's communication Agenda 2000, I asked the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to draft an own-initiative report on the common agricultural policy reform, and I am delighted that the task was entrusted to Mr Cunha.
Indeed, within the framework of a very limited budget, Agenda 2000 proposes the reform of two of our most important policies: the common agricultural policy and the structural policy.
The specific features of European agriculture were not taken into consideration, and in its determination to get into line with the international agricultural model, the Commission failed to define a true European agriculture model which took into consideration the specific nature of our rural development and land use.
The report originally submitted to us by Mr Cunha was a good report.
The many amendments tabled by the Committee on Agriculture have made it much less coherent, and in places it even has a slight bias towards the sort of ideology which disregards the fact that above all else agriculture is an economic activity.
As a result, we have lost 12 million farmers, which makes Sicco Mansholt the Pol Pot of agriculture.
Only yesterday evening, we were informed that stocks of cereals had increased to 14 million tonnes.
The reasons are the same: in 1992, we had to prepare for GATT, in 1998, we have to prepare for WTO.
It is estimated that 21 % of the complaints addressed to the WTO are about Europe, and more than one third of the complaints come from the United States.
I think his work shows that the Agenda 2000 document is tremendously unbalanced.
It is very clear and very radical in certain approaches, specifically as regards prices.
It is also very radical in giving equal aid to all crops without taking their differences into account, which could mean the end of sunflowers.
But the document says nothing about the future of European agriculture.
From this point of view, the horizontal regulation does not clarify things much.
For the citizens in their capacity as consumers and tax payers, it also justifies why such agricultural and rural policy must be pursued.
The report tries to create a balance between competitive agriculture and the necessity to support areas and groups which, because they occupy a more or less permanently disadvantaged position, need a larger income.
To conclude, Madam President, I would like draw attention to rural development.
He has produced a very objective report.
All of us in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development very much appreciate his work.
The proposals which do not provide for full compensation would have devastating effects on the Irish beef sector.
In Ireland, as everybody knows, beef and milk represent 71 % of our entire agricultural output.
We must remember that, in comparative terms, agriculture is nearly three times as important to the Irish economy as it is to the EU as a whole.
In 1997 the common agriculture policy was worth £5.1 billion to the Irish economy.
In the context of the Agenda 2000 proposals price reductions can only be supported if they are accompanied by full payment to farmers so as to offset the effects of the proposed price reductions.
In conclusion, the CAP reform proposals are unacceptable to Ireland because they are not balanced, they do not protect the interests of Irish farming and they do not enhance rural development.
He proposes that the definition of international commercial relations should be based on clauses relating to production costs and environmental, social and employment standards.
He even refers to the question of the principle of rural exception, which must set down the limits to globalization in the sector.
This report provides an excellent basis for discussion and suggests alternatives to the Commission's proposals.
Member States are extremely enthusiastic about enlargement, but at this moment the Council in Cardiff is probably trying to cut back the contributions to the European Union.
I am very concerned at the proposal for national envelopes because I believe that will bring inequalities between Member States.
Personally, I would like to see Parliament and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development fully involved in the whole Agenda 2000 process.
Madam President, my honourable friends, our colleague, Mr Cunha, has in fact presented a report which we can approve.
The so-called second strong, sturdy leg or the second pillar, as the Commission says, in policy for rural areas is a very narrow support to which a heck of a lot of flesh has to be added.
In the WTO negotiations we, the EU, must set the conditions and not allow them to be dictated to us by the Americans or the Cairns Group.
In this area, the Commission's proposal remains inadequate.
The Council's earlier decision on banning leghold traps implies that an import ban could be introduced, but that is basically all it provides for.
The resolution on banning leghold traps is very limited; it applies to only 13 of the 19 species covered by the new agreement; it does not ban the use of leghold traps, only the import of furs; most significantly, the resolution only covers this one particular trapping method.
Indeed, I consider this to be a step in the wrong direction, both from the legal point of view (with regard, for example, to the method of settling possible disputes) and in substance (I refer in particular to the increase in the time period).
Council Regulation 3254/91 laid down provisions whereby third countries wishing to export the furs or associated products derived from 13 species should either have prohibited the use of leghold traps within their jurisdiction or ensure that trapping methods used meet internationally agreed humane trapping standards.
There is a simple reason behind this: a threat by Canada and the United States to take the issue to the World Trade Organization, if the ban is enforced.
The Commission has now presented to us a draft bilateral agreement between the European Community and the United States.
Like the rapporteur, our group rejects this agreement.
If the agreement were enforced, it would furthermore create a situation verging on the grotesque.
The author of this report has rightly concluded that millions of defenceless animals will suffer the painful death caused by leghold traps for years to come as a result of this agreement not going far enough to ban them.
Girão Pereira report (A4-0178/98) We voted in favour of the Council regulation on the conclusion of the Protocol establishing the fishing possibilities and the financial compensation provided for in the Agreement between the EC and the Government of the Republic of Guinea on fishing off the Guinean coast for the period from 1 January 1998 to 31 December 1999, for the following reasons: 1.We think there is a very positive improvement on the previous protocol as regards controls on fish stocks and the corresponding allocation of financial resources to local scientific and technical programmes and to methods of supervision and control of fishing activities.2.We think the renewal of the Protocol - maintaining previous catch levels for practical purposes, but significantly increasing the amounts of financial compensation - will make it possible to reach a compromise between the need for Community fleets (Spain, Greece, France, Italy and Portugal) to continue to have access to local resources, supplying their own raw materials, and the obvious need for less developed countries to increase their financial profits.
We only hope Community owners (and particularly Portuguese owners, who will be entitled to catch 200 grt a year of shrimps and send two surface longliners to Guinean waters) will make better use of the opportunities created for them.3.We must, however, express our doubts over the fact that the Community fleet will have access to Guinean waters outside a 10-mile limit when its vessels should only have access outside the usual 12-mile limit.
Similarly, we have doubts about the period specified by this Protocol - only two years, and therefore less than in most EC agreements of this type - which will not provide sufficient operational stability for the Community fleet.
Our group is speaking today on this report relating to the fisheries agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Guinea, in order to highlight an essential aspect of Common Fisheries Policy.
Trakatellis report (A4-0192) In our opinion, it is of course appropriate to revise the provisions on genetically modified micro-organisms on an ongoing basis as new knowledge is acquired in this relatively new area of research.
The common position adopted with the Council at the end of the first reading provides a framework for the restricted use of genetically modified micro-organisms, and safeguards the interests of Member States.
The important amendments include a proposal to change the legal basis from Article 130s to Article 100a.
The directive does not, in fact, regulate the movement and marketing of genetically modified micro-organisms, but only the conditions of their use in contained facilities.
Another important point (Amendments Nos 4 and 9) makes it compulsory for operators to obtain insurance cover for the contained use of GMMs.
This provision is out of place in this document, because operator liability should be governed by general rules at the European level and by specific rules in the Member States.
The wording of most of the amendments (Amendments Nos 2 to 14) is more accurate and appropriate in the common position than in the initial document.
On the other hand, our group supports all the containment provisions proposed in Amendments Nos 15 to 35 because, unlike the preceding amendments, they are more appropriate than the common position.
Finally, our group supports Amendment No 36 tabled by the Green Group, which provides for a better description, and therefore better knowledge, of the GMMs used.
We are voting against the proposal to increase prices and so we cannot vote for this report.
According to the rapporteur, European agricultural income as a whole fell by 16.4 % in real terms during the period 1990/96, and the rural population decreased by more than 2 million people.
Irish farmers are experiencing major problems, particularly in the beef sector.
The BSE crisis, the reduction in export refunds and licensing and additional problems relating to access to third country markets have all contributed to the problem.
A roll-over indicates a complete absence of a policy direction on the part of the Commission.
In our view, even for those it maintains, this always represents an actual reduction in agricultural prices, because it fails to take inflation into account.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations is extremely satisfied with the quality of the report and the amendments proposed by Edouard des Places.
We are nevertheless pleased that in response to the amendment we tabled asking for the set-aside rate to be set by the end of this month, that is, for a decision on the set-aside rate to be adopted at the same time as the prices package, the Commission has proposed a new regulation applicable to the forthcoming agricultural year.
That is why my group has tabled two amendments, one asking for the withdrawal of the extraordinary set-aside, that is, the application of a penalty depending on the required set-aside rate, and the other asking for an obligatory set-aside rate of 5 % instead of the 10 % proposed by the Commission.
As well as supporting all the amendments proposed by the rapporteur and adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, my group has again tabled amendments in the House proposing a 1.7 % increase in institutional prices, which aim to reduce the effects of monetary erosion on farmers' incomes.
It is quite unacceptable for anyone to think that production costs in agriculture are not affected by inflation.
This overlooks the particularly serious consequences for farmers of the disappearance of the green rate entailed in the transition to the euro.
In France, for example, the difference between the green rate and the financial rate is in the region of 2 %: there will therefore in fact be a further 2 % decrease in institutional prices and aid, from 1 January 1999.
This will enable the Council, during its meetings on 22 and 23 June, to define the general legal and regulatory framework applicable to our farmers, thus allowing them to adopt decisions in full possession of the facts.
Rosado Fernandes report (A4-0218/98) Madam President, it is ironic that the European Union heavily subsidizes tobacco while, at the same time, it tries to fight against cancer and also educate people about the danger to health of smoking.
Every year over ECU 1 billion of taxpayers' money is going to subsidize something which is detrimental to public health and which has a detrimental effect in countries around the world where there is no proper regulation to ensure that smokers are aware of the dangers of smoking.
The Commission should support Commissioner Flynn on this matter and get rid of tobacco subsidies in the interests of public health and of consumers.
As tobacco consumption has harmful effects on the health of users, it is absurd for public subsidies to be given to tobacco production.
There will be a buy-back system which will be financed by the Structural Funds.
That is sheer hypocrisy. 4) There has already been a reduction in expenditure on tobacco, in the 1992 reform (from ECU 1 329.6 billion in 1991 to ECU 1 021 billion from 1999 to 2003).
I therefore share the opinion of the members of Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development who have adopted the Rosado Fernandes report on tobacco.
We have an opportunity today to endorse the need to provide support in this sector according to the quality of the product and to reconsider the problem of subsidies between tobacco-producing countries in the south and north.
Substantial support will be of benefit to the whole of this sector, which has made a consistent effort for many years to improve quality.
May I remind you that the European Union is the largest importer of raw tobacco in the world, with a self-sufficiency level of no more than 30 %.
In light of the detrimental effects of tobacco on consumer health, we cannot subscribe to maintaining or increasing EU support for the production of raw tobacco.
Out of consideration for the tobacco producers, this should be a gradual transition over a short period of time to allow tobacco producers to switch to other crops or trades.
Since none of the proposals before us are aimed at an immediate decision of that kind, I have voted for Amendment No 66 (which means a rejection of the report in its entirety) and against the final adoption of the report.
However, the subsidization of tobacco farming is clearly in contradiction of the EU's Treaty obligation to protect the health of our citizens.
I regret that the Commission rejected the proposal to phase out subsidies in 1996 and instead opted for reform proposals.
The 1994 report from the Court of Auditors on the issue concluded that the abolition of tobacco subsidies would lead to considerable budgetary savings without destroying the livelihoods of tobacco farmers.
The tobacco producing sector illustrates all the contradictions and hypocrisies of society.
The fight against cancer is dependent upon the prevention of addiction to tobacco.
Not very long ago the European Parliament approved the Council's proposal to ban indirect tobacco advertising.
At the same time it is a fact that the EU gives substantial subsidies to the growing of tobacco within the EU, currently around ECU 1 billion per year.
In our view, this double morality is totally absurd.
We are therefore working towards achieving an end to these subsidies as soon as possible.
When the sector is reformed, priority should be given to measures aimed at improving the quality of the product, and there have been and are clear proposals by the European Parliament in that respect.
We cannot ban tobacco advertisements while at the same time subsidizing tobacco growing.
Yet this is exactly what the Union is doing by guaranteeing an annual production of 350 600 tonnes of raw tobacco and spending approximately ECU 1 000 million on it.
Admittedly, the system was improved considerably by reducing the quantity (by 24 % over just 4 years) and by means of subsidies for relinquishing arable land.
We voted against the proposal because it will not solve the issue of the tobacco growers' dependence on extensive EU subsidies in either the short or the long term.
Our group supports all the amendments proposed by the rapporteur and adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, because European tobacco production must be allowed to continue.
The aim of a large number of amendments tabled by our British colleagues is to withdraw all European aid from tobacco production.
Tobacco is also mainly produced in disadvantaged regions, and it is therefore necessary for tobacco production, which is very labour-intensive, to continue in order to protect jobs.
This system will not only lead to a reduction in the quantities receiving production aid and, therefore, to a decrease in European tobacco production, it will also do nothing to help modernize production and it will prevent young farmers from setting up in this area.
This system will also have the adverse effect, in the medium term, of giving quotas a financial value, which will create a further financial burden on producers.
On the other hand, we have proposed the creation of national quota reserves to maintain the production capacity of Member States, and to contribute towards the financial stability of existing or new farms.
May I remind you that a national reserve system already exists in other production sectors, such as sheep, cattle and milk.
We consider that this is a very restrictive measure, which forgets that the tobacco production is a specific, very highly organized sector, in which distribution and processing are carried out by a small number of multinational or national companies.
I cannot back the Commission proposals for the future of the European tobacco sector.
The report emphasizes the different circumstances surrounding production in the EU.
Maize feed storage aid is improving the competitiveness of milk production in six Member States, and weakening the profitability of fodder-based milk and beef production.
It is inevitable that within the EU and, to an even greater degree, in the EU applicant states the number of jobs in agriculture will fall as a result of mechanization.
Without alternative jobs in rural areas young people will leave for the cities and many more people will commute daily to towns and cities with all the negative implications for the environment of increased car use on inadequate rural roads.
If the rural pillar of the CAP is to become a reality we need some continued form of the LEADER programme after 2000 to maintain thriving rural communities, particularly in areas no longer covered either by Objective 1 or Objective 5(b) after 1999.
They are formulated as amendments and many of them have been approved by the Commission.
The Commission's proposal needs, moreover, to be thoroughly reworked in order to provide a real future for all the farms in the European Union.
I must be brief, and will simply say this: a decline in raw material prices and a reduction in, perhaps even the withdrawal of, official aid does not add up to an acceptable agricultural policy.
This is in marked contrast to the Commission's document, which proposes only a 50 % compensation for one of our major agricultural products.
The report also confirms the three cornerstones of the common agricultural policy, but calls on the Commission to revise the Agenda 2000 proposals in many respects, recognizing that the continuing exodus of young people from agriculture is causing huge social and economic difficulties in large tracts of rural areas.
For example, in my own country, a shocking statistic: the suicide rate now exceeds the number of people killed in motoring accidents on our roads.
A high number of these totally unnecessary deaths are due to financial despair in rural areas.
The system of prices for products which are set below production costs and where income depends solely on the payment of decoupled compensation, which itself falls far short of bridging the gap to price reduction, does not provide the long-term security which well-educated young people see as a necessary requirement to their future.
We cannot accept a system of agriculture based on compensatory income subsidies, which are temporary in nature and which will transform farmers from productive forces in society into recipients of the temporary charity of the state, as the European Union at present envisages.
Mr President, I in turn wish to congratulate Mr Cunha.
The possibility of hidden national subsidies will only increase inequality between developed and less developed regions and will cause a chain reaction of problems in the economically weaker Member States.
We must look again, for example, Mr Fischler, at the advisability of some common organizations of the market having the year 2006 as their horizon and others the year 2001.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Fischler, the number of farmers in Europe fell continuously from 8 million in 1990 to 6.9 million in 1995.
What advice can parents responsible for the future of young people interested in agriculture give them?
If I may explain, Commissioner: you are spending half the budget on about 1 % of the richest people in Europe.
As you know, 80 % of that money is distributed among 20 % of the farmers.
I would remind you that every Community citizen pays around ECU 350 to support this policy, which makes me think the Commission cares little what it does with the taxes citizens pay.
The second point is that the agricultural policy still militates against the environment and quality, inasmuch as it is still geared to the support of production rather than production methods and the defence of quality in the food chain.
With this policy, Commissioner, you are going to aggravate all the existing problems in the Community, which have not been capably dealt with.
It is unacceptable that two farmers producing the same product should not be similarly classified and equally compensated because they live in different areas of the same Community.
There is no absolutely obvious need for family farms to receive aid, to the detriment of large-scale producers.
The whole of this policy benefits a mere half-dozen farmers and the result is plain to see: there is total desertification, at present 5 % of the population are farmers, in 2000 this figure will be around 2.5 % and we shall be distributing half the Community budget among 0.5 % of the richest producers, and the richest people, in the entire Community.
Mr President, I do not believe Agenda 2000's proposed increase in aid for the forestry sector is in harmony with the principle of market-based forestry, which does not rely on aid.
In addition, the proposal would clearly lead to an extension of EU forestry policy, that is, to less authority on the part of Member States in the forestry sector.
We must do something about supporting young farmers when they inherit farms, and their circumstances in respect of sufficient levels of social security.
On enlargement and Agenda 2000 I finally wish to say that it is not worth prolonging the discussion as long as the institutional problems in the EU today remain unresolved.
One of the problems with the report is that it does not address the issue of falling employment in agriculture.
We need to ensure that there is more diversification on the farm but we also need to ensure there is more diversification within the local economy.
We need to look at the role of rural areas in providing dormitory accommodation to large conurbations, second ownership, recreation, tourism and so on.
We need jobs which are based on technology, in particular the use of the Internet and ISDN technology.
Mr President, I would also like to compliment Mr Cunha on his report.
Otherwise we shall see discrimination against Member States.
In my opinion, the report smacks of a compromise of many diverse positions on how to view the reform.
I looked in vain for any strong pronouncements in specific areas such as the environment and animal welfare.
Regarding the section in Mr Cunha's report on imminent expansion, I am nevertheless pleased to see that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has adopted the amendment I tabled to include the first applicant countries in arrangements for environmentally friendly production methods from 1999 onwards.
After all, we must not forget that environmental improvements are not purely the domain of the 15 current Member States.
The nations of central and eastern Europe applying for admittance to the EU also have significant agricultural production.
Throughout the EU, approximately 50 % of all those employed in agriculture are women.
An improved, modern agricultural policy, which we all desire, must not further destabilize this form of management, as this would be contrary to the European Union's new employment policy.
The Luxembourg Presidency's approach, the definition of the identity of European agriculture as a reference point for CAP reform and the position of European agriculture on the world market, was ratified by the European Council of December in Luxembourg.
Unfortunately, a number of reform measures tabled by the Commission do not take this approach into consideration.
The future of compensatory aid, on which the survival of most farms depends, particularly in less favoured regions, is uncertain after enlargement, not to mention the fact, Mr President, that the eco-conditionality of the compensatory payments distorts them and is therefore exaggerated.
A significant majority have indicated that a common rural policy rather than a Common Agricultural Policy would bring greater benefits to Europe's rural communities.
I urge the Commission to re-examine its proposals very closely so as to ensure that Europe's rural communities are not disadvantaged when they must compete for structural funding under the changes when rural areas are included in the new Objective 2.
Compensation for a change in market circumstances should be reduced and eventually stopped after a reasonable period of readjustment.
Given the turmoil of the BSE crisis and the many unresolved issues surrounding food safety and imports from outside the EU, I believe that the Commission should use the opportunity presented by Agenda 2000 to ensure that consumers enjoy the highest level of protection when we enter the next century and that Europe can compete with cheaper non-EU products.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I first want to congratulate the rapporteur on his report, and on having moved on very skilfully to set the guidelines for what our future CAP should look like, in view of Agenda 2000, eastwards enlargement and future WTO negotiations.
My colleagues have already dealt with questions such as price reductions, farmers' participation in the market, getting people to stay in the countryside, and involving young people and women in the sector.
However, we must prepare ourselves to be on the offensive in the WTO negotiations, in order to defend our agriculture model, reject foreign models, and make the reality of rural life really matter, by protecting our social and environmental situation.
Commissioner, in the spirit of Cork, rural development should be the second pillar of the CAP.
This reform of yours could and should turn into the common agricultural and rural policy - the CARP.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a real reform of the CAP would mean abandoning once and for all the guidelines introduced in the 1992 reform.
This has not been done, and for that reason the Commission's proposals in Agenda 2000 can be sure of opposition from farmers and their representative organizations all over Europe.
A reform of the CAP would in fact have to be comprehensive and cover all forms of agricultural production.
Furthermore, to produce a real reform and overturn the 1992 strategy we would have to give unequivocal support to rural development, defend and above all generalize the application of Community priorities, make a special case of rural development in the world context, give decisive support to young farmers and fight rural desertification, maintain and develop market regulation mechanisms and iron out imbalances between regions, forms of production and farmers of different kinds, giving priority to family farms.
We appreciate the introduction of these aspects into the report, to which we have otherwise contributed certain amendments in the direction we suggested years ago.
At the Plenary session we insisted on amendments in favour of the open and universal award of certificates of quality, support for the production and marketing of regional products, the rejection of productivityrelated criteria and most of all the introduction of a clear concept of modulation.
With these guidelines, and if our amendments were accepted, we should have created a policy framework which the Commission ought to take into consideration, and ought to amend the proposals published in connection with Agenda 2000 in accordance with that policy framework.
Mr President, the report is noteworthy for two reasons that might seem contradictory: first of all, it can go into meticulous detail and at the same time it provides a broad overview of the future of European agriculture.
This occurs when the rapporteur combines the economic dimension of agricultural reform with its natural calling, which is related to the sustainable development of the area, the safeguarding of the living conditions of those working there - therefore farmers' income - but especially to the development of regional productions.
We must move away from the large industrial concerns and return to the old family farm where it all began and where in many areas it is still the best guarantee of continuity.
The future of agriculture in Europe - in the Europe of today and in the Europe of tomorrow, with an additional ten or so CEECs to take into account - depends on its ability to become the driving force and vehicle of economic and social cohesion, especially in disadvantaged areas where farming is still a challenge and an act of faith.
That is why I agree with the rapporteur when he says that support for production can be a double-edged sword that can cut the cord of solidarity with the disadvantaged areas, favouring the growth of two forms of agriculture, one rich and one poor, and create a gap between developed regions and regions lagging behind in development.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that the common agricultural policy is the fundamental pillar European construction.
The Commission proposes a complete reform of the CAP and structural policy limited, for budgetary reasons, to 1.27 % of the GNP of Member States.
With regard to agriculture, its proposals are confined to reducing the prices of arable crops, milk, beef and veal in order to maintain a socalled balance, by providing partial compensation, theoretically enabling farmers to adapt to these price reductions.
Commissioner, European agriculture dates back more than 2 500 years.
It cannot be compared with agriculture in countries which have existed only two or three hundred years.
The common agricultural policy must be adapted and reformed because in the coming decades our agriculture will be faced with more and more new realities, new conditions and new challenges.
The strategy which the Commission proposes goes in another direction.
In addition, the relationship between the beef and veal sectors is in our experience not nearly as direct as the report seems to assume.
If this is the wish of Parliament, it must be stated loud and clear.
I have taken note of the clearly expressed wish to considerably increase area subsidies and subsidies related to service to society in comparison to production-related subsidies.
I am pleased to discover that the report follows a similar guideline to that of the Commission as regards expanding policy on rural areas and environmental protection in agriculture into a solid, second pillar of agricultural policy.
I note that the direction taken by the report in a series of points actually goes much further than the Commission's proposals and that these points refer explicitly to the conclusions of the Cork conference and support a greater financial contribution for rural development on behalf of the Community.
This possibility exists under the agricultural guideline, provided that the political will is to hand and that the agricultural guideline remains in its current form, a point on which the rapporteur and I are in agreement.
I also share the opinions expressed in the report in the areas of food quality and food safety.
The debate is closed.
Whenever the EU integration project is facing a severe test, an attempt is made to put cohesion policy aside, although this is precisely what has made the European single market a success.
I would like to say very clearly once again: anyone wishing to terminate the EU's solidarity project is attacking the very heart of the integration process.
Unemployment in the ten poorest regions is still seven times higher than in the ten richest regions.
In view of this desperate situation in terms of economic and social cohesion, enlargement to include the ten countries of central and eastern Europe and Cyprus is an enormous challenge, making the structure of politics the key to the EU's ability to enlarge.
Jacques Delors stated in the White Paper on Growth, Competitiveness and Employment that such methods needed to be adapted for sustainable development.
The European Structural Funds grant the local and regional authorities and the social players extensive rights of participation.
Due to the delay in the Structural Funds Regulation by the Council - the first half of 1999 is too late for planning - we find ourselves in a dilemma in that the principle of participation is laid down in the regulation but cannot take effect because the plans have already been drawn up to ensure that the implementation period could begin on time.
If we are to take "Citizens' Europe' seriously, we must succeed in securing the participation of local and regional authorities early enough and to a sufficient degree.
In my opinion it is the responsibility of the Commission to remove competition at the European level between urban and industrial areas on the one hand and rural areas on the other.
The report's proposal offers the opportunity to develop transparent procedures and guarantees the rights of participation of those affected in the rural areas and the rights of the European Parliament.
I am very pleased that we have succeeded in achieving broad consensus in this report and in adopting it unanimously in the Committee on Regional Policy.
It is my responsibility, as rapporteur, to ensure that this consensus remains, and it is a unique opportunity for the European Parliament to demonstrate to the Council that we can reach consensus within a very short space of time.
I thank all those colleagues who contributed to this succès d'estime in the Parliament, and I hope that we succeed in it.
So I just want to say that although most of our amendments have not been formally incorporated, most of them have been taken on board implicitly.
So I do not think there is any problem on our part.
I do want to make two brief comments.
As we see it, the provisional pre-accession instrument, from the structural point of view, is not a structural fund, ladies and gentlemen, but an alternative Cohesion Fund.
And that could cause problems in the future.
In the general context of the agreement, I should like to mention a point we think is perhaps fundamental.
We in the Committee on Budgets want a revision clause on the financial result of the structural fund reform - and enlargement, of course.
But whereas we accept the Commission's hypotheses and figures at the moment, we must point out that if the costs corresponding to pre-accession and enlargement are added to the current figures for the Structural and Cohesion Funds, there is still room for manoeuvre within the 1.27 % ceiling.
In other words, if the structural appropriations are reduced for the Fifteen, it is not to avoid exceeding the 1.27 % ceiling, but in order to keep it much lower.
Mr President, I would just like to add that we must be really aware of the economic and political importance of Heading 2 for the process of European political construction.
It shows that justice has been done to ideas on achieving economic and social cohesion and it shows a political effort to avoid incoherence.
Enlargement is of course not only an opportunity for positive development but shows us all today, at this early stage, that not all questions of enlargement can be looked at only from an economic point of view, nor will they be a stroll in the park.
Basically, all motions for a resolution, all resolution issues of 4 December are to be found again in the Schroedter report.
The new definition of Objective 2 is also very important.
I would just like to point out that the combination of industry and rural areas could represent an opportunity for the future.
I would also point out that in the three regulation proposals shortly to be under consideration, dealing with instruments of structural policy for preparation for accession, there is sufficient time for discussion in order to create a plausible framework for the whole area and to do justice to what we want to achieve, which is a homogeneous enlargement to include the countries of the former Eastern bloc.
Enlargement will surely offer opportunities to our regions but we will want to ensure that the proposals presented by the Commission match our objectives and priorities as socialists, namely to continue the Delors legacy of promoting jobs, sustainable growth and the competitiveness of our regions and the central objective of economic and social cohesion of the Treaty to enable all citizens, regions and Member States to participate on an equal footing.
It must be fair in order to ensure we give priority to our poor regions without abandoning those problem regions going through the process of economic and social restructuring in wealthier Member States.
Subsidiarity and decentralization must be the cornerstone of our future policies to ensure that our regional policies are relevant to the needs and interests of local communities.
I would, therefore, like to welcome the decision that Parliament should be fully associated with the reform process.
We have had a positive letter from Robin Cook, the President-in-Office, but we need to move forward now on the more fundamental items.
So we need to look very carefully at how that reserve would work.
Only when the EU is seen to be contributing to the solution of major problems in society, such as poverty and unemployment, can we expect to enjoy their support and ensure the credibility of the Union and its policies and institutions.
My group will take this challenge seriously and we look forward to cooperating with the Council and the Commission in improving the Agenda 2000 proposals to gain support from the public.
This includes inter alia the balanced and sustainable development of economic activities, a high level of employment and of social protection, equality between men and women, and economic and social cohesion and solidarity among Member States.
The principle of subsidiarity must be considered to a high degree in this context, as must the financial framework.
Under no circumstances must enlargement be used to reduce the upper limit of 0.46 % of Community GNP for structural spending or that of 1.27 % for total expenditure.
The criteria must be capable of being extended and weighted by the Member States in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
Consideration should also be given to the role that regions with a legislative capacity can play in the implementation of these Objective 2 development frameworks.
In that sense, I do not think a single regulation would be valid without taking account of how each Member State will decide to apply this Objective 2, according to its internal organization.
I think the suggestion about Objective 3 is very important, especially in view of the EU's biggest problem at the moment - unemployment.
And all the thinking in that area should bear in mind the future eastwards enlargement of the EU.
In that respect, I think it is a good idea for the Interreg Community initiative to also provide funds for the central and eastern European countries, but without compromising the funds which go to the current EU Member States.
Finally, I would like to say that it is always good for the Structural Funds and the allocated resources to be implemented efficiently, so I hope it will be possible to determine a good approach, to distribute these EU funds as efficiently as possible.
We have an obligation to be serious about our contribution to the future development of the Union and our ambitions for a better way forward have got to meet the expectations of all the citizens of the European Union.
Broadly speaking, I am in agreement with the Schroedter report.
It is essential that adequate transition arrangements be put in place for regions such as my country, Ireland, which cease to meet Objective 1 qualifying criteria.
Whereas the level of funding must in particular meet the needs of the less-developed Irish subregions, it is my view that they should cover the whole country during the entire seven-year period of the next financial framework.
Finally, I do not believe that anyone would seriously contest our aim of reaching a situation in which our higher levels of prosperity are copper-fastened and ensured on a permanent and sustainable basis.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Agenda 2000 caused a great commotion but there is, as yet, no coordination to be seen, as the Member States are rejecting the Commission's script.
The first is that enlargement is only possible if the agricultural and structural policies are reformed.
Those in favour of reform must also be in favour of dismantling agricultural subsidies.
A reduction of the British rebate in agricultural subsidies and a possible move to co-financing would at the same time pave the way for a general corrective mechanism.
I believe Elisabeth Schroedter's report is a good start.
But I believe it is important that this step has been taken.
Of course, we must also ensure that this Community instrument is developed into a transparent instrument with which we can work together for the future of our regions.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is easy to agree on principles, certainly when the principles in question make sense.
Thus, in principle, we happily agree with the Schroedter report and the proposals for the reform of structural policy within Agenda 2000.
Mr President, Commissioner, reforms in EU regional and structural policy have to be able to meet the growing challenges that spring from regional inequality.
The development of the global economy, mass unemployment, enlargement and EMU are all factors that require a structural policy that will level out differences and create new opportunities.
EU regional policy must be more adept and flexible in its attention to differing circumstances.
The effective implementation of the programmes and the participation by the different parties involved requires sufficient preparation time.
Large rural areas such as eastern and northern Finand are in a critical situation as far as the future is concerned.
Mr President, I would like to underline the importance of the partnership principle, especially when defining programmes and their methodology.
Meanwhile, there is another concern that should not be underestimated, and that is the danger that in the new view presented in Agenda 2000 economic and social cohesion will tend to blur the competences and control of the European Parliament.
At the same time, we are of the view that it is useful to facilitate cooperation with non-EU countries through Interreg and PHARE, creating appropriate legal and financial instruments like, for example, common funds.
We are puzzled as to the actual usefulness of the proposed 10 % reserve mechanism.
Enlargement requires a rational and effective structural policy, in spite of the budget restrictions that are imposed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our financial forecasts for the years 2000 to 2006, upon which our cohesion policy depends, will be decided in March next year, according to the Cardiff Summit, after the effects of the German elections have been put into perspective.
But we are bound by circumstances, in the light of the vote a fortnight ago in the European Parliament, which was unexpectedly hostile to the countries that benefit from the Cohesion Fund, to take the matter up again in the form of some amendments to the Schroedter report.
It will indelibly mark out the difference between national selfishness and Community solidarity, between the laws of the market and the ethical imperatives of cohesion, in short between words and actions.
Madam Commissioner, the efforts of the European Union to achieve economic and social cohesion within its borders must continue unabated while there remain substantial inequalities at both regional and national level and while such tendencies are, in certain cases, on the increase, despite the significant steps that have been taken towards achieving nominal convergence.
This situation, together with the imminent enlargement towards countries of central and eastern Europe, places increased responsibilities on the European Union, which impose a new way of dealing with social and structural policies in the future.
Against such a background, the first substantial issue to be raised is that of the structural perspectives, which is an issue which must be clarified as soon as possible so that we know what money we will have at our disposal, in order that we can determine in a responsible way the relevant policies.
On no account must enlargement turn out to be at the expense of current Member States, especially the poorest.
That is why the financial perspectives must be re-examined, before the first wave of enlargement, with a view to dealing with the new requirements and developments which will have arisen or which, by then, will have become more apparent.
The regions of Objective 1, which are those with a per capita GDP lower than 75 % of the Community average, in other words the poorest and those with the greatest needs, must continue in the future to receive two-thirds of Structural Fund resources, as recommended moreover by the Commission.
I would like to finish by stressing that in the future there must still be a Cohesion Fund for the financing of large structural projects in the fields of transport and the environment, in which countries with a per capita GDP lower than 90 % of the Community average must once again be able to participate.
This report is in line with the Commission proposals, and that is exactly where its strength and positive nature lie.
It cannot be presented as an option for some countries which do not want to give up certain subsidies.
And cohesion cannot be understood without the fundamental link to the internal market which now, with the single currency, is a full internal market.
I conclude by thanking our rapporteur again for her excellent work, which will serve as a guideline for the Committee on Regional Policy in its task over the next few months, in analysing the highly reasoned and balanced legislative proposals presented by the Commission.
Madam Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we must be careful - in the context of the solidarity always mentioned in connection with economic cohesion of the Union - not to repeat the fairytales told to us by the Council and other powers, sometimes even the Commission.
In this regard, some colleagues are indeed right.
Of course, no later than October, when the Commission adds up the income side of Agenda 2000 and says that this country has to pay so much and that country has to pay so much, we will have a new debate on expenditure in category 2 of the structural policies.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to express my approval of the priorities of this report, which owes its current form not least to the cooperation of the rapporteur and to many changes in committee.
We support the strict application of the criterion of a regional per capita GNP, expressed as purchasing power parities of level NUT 2, less than 75 % of the Community average, for the selection of future Objective 1 regions.
Two-thirds of the structural funds appropriations for Objective 1 do in fact guarantee the necessary concentration of funding for the regions most in need.
Cohesion is synonymous with solidarity and fairness in the different efforts of the various European regions to achieve competitiveness.
The Cohesion Fund is needed by the current Member States which have a per capita GNP of less than 90 % of the Community average, as established by the Treaty, regardless of whether or not they join monetary union.
Lastly, the opinion of the Committee on Fisheries attached to the Schroedter report mentions an injustice which I want to underline: the inadequate structural attention paid to the fisheries sector in Agenda 2000.
So I conclude by congratulating the rapporteur and calling for real improvements in economic and social cohesion in Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and say that Agenda 2000 puts a brake on the development of cohesion policy with a cut in the percentage of the expenditure objective decided in Edinburgh from 0.46 to 0.39 %, considering that heading 2 of the budget must give up ECU 7 billion to pre-accession.
I actually wonder whether Agenda 2000, in wanting to concentrate the distribution of funds as much as possible, has taken into account the actual needs of regions or whether it has blindly chosen a figure as the maximum criterion.
How does a Eurostat parameter show the major difference that exists between the 76 % achieved by an island region and the 76 % achieved by a region on the mainland?
Several items in the chapter on cohesion policy in Agenda 2000 leave me puzzled, beginning with the 10 % reserve.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to thank you, Mrs Schroedter, for the report and the resolutions which are critical and constructive and offer a further opportunity for discussion of Agenda 2000 in the European Parliament.
I would like to emphasize in particular the broad agreement between the European Parliament and the Commission, which is very positive, especially as regards the significance of economic and social cohesion, but also as regards common goals such as sustainability, combating unemployment, increasing the competitiveness of the regions, the importance of human resources and equality of opportunity.
The British Presidency has gone to great lengths in recent weeks, not only in the Council working parties but also in the informal Council in Glasgow, to initiate a first political discussion on the reform of the Structural Funds.
Perhaps the most important message from Glasgow is, in my view, that there was no fundamental opposition.
The political philosophy of the Commission's proposals was broadly confirmed.
Secondly, concentration efforts are distributed equally and fairly among all Member States and are not at the expense of either rural areas or other problem regions.
If all participants proceed rationally, enlargement can be achieved without additional cost to the European taxpayer, even if growth should prove to be lower.
With regard to your request that a single financial instrument be provided for the pre-accession strategy, I would point out that the Commission, in accordance with the instructions of the Luxembourg European Council, has proposed three financial instruments.
Because of the different legal bases, one would not, after all, simplify things for us any more than the attempt which we have now made, which is to try to make the process as uniform as possible by means of the coordination regulation and the functioning of the three regulations.
You, like many Member States, are in favour of a close interlocking of the pre-accession instrument with Interreg.
Moreover, PHARE will continue to be responsible for introducing regional policy in the accession countries by means of small projects and institution building.
In continuing PHARE-CBC, the Commission considers it necessary, in the context of cross-border cooperation and in contrast to the decisive "No' of the draft resolution, to devote greater attention to the Eastern borders; this is also linked in with the pre-accession strategy.
Strengthening cross-border cooperation is of particular importance, not only for acceptance of enlargement towards the east but also for purposes of introducing the procedures and substance of regional policy.
Partnership and an integrated approach are the innovative elements of the new Structural Funds regulation.
I thank you for the support of the European Parliament for the growth of this partnership.
It is precisely this competition between town and country that we wish to overcome by means of a regional development strategy, Mrs Schroedter.
Looking to the future, that is first of all the application of Objective 2 in line with the principle of subsidiarity, with the opportunity for countries and regions to select a considerable number of the areas, and the horizontal support in Figure 3, goodness knows this cannot in any way be seen as neglect of rural areas.
This also applies to the Commission's proposal to create incentives for good financial management of the programmes.
The Austrian Presidency is determined to have the main points of the reform ready for judgement before the Council Summit in Vienna so that the whole package can be adopted early in 1999.
Thank you, Mrs McCarthy.
The debate is closed.
Common organization of the market in bananas The next item on the agenda is Mr Thomas's report (A4-0220/98), on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending (EEC) Regulation No 404/93 on the common organization of the market in bananas (COM(98)0004- C4-0046/98-98/0013(CNS).
Mr President, today we are considering a Commission proposal which will bring the European Union banana regime into line with a ruling delivered by the WTO dispute settlement body.
However, that said, the European Union is required to put new arrangements into place by 1 January 1999.
The world trade in bananas is a very complex business with many players and conflicting interests.
I firmly believe that although we must work within the legal framework of our international commitments, our primary objective must be to protect EU producers and those countries to which we have committed our support in the context of the Lomé Convention.
The provision of quality fruit at a reasonable price is just one aim of the banana regime.
We have a duty to contribute to the fight against poverty and towards the protection of acceptable social and environmental standards.
The Commission proposes maintaining the existing tariff quota at its current level of 2.2 million tonnes at the same rate of duty of ECU 75 per tonne with an additional autonomous tariff quota of 353 000 tonnes at a rate of ECU 300 per tonne to take account of an enlarged European Union.
My main concern with the Commission proposals is that duty-free access to bananas from traditional ACP suppliers up to a ceiling of 857 000 tonnes will continue while at the same time the current licensing system will be abolished and individual countries will no longer be allocated a share of the quota on a country basis.
The licensing system is one element of the banana regime condemned by the WTO which must be replaced.
I urge the Commission to preserve a balance in the supply of bananas on the EU market and to ensure that in allocating a quota they use the best possible statistics which take account of changes in trade flows in recent years.
It would be totally unacceptable if those ACP countries which have traditionally provided bananas for the EU market and whose economies depend on the revenue they receive from the banana trade lose out when new arrangements come into effect.
The Lomé Convention refers to individual states and not the ACP as a whole and the WTO ruling recognizes the commitment the EU has made to the ACP states.
Traditional ACP suppliers also risk losing out as a result of the increasing involvement of American multinationals in banana production in some of the non-traditional ACP states.
I trust that the Commission will monitor this situation very carefully and bear this in mind when allocating market access.
Mr Liese is the rapporteur for the Committee on Development and Cooperation for these proposals and they are linked with mine.
It is important to have a mechanism which will enable ACP states to expand their production.
We discussed EU banana production and its importance to the industry in some of the more peripheral areas of the Union at some length.
I therefore proposed in my report that the maximum quantity for EU bananas be increased by 15 % from the present level of 854, 000 tonnes to 982, 000 tonnes and that the standard reference income be raised by 20 %.
In this way we can ensure that EU producers also benefit from the growth in the market.
I hope colleagues will support it as it was overwhelmingly supported in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
So far as we know, this form of production, or this way of producing bananas, has no environmental or social concerns.
Thus, from the point of view of production in the European Union - which, as you know, includes the island of Madeira, which is part of the territory of Portugal - we have been protecting either common production or production in the traditional ACP countries.
That system, as you know, has been challenged by the United States and some Latin American banana producers as an alleged breach of Article 13 of the GATT.
The Commission has accordingly put forward a amendment to Regulation 404/93 on the common organization of the market in bananas.
Having examined and studied all its aspects, particularly its budgetary implications, the Budgetary Committee essentially agrees to the proposals on the legal side of the matter; however, particularly bearing in mind the resulting implications for its own producers and for traditional ACP producers, the Budgetary Committee has drawn up a series of amendments to the law - which it hopes may be included in the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - the purpose of which is, by means of an annual report by the Committee, to control and keep checks on the financial consequences of the new system and examine the proposed aid framework.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Fischler, the establishment of a European market for bananas in 1993 has had largely positive results: a sevenfold increase in intra-Community flow, convergence and stability of prices, renewed confidence in producer countries and, finally, an increase in the market shares of European operators by comparison with American operators.
So, the problem has nothing to do with the principle of liberalization of the European market in bananas.
The COM has apparently expanded the market.
The Committee on Development and Cooperation accepts the solution proposed by the Commission and amended by the rapporteur Mr Thomas, whom I must thank for having incorporated many of our proposals.
This new regulation will test the Union's political ability to defend its policies and its identity.
Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating David Thomas, the rapporteur, on his excellent work on this crucial issue of our trade in bananas.
After all the hard work that has gone into this dossier, I am optimistic that the Council will be able to arrive at an agreement at our June meeting.
Ever since the latest WTO dispute began two years ago, we have accepted that, in the event of an adverse ruling, the Union would have to bring its arrangements into line with those WTO rules.
The revised arrangements will not be as favourable as the present arrangements for the producers in the ACP countries, to whom we have obligations under the Lomé Convention.
The Council recognizes the importance of bananas, both in terms of exports and employment, for those Caribbean and, indeed, all ACP countries, and for the ultra-peripheral areas of the Union.
It is important, therefore, to reach agreement as soon as possible, both inside the European Union and outside it, too, in order to provide the stability in the market that both producers and traders require.
Regrettably, while we seem to be moving towards an acceptable deal within the European Union, the signs from some of the WTO complainants are less helpful.
These countries have, of course, been following the negotiations on the revised arrangements with close interest.
I must say that I find this attitude very disappointing.
I hope that once the United States and others have a chance to look at what the Council agrees, they will accept that we, working together with the Commission, have found a reasonable way of honouring all our international obligations - that is obligations under the Lomé Convention as well as obligations under the WTO.
I firmly believe that the proposal represents a carefully judged reconciliation of the Union's obligations under the WTO and its commitment to the ACP countries under the Lomé Convention.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to extend my warmest thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Thomas, for his report on the reform of the common market organization in bananas.
I would also like to note that each increase in autonomous tariff quotas benefits non-traditional ACP countries and that EU producers always profit from an increase in consumption as their production quantities are not limited.
The Commission cannot, therefore, accept Amendments Nos 11, 15, 23, 27, 28, 30, 31, 46 or 53.
The second problem concerns the regulation on deficiency payments.
The Commission proposal ensures that the regulation is in line with the WTO provisions, which nonetheless do not affect internal Community rules.
Thus, in the Commission's view, it is neither necessary nor appropriate to change the deficiency payments regulation.
I would like to emphasize, however, that the income guarantee for EU producers is always granted, without full compensation, regardless of the actual market price.
Amendments Nos 5 to 8, 10, 21, 22, 24 to 26, 48 and 51 therefore constitute a problem for the Commission.
As far as the ACP suppliers are concerned, a subject dealt with in Amendments Nos 3, 6, 9, 36, 48, 55 and 57, the existing preferences are retained in the Commission proposal.
I should add, in relation to Amendments Nos 48 and 55, that the revision of the WTO mechanisms lies outside the scope of this regulation.
As regards Amendments Nos 14, 28, 45, 50 and 52 concerning non-traditional ACP bananas, in the Commission's view access of non-traditional bananas to the Community market by means of the ECU 200 preference is already sufficiently guaranteed.
With regard to Amendment No 50, it should be noted that the allocation of 857 000 tonnes applies only to the traditional ACP suppliers and that this fixed provision guarantees access to the Union's market.
Amendments Nos 16, 17 and 32 refer specifically to Somalia.
A balanced supply is guaranteed by the quotas for third countries and not by the licence system.
I cannot, therefore, approve Amendments Nos 12, 13, 33 to 35, 44 or 49.
I will now turn to the question of proper conditions of competition, which I know is very important to many of the Members of this House.
This question concerns Amendments Nos 1 to 4, 18, 19, 37, 38, 40, 44, 54, 55 and 58 to 60.
This question is currently being discussed by the services concerned in order to clarify the position of the Commission on the issue of proper conditions of competition.
Thus, I do not wish to pre-empt the results of these Commission discussions.
Amendment No 29 aims to ensure that smaller suppliers, in particular smaller ACP countries, are not disadvantaged by the introduction of tariff quotas.
The Commission welcomes the European Parliament's constructive cooperation in this extremely difficult and sometimes emotional subject, which is of the utmost importance both within the EU and from an international point of view.
The Commission's caution regarding the amendments tabled is linked to the fact that we must strive to avoid a second WTO panel in this matter, as this would certainly cause considerable harm to the standing of the European Community and its institutions.
The debate is closed.
According to the Directive, anyone wishing to open a bank or savings account must provide identification and the data recorded regarding identification must be kept for at least five years.
The Commission expects continuous vigilance on the part of credit and financial institutions in the run-up to the changeover to the euro; during this transition, criminals may attempt to channel their cash back into the financial system or to exchange national currencies into other currencies.
The Commission is continuing its internal consultations on the effects the changeover to the euro may have on the fight against money laundering.
Since prefectural and local elections are taking place in Greece in 1998, does the Commission intend, in the light of the accusations which have been levelled, to change the present system so as to prevent the unilateral use of Community funds for government and ministerial propaganda and to highlight the Community contribution to the development of Greece?
The operational programme "Technical aid within the Community support framework for Greece' provides for the implementation of an action plan for publicity and information, for which ECU 6.2 million was made available.
The Greek ministry responsible consulted the Commission on the action plan and on the national "Publicity and information' guide, in order to ensure a consistent approach.
I wonder if the Commissioner can be satisfied with the reply she has given me, when there are complaints.
But allow me to emphasize once again that in Greece, in our opinion, not only is party political neutrality guaranteed; some particularly positive steps have also been taken, for example Commission and European Parliament projects in high schools in Greece, which we consider to be exemplary.
Thank you very much, Mrs Wulf-Mathies.
Mr Hatzidakis has the floor first, for one minute.
Madam Commissioner, what you have told us is of course constructive, that is, that between the end of August and the end of October the transmission of these "politically neutral' advertisement slots will stop because, in my opinion, they are not.
But I do not believe that a theoretical debate here in Parliament will serve any useful purpose.
Mr President, Mrs Cederschiöld, the provisions of the internal market do not preclude Member States from exercising domestic controls.
Community rules expressly provide for excise duties to be charged in accordance with procedure in the Member State concerned.
The Commission was not able to examine the proposed amendments in detail but, according to the information available, the provisions in question do not appear to be inconsistent with the principles of the internal market.
The law which is to become effective on 1 July gives the customs authorities the right to open private mail and parcels from other EU countries.
I would just like to ask whether Commissioner Wulf-Mathies thinks this is compatible with human rights, and whether crossborder trade is not more important than a Member State's right to charge taxes.
Thank you very much, Mr Andersson.
Despite this agreement, the Commission holds to its position that these laws violate the law of nations.
The package solution includes three points.
These disciplines therefore apply only to future investment in properties which the Member States are convinced have been expropriated illegally.
I will repeat this to ensure that it is clear: the disciplines are not applied by the Community before the US Congress has given the President of the United States the authority to issue an exemption from Title 4 of the Helms-Burton Act and this exemption has come into force.
But the second question I would like to ask, in the light of your reply, is that on the one hand, the text released to the public said that the European Union undertook to inhibit and discourage future investments, and in your reply you said, also directly, that this referred to expropriations which are considered illegal.
It is crucial that, before we actually implement this, the American government should commit itself to waiving extraterritorial legislation and also that it issue this waiver.
This means, therefore, that it is a deal based on mutual interest, if you wish, and first of all the American government must repeal the effect of the HelmsBurton Act for European investment before the European Union reciprocates.
Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner.
I still have two supplementary questions on the agreement of 18 May on the Helms-Burton Act.
Mr President, if the waiver on titles 3 and 4 of the Helms-Burton Act goes through - which is unlikely in view of the statements of Senator Jesse Helms - would not efforts to deter future public support for investments in so-called expropriated properties be contrary to agreements made by individual European Union Member States and Cuba?
Furthermore, the agreement is not concerned with a ban on investment in Cuba but only on the part relating to state aid.
The main problem is to strike a balance between the interests of infertile couples and the sick, and respect for fundamental ethical principles and the moral and religious convictions of various sections of the population.
Careful attention is generally paid to ethical aspects of research in the field of life sciences and technology during the implementation of the Union's research programmes.
Like all proposals presented within the framework of the research programme on biomedicine and health, proposals relating to research involving the use of human embryos or foetuses nevertheless have to comply with regulations and legislative provisions, defining the ethical requirements in force in the countries where the research is carried out.
One of the aspects taken into consideration in this evaluation was the lack of alternatives to the proposed method.
All the provisions in force relating to ethics in the field of life sciences and technology will be maintained in the Fifth Framework Programme.
But are there not also EU standards now?
Apart from a number of basic regulations, to which I referred earlier, such as the prohibition of human cloning, I also said that the regulations are different, perhaps even extremely divergent, in the various Member States of the Union.
Provided compliance is ensured with fundamental ethical principles, such as those I have mentioned, the Commission believes that research of this type may be legitimately carried out, in the interests of scientific progress and in the interests of patients.
Some Member States, one in particular, would go so far as to allow this, whilst other Member States - in fact most other Member States - have a far more restrictive attitude.
As the author is not present, Question No 50 lapses.
It was basically established through an exchange of notes in 1964, followed by another in 1973, and was confirmed by Article 128 (3) of the Treaty.
More recently, a cooperation agreement signed by the Community and UNESCO in 1996 removed certain normative barriers which had considerably hindered cooperation actions in the past.
But project related cooperation problems still exist, caused by the current differences between the financial regulations of the Community and UNESCO, and by their implementation.
With respect to the cultural sphere, UNESCO and the European Union, within the context of their respective competences, regularly exchange information and data in certain sectors of common interest, such as statistics or goods, often take part in specialist meetings organized by either one, and sometimes finance certain projects jointly.
We also cooperate with UNESCO in the areas of education, information and the fight against the illegal use of drugs.
This collaboration could serve as an example for closer collaboration with UNESCO in the cultural field, in the context of the EU's external action.
Once it has been approved, this programme will constitute the frame of reference within which cooperation on an equal footing can be strengthened, including from a financial point of view.
I hope Parliament will approve this framework programme, and after that we shall have to see how we can operate in the future.
I would like to ask the Commissioner if, in his opinion, a country has the right to place this issue within a European Union context, based precisely on Article 128, paragraph 3 of the Amsterdam Treaty, which provides for cooperation with international cultural organizations.
Mr Alavanos, I am aware of what that represents, and I share your concern.
But you know that with the means available to us, with the means provided by the Treaty and, furthermore, within the context of cooperation with UNESCO, that route does not offer any solution.
And in this hemicycle, in other capacities, I have proclaimed the need for greater harmony between three institutions concerned with culture: the European Union, which has a restricted range, the Council of Europe, which has a wider range, and UNESCO.
A few years ago that was not possible, because we did not have the instruments to do it.
Today the Community has such an instrument in Article 128.
So I sympathize with your wish to identify with something which, of course, goes far beyond its national meaning.
I think it is very important because, in the end, sensitivity is also a part of our European cultural tradition.
In fact, he cannot be with us because he has just lost his 25-year-old son in a dreadful accident.
Mr Alavanos, the Commission has already started proceedings against Greece, in accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty, because of the incorrect implementation of certain provisions of Directive 89/552.
However, I repeat that the procedure has been initiated in accordance with the rules laid down in the Treaty.
I would next like to thank the Commissioner for the reply he gave to my question and to simply say to him that I understand the reply.
Question No 53 by Robin Teverson (H-0568/98) Subject: European Cultural Institutes I understand that a European institute for cultural itineraries is opening in Luxembourg in addition to a cultural centre funded by UNESCO, the Council of Europe and the European Commission.
Mr Teverson, the Commission is not participating financially in the creation of the European institute for cultural itineraries in Luxembourg.
According to the information we have received from the Luxembourg authorities, the centre has been created within the context of a cooperation agreement between the Council of Europe and the Luxembourg authorities.
Of course, the Commission takes a favourable view of this initiative because, given the importance of the European cultural network, the centre can make a positive contribution to improving the link between cultural heritage and cultural tourism on a European scale.
At present, the Commission has the means to provide financial support for European cultural centres in the context of the Raphael programme, which supports joint and cooperation activities, but does not give aid for them to be set up.
It provides aid for the development of joint and cooperative activities, but not for their establishment.
One statement I would like to make as a British Member of the European Parliament, in response to some of my colleagues' comments earlier on, is that I personally would like to back the campaign to move the Elgin Marbles back to Greece.
Mr President, I believe that educational systems are of particular importance in Europe because our culture is based largely on educational values.
It would be a considerable contribution not only towards promoting education but also an essential basis for lifelong learning.
It forms part of our heritage, of course, but I do not think we should limit ourselves to high culture.
Mr Ephremidis, the Commission shares your concern about the conservation of the historic Monemvassia bridge, which I have had the good fortune to visit, and which really is part of the heritage of us all.
As you know, the framework for action to support cooperation initiatives to conserve and improve our architectural heritage is provided by the Raphael programme, which was adopted last year, and has a budgetary provision of ECU 30 million for the four-year period from 1997 to 2000.
I also want to tell you now that the deadline for applications this year is 10 September.
So I would request that the application be made before 10 September, and you can rest assured that, although I do not make the final decision, I will personally ensure that this important matter receives special attention.
Mr Marcelino Oreja Aguirre, you do have the floor, granted by this Presidency.
Mr Van Miert, I invite you to reply to Mr Camisón Asensio's question.
You even said today - and then as well - that the ideal solution would be a global agreement able to solve the problems which arise at national level, by jumping to a different scale.
It would indeed be ideal to create competition structures which include basic principles, such as restricting abusive practices and concentrations, common principles to prohibit unfair competition in the international sphere, and the development of a cooperation instrument based on experience gained in this field.
At the moment we are trying to get as much support as possible for this initiative from the World Trade Organization in the context of the working group.
This seems to be a slightly different question but I am happy to give an answer or to state my position.
But, as you know, we have to stick to the rules ourselves, in particular the procedural rules.
Mr Wibe has requested the floor to ask a supplementary question.
Let me give a concrete example to illustrate what kind of difficulties might occur.
For that, either you would need a bilateral agreement with Japan to ensure that they would also apply competition rules in a normal way to open up the markets; or else we could think what might be done in a broader framework like the World Trade Organization, but specifically designed to tackle competition issues and competition problems.
Question No 56 by Sören Wibe (H-0511/98) Subject: Support for production in peripheral regions It recently became clear that the Volvo plant in Umeå is not being allowed to receive assistance towards transport costs from the Swedish government.
The consultants' report on which the Commission's decision was based was secret.
The question is related to a report drafted by an expert who is consulted from time to time by DG IV when we have to deal with automotive issues or problems.
It could happen that some of these reports will be of very little use to our services.
The Swedish Government and the Volvo company were in a position, then, to respond to what we put as evidence, according to our findings, at the opening of the procedure.
We have to tackle so many cases - about 600 state-aid cases per year.
Take, for example, the Crédit Lyonnais case.
The Commission has been criticized in Cardiff by some people because we explain our policies over and over again, why we take decisions or why we do not.
Once that has been done then you have the next phase which is completely transparent.
We also explained why we think that in future we should be able to continue to work as we have been doing because this report looked into the various kinds of activities which took place in the plant.
There can be no operating aid to assist the automobile industry.
It cannot be allowed in Germany or in Belgium or in Sweden.
Thank you very much, Mr Van Miert.
So Questions Nos 57 to 105 will be dealt with in writing.
Mr President, many of us in Parliament and in the ACP were rather unhappy with the proposal for a global quota.
The Commission proposal does not in any way safeguard the access of the smaller and weaker ACP suppliers.
Indeed, today the President-in-Office of the Council was able to tell us of a very offensive letter he had received from the Secretary of Trade in the United States.
I do not think the European Union should be pushed around in this way by the United States and its friends in the multinational banana-producing countries.
It is also necessary to review the regimen of aid for loss of income, as laid down in Article 12 of Regulation 404/93, through an increase in the overall reference quantity and the flat-rate reference income, as Amendments Nos 22 and 33 to Mr Thomas' report reflect so well.
Lastly, export certificates should be reinstated into Community regulations and demanded from all the countries which supply the Community, including the ACP countries, since including them in that way would be compatible with GATT regulations.
Nevertheless, I would remind you that Community production of bananas is specific in every way, for it is an activity carried out in the ultra-peripheral areas which suffer the difficulties we are all aware of, and that it covers only 20 % of market requirements.
Furthermore, in spite of some reluctance on the part of the rapporteur, I am happy with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development's proposals and reaffirm that Community production must benefit from the consequences of the most recent enlargement and a possible increase in the market.
The system of support to Community production must be adapted to the new rules, due to the raising of the flat rate reference income and to a development in the measures which opens up the right to compensatory aid.
The reestablishment of Article 16 of the regulation is a necessity for better developments in market prospects.
Mr President, this is briefly my opinion on the direction which the European Parliament's opinion must take with a view to reconciling our interests with those of other producer countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is right to denounce the desire of the American multinationals to obtain the dismantling, by the WTO, of the Community system for trade in bananas.
It modifies the Commission's proposals by reducing the increase in additional tariff quota from 353 000 to 100 000 tonnes, by increasing by 15 % the Community banana quota eligible for compensatory aid and by increasing this compensatory aid by 20 %.
By adopting these measures and this report, which has my full support, we will be appealing to the Council to reconsider the European Parliament's amendments.
Mr President, this organization of the market in bananas demonstrates that politics can still take precedence over economics.
However, it also demonstrates it is not only the interests of the producers that are coming to fruition here.
But it is a very positive sign that, despite this, we are able to talk about a political settlement.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the most important tropical fruit produced in the world, the banana constitutes a considerable economic concern for producers in the ultra-peripheral areas of the European Union and for the ACP countries.
Produced under unfair conditions often based on non-existent or disregarded social criteria, the dollar banana competes unfairly, and often immorally, with producers working within more regulated production systems which are fairer but of course more expensive.
Above all, let us make our trade conditional upon the principles which we uphold within the European Union, especially respect for human rights and sustainable agriculture, and let us encourage the actions of those producers who wish to move in this direction, as suggested in a number of the amendments.
Finally, let us apply the principle of Community preference, whilst at the same time respecting the commitments made within the framework of the Lomé Convention.
Mr President, revision of the organization of the market for bananas is urgently needed.
Although the regulation was designed for small producers in the developing countries, according to the World Bank it is hardly benefiting them.
The European banana policy is based on a system of import licences.
With the introduction of the B-licences, the European traders, who traditionally had been importing bananas from the ACP countries, secured an important share in the market in "dollar' bananas.
The lively trade in category B licences has pushed up the price of bananas on the European market, which resulted in a reduction in consumption.
This change is lacking in both the Commission proposal and in the Thomas report.
Mr President, Mr Thomas' report concerns the issue of amending the 1993 COM for bananas in accordance with the World Trade Organization's request, in order to respect Article 12 of GATT.
We have a second certainty, a statistical one this time, which is that the European Union consumes four million tonnes of bananas annually: 20 % come from the Canaries, Madeira, Guadeloupe, Martinique and Crete, and 80 % from elsewhere - ACP bananas and 2.2 million tonnes from Central America.
There is not one Member here who has had the text of these decisions in his hands.
The only two things we understand, and which are, in actual fact, essential, are that firstly the 1993 COM was working well: we had managed to achieve a balance between Community bananas, ACP bananas and even dollar bananas.
On top of this we must add ECU 370 million of financial assistance to the ACP countries who are victims of the new COM.
It is also the same for the codex alimentarius standards.
The matter was discussed in the European Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and in that committee we studied both the WTO working group's statement and the Appellate Body's decision.
If the Commission proposal goes ahead as it stands, and the sector does not receive more protection, we are going to find ourselves with a production sector which is now unprotected, whereas prior to the adoption of Regulation 404/93 it was fully protected.
There are a great many diverging interests in this sector.
I also accept the duty of ECU 300 per tonne for this autonomous tariff quota, assuming that this will not give rise to new WTO difficulties.
After all, the present duty is ECU 75 per tonne.
It should reserve definite space for this category in the daily management of the import licences, while being authorized to do so by Council and Parliament.
The great risk of such a policy is that we lock the countries into an obsolete production structure, in this case into the production of bananas.
Our policy towards the ACP countries resembles what we in Sweden call 'Döbeln's medicine' , that is, it helps for the moment, but in the long term it is harmful.
Both for European consumers and for the populations of the ACP countries it would be better to have free trade combined with direct aid than the present complex quota and customs duty system.
We find Amendments Nos 11 and 28 particularly unwelcome, as they represent a drastic reduction in quotas for the three new Member States.
We keep hearing - as we have heard in today's debate - that we must protect the small, independent producers in traditional ACP countries and the EU against the 'big bad' multi-nationals in Latin America.
The rapporteur's proposals are an excellent attempt to reconcile the interests of all the parties involved, that is to say of Community producers, of the ACP countries and other non-EU countries and of consumers, in a fair and balanced way, keeping to the rules of the internal market and the common organization of the market.
Among the various measures that should be taken, we think the overall reference income should be adopted and increased by around 20 %, so as to restore the necessary income guarantee to Community producers, and the Community should undertake to reduce the independent quota to prevent a possible glut on the market which would jeopardize sales of Community bananas.
For all these reasons we unreservedly support Amendment No 25, Article 1 (new), in order to protect the interests of banana producers in the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
Mr President, once again we are faced with a debate on the reform of the COM in bananas, and we need to recognize that this time the reform has been forced on us by the result of the dispute within the WTO.
I must say, Commissioner, that this time, in general terms, we share the views expressed in the Commission proposal, because we need to modify the current import licence regime and make it compatible with WTO rules.
Our experience of market behaviour during the last few years suggests that we should take this into account when it comes to setting import quotas, in order to avoid flooding the markets and causing prices to drop, as happened last year in the case of France.
So we think an autonomous tariff quota of 100 000 tonnes, as already requested by Parliament, is better suited to market demands than the 350 000 tonnes proposed by the Commission.
That is what the sector is hoping for from this new reform.
However, fair trade bananas are one area in which we can improve the Commission's proposal.
In this regard, I am not suggesting a particular quota, but rather, support for changes in production, a definition of fair trade bananas, arrangements for labelling and monitoring, and support for publicity and marketing of fair trade bananas.
Arrangements for fair trade bananas would benefit EU producers and ACP producers alike, and I therefore hope these aspects will be worked into this proposal.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the banana market has given us another opportunity to declare in this House that it is the principal obligation of the institutions of the European Union to defend the interests of its Member States and their regions in every situation, and to honour the commitments they assume in agreements with other countries, without submitting to the interests of the World Trade Organization.
In the case we are now debating, the Commission may be given the benefit of the doubt when it tries to reconcile the interests of Community and ACP banana producers with the requirements of the World Trade Organization's panel of judges.
The Commission must understand that the flooding of the European market with large quotas of cheap bananas from non-EU, nonACP countries will seriously affect the income of Community producers and make it almost impossible for traditional ACP countries to compete with Latin American producers.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m..
The present proposal for a directive comes in response to these changes.
In fact, the directive under discussion here today should have been in force by 1 July 1998.
Regardless of the actual date, however, we must respond to the fact that changes in operating and production processes in industry and retail in line with the just in time strategy have led to faster, more flexible and, at the same time, higher quality transport services, demanding ramified and ingenious systems of logistics.
On the other hand, we are also seeing increasing numbers of small enterprises entering the market place by virtue of their flexibility and the cost savings they offer, accepting haulage suitable only for smaller vehicles, even for transboundary movement.
The public is becoming increasingly exacting as regards transport services, especially in terms of environmental protection, technical safety and abiding by social provisions.
These concerned greater requirements with regard to financial capacity, personal efficiency and specialized knowledge as well as the enlargement of the area of application of the directive.
My proposals at that time were adopted by a very sizeable majority both in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and in the plenary session.
However, in its common position, the Council has only accepted two of our proposed amendments and these changes are actually more in the nature of legal technicalities.
The proposed amendments to the common position bring the harmonization process one step further forward; they are based on the revised basic conditions - the newly-developed just in time strategy, for example.
To my party, an important consideration is that in addition to the requested greater requirements with regard to the integrity of the operator, environmental protection and professional duty, there is also a need for greater requirements with regard to combating fraud in Community and joint transit procedure.
However, I must say that it is simply not good enough for British authorities to allow a situation to arise whereby Irish hauliers are denied access to and use of British roads, as happened when ports were blocked last Sunday for 16 hours.
This freedom is enshrined in the legal right upon which the basis of the European Union is founded.
However, I cannot support Amendment No 8.
Commissioner Kinnock felt unable to intervene in this regard but it is a breach of free movement and I hope the Commissioner will enter into the spirit of the single market tonight and ensure that it does not happen in future.
I also hope that the Commissioner will go some way this evening towards expressing some willingness to resolve the situation whether there are huge disparities of tax.
Firstly, I would like to say that I am pleased with the amendments which make the text clearer and the proposal more coherent.
Amendments Nos 2, 3, 8 and 11 will therefore be taken into account.
Secondly, although initially the Council did not consider it necessary to take action with regard to combating fraud, the Commission continues to consider this an important aspect and feels that tough measures should be taken with regard to the dishonesty of some people in this sector.
The first part of this amendment is, however, too vague and could lead to control measures out of all proportion.
Finally, the Commission remains of the opinion that it is desirable to provide for the possibility of flexibility in the control measures, particularly in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises which could face financial difficulties in the short- term at the time when they are evaluated against the criteria for financial standing.
This possibility is especially important due to the emphasis currently placed on employment at European level.
Amendment No 10 can consequently be accepted.
Mr President, there is one area in which the Commission cannot accept the amendments presented.
The Commission remains convinced that the temporary nature of the proposal, combined with the need to consult the Commission in all cases, is a sufficiently restrictive basis for its application.
The Commission is also convinced that the implementation of the new requirements with regard to professional competence will make this measure unnecessary.
She continues to make a constructive contribution to the Commission's initiative and enables us to reexamine certain questions with the Council.
I hope that, on this occasion, the Council will realize the advantages of these amendments.
We all wish to see stricter standards applied in this sector, along with a series of coherent criteria, to ensure that only reputable transport operators remain in the market, providing a high quality service in the interests of their clients and of society as a whole.
The debate is closed.
In committee last week, we adopted some 40 amendments, almost all of them unanimously.
We also unanimously adopted amendments delineating the involvement of the European Parliament during the implementation of the programme.
We no longer wish to take our leave as the legislative body for policy on research after we adopt this framework programme presumably tomorrow and then after conciliation.
The treaty clearly states that research is integral to internal policies and that for such budgetary matters, joint budget authorization by Parliament and the Council applies.
Correspondingly, we have also amended the common position wherever the research budget is mentioned rather than internal policies; this was done, incidentally, with the full agreement of the Committee on Budgets.
If the quality is good enough - not merely adequate, but excellent - and if the decision-making processes are transparent, the advancement of European research will also be more readily accepted.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy and all the members of the advisory committees as - after tough debating, in some cases - we have succeeded in adopting such a consistent paper by a very comfortable majority.
A reduction in the number of projects and the scope of the specific programmes is, however, essential to serious concentration.
Parliament must be actively involved in monitoring the implementation of the programme.
However, innovation is not limited to a technical process; it is also a social process in need of optimization through investment in a qualified workforce and new types of labour organization.
Europe could gain a decisive competitive edge here.
In real terms, what the Council has in mind is a 4 % reduction.
Correspondingly, investment in research would need to be calculated in accordance with the principle of saving up to make public provision for the future.
Let us at least join forces to demand what was agreed as the lowest common denominator in the report by the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy - the Commission's allocation entered in the budget.
Mr President, the vote of the Fifth Framework Programme is an important opportunity for our House to confirm the need to guarantee European research the necessary support to face the great challenge of globalization.
The added value of European research is now a proven reality and, on the eve of the year 2000, the existing connection between research and economic development is clear and obvious.
People specifically want research and technological development to provide concrete answers to problems like ageing or disability.
At the same time, I would like to stress the need for the JRC to strengthen its ties with other research institutes so that it can develop its function as a centre for the transfer of technology, something we have all repeatedly stated in committee.
Clearly, cuts in funding cannot be made in a sector that is the future of our young people and our economies.
Firms with up to 500 employees (instead of those with up to 250 employees) are entitled to research grants specifically aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises.
As rapporteur for the specific programme on innovation and SMEs, I do not agree with this.
In a definition which classifies companies with up to 500 employees as small and medium-sized enterprises, this means that most research funds will go to the larger companies with 300, 400 and 500 employees.
A restriction of the definition does not exclude larger companies from participating in the Fifth Framework Programme.
A broadening of the definition gives small companies an even smaller chance to claim the already minimal SME budget for the coming four years.
My group will vote against this amendment.
I would like to draw your attention to a limited number of amendments which touch on the heart of European research.
The European Union must offer them the recognition they deserve, along with the necessary motivation, by each year organizing a European Grand Prix for scientific and technological research, as proposed in Amendment No 34.
The European Union must mobilize all possible means to support it.
This is the aim of Amendment No 18.
Similarly, the Joint Research Centre must enjoy more autonomy with, naturally, the counterbalance of an independent evaluation procedure as provided for in Amendment No 19.
Finally, Amendments Nos 20 and 21 restore coherence and concentration to the Fifth Framework Programme by dealing in parallel with health issues linked to our nutrition and environment.
Mr President, please allow me to present my criticism in note form, so to speak, because I only have a short time to speak.
We are entering an era when a segment of the population of the EU - and, not least, citizens of other countries - will in all probability no longer have any part in knowledge because these people are excluded - they cannot participate in the new information technology.
This will lead to a major disparity, not only in the European Union, but also in many other countries with which we do, of course, have to collaborate, for example in Asia or in the developing countries.
Secondly, we wanted the Framework Programme to be responsive not only to the desire to ensure the competitiveness of our industries, but also to be an instrument responsive to social demands.
The bad news, on the other hand, has been that the Council does not provide, or does not provide us with, the political means with which it is itself in agreement.
The first is that we have not decided to make many concessions - and I must stress this point - particularly as we are on exactly the same wavelength as the Commission.
The second is that if, in spite of everything, necessity dictates that we must accept a reduction to below the 16.3 billion level, there will be no linear reduction.
That is why research must help preserve this vanishing natural resource in those areas that still have clean water.
If ever there happens to be radioactivity in a given area, mineral deposits will reveal this without the need for the time-consuming examination of groundwater.
Mr President, the four previous framework programmes for research largely funded precompetitive research projects halfway between grass roots research and the commercial development of products.
These programmes had the quality of developing cooperation between scientists, universities and business, but they had only a small impact in social and economic terms and did not enable Europe to catch up in many fields, especially the sectors of the future.
These shortcomings were largely due to the inadequacy of appropriations, their dilution amongst too great a number of programmes and a lack of flexibility in the allocation of appropriations to respond to new needs.
In the Fifth Framework Programme, the Commission has corrected these faults by concentrating appropriations on fewer, more targeted activities, by looking to improve their management and to simplify procedures.
Whilst the Commission and Parliament are demanding a substantial increase in appropriations to bring them to ECU 16.3 billion over five years, the Council has given a figure of 14 billion, which in real terms represents a decrease in comparison with the Fourth Framework Programme.
Given the European Union's backwardness in the field of research in comparison with competitor countries, appropriations should be increased to ECU 16.3 billion and substantial improvements should be brought about in their use and in the implementation of projects.
Irreconcilable interests often have to be reconciled.
But the political will must come into being in the south - and by that I mean countries with a smaller gross domestic product - as well as in the north.
The latter are not always richer, but as a rule, they spend more on research.
The main issue in this second reading concerns the disagreement with the Council over the budget for the Fifth Framework Programme.
Mr President, it is essential that Europe's competitiveness is increased, that the social issues in this area are resolved, and that the Council is persuaded to adopt the position of Parliament.
Research is one effective method of guaranteeing employment in the European Union in the long term.
In view of our experience as Parliament with respect to the role of the Commission in the conciliation procedure involving the additional ECU 700 million for the Fourth Framework Programme, I would like to urge the Commission to determine its strategy for the conciliation procedure in close cooperation with the European Parliament.
The Commission should avoid giving the Council the impression that the Commission attaches less value to the level of the research budget than the European Parliament does.
That is very important as well as for some specific areas such as information technology and others where there are very clear societal implications.
It is not rational to make a cut in real terms in research in 1999 and the beginning of the next century.
As I said earlier on, we can only do that with an adequate budget.
The facts from Austria, Finland and Sweden show that it is possible to step up the use of renewable energy sources; renewable energy sources account for between 20 and 25 % of energy consumption in these countries.
In this connection, I also welcome the fact that the Council has come out in favour of the sustainable development of agriculture, fisheries and forestry.
Mr President, the rapporteur has my congratulations on being able to bring to Parliament this evening a report which is commanding widespread support and which I hope will serve us well in the conciliation that lies ahead.
And yet, are we to believe that we are now poorer in our aspirations for what we want in the future?
I will centre my speech around three points: firstly, the financial allocation to the Fifth Framework Programme, which has been raised as an issue in many of the previous speeches; secondly, the Commission's position on the draft recommendation which has been submitted to you for second reading; thirdly, the question of a launch date for the Fifth Framework Programme.
A draft recommendation has been produced in less than three months.
I would naturally like to congratulate the rapporteur for her negotiating skills, but also all the Members involved in these efforts for having reached a compromise and having been able to discern between what was important and what was not so important and to come to an agreement on the important issues.
As I have publicly stressed on many occasions, the figure of 14 billion adopted by the Council on 12 February is not acceptable, far from it.
Every day, current events remind us of the fundamental role of research in social and economic progress and its essential contribution to growth, competitiveness, employment and the quality of life of our citizens.
In the new paths that we have explored in the area of research at a European level, paths such as the fight against cancer, the increase in new services as part of the electronic information networks, studies on earthquakes and climatic phenomena, research and technological development are at the heart of all economic success and are essential for solving the problems which confront society.
This can clearly be seen in the concept of key actions, an excellent instrument in this new approach to research, which I am glad meets with the full approval of Parliament.
Mr Adam earlier spoke of the ageing of the population: there is a specific key action on this theme.
But let us not delude ourselves: real impact will only be achieved if the Fifth Framework Programme is provided with the means to live up to its ambitions.
Achieving this objective will not be easy, since there is a clear difference between the position shared by Parliament and the Commission and that of the Council, and recourse to the conciliation procedure seems inevitable.
It is within the perspective of this procedure that the question which is the subject of my second point is raised, namely: the Commission's position on the draft recommendation at second reading.
Our common goal must be to reach an overall agreement as quickly as possible within the conciliation committee.
Regarding the structure and content of the Fifth Framework Programme, the Council's common position reflects a number of the amendments you introduced at first reading and which the Commission took up in its amended proposal quite well, but this is not the case for many of the other amendments.
The Commission is anxious not to delay the Council's decision on the second reading.
The Commission has thus opted to maintain its modified proposal without including amendments other than those already incorporated as they stood or largely unchanged at the conclusion of the first reading.
I am thinking in particular of the group of amendments relating generally to the implementation and management of the Framework Programme.
At the time of the ministerial conference on management of the Framework Programme, which was held on 28 April in London at the initiative of the British Presidency, I had the opportunity of presenting the measures envisaged by the Commission to the Research Ministers.
Extremely detailed preparations took place which resulted in the interministerial conference in London.
By way of example, I would like to present to you some of these measures.
Firstly, the setting up of a new consultation and opinion structure based principally on consultative groups composed of experts from all walks of life.
We have paid particular attention to them.
Furthermore, I would like to remind you that SMEs which have benefited from Community research funds have increased by around 30 %; 75 % of these SMEs had never before benefited from a research programme.
It is true that what was said earlier about businesses, the definition of an SME, the figure of 500 employees in relation to innovative companies, innovative SMEs, start-up companies which are beginning to appear everywhere, it is true that all of these are important.
All of these initiatives should not only help us to move the Fifth Framework Programme forward and make it an effective, transparent and open instrument, but also facilitate the evaluation of its ways of working and its results, in the direction desired by Parliament.
I fully share this point of view.
In this respect we have little to fear because we have a high quality administration and our procedures are perfectly transparent.
I would like to make two observations: firstly, the Commission has every intention of intensifying its efforts in order to improve the information provided to Parliament on the progress of programmes, as well as on the measures implemented to increase efficiency in the management of programmes.
Our cooperation will not end with the Council's decision on the Fifth Framework Programme, on the contrary it will continue.
Secondly, within the framework of the conciliation procedure, the Commission is determined to work towards an overall compromise which carries the clear mark of the European Parliament and, in return for certain compromises, an agreement on the content of most of the amendments does seem possible.
As I have already had the opportunity of highlighting before Parliament, in order to avoid a damaging interruption of European research efforts, the specific programmes of the Fifth Framework Programme must be operational as from the beginning of 1999.
Thanks in part to the efforts of the European Parliament, the procedure for adoption of the Framework Programme has been able to continue along a steady path.
But I am sure of being able to count on the European Parliament in this respect and thank you in advance for your efforts.
I would now like to say a few words on some of the speeches.
Although this proposal does not fall within the sphere of the Framework Programme for research and development, I do think that it is a very good idea and would like to study it.
He also drew our attention to the problem of nutrition, which is to a large extent on the agenda and which is increasingly going to draw the attention of our citizens.
Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz, we have delayed the decision on the problem of fusion.
It has been postponed by at least three years.
I think this change is a move in the same direction as your concern.
He said that we have broken with the linear model to move towards a far more interactive model and that we have given priority to the generic aspect of problems as compared to their selective angle.
Within the key actions there are also points covering this issue.
It is true, but our budget represents only around 5 % of the total budget of Member States.
But it seems to me that there have been many discoveries with regard to new technologies in the field of energy, even if it can be said that there is a problem of research.
Mr Adam said that we were richer now.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, there is already ample testimony to the European Parliament's positive view of renewable energy in numerous resolutions.
Under the motto of "talk is cheap - we want some action!' , Parliament has already requested a strategy and a concrete plan of action in two reports, also tabling some proposals of its own.
The Commission must have been aware that Parliament had high expectations of the White Paper.
The Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy gives its unmitigated support to the goal of doubling the use of renewable energy by the year 2010 as a minimum goal, as stated in the report.
The reality of energy policy in the Union demonstrates that countries that do have specific input arrangements for electricity from renewable energy show the highest rates of growth.
Through my report and, in more detail, the report by my colleague Mr Linkohr, we are prompting the Commission immediately to table a motion for a resolution that would organize conditions of access to the electricity network for "green' electricity in such a way that the investment in plant and running costs for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources would become practicable, enabling wide market penetration regardless of the type of system chosen.
Legislative measures such as those just described, as well as concrete, special policies are needed to support renewable energy.
The White Paper gives special prominence to organic substances in the question of doubling renewable energy sources.
That is a very positive signal, particularly for rural areas of the European Union.
But, Commissioner, if we are to take these proposals seriously, there surely has to be a corresponding logical step in the proposals for the reform of the common agricultural policy.
This task applies to all Community policy right across the board and must also be given considerably greater consideration in the special financial promotion programmes of the European Union, whether within the Community or in programmes in third countries, since the necessary resources for the breakthrough campaign alone will cost the public coffers an estimated ECU 4 billion.
The policy of helping renewable energy to make a breakthrough is just as much an opportunity as a necessity.
A doubling by 2010 would give an annual reduction of approximately 400 m tonnes of CO2 ; this alone would fulfil two-thirds of the requirements of the Kyoto objective.
Mr President, I am picking up where Mrs Rothe left off.
Oil currently costs approximately USD 13 per barrel.
Electricity and gas prices in the European Union are set to fall between 20 % and 30 % as a result of increased competition.
This is, incidentally, a procedure we have used many times before.
It would be presumptuous to say that one's own paper really is the best thing we have for the next hundred years to come.
We have dealt with several reports - the Mombaur report, the report on energy policy by Wim van Velzen, the two Rothe reports on the Green Paper and the White Paper.
Now we have this report bearing my name.
It also helps the Commission to know that Parliament stands united behind renewable energy forms.
As we know from the White Paper referred to by Mrs Rothe, the strategy for the promotion of renewable energy will cost some ECU 80 000m - ECU 100 000m over the next decade.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen - we are currently debating the future of European agriculture on all political fronts.
Using replenishable raw materials as renewable energy sources brings this goal within reach, and I therefore wholeheartedly welcome the Commission's White Paper on renewable energy.
However, at this juncture I have to criticize the inadequate proposals for reform in Agenda 2000.
The Commission's objective, according to which renewable energy sources would reach a proportion of 12 %, is laudable and corresponds to a doubling of the current proportion.
Regional purchasing power will be increased in tandem with value creation, and income and living standards will rise.
Likewise, reimbursement for electricity input from renewable energy sources would be needed right across Europe in order to set up a reliable legal framework for its development and use.
The Commission should initiate a pan-European information campaign on the introduction of renewable energy sources, and I urge it to do so.
By supporting research and development in renewable energy we can create hi tech jobs for these regions and so improve conditions for sustainable development.
This has not been emphasized sufficiently in Mrs Rothe's report either.
Mr President, the Commission has called its White Paper "Energy for the Future' .
I believe renewable energy can contribute to achieving all these goals, which are integral to the sustainable, environmentally sound development of the Union.
The White Paper on renewable energy sources is without doubt one of the most significant - or perhaps even the single most significant - ecological document produced by the Commission in recent years.
Mrs Rothe's report constitutes one more qualitative step towards the acceptance of renewable energy sources.
Mrs McNally's Amendment No 2 recognizes the need to set a minimum level of reimbursement for electricity produced from renewable energy sources in consideration of social and ecological use.
Another significant point is that renewable energy sources would also be of consequence to peace policy, above all.
A peace deal for the 21st century can thus only be achieved through the changeover to renewable energy sources.
Accordingly, we cannot really talk about an input directive, but about a directive on input funds.
Reimbursement along uniform and harmonized lines in all Member States is a prerequisite to the acceptance of renewable energy sources.
This should be calculated in such a way as to make the investment in plant for the production of renewable energy sources worthwhile.
Amendment No 3 proposed by Mrs McNally relates to this requirement and should therefore be embraced without reservation.
The demands of the European Parliament need not be any more reticent than the ideas of the Commission.
The intention was that we would use those powers, and I urge you to think very carefully before you reject this constructive measure.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Parliament and Council directive on the internal electricity market - which of course arose out of a Commission initiative, and represents so much work by our colleague Mr Desama - clearly recognizes, in two points, the importance of renewable energy sources.
In one of these points, it clearly says that the Member States can demand that network operators give priority to installations which generate electricity using renewable energy sources.
Since time is short, allow me just to underline paragraph 40, which calls upon the relevant authorities to prepare what the text refers to as a treaty on renewable energies, EURENEW, which combines the European acronym with the English word "renew' .
I also want to mention Mr Linkohr's initiative, very briefly because time is short.
Not because of the principle, Mrs McNally, not because we want to relinquish our rights, but because of the content of some of the provisions which, to my mind, suggest that this document should be considered further and subjected to a better analysis within the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy.
My group welcomes Mr Linkohr's initiative for a directive on the supply of electricity from renewable energy sources to the electricity grid.
On the one hand it is an excellent signal to the Commission and the Member States to make proposals in this sphere.
But on the other hand, the proposed regulation in the annex is too detailed and, in my group's opinion, not always in keeping with the principle of subsidiarity.
In conclusion I therefore say to you that we will vote in favour of the legislative resolution, but unfortunately, we are not able to support the proposals in the annex.
In twenty years time 94 % of our oil, 80 % of our coal and 75 % of our natural gas will be imported from parts of the world which are very often unstable.
Mr President, renewable energy has been something of a lame duck in the Community.
For electricity production the introduction of a Community-wide law on inputs to the grid is a most important step.
Throughout Europe, inputting electricity at specific prices is an instrument for gradually dealing with the centralised structure through secure access to the market for decentralised electricity production from renewable sources.
One of the sectors of the European Union with a high percentage of CO2 emissions is the construction sector, and technological decisions in the construction sector have a long-term effect on the emission rates of all our Member States.
Mr President, as I mentioned during the discussions on the ALTENER II project, Luxembourg already has a supply system, that is, a guarantee on the part of the State regarding the price of electricity from alternative energy sources.
We will put an obstacle in the path of this lobbying in order to offer a true opportunity to wind energy.
The Group of the European People's Party warmly supports the supply of renewable energy to the existing electricity network.
The rapporteur has taken the trouble to delve deeply into the practices of various Member States, and, on the basis of this, has developed a concept directive.
Nevertheless, Mr President, we unfortunately have some fundamental objections to the way this draft directive was worked out in the annex.
I ask the rapporteur to refer his report back to the Commission so that a better and wider consensus can be achieved.
Mr President, the whole debate on energy now centres on two issues.
The two alternatives are, on the one hand, nuclear energy - whether you are in favour or not, it is an essential answer to the problem - and, on the other hand, renewable energy sources whose only handicaps are that they are far from having reached the same degree of maturity as nuclear energy and that they raise a certain number of problems on an economic level for those who invest in the sector.
Mr President, renewable energy is essentially about producing electricity.
We have a conceptual problem in understanding the demand for electricity in our society and how it is growing; and indeed, how much electricity comes out of a conventional power station.
There are three essential points.
In the United Kingdom planning permissions, perhaps more than anything else, are holding back the development of renewables.
I hope that as a result of these debates - and I know that we have all got reservations about the detail - the Commission will come forward with a proposal which will help us to move into an era where renewable energies will provide more of our electricity supply.
It is true to say that both reports make a substantial contribution to the debate on promoting the use of renewable energy sources.
During the preparation of the White Paper the Commission made every possible effort to take into consideration the 1997 resolution of Parliament concerning the Green Paper on renewable energy sources.
As a result, the White Paper essentially expresses in large measure the positions of the European Parliament.
We have now set in motion the review of all existing programmes and actions for the promotion of renewable energy sources at the level of the Member States and, of course, at a Community level.
I have to say that, further to the White Paper, we have been briefed on the development of a series of national action programmes for the promotion of renewable energy sources.
With regard to the campaign for the take-off of renewable sources, we, in the Commission, are at the stage of planning measures in various sectors and we are also preparing the necessary activities for the purpose of information and dissemination.
More specifically, with regard to buildings, we will examine construction legislation, with a view to incorporating provisions in favour of renewable energy sources, especially solar thermal power.
With regard to the issue of the promotion of renewable energy sources via other Community policies, we are studying how we can make better use of the continuing reform of the Structural Funds and the common agricultural policy, as well as the policy of energy production.
I hope that the European Parliament will give special priority to renewable energy sources in the context of its own role, in relation, of course, to the budget.
Last March the Commission submitted its first report on demands for harmonization, which are provided for in the directive for the electricity market.
The Commission is continuing its analysis of the way in which all possible obstacles can be overcome, in view of the developing situation in the Member States.
The aim of the Commission is, by the end of the current year, to submit a motion for a resolution for joint rules concerning the electricity produced by renewable energy sources.
This motion for a resolution must, on the one hand, give a powerful boost to the production of electricity from renewable energy sources and, on the other, ensure a harmonized approach within the Community.
His report will be of help to us, especially during the phase in which we find ourselves today, that is, the preparatory phase of our proposals on this very issue.
With the Rothe and Linkohr reports the European Parliament is continuing to provide sustained support and advice for the promotion of renewable energy sources.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
Counterfeit and pirated goods The next item is the report (A4-0223/98) by Mr Valdivielso de Cué, on behalf of the Committee on External Economic Relations, on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 3295/94 laying down measures to prohibit the release for free circulation, export, re-export or entry for a suspensive procedure of counterfeit and pirated goods (COM(1998)0025 - C4-0159/98-98/0018(CNS)).
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, bad ways, profit and the human condition in general often lead us down certain dark alleyways, which are easier and more profitable than the legally established routes, in order to satisfy our desires to get rich quick.
This impact is very difficult to measure.
The Commission has proposed introducing into the new regulation a series of proposals which substantially modify the earlier regulation currently in force.
Customs services are also being given the chance to intervene in new customs statuses: goods in a free zone or warehouse and goods under customs supervision.
In addition, the European Commission - which I would like to congratulate on what I think is a good piece of work - held a series of meetings and discussions with different business and pressure groups who had certain aspirations they wanted the new regulation to meet.
Even so, the European Commission feels that this relative permissiveness has the effect of favouring small-scale trade and promoting tourism.
The problem of Community harmonization of the penalties which Member States are obliged to impose has become a very difficult problem, mainly due to the coexistence of different legal systems and traditions in the various Member States.
In a world in which millions of people live in conditions of extreme poverty and need, I hope Parliament will be understanding and give its support.
The problem of piracy and counterfeit goods is very real and a threat to European industry.
My group's question to the Commission is therefore: how does the Commission intend to guarantee uniformity of border controls on this issue, in particular in those places where, after enlargement, the European external borders will be monitored by customs officials from a different legal tradition, who are a long way from fully integrating European legislation.
The internal market should not be hindered by protectionism.
The free movement of goods provides healthy competition, and that is good for the consumer.
The dismantling of internal borders makes customs points for traffic with third countries the last instance of control to prevent the infringement of property rights by means of the import or export of illegal, counterfeit goods.
However, for this protection to be effective, water-tight pan-European standards of security need to be in place to prevent illegally produced counterfeits from reaching the European market through weak links in the chain - in other words, countries known to have less rigorous customs arrangements.
Mr President, there can be no doubt that European companies have had to undergo far-reaching reorganizations in order successfully to meet the challenges of an increasingly competitive and open economy.
It is also essential, among other measures, to establish a legal framework which guarantees respect for the rules which govern the world of commerce.
And that, in turn, is why the Commission needs to accept the amendments contained in the Valdivielso de Cué report, insofar as those proposals will help to guarantee respect for international trade rules in matters of intellectual property, and will make it possible to combat commercial practices which cause serious harm to European companies.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the support of the European Parliament for the Commission proposal clearly demonstrates the desire of all of us to fight hard against fraudulent imports in the context of lawful and balanced competition.
We believe that, in the future, in the next few years, and with a view of course to enlargement, we will have achieved the widest and best possible training of customs officials.
Finally, the Commission cannot adopt Amendment No 7, since, in practice, experience has shown that the data obtained in the context of the implementation of the regulation do not offer the possibility of an analysis being undertaken of the kind envisaged in the amendment in question.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, between 18 and 20 May I led the European Commission delegation to the ministerial conference of the WTO which was held in conjunction with the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of GATT, the WTO's predecessor.
Those messages in favour of the WTO system were expressed by virtually all countries at the conference, both developed and developing.
On 20 May the conference adopted a ministerial declaration which encourages and enables us to work to achieve the objective of further trade liberalization as a means to secure greater prosperity and stability.
Secondly, the ministerial declaration inaugurates a process to prepare the ground for a decision to be taken at next year's conference in the United States on further multilateral liberalization.
That process, the work programme that has been set up, does not pre-empt next year's decisions but makes it possible to take ambitious decisions next year if, as I hope, we decide to do so.
The process we authorized will respect existing timetables but also allow work where necessary to be intensified so that all the elements are in place for decision-making next year.
We hope that a decision will be taken next year to launch a comprehensive new round of negotiations - the millennium round - which would cover not only the subjects already agreed to be negotiated, such as agriculture and services, but other areas and sectors of importance to European industry and business, such as industrial tariffs, investment and competition rules, government procurement and so on.
Firstly, it is only through a comprehensive approach that all sectors and interests can be confident that their particular concerns will be covered in the negotiations.
With a round the agenda-setting process is far more wide-ranging and there will be far more options for ultimate decisions than would be the case if a narrower, sectoral approach were pursued.
That means that issues which are difficult for some but important for others cannot be blocked in isolation.
Finally, a comprehensive round implies a single end date which attracts strong political attention at the highest level within member governments and thereby brings pressures to bear to conclude negotiations in time.
Of course our ideas do not yet command universal support and I hope that the consensus-building process will continue in such a way to enable an agreement to be reached to that effect next year.
I welcome the resolution and can agree with much of it.
Parliament also raises some legitimate concerns about the need to ensure that developing countries fully benefit from the WTO system.
I do not share the view that the WTO has benefited only the industrialized countries, but I am the first to recognize that we should continue to make all possible efforts to ensure that further liberalization continues to benefit the poorer members.
The resolution also - and I welcome this - stresses the importance of better integrating environmental and other issues in WTO work and increased dialogue on the WTO with our various social partners.
Parliament has, finally, made some observations on the recent agreement over the Helms-Burton Act reached with the United States.
It is good for Europe because it will permit our countries to invest in Cuba and Iran, but it also includes a strong commitment from the American administration to resist future attempts at extraterritorial measures.
It is entirely consistent with the spirit of the WTO whose rules expressly encourage settlement of differences through bilateral means.
I should like, finally, to place on record my appreciation of the participation of Members of the European Parliament at the conference.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner - the ministerial conference in Geneva could not, of course, answer all the many open questions concerning sensible ongoing development for the WTO.
In order to permit the undisputed benefits of world-wide trade to become a tangible reality to as many people as possible - not only shareholders and big companies - we must continue to work intensively, within the framework of the WTO, with the consequences and by-products of world trade as they affect national distribution of prosperity.
However, one positive outcome of the WTO ministerial conference is that, in the face of increasing uncertainty among international economic players as a result of the crisis in Asia, it confirmed the need to keep the multilateral liberalization of world trade on course.
Nevertheless, this liberalization is not an end in itself.
Thus, for example, we need to build up genuine cooperation between the EU and developing countries in the energy sector in order to give developing countries and third countries alike the possibility of developing their own alternative energy production under their own steam.
All in all, I would like to use this report as an opportunity to point out that the European Parliament needs to make its voice heard more audibly regarding the future of world trade policy if it is to follow government cooperation more critically in this area; in terms of employment policy, this is very important.
Sir Leon Brittan, we really appreciate that you yourself have always been prepared to appear before the Committee on External Economic Relations to report on current development in the WTO.
However, what we need is formal Parliamentary participation in WTO matters; we particularly need written annual reports on the activities of the Commission in this area.
I am pleased to see, Sir Leon, that you have taken the opportunity to make a statement when, due to pressure of time, we can neither reply to what you have said nor even really go into it.
I am pleased about the appraisal of the work of the European Parliament, the resolution and your gratitude for our presence in Geneva.
However, we also know that European Parliament criticism of the fact that not much has been achieved in terms of trade, the environment and social norms is largely down to the developing countries themselves quite understandably dragging their heels on these issues.
Mr President, the WTO ministerial conference in Geneva was no pièce de résistance !
The poor countries have become poorer, in many areas the environment is on the brink of collapse, advances in workers' rights are being dismantled.
In concrete terms, Sir Leon Brittan, are you prepared to press for Article 20 of the GATT to be amended?
Very importantly - and also for the Greek government - we demand good government on the part of our own governments before we enter into a new round of negotiations.
Mr President, it is always argued that an increase in global trade engendered by the removal of trade barriers is a means of achieving greater prosperity and higher living standards for all.
The second issue I wish to raise is that of Cuba and the Helms-Burton Act.
I believe, despite the Commissioner's assurance, that it was a mistake for the European Union to have agreed to the winding-up of the WTO panel which was established to deal with the objections to the Helms-Burton Act in return for the agreement of 18 May between the European Union and the USA, as it appears to accept an element of the extraterritorial validity of US law.
As I understand it, provided that there is a waiver of Titles 3 and 4 of the Helms-Burton Act, the European Union will cooperate in establishing a registry of alleged expropriated properties and will withhold public support from, and discourage investment in, such properties in future by its Member States or its citizens.
It seems unlikely, despite the Commissioner's optimism, that the United States Congress will agree to waivers of Titles 3 and 4 without any change of political control, if one takes into account the statements of Jesse Helms.
I welcome the Commissioner's statement that we shall return to the WTO panel if necessary.
Mr President, Commissioner, I certainly do not want to begin a discussion at this time on the fate of the World Trade Organization, but I would like everyone to know my opinion, which is not an enthusiastic opinion on this conference and on the function carried out by this body.
It was no coincidence - I always point this out because it seems significant to me - that the title of the first conference in Havana was 'Trade and Employment' : employment was one of the objectives.
The Havana Charter never came into force because the United States never ratified it, and all the measures that had been provided for to accompany the liberalization of trade with the necessary measures for development were never adopted.
Today, all we have left is free trade which has produced serious tensions, including in Geneva.
The liberalization of trade does not create free markets but often amplifies imbalances because it gives the strongest greater freedom to rule.
Already it seems to me that the Europeans have accepted commitments not to invest in nationalized property in Cuba - and virtually all property is - and these seem to be serious commitments to me.
I do not think it a very handsome sight to see Europe play a universal role, protecting its own firms and caring nothing about what happens to the firms of the rest of the world which have less bargaining power than we do.
I agree with what he said about cooperation in the energy sector.
But as far as Helms-Burton is concerned, there is absolutely nothing that is agreed which is incompatible with the WTO, which, as I said in my opening observations, positively sets up the system which is not designed to litigate issues to the bitter end and establish points, but to encourage the parties to settle their differences.
There is no restriction whatsoever on investment in Cuba: there is only a statement that, in the circumstances of the Americans' compliance with the agreement, we are not going to give public support for investment, but that only applies to new investment in property that we consider has been expropriated contrary to international law.
On this matter I have received the motion for a resolution B4-0666/98, on behalf of the Committee on External Economic Relations, pursuant to rule 40, paragraph 5 of the Rules of Procedure.
