I believe that this is a great city, where we should perhaps all meet once a year, but the rest of the time we should act in a pragmatic manner, take a practical approach to finances and work in one single headquarters, where we should all be located.
This is much more sensible, much more rational, and I believe that that is how we should view it and, while we should praise this great city for its official status, we have to operate efficiently.
I have here a special feature, which I shall pass on to you, from the local daily newspaper whose pictures clearly show the vast extent of the disaster, with over 30 dead and many more missing.
Thank you very much, Mr Esclopé.
Thank you very much, Mr Tajani.
The outcome of the Berlin conclusions has been further complication of the own resources system and restriction of the European Union' s financial room for manoeuvre.
This Community can only be sustained and developed if our common interests as a whole and our longer-term aspirations are taken account of, and if we are prepared to invest in this.
In this connection, it is the Council' s policy in particular that merits condemnation, for it persists in committing expenditure at international donor conferences, the burden of which falls to the European budget, without ensuring that the corresponding revenue is in place.
Obviously, I recognise that where our proposals are concerned, the Commission, as must we as a Parliament, has to take into account the mood in the Council and the positions adopted there if we want to achieve a workable outcome.
We too could have been more courageous in our demands in respect of reform of the own resources system, and ought to have paid less attention to the discussions taking place at national level.
That is why we want to commit the Commission to making the schedule tighter than it envisaged doing in its report.
Allow me to make clear in a few points the work that we can and must get under way if we are to change the own resource system in such a way that it will also be possible for there to be progress towards reform.
But above all, it means not tampering with the only sources of income that are truly ours, that are the Union' s by right, that is to say, our traditional own resources.
This figure has become a politically reliable basis for cooperation based on partnership between Parliament and the Council.
With regard to the cost of collection, the Committee on Budgetary Control has not objected to the increase in this cost from 10 to 25%.
As for the stand-by percentage of VAT resources, the Committee on Budgetary Control agrees with a reduction thereof and also approves of this reduction occurring one year earlier than planned in the Committee' s proposals.
Finally, Mr President, the Committee on Budgetary Control is of the opinion that, at the half-way stage, we should once again look into a new system of own resources because if new countries join, the current system could well prove to be too complex.
Mr President, the own resources system is the hub of European policy; it directly affects 370 million citizens with national and economic sensibilities of very different types.
The rapporteur applies certain questionable criteria, for example she accuses the Commission of having limited itself to applying Council guidelines.
We also agree that there is a need to take account of the citizen' s fiscal capacity and a need to seek new sources of income.
The current system still contains regressive elements which should be modified.
We believe, however, that this is neither the time nor the place to impose expiry dates on the British rebate and the reductions granted to certain countries in the funding of the said rebate, especially when these proposed decisions have still not been approved in the various national Parliaments.
The Berlin agreements are a combination of the total level and the composition of spending, political reforms and the own resources system.
The said combination must guarantee equity within a budgetary framework which includes enlargement.
It is an accounting system which allows for a broader base for GDP resources and, consequently, greater financial resources, without surpassing the relative index expressly laid down in the Berlin agreements and in the interinstitutional agreement.
The 25% which the Member States are going to retain for collection expenses will allow for an administrative improvement in customs efficiency and the fight against fraud, which is an aspect that is frequently pointed out by the Court of Auditors.
Finally we cannot accept the amendments which modify the timescale for the entry into force of the decision on own resources.
Neither the political reality of the Union, nor the needs of enlargement, and much less the complexity of implementing a system which, in 1997 alone, cost EUR 82,469 million, make it advisable for Parliament to vote for changes to the said timescale.
There are already broad areas of consensus on the basis of which we can contribute to improving the funding of the Union, but the result of the vote in the Committee on Budgets shows that there are some ideas on which we are far from reaching a consensus.
For many of us, our final vote will depend on the result of the voting on various amendments, but, in its current wording, we prefer the Commission' s text.
The Community budget should have a fair system of revenue collection.
It is too early to be making decisions on this subject and setting things in tablets of stone when all the facts are not in front of us.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report.
It will be clear that the economic benefits appeal to the individual Member States, to the detriment of values such as stability, solidarity and welfare in the long term.
The Berlin Summit could also be dubbed the Summit of national exemption positions.
The four countries which, rightly so, have rejected the British correction mechanism, should make an effort to rectify this situation.
Mr President, Mrs Haug, first I would like to offer my thanks.
If one wants to change a system then one must establish clearly in one' s own mind what the disadvantages of the current system are, and I believe that these can be summed up under the following four main headings.
The sources of revenue are limited in number, some are on the wane and additional expenditure can only ever be financed if expenditure elsewhere is cut to pay for this.
This means that tasks such as enlargement of the Union, upholding human rights worldwide, and creating basic conditions for combating severe unemployment can no longer be tackled using this framework.
Absurd because the Member States interpret the concept of fairness in such a way that, in the final analysis, they want to get out of the European Union' s budget that which they put in.
Ultimately, every budget represents the financial implementation of political strategies.
This is the path we must go down if the European Parliament and European Union are to have sufficient own resources at their disposal in the future.
It is, moreover, obvious that limiting the participation of some Member States in financing the UK rebate will have the effect of increasing the contribution of the others.
We are opposed to the Haug Report, however, when it proposes to gradually reduce the system' s dependence on Member States' contributions and to achieve financial autonomy in the long term.
At any event, financial autonomy of this type is still in line with that same rationale which we are clearly against.
We cannot accept this and we shall be voting against this report.
Mr President, last March Parliament examined a first Haug report on own resources.
Now we have another, a sort of Haug II, Return of the Haug, but it is a poor sort of comeback.
On 11 March, in our resolution, we voted in a paragraph stating: "believes that the revenue system should as a matter of principle be rid of exemptions and special arrangements" etc.
We are well aware of what the Berlin Council made of this and what the Council based its Berlin Agreement on.
Now, six months later in November, we are examining a report which makes no mention of this point except for a single amendment which, for my part, I would like to see adopted, but it is a Recital which attempts to say more or less the same thing in even vaguer terms.
The fundamental problem before us may be summed up simply as follows: either the system of own resources is referred to us under co-participation, as part of the package of measures which Parliament is asking the IGC to deal with so as to make it, as it were, more democratic, with greater participation, or else, unfortunately, all we can do on this point is note that the ball is in the Council' s court and will stay there for a long time if our proposals are not taken into consideration.
I believe and I hope, therefore, that Parliament may, on the basis of this report, be supported with revenue by this reference in particular as well as by others, and by the elements contained in it, and that Parliament will associate itself to a formal demand, according to which the Intergovernmental Conference will be authorised to tackle both the proposed reforms and also this fundamental aspect of the full participation of Parliament not only as regards the "expenditure" but also as regards the "revenue" of the Union budget.
Mr President, almost thirty years ago it was decided to replace the system of revenues then in force, based on the contribution of the Member States, with a system of own resources.
The perverse relationship between the contribution from each Member State and its relative ability to guarantee it is unacceptable.
Only a new approach to the issue of own resources which does not increase the fiscal burden on taxpayers, one which makes the system more transparent, simpler and more rational can provide the European Union with equitable conditions.
Berlin was a step backwards in the field of own resources and, in general, in the field of European solidarity and construction of the political union.
In any event, Parliament criticised it severely in the Spring.
The decision on own resources which we are discussing today, which is merely a translation on the part of the Commission of the European Council' s political decision, is the best evidence of this retrograde step.
Parliament' s position is to condemn and rule out the application of the so-called principle of fair return to the European budget.
Berlin maintains it but also offers four small rebates to Germany, Austria, Sweden and the Netherlands, which are not exactly the poorest countries in Europe.
Therefore, it should be made clear that the objective must be that the citizens directly shoulder the burden of the Community budget without an opaque system of resources which will mask the process and prevent democratic accountability.
Mr President, the draft resolution proposes to increase the European Union' s own resources and to distribute them among the States in a different way.
Thus, the most badly paid employees and even the unemployed or the homeless, when paying VAT on their food, are contributing towards financing the European institutions which, nonetheless, have not undertaken a single measure in their favour.
The basic raison d'être of the European Union is to favour large firms by sweeping the obstacles out of their path, unifying their market in Europe and supporting them on the international market.
Finally, who decides who must pay?
The report by Jutta Haug recalls the objective of this overhaul.
It is fourfold: to simplify the system, to create greater transparency thus making it more comprehensible, to strengthen the financial autonomy of the European Union and to reduce the imbalances between Member States' shares in the budget.
The envisaged readjustment of the balance between the four types of resource and, in particular, the reduction of the VAT share in favour of the GNP-related share of each country is of particular interest, since it is far more equitable.
Firstly, it is essential that the imbalances in the current budget shares due to rebates, which are perhaps justified in terms of previous history, should be gradually, progressively but persistently dismantled and that the contributions of each country are brought to what they should be in objective, accounting terms.
The second point I wish to draw your attention to is one I find extremely strange.
And, in the same context, we reject concepts such as fair return or the false issue of net financial contributions.
I understand that such a reform will have to target national contributions that correspond effectively to the respective economic development, so the GNP will have to be strengthened as an essential indicator for such contributions.
This is what we have always maintained, in clear opposition to the repeated but inconsequential proposals for creating new jobs as a source of own resources.
First of all I would say that anything that we decide in a democratic way, through the institutions of the Union, about own resources, is what own resources are.
If we have a fixed figure that the European Union needs as own resources, then obviously if we leave the Member States more of what we call the traditional own resources, we have to collect more of that as a percentage of GNP.
The balance of advantage, or the balance of returns to Member States, is extremely difficult to calculate.
If you look at Holland and Germany, on whose behalf there was so much crying in this Parliament, you will find that the single market has given them immense benefits and they have had extremely positive balances in their trade with the rest of the Union over the years.
Mr President, the EU will be faced with having to make very large financial investments when, in different rounds, ten or more countries from Eastern and Central Europe and from the Baltic region become members.
However, I would also like to make quite plain the fact that in return, I would expect the Member States to step up the measures for supervising the own resources as appropriate and to stop trying to talk their way out of this, so that these supervisory measures really do start showing favourable results.
I welcome the fact that Parliament has again had such an in-depth debate on the financing structure and I personally welcome still more the fact that I have been able to discern a great deal of common ground between my own basic position and the positions expressed today in the contributions to the debate.
In October 1998, the Commission presented a report on the revenue side of the budget and possibilities for reform.
The citizens are no longer able to tell what proportion of their taxes is spent on the European Union.
This lack of transparency is a bad thing and as such is reason enough, in my view, for us to endeavour to make reforms.
I share the view - as I emphasised during my hearing before this Parliament back in September - that it should be our aim in reforming the financing system to strengthen the financial autonomy of the Community.
I also share the view that an equitable approach to planning the budget is not something that should be reserved for the revenue side alone, and I share the view that we should not wait until the year 2006 to have a debate on reform, but rather that the debate, together with its administrative back-up, should take place in this legislative period.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
These changes and the strengthening of budgetary discipline apparent in both the conclusions of the Berlin European Council and the new interinstitutional agreement are the main reasons why this decision needs to be amended and supplemented with new mechanisms.
This means that the facilities provided for in the interinstitutional agreement must be used before these measures are applied.
Mr President, for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the principle aspects of this report on budgetary discipline on which we have presented amendments are the following: Firstly, the new coverage of the agricultural guidelines and their future revision.
The Commission includes within the scope of the guidelines the available amounts foreseen in the Financial Perspective for accession, which appear in heading 8 of the interinstitutional agreement.
This heading envisages a hypothetical scenario prior to enlargement for the purposes of mere illustration and orientation.
In fact, the correct thing to do would be to re-examine the guidelines before the first enlargement on the basis of the real needs so as not to block a series of guideline appropriations with total uncertainty with regard to their suitability in terms of amount as well as timescale.
Secondly, the adequate funding of rural development and the accompanying measures.
In this respect, the Commission is urged to introduce sufficient flexibility in its management in order to respond appropriately to the multiannual and non-compulsory nature of these expenses.
Lastly, in relation to the increases in the management powers of the Commission, by means of which it can reduce the amount of direct aid or suspend the payment of monthly advances to the States, we consider that Parliament is not sufficiently involved in the adoption of these measures.
The report now under discussion concerns agricultural expenditure.
It follows that in future Parliament will have an even greater responsibility than before for agricultural policy.
In this regard, the spirit of the report, which stresses the importance of cooperation between the Council and Parliament, is very good.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, budgetary discipline plays an important part in all policy areas so that we can guarantee a balanced budget in the long term.
Of course, this is particularly important in those policy areas that are of great budgetary significance in quantitative terms, and the agricultural sector is still the largest sector when it comes to expenditure.
At the Berlin Summit and then in the interinstitutional agreement, the Council, Parliament and the Commission agreed to fix the ceilings on agricultural expenditure, and thus to stabilise the agricultural share in the overall budget in the long term.
In addition, the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission decided that there should be no interchangeability between the expenditure categories for the market regulation measures in the agricultural sector and the measures for rural development.
It is necessary, under such conditions, for the Commission to be able to have recourse to suitable measures when it becomes apparent, in the course of preparation of the budget or its implementation, that the ceilings are being exceeded or are at risk of being exceeded.
In fact the first corresponding revision of budget 2000 has already been carried out now as per the relevant procedure, because it became apparent that unless an across-the-board cut was carried out, this ceiling would, under certain circumstances, have been exceeded.
Allow me to say in response that the Commission would only entertain the idea of undertaking a revision of the Financial Perspective in the event of truly unforeseen needs arising.
What is important is that the reform steps for agricultural policy introduced in Agenda 2000 should also find expression in the Union' s budget, and we need a sound decision on budgetary discipline to this end.
Mr President, Commissioner, would you support me in my observation that the proposal you are making means that the Council' s commitments will actually be eliminated from the compulsory funds but the Council' s rights, in particular those pertaining to the re-routing of surplus funds, will be preserved, which means in effect that there will be a switch from compulsory funds to non-compulsory funds without Parliament retaining its sovereign rights over this sector of the budget?
However, you all know what my view is on the issue of the division between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure.
Mr President, in my capacity as draftsman for the interinstitutional agreement from which this decision is derived, I would like to know the Commission' s position, because no statement has been made with regard to our proposal to exclude the expenses foreseen for future accession from the guidelines.
Instead, the Commission' s proposal includes expenses which do not form part of the Financial Perspective within the guidelines.
In fact, the decision was also taken to establish measures for development aid in the agricultural policy sector now.
When it comes to the question as to whether the expenditure earmarked for agricultural policy will be sufficient, it is certainly necessary to keep a constant eye on how the situation in the applicant countries is evolving and to establish what the assumptions were that the Berlin Summit based its estimate of necessary expenditure on.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have granted two requests to speak over and above the speakers ' list since we are well on schedule.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Mr President, I could limit my intervention to simply presenting the supplementary and amending budget SAB 5 and explaining my recommendation to vote in this Parliament.
But, Mr President, we have to understand that SAB 5 cannot be seen in isolation, but that it forms a whole with SAB 4 and what we call the global transfer and the Notenboom procedure.
On presenting the SAB 4 and in the tripartite dialogue, on the 7th, before the adoption of that SAB 4, the Commission announced that the supplementary and necessary payment appropriations - EUR 650.5 million in particular for PHARE, TACIS, Obnova and FYROM - were covered, or were going to be covered, by means of three instruments: SAB 4, the global transfer and SAB 5, which today is the object of our debate and resolution.
And SAB 5 would also serve to increase the posts in OLAF from 15 to 30, as the supervisory committee recommended in its report on this body, so that OLAF may begin to work in accordance with the priorities which had already been identified.
On 15 September, Parliament discussed SAB 4 and it was then approved, both by Parliament and by the Council, in the vote in plenum.
But with regard to the global transfer, which is one of the three instruments, and which the Commission had presented to increase the payment appropriations, part of this whole does not pass through this procedure in the Plenum.
I would recommend an improvement in 2000.
I do not want to be firmer with you, but I believe it is important, given that we said the 1999 budget was a bridge, not only with regard to funding, but also in the setting down of the political priorities for the new Millennium.
Lastly, of the three instruments, it is SAB 5 which we are examining today with an additional EUR 202 million in payment appropriations for external actions and these 15 additional posts for OLAF.
It takes note of SAB 5 and indicates once again that the forecasts for agricultural expenditure have been excessive.
OLAF, which came into operation on 1 July this year, thereby disbanding UCLAF, the previous anti-fraud office, is a new body and we want to do everything we can to make it run efficiently.
That is why we were most disappointed that people took so much convincing when it came to adding a further fifteen posts to the fifteen provided for in the supplementary and amending budget 4/1999, i.e.
But the full staffing plan really ought to guarantee that OLAF is fully up and running by 2001 at the latest.
They may not be undertaking this work on a voluntary basis - they receive a certain amount of money to cover costs, but this is not payment in the real sense - and they require appropriate support.
You will have had contact with the monitoring committee by now and in so doing also have allowed yourself to be persuaded that this work is necessary to guarantee the independence of OLAF.
Yesterday, we decided on the procedure for appointing the director of OLAF in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
What we are in fact seeing is this budget being amended rather drastically for the fifth time.
We concluded an interinstitutional agreement at the beginning of this year which was to strengthen people' s faith in cooperation between the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
If this faith is to be justified, then what we produce in consequence of our decisions and in our discussions must have a firm basis.
I want to make that very plain and make specific reference to the figures that have been placed before us for Kosovo.
We want there to be a firm basis now; we want it to be made plain that the situation in Kosovo has gone on for several years now and that we must work together on this for several years to come.
Therefore, I am pleased that by means of this supplementary and amending budget of EUR 202 million the new posts can be increased from 15 to 30 and that, furthermore, it should be done this time with the agreement of the Council.
Mr President, this supplementary and amending budget 5/99 is an important step towards ensuring that the new anti-fraud office, OLAF, will soon have the power to act.
Last night, the Committee on Budgetary Control established a hearings procedure for the candidates.
There were 450 applicants.
Parliament and the Council decided that this is how it should work, so as to ensure that the new director would be independent of the Commission.
Mrs Schreyer, I believe that you will have been able to deduce - from these and also from my intervention in September - that we are very concerned about the need to rectify and reassign the amounts within the budget itself.
Mrs Schreyer, I would like to ask you a simple question: has the Commission, given what we have heard here in September and today, addressed the question of how, in the budget for 2000, we can avoid the situation whereby, in the middle of November, we are still producing a supplementary, amending and transferring budget?
Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this fifth letter of amendment for the budget of 1999 is in accordance with the directives proposed in May in budgetary conciliation.
As such, account is also being taken of the negative effects that the Kosovo conflict and the Kosovo war had on the situation in Macedonia, among other things, and we can at last come up with the budgetary aid this country badly needs and that was promised back in the spring or summer.
It is true: the independent monitoring committee - and I would like to place great emphasis here on the word "independent" in the context of the monitoring committee - picked out 11 candidates it considered suitable from the multitude of applications.
Parliament had already transferred EUR 30 million less in the overall carry-over.
Again, I can assure you, as I also did in the trialogue, that we support this amendment and request the Council to adopt it.
If this modified supplementary and amending budget is adopted, then it will be possible, in 1999, taking into account all the amendments, to make available and finance an additional EUR 670 million for the PHARE and TACIS programmes, for south-east Europe and other programmes, mainly from unused funds in the agricultural sector.
Mr Bösch explained it in great detail.
They are clearly set out in Regulation 1037/1999 and in the interinstitutional agreement.
Parliament is not in a position to say "we will hear eleven ", or if there is another list, "we will hear four" !
First of all you must reach agreement with the monitoring committee and then you must officially pass the list on to us so that we can then set our own procedure in train, come to an agreement with the Council and then make a proposal to you as regards who to appoint.
Ultimately therefore, you appoint in name only, but the procedure leading up to this must be conducted properly.
Mrs Schreyer, I agree with you and I am very pleased that agricultural expenditure will in fact have to fund this last SAB.
But I also take you at your word when you say that we are going to take great care in the budget to ensure that the reassignments do not alter the priorities that the European Parliament has set.
And I take your word so that in 2000, as part of a joint effort, which is much more intense and much more open, we may from the outset prevent priorities such as the Baltic regions or actions in favour of children from being the first to be affected, because there is a suspicion that it is perhaps not you who do not want to carry them out, but rather other powers which are behind it.
The Commission now has to hand the recommendation of its nomination committee and this selection was made on the basis of the list of eleven candidates.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 p.m.
Mr President, both the Maastricht and the Amsterdam Treaties focus on environment protection measures.
Three priorities have been set for integrating these environmental objectives in energy policy.
We, in Europe, must do our part and set a good example to the rest of the world, while recognising that the major pressure for energy consumption in future will come from countries like the United States, which is rather profligate in its consumption of energy, and also from developing countries which, as their economies grow and they raise their standard of living, will look for more energy consumption, which is likely to come from rather polluting sources of energy.
The report also calls on the Commission to support the process of integrating these environmental objectives in energy policy through research into the impact of climate change, through research into all possible technologies, through research into identifying the best indicators to measure achievements in reducing emissions and through regular reports to Parliament.
The report reminds us that in order to achieve significant improvement in global environmental protection measures and reduction of emissions, we need dialogue and consensus with both our trading competitors and developing countries alike.
It would be a mistake for this reference to nuclear energy to distract attention from the main thrust of this report, which is about improving energy efficiency, drawing more supply from renewable sources, and integrating our environmental objectives in our energy policy.
It is a good report.
Another way in which the European Union seeks to further environmental policy in the field of energy is by setting up programmes promoting the efficiency of installations.
But I want to again make clear today that the most important environmental policy measure we have taken to date was when we abolished the monopolies and introduced competition in the directives on gas and electricity of 1996 and 1998.
I also want to draw your attention to one aspect in particular.
Variable rates will lead to consumption over a 24 hour period being corrected and as such better use will be made of the installation capacity and fewer installations will be required.
I would also like to remind you that these directives provide for priority regulations with respect to the supply of electricity from renewable energies and combined heat and power systems.
What we still lack though and what the previous Commission failed to achieve, and what we hope will be achieved in the end, is a European directive which does not just provide for the regulation in technical terms of the supply of electricity from renewable energy, but which also clearly sets out, in accordance with European competition law, models that show how electricity produced by this method can be promoted in a manner which meets Community requirements.
Consequently, and until there is evidence to the contrary, I will continue to regard all deliberations in respect of CO2 as nothing more than an increase in taxation by the backdoor, and I personally would only be prepared to support this if other taxes were to be cut in advance, rather than just an announcement made.
This will certainly not be the last debate on environment and energy policy that we have in this House.
However this report has enabled us to make some headway.
Had we been conducting this debate 10 or 20 years ago then there would have been very different things at the forefront of our minds.
Europe' s air quality has improved and a whole range of initiatives has been set in train in those areas where there is still room for improvement.
That is the new task which the European Union has in store for it.
In other words, if we want to improve the quality of the air, if we want to tackle the greenhouse effect then we must also continue to focus heavily on combating these effects, which are caused by burning fossil fuels.
Unfortunately we do not discuss this nearly enough, but it really is still the case that improved burning technologies - and energy-saving devices too, incidentally, but above all improved burning technologies - offer the best chance of success in this area.
The fuel cell is certain to be of benefit to us in the years to come and the same goes for the combined heat and power system.
There is a whole host of examples of initiatives that have been pursued in villages or towns, or by individual groups, which have led to a great deal of energy being saved or to new technologies being implemented more rapidly than is usually the case.
On a final note though, I would like to mention two phenomena not directly associated with the European Union but with the world climate.
The second phenomenon concerns the burning of what is known as associated gas, in Russia and also in the Near East.
I would just like to draw your attention to this phenomenon.
Where nuclear energy helps us achieve our CO2 objectives, it also adds to the environmental problems of nuclear waste, which is completely opposed to the objectives of the communication of the Committee before us, namely a more powerful integration of the environment into the energy policy.
My second point concerns Amendment No 7 submitted by the Liberal Group with regard to section 1.
My group is delighted that the rapporteur has accepted this as a supplement.
A further incentive to integrate policies on energy and environment is the introduction of an eco-tax, as is already in place in the Netherlands and Sweden.
The introduction of an eco-tax may lead to more energy efficiency and, as such, lower energy consumption.
The most vital requirement of energy and environmental policy as we approach the millennium is to meet our Kyoto commitments, and here of course a CO2 tax would have a major role to play.
Legally-binding targets for renewable energies are an important part of this strategy, but we must also have very clearly the externalisation of internal costs in respect of traditional energy production.
Mr President, energy is at the heart of any economic or social activity.
The European Union is still highly dependent on energy.
Designing an energy policy which respects the environment therefore requires determined effort.
The European Union is itself undertaking to ratify the Kyoto Protocol by the year 2002 and is campaigning for measures which are different for developing countries and for industrialised countries.
Its CO2 emissions were reduced by 19% in 1997.
There is, therefore, cause for concern in the fact that the Commission and the Council continue to regard opening the energy market to free competition as an essential phase.
Finally, the rapporteur is astonished, rightly so, that the Commission makes no mention whatsoever of nuclear energy even though it contributes towards reducing CO2 emissions, even if this energy should be safer and more environmentally friendly.
Such key issues merit extensive public debate, enabling everyone to come to terms with the challenges and choices involved in energy policy.
The Commission' s communication on strengthening environmental integration within Community energy policy is very welcome in view of its realistic approach to the question.
The efforts at Community level complement those of Member States.
With the combined efforts of the Community and the Member States which have primary responsibility for energy policy, I believe that these targets can be attained.
Mr Chichester recognises the limited role Parliament can play in energy policy, given that it is essentially a Member State competence.
I support initiatives at European level which contribute to the efforts of Member States to meet their commitments under the Kyoto Protocol on limiting greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector.
We recently voted to renew the same programme with increased funding and this will make a valuable contribution to Member States' efforts.
The policy on CO2 reduction should not prejudice the efforts to cut down on the above-mentioned emissions.
In Amendments Nos 2 and 5, the application of total energy is recommended, so as to save energy and, consequently, reduce CO2 emissions.
Mr President, I would like first of all, to congratulate the rapporteur, especially on his skill in extracting the nuclear issue from this report.
The problem also involves the appropriations.
This is evidence that even today there is a hidden policy to promote nuclear power, which is no longer tolerable, in my opinion.
The 12% renewable energy target is totally inadequate and, even despite that, there is a risk that it will not be possible to achieve it.
Mr President, Members of the Commission, although the importance of environmental considerations has grown over the years, the aim of the Union' s energy policy in the future too must be to ensure that Europe' s industrial and household energy supply is kept at a competitive price.
We have invested in the increased use of renewable energy resources, and we have expressed our firm desire to take account of the requirements of a sustainable energy economy in the enlargement process.
At the same time, we must, however, acknowledge that the demands concerning the Union' s energy policy are partly contradictory.
In connection with this report, there was a wish to discuss nuclear power, and how appropriate a means of production it will be in the future.
The share of nuclear energy in electricity production must be kept at least at its present level, and it should perhaps even be increased, so that we can achieve the ambitious target for the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, to which all of you, my good friends, including Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel and Mrs Ahern, and everyone else in this House, are committed.
Mr President, this is an important report and the work of a professional.
It is predicted that the additional need for gas will be approximately 150 billion cubic metres in 2020, twenty years from now.
Russia' s gas production will also start declining in a few years' time.
To meet the gas consumption requirement for this region we will perhaps need four or five pipelines of additional gas.
The environmental dimension must also be included in energy policy at regional and local level.
That too has been mentioned in this report.
Mr President, it is extremely important that arrangements be made to introduce environmental considerations into energy policy, and I therefore welcome the Commission' s announcement.
It is high time that the EU began to prioritise its own objectives in connection with doubling energy production from renewable energy sources.
The directive established a situation in which it would be open to producers in all EU countries to supplement national subsidies for over and above the first 5% of energy from plant which uses renewable energy sources.
If we take as read that we import more than 50% of the European Union' s total energy requirement then we definitely need to ask ourselves the following question: how can we guarantee reliability of supply in the face of climate change, which in view of the worldwide CO2 problem may, indeed will affect us, not just if there is a failure to take preventive action on our part, but, above all, if there are changes in the political climate?
CO2 levels are constant to rising slightly, we achieved a 30% reduction in SO2 levels between 1990 and 1994 and a 9% reduction in the case of NOx.
Increasingly, nuclear energy is being replaced by gas.
That is why we consider reliability of supply in this sector to be paramount and also why Parliament does not intend to give way in the negotiations with the Council on ALTENER and SAVE - that is to say with EUR 81 million and EUR 68 million.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is with great satisfaction that I receive the Commission communication on the inclusion of environmental aspects in the energy policy, even if, like many people, I must deplore the serious delays which have arisen in this field in Europe.
In fact, many Member States, with jurisdiction in this area, have too often chosen to overlook this issue, resulting in real ecological disasters.
Firstly there is the challenge of the safety of our power supplies and the energy dependence of the European Union, a dependence which is going to grow and which is likely, we are told, to reach 70% in the year 2020, with all the consequent political risks.
Next, there is the commitment made at Kyoto to reduce CO2 emissions by 8% relative to their 1990 level.
Confronted with these two challenges, there are some arguing in favour of the all-nuclear solution, while others are arguing in favour of completely giving up nuclear power.
I would be more in favour of a balanced development of energy sources, retaining the nuclear share but especially developing renewable energies.
The European Union has set the target of increasing the share of renewable energies from 6% to 12% by the year 2010, but the financial resources must be found for this and, today, we are a long way off, to judge by the latest discussion in the Conciliation Committee.
In order to meet these challenges and overcome these contradictions, what we need, very quickly, is cooperation at every level, in the Member States and with candidate countries, to enlist the assistance of candidate countries and to work within the terms of the fifth framework programme.
The main problem, as I see it, lies in the fact that the industrialised nations have done too little at home.
I would also like to thank all the Members of Parliament who have participated in this debate for their constructive and positive contributions.
The energy sector has made a substantial contribution to improving air quality on a local and regional level as compared to previous practices.
The directive on large combustion plants with regard to the reduction of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides and the Auto Oil programme to deal with the problem of air quality in cities, are good examples.
I would like to highlight the existing cooperation between the energy and environmental sectors.
This confirms that there are ways of strengthening integration and, as a result, establish environmental quality standards at a cost which will not affect European competitiveness, which is an issue that should always be taken into account.
The insistence on the need to influence the instincts of the people and the habits of the consumer and to establish channels of communication with the citizens and small and medium-sized businesses confirms the importance which political leadership will have with regard to changing our consumer habits and promoting sustainable development.
As I often point out, we have to start by providing an example, by way of public facilities and public buildings, and by way of the public sector and the institutions, of how energy can be used in a more efficient and rational way.
The resolution of Parliament reminds all of us of the external dimension, that is to say, the process of enlargement and relations with non-EU countries, especially the developing countries; it requires that we adopt a realistic, balanced and flexible approach to the development of policies, which is especially important when it comes to examining the combination of energy sources and its evolution over time.
The Commission agrees with Parliament that it is necessary to adopt a broad approach in order to promote the use of energy sources with low carbon content in order to satisfy demand.
In our programmes, we insist on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
These demand policies are a central pillar of our sustainable approach to energy policy aimed at addressing the major environmental concerns of our citizens.
And we must carefully analyse the economic and social consequences of our political decisions in the energy and environment sectors.
Undoubtedly, this is a debate which we will have to lend all our attention to, and I hope that, throughout the coming months and, of course, before the end of this Commission' s mandate, we will be able to fully develop it, transparently, intensely and effectively in the discussions, as has been the case with the discussion of this report.
Mr President, I support what Mr Cappato said.
It can accept in principle, but subject to further reworking, Amendments Nos 1, 4, 5, 13, 12 - the two parts of Amendment No 12 - and 15.
In addition there is a particularly acute problem in Wales where the British Medical Association calculates that 30% of junior doctors are working longer than the recommended 40 hours a week.
The figure in Scotland by comparison is calculated at 10%.
There is a huge problem in terms of recruitment in the profession, and a haemorrhaging of trained doctors to other countries due to the excessive working hours.
We are therefore going to vote against Amendment No 1.
We also consider that Amendment No 7 concerning fishermen' s working times is too far-reaching.
I call on my own Irish Government to support this working time directive in line with the rapporteur' s suggestions.
I also call on the Commission to support Commissioner Byrne as he strives to be pro-active in public healthcare by ensuring that patient care and the health and training of non-consultant hospital doctors is protected. - (DA) The Danish Social Democrats have today voted for the Smet report on changing certain aspects of the organisation of working time.
We agree that the reference period for offshore work may be extended to 12 months.
We think it is important that the social partners in the labour market should be involved in such important questions as the organisation of working time.
This directive will require an adequate transposition period with staged reductions in working time.
Regarding the latter, the European Commission' s initial proposal was that the application of the directive should be extended to doctors in training over a transitional period of seven years.
We demanded that this period should be reduced to four years, with a maximum weekly working time of fifty-four hours (subject to negotiation) during that time.
In this context, Parliament has already had occasion to adopt proposed amendments to a number of directives addressing the technical improvement of engines and fuel quality.
This temptation must be avoided at all cost, for a number of reasons.
In presenting his reasons, the rapporteur explains that the amendments adopted at the first reading by the European Parliament have made a significant contribution towards improving the initial Commission proposal.
He specifies that the Council has, in its common position, taken on board some of Parliament' s significant amendments.
I fully share this point of view.
The rapporteur has, however, has started on the path of one-upmanship, and, in supporting 47 amendments, he was taking the risk of causing a delay in the entry into force of the best terms of this text.
Mr President, the Chichester report will certainly have important repercussions on European energy policy.
The diversity of sources must be acceptable.
Indeed, while it remains extremely vague on most environmental matters related to the energy sector, this resolution proposes that, in future, in the countries of the EU, nuclear-based electricity production should at least retain the share which it currently has.
And this at a time when an increasing number of European countries are deciding to get out of nuclear power.
We can do nothing other than vote against this draft resolution.
As the House is probably aware, there have been recent announcements by David Trimble of the Ulster Unionist Party and Gerry Adams of Sinn Fein.
I am sure that the President will want to write on behalf of the European Union to congratulate all parties concerned on their actions, their courage and their determination to carry the peace process and decommissioning forward, and I am sure that you will agree that peace in Northern Ireland offers hope to everyone everywhere.
In order to improve this situation, the Member States concluded an appropriate agreement as early as 1997, on which Parliament gave its position.
As such, the Commission is exercising its right of initiative in the Community sphere of judicial cooperation in civil matters, based on Article 61c EEC in accordance with the procedure of Article 67, that is a unanimous decision from the Council of Ministers following parliamentary hearing.
The United Kingdom and Ireland have declared that they wish to play a full part in the activities of the Community in judicial cooperation in civil matters.
We are talking about one of several proposed measures in this field.
The most essential points to note are that in future, the transmission of documents is to proceed in a decentralised manner, directly between so-called transmitting agencies and receiving agencies, thus avoiding the delays caused by involving other agencies in the individual countries concerned.
For these reasons, we are proposing to you a series of deletions and amendments intended to eliminate special provisions of this kind or at least only to permit them in exceptional cases, as for example with Articles 2, 9, 12 and 15.
I am also in the Commission' s debt for the proposal it so rightly put forward which will bring about a considerable improvement in legal entitlement across national borders.
However, the proposal does not go far enough.
Accordingly, I would ask you to give me your support and I would ask the Commission and Council of Ministers to adopt our proposals in the interests of improved legal entitlement for the citizens of our Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, creating a uniform judicial area is one of the European Union' s fundamental tasks.
The uniform European judicial area must therefore be more than judicial cooperation between the Member States on the basis of international treaties.
When we have finished with it, it will be possible to make it available for inspection, for the Commission has produced a good proposal.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to digress and touch on the matters of everyday life with which our legislation concerns itself.
I intend to table the compromise we have reached as an oral amendment at the vote, and it is my hope that this distinguished Chamber will lend its support to this process tomorrow.
As you are already aware, three Member States are not, in principle, party to the legally relevant acts of Title IV, in accordance with the Additional Protocols to the Treaty of Amsterdam, and are therefore not bound by them.
Firstly, when conflicts occur, the welfare of the children must be paramount and all other interests must take second place.
The law must afford everyone, wherever they happen to be in the European Union, a comparably high level of individual protection.
I believe I have the support of the Commission and I would like to thank all those who, by virtue of their constructive cooperation, made things easier for me with this report outside the parliamentary routine.
Mr President, both these reports before us today recognise the increasing mobility of persons and the rise in contractual and commercial transactions across our Union.
As the internal market develops, our citizens really need a legal framework that guarantees them access to justice wherever they are and whatever their problems.
We want to give our citizens across the Union real access to justice so that when they have to resort to the courts they can get things up and running quickly and without difficulties.
Anyone who comes into contact with judges and registrars in the cross-border areas of our Member States will know that this is a problem that urgently requires solving.
In my opinion, this is particularly problematic, since the fact that negative judgements are not binding in all States may ultimately mean that a State in which a negative judgement is made may not recognise a positive judgement made in another state, with the result that we are once again faced with the disintegration of what constitutes law in the European Union, which, of course, we do not want.
Mr President, the submitted proposal on matrimonial and custody cases represents a clear improvement for the citizens of the European Union and is particularly welcomed by the PPE Group.
This was made possible by means of the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty on 1 May this year, which as part of heading IV in Articles 61 and 65 makes judicial cooperation in civil cases a firm part of the EC Treaty.
This will enable the creation of a European legal area finally granting European citizens throughout the entire EU a common feeling of legal security and guaranteeing them a standard of marital status that is the same across Europe.
Problems arising in the European Union in the past with regard to marriages between people of different nationality have been due to the fact that documents attesting to marital status used in connection with marriage ceremonies were not recognised in the same way by all the Member States.
The purpose of the present regulation is to improve and accelerate within the internal market the free movement of judgements in matrimonial cases and in parental responsibility proceedings.
The aim of the European Union is to create an area of freedom, security and justice in which the free movement of people is guaranteed and in which citizens of the Union can assert their rights with the same guarantees that they could obtain from the courts in their own country.
In such a linguistically diverse legal area as the European Union, uncertainty and discrimination with regard to marriages between people of different nationality can also arise due to a lack of linguistic proficiency.
Recognising divorce decrees and judgements regarding parental responsibility will solve the legal and administrative problems with which citizens are confronted on a daily basis.
The entry into force of this regulation will fill a loophole that has existed in the field of international private law and represents an important step towards extending the Union into an area of freedom, security and justice.
Mr President, the path that we are taking in the area of judicial and civil cooperation is the right one.
The fact that we have this regulation on the agenda is also a very good way indeed of celebrating children' s rights.
I also share the view of Mrs Wallis, a colleague from my group, that we must go further, partly through supporting her amendments but also, I hope, through the Commissioner' s seeing new possibilities in the light of the Tampere Summit as to how we might go further in this area.
Mr President, after hearing the statement given yesterday by Commissioner Vitorino on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, I am happy that we are today discussing concrete issues from which children can really benefit.
When these marriages take place or indeed are dissolved, particular problems frequently arise due to the different laws of the two States.
The new proposal by the Council for a regulation on the jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgements in matrimonial cases and parental responsibility proceedings now guarantees uniform marital status for the citizens of Europe.
Marriage and divorce documents as well as judgements should, as a result, be recognised in all countries of the European Union.
In particular, the welfare of the children from these marriages must be ensured.
Only in this way can we achieve legal security in the international domain for the citizens and children of Europe.
The problem we are working on here is, in reality, not only a European problem but also a global, cross-frontier problem.
As a Dane, I have a special problem, of course, when we talk about making decisions concerning legal questions under pillar 1, but I am certain that it is a problem which can be solved, for this is undoubtedly an area which Denmark also wishes to see put in order.
Essentially, what we are dealing with is the protection of minors, which is already very difficult when they live in families that we could define as normal, or rather traditional.
Many of us, the different Member States of the European Union, have already addressed the issue of using children' s guardians at a time when families are going through a particularly difficult time in their lives, such as when couples separate, with all the repercussions - especially in psychological terms - that affect the children involved.
Furthermore, attributing this new area of competence to the Court of Justice would surely increase the Court' s caseload, which is already excessive.
If these amendments were to be adopted, it would be difficult for me to support this proposal.
The obvious solution is to unify international private law rules exclusively, without unifying the fundamental rules.
It must be possible to clearly identify which law the court is going to apply, since a court with local jurisdiction does not necessarily apply its national law and in some circumstances this procedure is a fair one.
As for the development of enforcement procedures - the enforcement orders or "exequatur" for foreign judgements - this is no doubt useful in civil cases, such as divorce or custody cases, just as they are useful in some aspects of mutual assistance in legal matters, but care must be taken not to go too far along this route.
I shall not mention Switzerland' s degrading handover of an old man, 90 years old, to France, since this is a matter involving a country which is not a member of the European Union, but I shall simply mention the increasingly repressive legislation which mean to dictate political and historical attitudes, a phenomenon I would not like to see spreading from one European state to the next.
However, this generally positive assessment of the directive notwithstanding, I believe that numerous matters still remain unresolved, such as full application of the new arrangements to third country nationals resident in the European Union and to persons living together outside close, traditional family arrangements.
We all have a recollection of a number of cases, such as the Lancelin-Thiemann case which last year contaminated discussions between Germany and France on the subject of the dramatic situation of the children of this couple.
The Gebhardt report rightly stresses that the increasing level of free movement within the European Union is causing and will in future cause an increasing number of marriages between nationals of different countries, hence the interest of examining this question.
Current European law has not managed to draw the conclusions of this development, thus placing couples, and more particularly children, in a very complex position.
The regulation submitted for our opinion today is therefore particularly welcome in so far as it includes unquestionable advantages in relation to the so-called Brussels II Convention, signed in 1998, but not as yet ratified.
If it is unanimously adopted in Council, this regulation may come into force very soon and shall be applied immediately and harmoniously throughout the European Union, thus enabling long drawn out wrangling over jurisdiction, which is harmful to everyone, to be prevented.
I would add that this proposal for a regulation specifically targets legal judgements relating to parental responsibility for joint children, corresponding to the requests made on several occasions by this House.
But, like other Members, I am concerned by two amendments, Amendment No 2 and Amendment No 5, which is going to attribute a number of responsibilities relating to parental authority to the Court of Justice.
These are legal instruments that will open the way for the future adoption of other solutions that go further in the direction the Tampere European Council wanted.
As far as the directive is concerned, the Council can accept practically all of the amendments, except the amendments relating to Nos 3, 5 and 10, which we feel do not fit in with the proposal' s premise.
If I am not mistaken, Amendment No 3 brings nothing new to the measure in question, in that the Member States which will designate a single authority and then a central authority are precisely the ones whose legislation does not allow for the direct transmission of judgements.
As for Amendment No 5, we feel that it places an excessive burden on the central authorities in the context of a directive-based system in which these central authorities have only a subsidiary function.
And finally, concerning Amendment No 10, we feel that it contradicts Article 11(2) of the proposal for a directive.
As far as the proposal for a regulation is concerned, we can accept most of the proposed amendments, namely Amendments Nos 1 to 8, 13 to 18 and 20.
Concerning Amendment No 11 - and I hope that a new oral proposal will be made so that I can comment on the new version - where it states that the best interests of the child must be taken into account, we feel that this would clear the way for a judgement to be made - with regard to the costs to be borne by the State due to receive the judgement - which is not appropriate for this kind of instrument.
We agree, therefore, with the principle of child hearings, but not with a new judgement on this basis.
We feel Amendment No 12 gives an advantage to the mechanical implementation of a possible, out of date judgement over a more recent one which may have been issued on the same matter.
And finally, in relation to Amendment No 19, I understand the meaning of the proposal, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the rule concerning the translation of decisions does not fall within the scope of a regulation on the competence, recognition and implementation of judgements; the proper place for the rule on translations is the directive on the transmission of documents, the other instrument that we are debating today, which lays down precisely this possibility of translation.
Finally, Mr President, I am convinced that by adopting these instruments we are giving a great boost to the free movement of persons today.
And we are providing a balanced boost, because, on the one hand, we are favouring the internal market and economic integration with the directive on judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters, but, on the other hand, we are also attempting to give primacy to people' s rights, to the rights of human beings and to the rights of children, because, in addition to having to suffer the trauma that a divorce always causes, they should not have to suffer the trauma of the bureaucratic nightmare that the recognition of judgements involves.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Checks on nuclear installations in the CEECs The next item is the Commission statement on the implementation by the Commission of the programme for checking nuclear installations in the Central and Eastern European countries.
These include eight reactors from the nuclear power stations at Ignalina in Lithuania, Kosloduj in Bulgaria and Bohunice in the Slovak Republic.
From 1991 to the present day, the Commission has provided almost EUR 2 million to finance concrete measures for the short-term improvement of safety levels.
This new energy strategy was accepted by the Lithuanian Parliament on 5 October with a clear majority of 63 votes in favour with 31 votes against.
The Slovak Government officially informed the Commission on 28 September of its decision to shut down reactors 1 and 2 of the Bohunice V 1 nuclear power station ahead of schedule by 2006 and 2008.
This decision was taken even after the Slovak Republic had in previous years invested more than EUR 200 million in the improvement of reactor safety.
It must also be clear that the particular country concerned requires considerable technical and financial support.
The only principle that everyone in the Union must observe is that the highest internationally accepted standard of safety must be guaranteed.
Our cooperation with these countries is now moving to the implementation phase.
To assist with the shutdown of the two nuclear power stations in Lithuania and the Slovak Republic that have been mentioned, the Commission has committed itself to providing non-repayable financial aid from the 1999 PHARE programme.
However, these subsidies are not intended for the shutdown measures themselves, but are rather intended to also support the resulting measures that arise in the traditional energy sector.
On 13 October, the Commission stated in the conclusions to its general document on the progress reports that it would also enter into membership talks with Bulgaria in the year 2000.
However, we would recommend that this be made dependent on the Bulgarian Government deciding by the end of 1999 on acceptable dates for the shutdown of units 1 to 4 of the Kosloduj nuclear power station and on meaningful progress being made in the economic reform process.
The Commission is also prepared to grant a EURATOM loan for the modernisation and refitting of units 5 and 6 of the Kosloduj nuclear power station.
In the last week, the members of the PHARE Management Committee issued an opinion approving the Commission programme under which EUR 11 million from PHARE funds will be made available for financing safety measures in nuclear power stations in the candidate countries and for financing measures to be taken by the licensing authorities in the candidate countries.
The Commission intends to continue providing this aid throughout the entire period covered by the Financial Perspective for the years 2000 to 2006.
Parallel to this, recipients of aid from the TACIS programme will continue to receive financial support to achieve the targets of Agenda 2000, including strengthening of the safety culture, improved management of incinerated nuclear material, efforts to close down Chernobyl, the establishment of a working group to work jointly with Armenia on the issue of the Medzamor nuclear power station, and other measures.
The Commission sees it as its obligation to achieve this target as soon as possible.
The international community must act together.
It shares a common interest in establishing European safety standards.
Furthermore, raising the safety standard of nuclear installations by either refitting reactors that can be updated or closing down reactors classed as ones that cannot be updated will entail significant costs.
For this reason, the Commission would like to arrange with the candidate countries concerned for donors' conferences to be held aimed at setting up special credit funds for Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria.
It is intended that the first of these conferences will be held for Lithuania at the beginning of the year 2000.
We urgently advise the Member States as well as the third countries, particularly those with regional interests in Northern, Central or south-east Europe, to contribute towards these three funds.
There is now a realistic prospect of an effective shutdown of the problematic nuclear reactors in candidate countries.
This is both a political and economic task.
The European Parliament can rest assured that the Commission will pursue this task with the utmost vigour.
I note the time-scale of some of his comments that reactors will be shut down early in 2006 and 2008 - I will come to the question of whether a reactor should be shut down or not and how quickly in a moment.
I think we can all agree that where nuclear power stations and nuclear installations are concerned, it is absolutely essential that safety, safety of operation, safety of construction and design, be given top priority.
In some countries, when reactors have had to be shut down, there has been a loss of electricity which has caused severe hardship.
We are in a slightly sensitive position in terms of telling them or asking them or assisting them to do things that we want to do, but that they may not be enthusiastic about doing themselves.
The Commissioner already made this quite clear at his hearing in the European Parliament, and it is a principle that must be observed.
Today, this House has voted on Mr Chichester' s report, and in so doing has clearly indicated that it will reject any pressure or any form of indirect recommendation to change its policy on nuclear safety.
However, it is absolutely essential - and on this point the words of the Commissioner were completely clear - that nuclear safety be pushed to the forefront, and I hope that this, as you yourself said, Commissioner, is used as the guideline and basis for the talks with our neighbours in Eastern Europe.
In this respect, the decision as to whether nuclear safety is used as a criterion for the production of energy in a country lies with the national authorities.
However, approaching the issues from a realistic point of view, we must grant countries time to adapt to the appropriate safety standards and not proceed according to a system of either closing them down immediately or allowing the reactors to run until the end of their operating life.
The sooner our neighbours recognise that nuclear safety is our common concern, the sooner it will be possible to enter into constructive and open talks with our neighbouring countries and to conclude talks on expansion.
If this common safety basis is also recognised on the part of our neighbours, then this possibility will become meaningful.
In this sense, I would also like to offer my clear support to what the Commissioner has said with regard to financial aid.
If nuclear safety is to be our joint concern, we must also be jointly prepared to provide our neighbouring countries with financial aid if they recognise the appropriate standards.
It must be clear at these donors' conferences whether not only the European Union as a whole but the Member States as well are prepared to provide money towards ensuring nuclear safety.
We in the European Parliament support this, and want to help our neighbours so that they can re-equip their atomic power stations within the context of common safety.
Allow me to say that, after this, I was placed rather in the same situation as when one reads the news, for example in one' s own country, that a hospital which has just been renovated at a cost of millions is to be closed down.
Unfortunately, we have the type of situation in which none of us knows anything about this; we do not have access to the same information as the Commission.
Where Ignalina is concerned, I want to say that I do not think that the information we have obtained is really satisfactory in the light of, for example, the so-called WENRA report where it is stated that we do not have any certain knowledge about safety in so-called reactor shutdown systems.
In the light of this, I was extremely surprised by your laudatory acceptance of the new shutdown dates for Bohunice in 2006 and 2008.
I shall now come to my question, Commissioner.
Now for something funny: in 1995 the UJD, the Slovak Nuclear Supervisory Authority, stopped issuing the standard multiannual operating licence and has been issuing provisional one-year extensions in order to compel the operators to carry out the necessary upgrading.
However, I also believe that I am forced to protest, and perhaps this has something to do with the undecidedness of energy policy within the European Union, if in the cases in question you ultimately see safety in terms of shutdown, with which I agree, yet when it comes to comparable power stations in the CIS States you want to ensure safety by upgrading and by the European Union promoting safety measures.
Setting another rule outside the Community, as in the cases under consideration here, I consider to be highly problematic and I believe that all in all we would be well advised to make shutting down the rule not just in Eastern Europe but for energy policy within the European Union as a whole and to not endanger the possibilities of this by carrying out further deregulation.
Mr President, the area of nuclear safety is of fundamental importance in pre-accession strategy.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Humans Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy on the report on nuclear sector related activities for the applicant countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the New Independent States, unanimously adopted on 27 October last year, I stressed the crucial importance of safety, defining it as a requirement for accession for new Member States of the Union.
In fact, nuclear safety affects the lives of millions of citizens of the European Union and Eastern European countries.
I cannot sleep so well, if at all, next to the nuclear power stations in the candidate countries.
All the States which have already submitted their applications for accession are a part of Europe.
However, I believe that it not just our right, but also plainly and simply our duty, to point out that nuclear power stations in the applicant countries have very different standards of operation.
Furthermore, we also need to know exactly how these nuclear power stations stand with regard to computer changeover difficulties for the year 2000.
I too would like to thank the Commissioner for his words and, as a Christian Democrat, I would like to offer him more than just good advice to take with him and to ask whether he perhaps needs an aspirin C.
Only Europe and - Commissioner, I thank you for having understood this - only a united Europe may go to the assistance not only of the countries which are applying for membership of the European Community, but also all those which have nuclear installations which do not comply with our safety standards, in solving this problem taking their own economic imperatives into account.
In all these cases there is only one reasonable solution to the problem, namely shutdown, and, without any doubt, shutdown as quickly as possible.
As I have already said, the European Union has only extremely limited competence in this area.
We are therefore exerting political pressure in this matter, which means that the result will be a political solution.
In each instance this date must be clearly independent of the projected time which each reactor has to run.
I would like to mention something else concerning Bohunice because for some time now there have been attempts to draw me into the Austrian dispute.
Wolfgang Schüssel and I both said this clearly in the Council yesterday.
However, from the outset, including here in Parliament, I have said on many occasions that in the case of Bohunice I believe that further discussion would be appropriate and that the Slovak position gives reason to believe that more can be achieved.
Some colleagues have voiced the question of whether it is really wise to invest in the safety of nuclear power stations which are to be shut down.
Unfortunately, however, we must also distinguish between the Soviet-design nuclear power stations in the candidate countries which I have been talking about and the Soviet-design nuclear power stations outside the candidate countries.
In the first instance, the lever is politically very strong because these States wish to enter the EU and we can say plainly and simply that a precondition is that this issue be resolved in a way which is acceptable to us.
We know that a nuclear power station must be shut down and yet we have a political situation in which this cannot be achieved.
We are faced with the question of whether to do something to at least ensure safe operation and perhaps gradually improve it, knowing full well that this might lead to the nuclear power station which you want to shut down remaining in operation longer than would otherwise be the case.
The Commission took a decision today on my initiative to initiate formal legal proceedings against France for not lifting the embargo on British beef.
However these discussions are the best means to reach an early solution.
Mr President, Commissioner Byrne, I welcome the fact that recognition will be given to Community law.
Legal awareness of Community law must be increased in the Member States.
That is still my intention.
A decision was taken in the Commission today to initiate infringement proceedings rather than not to initiate legal proceedings.
I was disappointed in that, but I believe that we may yet finally resolve this issue over the next couple of days.
I would also like to remind Members of the House that, as I have said on a number of occasions, problems of this nature are much better resolved in an amicable way.
In the case of this dispute, it seems to me that if these two Member States can resolve this difficulty through discussion, in association with the Commission, that would be by far the best way forward.
For this reason, no one in this House, nor indeed anyone at all, can really want to see treaty infringement proceedings which will take two to three years and create nothing but uncertainty in the European Union during this time.
Confidence in such a food safety authority at Commission level will have to be such that Member States and the authorities and scientists in Member States, have full input into such an agency but also have confidence in it so that its opinions are fully and readily accepted.
In relation to the last part of your question, Mrs Roth-Behrendt, dealing with tests, it is my intention to have something in place in relation to this by the end of the year.
I have had here today beef farmers from my constituency.
We have commenced proceedings, we have taken the decision to take the first step in initiating proceedings.
Commissioner, obviously, I am still French and I am still in favour of the precautionary principle.
The French Government which set up this food agency is doing nothing more than acting on the requests of the citizens of France.
I would like to draw attention again to the fact that we had a unanimous opinion from the Scientific Steering Committee set up at European Union level some weeks ago.
That committee is made up of 16 experts drawn from most of the Member States and is chaired by a fellow countryman of yours.
The opinion that it expressed was unanimous and reinforced two earlier opinions this same committee had reached.
But if he is correct in saying that the two parties are only two days away from a possible agreement, it is absolutely inexplicable that he should be giving one of the parties two weeks in order to resolve this matter.
It sets out the chronology of the events and the legal position and requests the Member State in question to respond within a period of two weeks.
However, I should say that the fact that the letter stipulates a period of two weeks within which to reply does not preclude further discussions taking place and an agreement being reached within the next couple of days, if that proves possible.
So I have to assure you that the inclusion of fourteen days in the letter does not, in my mind, suggest an intention to stave off negotiations or further discussions for a period of two weeks.
But he must understand the feelings of this House.
Mr Byrne, you promised when you entered office that you stood for preventive consumer protection and for transparency.
I would like to ask you, as my colleague has already asked, how you tie that in with the precautionary principle and credibility.
You know that the advisers have expressed grave doubts, including doubts over the problem of transferability.
So that is my question.
I believe that that you are undermining Article 36 and that you are trampling underfoot the precautionary principle and transparency for consumers by taking this decision prematurely instead of actually ensuring that foodstuffs are exactly what they should be, suitable to eat and free from health risks!
The decision in relation to hormones in beef and its importation is based on scientific evidence - that was supplied to the Commission before I came into office by the appropriate scientific committee - to the effect that one of the hormones in particular - 17 beta-estradiol - is a complete carcinogen.
In relation to the BSE issue, once again it seems to me that the application of the precautionary principle is inappropriate because we have a firm opinion from the Scientific Steering Committee.
You raised the question of Article 36.
Commissioner, there are at least 47 very important countries, such as the United States and many countries of the Commonwealth, which are maintaining the embargo on British meat.
I have to say that since taking up this job eight weeks ago I have concentrated on the European Union.
Thank you very much, Mr McMillan-Scott.
I hope that colleagues realise that there are still more than 20 people who would wish to ask questions on this issue.
It is the end of a long consultation process involving the Council and Parliament.
These include the obligation to ensure a high level of health protection in all Community policies and activities.
Smoking kills half a million citizens in the European Union each year and is the single, biggest, preventable cause of death.
However, the directive is also proportionate.
The Commission has for its part always made it clear that if action is taken against EU companies or individuals under the Helms-Burton Act it would request a new WTO panel against the US in respect of this act.
The Commission is aware of the inquiries by the US State Department into the activities of certain of the companies mentioned by the honourable Member and is following the situation very closely.
The Commission will continue to keep the European Parliament informed of any new developments regarding the implementation of the 18 May 1998 understandings.
I hope that the senator in particular and his colleagues in the Senate and the House of Representatives will reflect very carefully on what I said.
I do not know if you believe that, after twenty months of non-compliance, the Clinton administration will persuade Congress to ratify and amend Title 4 of the law.
I want to assure the honourable Member straight away that the undertakings given in May 1998 did not in any way mean that we accepted the legitimacy of Helms-Burton legislation.
The Commissioner asked me, in relation to the question which I asked him at the time, if there was any other option rather than convincing Senator Helms.
I would like to tell the Commissioner that here there have been agreements which have clearly established two obligations on the part of both sides: the United States committed themselves to amending Title 4 of the law and not to apply the law to European undertakings.
They have not amended Title 4 and - as you recognised in your reply, Commissioner - pressures are being applied on European companies.
And the United States negotiated on the basis of the complaint which was presented to the GATT authorities.
Thank you very much, Mr President, for your benevolence.
I would ask Members not to use this Question Time to establish a political, and sometimes ideological, dialogue with the Commissioners.
Question No 43 by (H-0650/99): Subject: East Timor At its sitting of 5 October 1999 the European Parliament was informed by Commissioner Patten that the Commission attaches very high priority to the humanitarian aid and reconstruction support plan for East Timor.
ECHO' s on-going aid amounts to EUR 5 million in two tranches of EUR 2 million and EUR 3 million.
In addition ECHO is preparing a further decision to provide a significant amount for additional humanitarian assistance.
This aid will cost EUR 8.5 million.
As regards our support for the UN administration the Commission intends to give EUR 10 million support to the new UN trust fund for East Timor.
The Commission will keep the European Parliament informed about this.
I would like to ask you if the Commission is actually going to set in motion this task force to organise all the aid efforts for East Timor.
I think the honourable Member would think it sensible for us to have taken part in the World Bank assessment mission and to wait for our officials who have been taking part in that assessment mission to report before we actually come to the budgetary authorities and ask for specific amounts of money.
There are appalling social and environmental problems there - I would like to be able to help as much as possible.
Question No 44 by (H-0608/99): Subject: Protection of EU companies' interests in Kosovo The Greek Telecommunications Organisation (OTE) and the Italian company STET International, owners of 49% of Srbija Telekom, are being threatened and harassed in Kosovo by the KLA and &gt;others= in a bid to oust the two companies B the sole legal owners of network rights in Kosovo B from the region, in breach of international agreements.
The honourable Member is entirely correct to point to the importance of the telecommunications industry in the very construction of economic activity in Kosovo.
It is important to the whole economic future of that part of the Balkans, and I will certainly take notice of what he said in my contacts with Bernard Kouchner and with the UNMIK authorities.
Commissioner, you said at one point in your reply that UNMIK was endeavouring to create a legal and institutional framework for Kosovo.
As for KFOR, I must say that on my visit to Kosovo, I was impressed by the relationship between KFOR and the civil authorities.
KFOR is doing its best in extremely difficult circumstances and it deserves, for example, all our support in trying to ensure that there is no repetition of the sort of atrocity against both sides that has unfortunately disfigured life in Kosovo in the past.
KFOR I repeat has been working well with the civil authorities and I am sure that will continue.
As the implementation of the nitrates directive is causing problems in so many Member States, is the Commission prepared to give renewed consideration to improvements and a phased implementation so that the required standards on nitrates can ultimately be achieved?
In this context the Commission will continue to press for full implementation of the directive as requested by the Parliament resolution of 20 October 1998.
The Commission is preparing monitoring and reporting guidelines with Member States which will allow comparisons and the aggregation of results and maps from the year 2000 when Member States report on the impact of their first action programmes.
Neither have I received a response to my question regarding infringement proceedings.
I would greatly appreciate it if I could have a clear answer to all these questions, as they have been submitted in writing, in addition to these supplements.
The Commission believes that the majority of measures that have to be taken by Member States, for example, transposition monitoring, designation and codes of good practice, action programmes and reporting are straightforward.
At first reading, this Parliament earmarked a sum of EUR 250 million for the budget to facilitate the implementation of the nitrate directive.
This is always a difficult question to answer, especially before this Parliament.
As you know the lobby is very important to political life.
So it is very important that the countries implement this directive.
This dialogue will now carry on outside the chamber, in writing or in a bilateral fashion, unless the Commissioner wants to reply within fifteen seconds.
You have 15 seconds, Commissioner.
There are, of course, problems which were foreseen nine years ago when the directive was decided.
It has been a very slow process in some countries and much faster in others.
Question No 46 by (H-0590/99): Subject: Approval of Objective 2 proposals The Commission has asked the Member States for proposals for Objective 2 regions and programmes.
As far as the list of eligible regions is concerned, Mr Pohjamo, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the Commission sent a letter to the Member States on 1 July 1999, asking them to present their proposals by 31 August 1999.
It is precisely so that we do not penalise the Member States who managed to submit their proposals at an earlier stage and in due form, complying with the terms of the Regulations, that the Commission has decided to approve the list in terms of groups of countries.
So the Commission' s decision on eligible regions for Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands and Finland was taken on 26 October.
Let me remind you, however, that this decision is a procedural one, since the Member States must be consulted via the committees, in accordance with the Regulations, before the final decision of the Commission may be taken.
And it is only after the final decision that the programming process may begin, in negotiation between the Commission and the Member States.
So, for example, as I recently indicated to the Greek authorities in Athens, in programming the future appropriations, we shall be taking into account in quite a substantial manner the tragic consequences of the recent earthquake.
We can adjust or adapt the total appropriations allocated to each of the countries of the Union in order to take current events, particularly when they have such disastrous consequences, into account.
The Regulations stipulate a period of four months for the economic development plans to be submitted by the national authorities, and a further period of five months for these proposals to be adopted.
It is therefore expected that the first Objective 2 programmes shall be approved towards the middle of the year 2000.
Ladies and gentlemen, not one programme will be in force by the 1 January 2000.
I would, nonetheless, like to reassure the Members that may be concerned about this by specifying that there will be no interruption in the investment activity at local level since the resources for the current term, which has not yet run its course, must be committed in full by 31 December 1999.
The implementation of projects for the previous period, which is due to expire on 31 December, will be continued for the next two years.
Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for your reply.
I believe, Mr Pohjamo, that we understand each other well.
As far as your own country is concerned, matters are in particularly good order, since the first proposals were covered by the procedural decision of the Commission, on 26 October.
We are at the stage of consulting the committees, made up particularly of the other Member States, and I shall therefore be able, by the end of the year, to propose a final, official decision for the approval of the Objective 2 zoning plan for your country, and also, probably, for the other three countries which were covered by the Commission' s initial decision on 26 October.
I am, of course, obliged to comply with the Regulations of the Structural Funds, but I am in a position to reassure you as far as your own country is concerned, Mr Pohjamo.
My interest is to assess the efficacy of the EU in giving development aid to any of the third world countries.
Commissioner, allow me to say, as Chairman of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism that what you have told us about Objective 2 is most reassuring and a step in the right direction.
Mr Hatzidakis, there has been no change in the Commission' s position.
In tragic circumstances, such as those which some years past affected Portugal or Italy and, more recently, Greece - which I recently visited twice, once, a month ago, with my fellow Commissioner, Anna Diamantopoulou, and again just a few days ago - we are basing our attitude on the same Regulations of the Structural Funds and we are being accountable.
Damage to public property in Greece following the latest earthquake on 6 September, and I am speaking from memory, are evaluated at approximately EUR 2.5 billion.
For the rest, your country is probably, in the near future, going to receive a loan in the amount of EUR 900 million at an extremely advantageous rate from the European Investment Bank.
My impression, then, and I mention this because it involves the question of solidarity among all the countries of the Union, is that, following the earthquake in Greece, there has been a good response in relation to material damage.
I simply wish to say that in such cases I shall adopt a pragmatic approach in order to be able to adapt the programming of Objective 1 or Objective 2, according to the requests made by national authorities, in order to aid reconstruction in these countries.
This is what you must ask of the Commission, and this is what I strive to do in a pragmatic manner and in a spirit of cooperation with each of the Member States.
Commissioners and Honourable Members, we are already overrunning by more than 20 minutes and we have minimal time available.
We must agree on this but, otherwise, we are depriving a Commissioner or several Members of the chance to speak.
We will try to deal with this lack of time.
All forms of violence, whether against men, women or children, are banned in all Member States by their respective criminal codes.
The Commission is also responsible for the STOP programme, the aim of which is to provide the necessary training and information for professionals, particularly judges, for police forces and for social services departments in the fight against the trade in human beings and the sexual exploitation of women.
The time to assess the situation that you have just described will be when, before the end of the year, the Council evaluates the results of the 1997 joint action on combating violence against women.
In some Member States there is a certain tendency to regard as less relevant violence within the family.
Mr President, the Commission recently presented a communication to the Council, to the European Parliament and to the Economic and Social Committee, on the theme "Victims of crime in the European Union - a reflection on standards and measures to be adopted" .
In this text, the Commission puts forward ideas for a debate on standards for treating victims of crime in the European Union.
One of the fundamental ideas in the Commission' s communication is precisely the ratification by all Member States of the Convention of the 1983 Council of Europe, and I am able to inform you, Mr Cushnahan, that this convention has been ratified by Germany, Denmark, Finland, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Sweden.
I can tell you that this communication, made at the Council of Ministers of Justice and Internal Affairs of 4 October, was received very positively.
The Commission awaits the opinions of Parliament and the Member States in order to develop further proposals for action to implement the objectives of the communication to which I have just referred.
People have already waited long enough.
You should increase the pressure on the seven Member States which have either failed to ratify or failed to sign the Convention.
If you examine Conclusion No 32 of the Tampere European Council, it is quite clear that we have a mandate to put forward concrete measures within the legal framework of the Amsterdam Treaty.
I hope that by the end of the year we can get reactions from Member States and this Parliament so that we can start immediately at the beginning of the year 2000 putting forward specific European legislation on this issue as well as continuing to put pressure for the ratification of the 1993 Convention.
They include compensation, psychological and medical treatment, assistance to victims in debt collection, the transmission of decisions from one Member State to another in order to improve the protection of victims, or asking courts to accept the written testimonies of victims who cannot attend court cases against their aggressors because they now live in another Member State.
All those aspects will, I hope, be considered by the end of the year and will form the basis of the initiative that the Commission intends to take in the year 2000.
Question No 49 by (H-0633/99): Subject: Andalusia and the EU's new border policies There is an ever-increasing demand in Andalusia for EU action to deal with the major problems that are appearing there, on what is one of the Union=s southern borders.
However, to date the costs arising have been borne almost exclusively by this Objective 1 region (which should be a beneficiary, not a provider of funds), and it has proved virtually impossible to plan the financing of effective border policies.
One of the main political conclusions of the Extraordinary meeting of the Heads of State and Government targets the need, in aiming for a genuine migration policy, to move beyond the traditional limits of justice and internal affairs and to have recourse to a series of instruments within the scope of other Union policies, an idea that has been promoted by the Commission since 1994 and which has always merited the support of the European Parliament.
The same thing applies to relations with third countries of origin and of transit.
The European Council confirmed the renewal of the high level group' s mandate on asylum and immigration, whilst insisting that the plans already adopted be implemented.
Over the next few weeks, the Commission, in close collaboration with Member States, will be making an inventory of the measures currently in force or still to be adopted that are likely to contribute to the implementation of the measures to which I just referred.
Indeed, the Commission has for several years paid special attention to the development of the provinces in Northern Morocco, at a time when technical and financial cooperation with the Kingdom of Morocco has been implemented.
In this way, around half the funds of the MEDA programme were allocated to these northern provinces between 1996 and 1999, and this represents projects to a total value of EUR 330 million.
Apart from this, under the third and fourth financial protocols as well as under other budget headings, several projects have been or are taking place in this region at a cost equivalent to more than EUR 80 million.
In addition to this, the Community initiative INTERREG-II has already financed cooperation actions between Spain and Morocco during the current programming period, including a specific cross-border programme between Andalusia and Morocco.
It is a matter of encouraging the development of cooperation between countries, under the auspices of the new Community initiative INTERREG-III for the period 2000-2006, which will continue to finance cross-border cooperation within the European Union and with third countries.
In the case of the cross-border region of Spain and Morocco, it is incumbent upon both the Spanish and Moroccan authorities, in partnership with the Commission, to identify common priorities for action for the period 2000-2006.
However, I would like to ask the Commissioner whether the Commission has realised that there will have to be complementarity between the INTERREG and MEDA programmes so that the associated country - in this case Morocco - may have the financial means necessary for cooperation.
Mrs Izquierdo Rojo, I am in complete agreement with you and I believe that the conclusions of the Tampere European Council highlight the fact that there is a horizontal approach between pillars which includes immigration and asylum policies and the other policies of the European Union, amongst which we have development aid policy.
I believe that this new approach to the coordination of internal and external policies, and of the programmes which are related to one or other of those policies, may be a very positive step forward in terms of Union action in these fields.
I have to say that both President Prodi in this Chamber, last July, and myself on other occasions, have stated that the air traffic situation in Europe is untenable.
We really need to make progress in this area if we want to provide real solutions to the problems we are faced with.
Secondly, in the area of Eurocontrol, and not only in that of Eurocontrol but also in other areas, we must guarantee efficiency and transparency in the operations of air service providers and furthermore clearly separate regulatory responsibilities from the provision of services.
It is now really however a question of translating words into action.
The intention is to obtain support firstly for the proposal which I am going to make - both to the Commission and in time, if the Commission accepts it, to the Council of Ministers and Parliament - so that we will not only proceed with the incorporation of the Commission into Eurocontrol, but will also forward in the area of the fifteen countries to try to achieve a single airspace and, therefore, common management of that single space by those fifteen countries.
That is to say, all those operators who participate within the complex world of air traffic.
As you have said, some of the delays can be attributed to air traffic control, to the management of air traffic, which accounts for more or less 50% of the delays, and the other 50% is shared between air companies and internal problems in the management of the airports themselves.
But I believe that we should act on all fronts.
This includes achieving distribution and greater flexibility in the management of airspace in its civil and military uses - and in certain countries this can be achieved with a certain speed, we have to promote it and we are working on it - and, also in the short term, intervening in the management by airports and air companies of their flight forecasts and the organisation of their flights, in order to improve the use and efficiency of airport slots.
But we also have to act in the medium term, I insist, with a more ambitious measure; this single airspace and this common management of the single airspace by the fifteen Members.
As for the high level group, if the Commission and the Council approve it - as I have already said, the Commission will foreseeably do so on the 24th of this month, and the Council on 6 December - the intention would be that it would start its work at the beginning of February or even at the end of January.
It would be useful if a measure of this type could receive some kind of support from the European Council in Helsinki.
The Greek authorities once again made additional commitments so that new aid could be authorised during 1998 and thereby unblock the last batch of aid to Olympic Airways which is still pending.
Nevertheless, the report on the reorganisation presented in April of this year indicated that the financial results of the company were below the forecasts.
This led the Greek authorities to order the drawing up of a new reorganisation plan by a new team led by specialist managers.
And yet the problem persists.
Ladies and gentlemen, a series of decisions were taken in 1994 - specifically to grant aid to various European companies - with the aim of carrying out the reorganisation of those companies which would allow, on the one hand, their possible privatisation but, in any case, to put a definitive end to the State subsidies and aid which, to a certain extent, distorted the single market and free competition between the different operators in the deregulated air market.
It is considered that this aid for social purposes should be deducted from the total amount which was granted to Olympic Airways.
And lastly, I have to say that the financial results of the company in 1998 are disappointing.
They have led to the current Greek authorities taking a very important decision, specifically the appointment of a new board of directors, turning to experts from other companies - that is, Speedway, a subsidiary of British Airways - which must update the company' s recovery plan and which, I am sure, will be able to offer us over the next month, sufficient information and the necessary guarantees so that, once and for all, we can authorise the last batch of aid to Olympic Airways and ensure that it takes off correctly and takes to the air without any great problems.
Therefore, Questions No 52 to 55 will be replied to in writing in the shortest time possible.
To achieve political and economic stability, enhance social welfare for the citizens of the applicant countries and prevent the risk of social dumping in the present Member States, the applicant countries will need to modernise their social security systems if enlargement is to be successful.
As the Commission' s Communication of 14 July 1999 on the modernisation of social security systems shows, efforts are being made to further develop the acquis communautaire.
The applicant countries must be incorporated into this process.
In its annual reports, which were presented to the Council and Parliament on 13 October, the Commission draws up a balance in this regard for the situation in the applicant countries.
These are considerable, but they are still not enough.
This leads the Commission to continue to implement the reform programmes for the social security systems in the applicant countries.
These programmes are known as Consensus 1 and Consensus 2.
As of this year, i.e. 1999, this sector will be given EUR 18.6 million in support.
These funds are for institutional improvements in the social sector in the accession countries, the policy of partnerships playing an important role.
However, what goes on in terms of social interaction is not legally regulated.
We have done this in the past and we will continue to do it in the future, in which regard I would also like to point out to you that in this matter the situation is very different, that is in no way do the majority of the accession candidates fall short of the standard of the Member States.
In connection with the opening of the accession negotiations on 31 March 1998, the Commission, in tandem with the applicant countries concerned, carried out an analytical evaluation of the EU' s acquis communautaire.
The controls on external borders and the visa policy of the EU were treated within the framework of Chapter 24 of the accession negotiations concerning cooperation in the sectors of justice and internal affairs.
The applicant countries are obliged to take on and apply the acquis communautaire of the EU at the time of accession.
Concerning the issue of transitional regulations which might be applied for by the applicant countries within the framework of this Chapter of the accession negotiations, the basic negotiating stance of the European Union is that such measures are only possible in exceptional cases and only for a limited period and scope.
With regard to controls on external borders, the applicant countries expect that on accession they will take on and apply the acquis communautaire of the EU, as I have said.
The answer is a definite yes.
Question No 58 by (H-0638/99): Subject: Alignment of laws in the Czech Republic Is the Commission aware of a study concerning the slow pace at which the transposition and alignment of laws is proceeding in the Czech Republic, drawn up and addressed to it by four Czech opposition parties?
However, I must point out that this study was first presented to the press and to the Czech public before a copy was given to the EU delegation in Prague.
Mr President, I find that very interesting.
But irrespective of that I would like to say that I support these four opposition parties and also many social democrats who fully advocate European integration.
I would not describe this in the harsh way that you did as the policy of the largest non-governing party in the Czech Republic, since that is who we are talking about.
Nevertheless, it is known that the previous Prime Minister Klaus, who is the leader of this party, has different views on the nature of the European Union from the current government and most of the parties represented in the Czech parliament.
The strategy is that the applicant countries must and wish to become full members with full rights and with full responsibilities.
The completely mistaken notion of membership à la carte, partial membership or anything else was at no time and in no place suggested by representatives of the Czech Republic in the negotiations with the Commission.
Questions Nos 59 to 115 will be replied to in writing.
