That will be checked and corrected. (The Minutes were approved) Mr President, we have been looking forward to getting the diaries for 1999 and am pleased we were able to collect them yesterday.
One of the important dates for 1999 is that of the elections to this House.
As you know, there has been a wide-ranging debate in Parliament about the days on which these elections should be held.
So I am very disappointed to see it stated incorrectly in this diary that just three countries of the European Union will be voting not on Sunday the thirteenth but earlier, and that my own country, the Netherlands, is not listed with these.
One of the good traditions we have in the Netherlands is that these elections are held during the week, and it is a mistake that the Netherlands is not down as voting on 10 June.
I believe you should put this question to the Dutch authorities.
The particular date set for elections in the Netherlands must have been decided by the authorities in that country, on the grounds, presumably, of the principle of subsidiarity.
The elections will indeed be held in the Netherlands on 10 June.
But we did not receive the documents until September.
I readily admit that there is still room for improvement, but there is good will for this on our part.
As you know, the Court is strongly committed to environmental policy.
Amongst other things, we established that the Commission had used more than 50 % of the staff posts earmarked for the programme in other areas of expenditure.
We all know that, time and again, the European Union is faced with new challenges.
This is often a difficult task for the Commission, when it is called upon to respond rapidly to heavy demands imposed upon it at short notice.
Humanitarian aid is one example of this, to which we devoted a special report which appeared in March last year.
In 1991, it was decided that, for the period 1992 to 1997, some ECU 4 billion would be made available for this purpose.
The problem lies in the Commission's central unit for managing humanitarian aid, known as ECHO.
Of the ECU 850 million made available, only ECU 300 million has been spent so far.
Another criticism is that, of the money provided for technical assistance, about one third, in other words ECU 200 million, was spent directly, i.e.
We in the Court of Auditors are required to consider whether the principles of legality, regularity and sound financial management are being met.
Amongst other things, we criticise the fact that the UCLAF databases are incomplete and therefore not fully usable.
It is not clear who actually has access to these databases, and that is of course a question of security.
As you know, the Commission is proposing to reduce the guarantee prices for beef by 30 %, for cereals by 20 % and for milk by 10 %.
We think it right that a 10 % reserve should be created for the countries that perform particularly well.
We believe this to be very significant; it means that the Commission's approach on structural aid - and, I would add, perhaps also with a view to creating more jobs - to a large extent coincides with our judgement.
I would also like to confirm that the relationship between commitments and payments has become very good and sensible.
In general, I can say that this year's statement of assurance for the general budget essentially draws the same conclusions as it has done in previous years.
In the Court's opinion, the transactions underlying the commitments are also, taken as a whole, legal and regular, although some commitments were effected either without budgetary authorisation or without a legal base.
The statement of assurance for the Sixth and Seventh European Development Funds for the year 1997, on the other hand, is, on the whole, essentially positive, and that also includes the transactions underlying the payments.
It is therefore a very broad area.
Secondly, can we expect a report on this specific issue, or can we call upon you to provide this?
Mr President, President Friedmann, firstly I would like to reciprocate to you and to the Court of Auditors the thanks that you extended to the Committee on Budgetary Control and to Parliament as a whole for the work we have achieved together.
This is not done in order to cause or to publicise scandals but to develop preventive measures, as you emphasised strongly.
The second point that is worthy of note is that you have presented a significantly higher number of individual reports or special reports this year for 1997, and also retrospectively for 1996.
President Friedmann rightly states that enormous responsibility lies with the Member States both for resources and for expenditure.
One hundred per cent of resources come from the Member States.
He stated just now that 40 years on the Community Member States' customs authorities still do not cooperate.
The findings are incredible: the Court of Auditors shows that, since the last audit, the amount of revenue lost has doubled to ECU 70 billion.
However, we would be extremely interested to know, Mr President of the Court, if the Court can tell us whether or not this sum of ECU 70 billion is spread evenly and fairly between the various Member States.
In other words, are certain Member States more at fault than others in terms of the collection of the own resources of the European Union?
I was particularly interested in the chapter on foreign policy.
As you know, in deciding to postpone the discharge for 1996 we paid particular attention to the PHARE, TACIS and MEDA programmes.
The first remark I would make, therefore, is that the Court of Auditors - from where leaked information often gives a partial picture of its reports - should pay more attention to this aspect, which is important if it is true that reports should be produced to the public here in this forum.
Parliament has discussed and approved your report on ECHO, and indeed we approved a document of yours at the beginning of this year.
Mr President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, the annual report for the 1997 financial year mentions the existence of an audit concerning a sample of 100 information and communication projects implemented by the Commission.
A special report, Report No 23, is in the pipeline.
Indeed, for many years, our group has constantly condemned the lack of transparency, consistency and democracy in what the European Union calls its 'information policy'.
These are the very terms used in the report that suggest that changes are needed to put an end to these problems.
Mr President, the European Court of Auditors points out that in terms of external actions, the European Union has become one of the largest donors in the world with a total of ECU 6 billion, or almost FRF 40 billion.
I am sure he will understand if I concentrate the rest of my remarks on the revenue side of the budget.
Any change to the own-resources decision will require unanimity in the Council between the parties involved and the Court of Auditors will not be one of those parties.
But when we look at the very valuable analysis that has been done on VAT collection in the Member States, we see this alarming figure of a gap between the theoretical VAT yield and the actual collection running at ECU 70 000m a year.
Mr President of the Court of Auditors, I should like to comment on the section on Structural Funds and put some questions to you in that connection.
The Court has consistently criticised the large number of administrative irregularities in structural expenditure.
You point out that there is very little coordination between the Member States and the Court you so ably preside.
However, this seems to contradict your statements on the lack of coordination on the part of Member States.
I would therefore like to know what will be done in the near future with the ECU 550 million that we have left for nuclear safety, and whether we will continue to have studies of dubious value without any action being taken as a result.
Mr President, when I received the Court of Auditors' annual report yesterday, I read it with great interest.
I have read the report countless times overnight, but I cannot find anything about Denmark in it.
We should perhaps also be looking at the situation in Murmansk, where there are several hundred submarines which have been scrapped but still have active reactors, and where a number of reactors have been dumped in the Barents Sea.
In paragraph 1.18 there is a quotation from the transit report where we called for the Community customs services to work together as if they were one.
Madam President, President Friedmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of UCLAF, you consider the creation of an additional institution to combat fraud to be problematic, as you said last week at our interparliamentary conference and again yesterday.
A proposal for a regulation on the basis of Article 235 of the EC Treaty on creating an external assessment agency, as it is called, is evidently in the process of being drafted by the Commission.
No, OLAF should remain within the Commission and all other institutions of the Union should be involved in it.
Madam President, I would like to discuss the planning and implementation of actions in the field of external aid.
The content of the Court of Auditors' annual report is therefore all the more worrying as it has found considerable shortcomings in all phases of preparation, implementation and assessment of the actions by the Commission.
The question I would like to ask the Court of Auditors is the following: is the Court of Auditors of the opinion that the creation of the common service RELEX will result in significant improvements or is it necessary, particularly in view of the future tasks of the Union in this area, to think of completely new solutions?
Madam President, thank you very much for the many very interesting questions.
On the one hand, it is astonishing that the administrative costs of the European Union represent in total approximately 5 % of the budget, including personnel expenditure.
But this does not say much as European Union policy must be implemented by the administrations of the Member States.
As you know, Mrs Wemheuer, we referred some time ago to fact that the mini-budgets used at the time were to be heavily criticised.
Therefore, if each party meets its deadline the arguments of the country being audited are taken into account in our annual report and in the special reports.
Mr Pasty, like several of your colleagues, you referred to the ECU 70 billion that have been lost in VAT revenue.
In fact, we exchange views continuously with the Member States, particularly in the area of structural aid.
Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz, you addressed the issue of nuclear safety.
You also mentioned that in Denmark everything is in order.
Mr Blak, I am pleased that you believe you can draw this conclusion, but the fact that we do not criticise something does not mean that everything is in order.
Mr Kellett-Bowman, you are right to say that the Community loses considerable customs revenue in transit traffic.
Mr Bösch, your question concerning whether we would be prepared to accept OLAF being affiliated to the European Court of Auditors in some way was a very difficult one.
In conclusion, Mrs Krehl, I believe I have already answered your question on creating a separate common service, on staffing policy and administration.
Finally, I would like to thank you all very much for your keen interest. (Applause) Madam President, the work of the Court of Auditors helps us in our continuing efforts to improve our budgetary management of the Community.
The Commission has adopted and presented several proposals which seek to improve the regularity and quality of the agricultural and structural funds.
The aim of the Commission is of course to receive a positive Declaration of Assurance from the Court in all respects.
The Court notes that most of the substantive errors in structural funds payments are of an administrative nature caused by inadequate knowledge of the Community rules which leads to the inclusion of ineligible amounts in the Member States' declarations.
The Commission also adopted a regulation in 1997 which establishes the minimum standards for financial control by the Member States of structural fund financing.
In the Agenda 2000 proposals, the Member States carry the main responsibility for the financial control of the structural funds assistance.
Here I must say that, unfortunately, these extremely important proposals for better financial management, control and corrections are facing a lot of opposition in the Council.
On this basic issue the Court of Auditors and the Commission are in agreement and we hope in the context of Agenda 2000 to establish a simple, transparent and clear legal framework for structural funds after 2000.
In the Commission proposals on Agenda 2000, structural fund spending is focused more sharply and concentrates on the regions in greatest need.
The first is a communication for an overhaul of the financial regulation, presented in July 1998.
I hope that we will be able to take the first steps in this process before the budget for 2000.
The new Commission rules come into effect for the implementation of the 1999 budget.
External aid comes from 75 budget lines with 87 legal bases.
We are going through a very difficult transitional period but I am convinced that we will start to see the results next year.
As to staff policy, Mr Friedmann has made a number of comments here.
Secondly, we are now in discussions with the Committee on Budgets and the rapporteur on the mini-budget.
So this clarification is extremely important and once it is established for the 1999 budget there will be no possibility of taking measures which are not totally in line with the budgetary authority.
Secondly, when systems are simpler, decentralisation to delegations comes as a logical consequence.
For the structural funds, I hope that the eligibility sheets which were accepted last year will have an impact on the implementation of the budget for 1998.
In the external programmes, I must say that decentralisation of the activities will help us a lot.
The main reforms which this Commission has adopted are summarised in the document 'Reform of financial management since 1995, which was presented last week.
The Commission proposals under Agenda 2000 are an important part of our response to the challenges of the future.
However, the problem is that western standards and priorities on safety points are different.
It is very important for the beneficiary countries to start to familiarise themselves with the standards we lay down for security.
We have now spent between 7 and 8 hundred million euros on the programmes, which is a very small part of the total.
Achieving full modernisation and reconstruction requires a huge effort on the part of the beneficiary countries and the international donor communities.
We are not there yet, but we must not give up.
Finally, the nuclear programmes in Ukraine, Russia and other countries are being run under extremely difficult circumstances.
Just think of the international aid programmes in Russia recently, and what happened with the IMF aid which was meant to support the Russian currency.
We will come back to this Russian problem some other time.
Thank you, Mr Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
It is no different in other countries of the Union.
But given the fact that we are now debating this report, I think we must urge the Council to produce, as quickly as possible, a framework in which economic coordination can really take shape.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in two minutes it is hard to summarise the opinion I drafted for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and which was unanimously approved.
I should also mention the need to provide new and improved guidance in terms of allowing better access to finance, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, so as to promote a better business environment.
It is obvious that in the first employment plan for 1998, not all countries have attached the same importance to the four pillars nor found solutions for all of the guidelines.
The European Parliament must at long last be involved in an interinstitutional agreement on this issue.
Madam President, by this stage I think all the main debates concerning the employment situation in Europe have now come through the worst.
I believe it would be very interesting to evaluate this new formula.
This concerns the evaluation of the venture capital we provide through the Investment Bank.
So I seriously urge the Commission to produce an evaluation on this point very soon for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Of course we have to be in favour of most of the measures in the van Velzen report.
I would remind you that both in the 1998 budget and in the budget for 1999 we will be voting on in a month's time, expenditure to combat unemployment for social Europe, for people with special needs and for the third age is either static or even lower, and all this at a time when, as you say in your report, full-time jobs are continually becoming fewer and only part-time jobs are being created.
Consequently, incomes are down in a Europe in which costs are going up, and that is why the proportion of nouveaux pauvres has climbed above 15 %.
Furthermore, the conditions agreed previously by the EU countries on economic and monetary union are slowing down progress.
The current tax system favours ownership, investments and lazy money too much, and penalises work.
Mr President, the level of unemployment in the Union has remained far too high despite the favourable economic trends of recent years, primarily amongst the categories of the poorly educated and the long-term unemployed, and these include a great many women.
Stimulating employment must thus be recognised as a prime objective in the Member States, the Union and in international organisations as well.
The achievements of the European Union in the field of employment are meagre, so the report tells us.
Evaluation of the national action plans shows up positive points, it is true, but many gaps and weaknesses too.
These shortcomings also apply to the four pillars.
Europe's leaders have concluded too late, regrettably, that a better balance is needed between a Europe of monetary union and a policy of employment.
We echo Mr van Velzen in wanting quantified objectives, training and participation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the van Velzen report paints a clear picture of the economic situation in Europe over the past year: on the one hand, cautious optimism due to the welcome prospect of the European single currency and to slight but appreciable economic growth; on the other, a climate of distrust and instability due to all the international financial crises - in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America - the repercussions of which have had an adverse effect on the European market.
Finally, I should like to turn to another proposal made in the report, namely a more flexible distribution of working time.
The rapporteur wanted to reach a consensus catering for various different European social situations in the current economic situation.
Unemployment is not inevitable but I would not wish on other countries in the European Union the solution applied in large areas of Portugal, where all three generations have to work in order to scrape together the minimum wage paid in Spain, half the minimum wage in Belgium, and a quarter the minimum wage in Germany, albeit with almost full employment.
It is a world where, when people lose their jobs, especially women, they lose 50 % to 100 % of their income and in order to survive, they rely on strong family support, weak national solidarity and your solidarity, thanks to the European Union's cohesion.
The spectre of poverty and social exclusion is already affecting or directly threatening millions of the Union's citizens.
That is the conclusion which the Union's citizens reach.
Mr President, working people disapprove of this policy.
We must translate the wishes of the Luxembourg Employment Summit in November 1997, where the 15 Member States decided that it was a priority to ensure that no young person was out of work or without training for more than six months, and no adult for more than a year.
This would be a really major project that would allow Europe to get back in touch with its past, when it used to initiate social progress.
It could be financed through the FRF 2 300 billion devoted every year in Europe to combating unemployment and through the European Structural Funds, which would better serve this objective if less fragmented.
On closer study, however, we see that unemployment has fallen to a lesser degree than the economy has grown in the same period.
But these formulas are not new, after all.
Mr President, I should like to agree with those honourable Members who have said that the process begun in Luxembourg is a good thing but that Vienna will of course have to move things forward emphatically.
In the van Velzen report we firmly advocate a halving of the gender gap.
Secondly, we also want a clear commitment to more training opportunities for people currently in work.
Thirdly, it presupposes extra attention in wage bargaining for the unacceptable differential of 20 to 30 % which still persists between male and female earnings.
We must intensify this process for all guidelines, and my group would like to make an important request for the Commission to address with urgency the question of benchmarks for the efficacy of social protection.
Although I agree with Carlos Gasòliba that economic stability is a prerequisite for job creation, I also believe that greater coordination is needed and that the European Central Bank should focus more on this objective.
Secondly, I think it is unfortunate that when comparing - benchmarking - job creation in Europe and in the United States, the experience gained by this Parliament was not drawn upon.
It seems to me that the time has come to ask ourselves whether it makes sense to maintain a value added tax such as the one devised in 1967 when there was a shortage of labour in Europe, and jobs remained unfilled.
Social conditions in Europe have also failed to improve: 15 % of workers live below the poverty line.
The much-heralded monetary union, the 'euro-umbrella' meant to protect Europe from the economic and financial ups and downs of the outside world does not seem likely to prevent some of their effects reaching our continent.
This stability plan is more concerned with monetary stability than with the stability of employment.
Mr van Velzen has indeed produced an excellent report, Mr President.
I hope and trust that this report will receive all possible support from Parliament.
What is more, if we analyse the real situation in each individual Member State, we find wide divergences between the 15 countries.
In Italy, for example, unemployment is still running at around 12 %.
This new body, which came into being so as to keep down inflation within the 15 Member States, could and should have another important aim, namely to keep unemployment under control.
Mr President, the Commission's report is on employment in Europe in 1998.
It is on the question of employment and not on the problem and the statistics of unemployment.
Mr President, I too must thank the rapporteur very warmly for all his hard work and for the report he has put together for us in so short a time.
It really seems to be leading to change in the Member States.
The second point I wanted to raise is the question of taxes.
I do not know what its results were, perhaps there were some, but nothing came of all our discussions here and from the mobilisation in the European Parliament and in general.
A change in the sense that social criteria and unemployment are included in progress towards EMU, investments are not counted among public deficits, and the European Central Bank at least follows the path pursued by the Federal Reserve in the United States.
Mr President, first of all I think the strategy launched in Luxembourg is producing good results and will provide an impetus for structural changes in the European labour market.
Secondly, there is no denying that the number of jobs rose by 750 000 in 1997 thanks to economic growth, economic growth which is now threatened by financial crises elsewhere in the world.
Hence the need to underpin economic growth by a broad European programme of investment.
Mr President, though Europe's economy has in recent years been developing at relatively satisfactory rates - for example, in 1997 growth amounted to 2.7 % - we are not seeing a corresponding fall in unemployment.
Given that the problem of unemployment is a pan-European phenomenon, there must certainly be coordination between the policies of Member States to address the issue globally and effectively.
All the Member States have lived up to the political commitments they made at Luxembourg last year.
You will notice, Mr van Velzen, that in our recommendation for the 1999 guidelines, life-long learning is a key issue for consideration at Vienna.
What we are saying in the new guidelines is that we want to increase the number getting access to the labour market, in particular older workers.
Not enough attention has been paid to that point and the report supports us on that.
In fact the employment rates report deals with this very point.
I would just like to draw to your attention, Mrs Van Lancker, that equality is now a key element in our strategy.
The draft joint report identifies these encouraging developments, but that is just the beginning and there is a long way to go.
Your report, Mr van Velzen, puts forward a wide range of suggestions for further developing the strategy.
The momentum is there.
I am pleased to tell you that many of your proposals and ideas have already been taken on board in our proposal for 1999.
It preserves the four pillar structure and the three Europe-wide operational targets.
Nevertheless it incorporates the orientations of the European Council at Cardiff and it draws from the assessment of the 1998 joint employment report and the employment rates report for 1998.
Some substantive additions and, in some cases, new guidelines aim at putting particular emphasis in 1999 on active measures: developing life-long learning, making the labour market more open to all, fully exploiting the jobs potential of the services sector and better reconciling work and family life.
This year's revision of the guidelines is, however, a good opportunity to further develop this dimension of the strategy.
The Commission has proposed a new target to be set individually by the Member States for increasing the number of workers benefiting from life-long learning.
The EIF is authorised to commit up to 20 % of its own funds.
The 1999 joint employment report will for the first time attempt an evaluation of the impact of the NEPs.
It is going to give the people of our Member States a tangible demonstration that we have moved from ideas to action and concrete results.
You have heard a lot of speakers complaining here at the way in which we were obliged to prepare and amend this report.
I would welcome the Commissioner's reaction to the suggestion which I make on this in paragraph 30 of my report.
Some new arrangement is going to have to be entered into between the institutions to enable us to meet the time-scale so that we can be ready for the December summit each year.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 p.m.
The explanatory statement in my report sets out the timetable and describes how the coordinators of the committee were able on a number of occasions through late 1997 and early 1998 to meet representatives of the Commissioner's cabinet and officials of DG V to discuss the content of the programme and assist me in drawing up a working document setting out what we thought should be included.
The exercise is a good model for collaboration between our two institutions and it is not surprising that it has led to the production of a Commission communication with which I am broadly satisfied.
The first concerns civil dialogue.
We called for a communication on the future of civil dialogue as an ongoing process but the communication gives the impression that it will continue to consist of little more than the biannual social policy forums.
The second concerns our call for a framework instrument on social protection to make use of the new possibilities under Article 137(3) of the Amsterdam Treaty.
I said in my explanatory statement that if the Commissioner can give us assurances on these points I would recommend acceptance of the social action programme.
This is only logical. (The President declared the common position approved as amended) Mr President, I merely wish to make three remarks concerning the votes on the amendments.
With regard to Amendments Nos 29 and 30, these have been resubmitted because the expression 'sperimentazione non interventistica ' in the Italian version is incomprehensible, and the addition of 'observational studies' enables research to be conducted in centres which carry out research for purposes other than the registration of medicinal products.
Secondly, Amendment No 14 makes the wording of Article 7(2) incompatible with Article 7(3).
Amendment No 31 corrects this inconsistency without altering the spirit of Amendment No 14; I would therefore suggest voting on No 31 before No 14.
If this is not clear in the English translation, the English version can be brought into line by saying 'legally responsible person', but nothing other than 'der gesetzliche Vertreter ' can be written in the German version, as this was used for the vote in committee.
The overwhelming majority of this House has made certain requests, and I believe that such pressure must be taken into account. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, I should like to clarify two points in connection with Amendments Nos 1 and 2.
There is a significant difference between the two amendments, however.
I would therefore ask the House to support this compromise, and recommend that they vote against the amendment.
Amendment No 2 also involves the reinsertion of text into the report.
So in this instance, the rapporteur's position is to recommend a free vote.
Mr President, I would like to make a general comment to point out to you, since I am aware of how fond you are of procedural motions, that two groups have requested split votes on this text: the first has asked for 13 split votes, and the second has asked for 23 split votes.
It does not therefore contradict the compromise text that has been adopted in committee.
Mr President, I have two minor comments.
Since Article 188c of the Treaty deals with precisely these matters, it should be included in the report.
Mr Evans, you are quite right.
In so doing, it leads us to suspect that it wants to cover up certain unlawful practices because some of its officials could be involved in them.
When we read that plans are now being made to initiate proceedings and that our Amendment No 1 is being rejected, which merely warned the Commission once again that we were going to refuse to grant discharge if it did not respond to our requests, we certainly get the impression that Parliament is going to give in again.
Along with my colleagues, I must welcome the fact that 102 Members voted against this report, probably for the same reasons we did.
These 102 Members have shown through their vote the role they hope to make Parliament play.
Pirker report (A4-0390/98) This report proposes that Europol should have direct access to the customs information system.
Schmid recommendation (A4-0377/98) We thank Mr Schmid for producing such a thorough and pertinent report.
However, we have voted against a common European quality label awarded by the Commission.
We have also voted against harmonisation of civil and criminal law in the Member States.
The development of the Internet has rapidly presented us with a difficult problem: how can we prevent this new means of communication from being used for unlawful purposes such as prostitution, paedophilia and the dissemination of theories or doctrines that do not respect human dignity, without establishing a system of censorship?
Finally, since the legal questions raised by the content or use of the Internet are difficult, the Council has reserved the possibility of issuing an invitation to tender in order to assess these difficulties.
Parliament wishes to go further and to make this initiative compulsory so that these studies can begin immediately.
Let us come out and say it: from a moral viewpoint, since other reports have dealt with the protection of consumers' interests as regards electronic commerce.
Amadeo report (A4-0407/98) Mr President, I abstained from the vote on the Amadeo report although I consider the report itself to be a very good one.
These considerations prompted me, following the adoption of Amendments Nos 13, 14 and 15, to vote against the report.
However, we have decided to vote in favour of those amendments which deal solely with the protection of trial subjects and their rights.
Schmid report (A4-0396/98) We are grateful to the rapporteur for producing a good and thorough text.
Given the emergence of electronic commerce that is developing on the Internet, the report by our colleague Gerhard Schmid has come at just the right time to warn us of the risks of fraud that we can already see growing.
In this respect, we must speed up the talks we are holding with our partners in the framework of the WTO.
It is indeed necessary to coordinate all those involved in these new means of payment, but we must also encourage the use of encryption in payment transactions.
The first trials in this respect seem encouraging.
Close cooperation between the national police authorities will be essential - and with Interpol, since the euro will also be circulating outside the eleven participating countries.
Amongst other things, we are concerned at the proposal for a common European definition of what constitute criminal offences.
We are also deeply concerned at the part of the proposal which relates to the Member States exchanging information on people who have been convicted of breaking the law in this area.
The Commission document on which the report is based contains many sensible elements which respect the Member States' sovereignty in this area of criminal law.
Cederschiöld report (A4-0376/98) Mr President, on behalf of the German delegation in the Group of the European People's Party, but also on behalf of the Austrian and some other delegations - for example, the Luxembourgish delegation - I would like to say that some of us voted against the Cederschiöld report and some abstained from the vote because it is our opinion that this report was rendered unacceptable by the adoption of the socialists' amendment on the introduction of voting rights for foreigners.
Similarly, we do not see how it could be possible to promote a sense of belonging to a local neighbourhood at a time when the European Union is advocating mobility on an international scale as the greatest of virtues and when it is establishing, moreover, all the policies that will mean that this is absolutely necessary in the future.
The Danish Social Democrats have voted in favour of this report on the prevention of organised crime.
We have voted in favour of calling on the Member States to develop national programmes in the areas of job creation, health, education and social policy, and of improving the European cooperation which already exists in this sector.
However, we believe that this report is somewhat superfluous.
In principle I support all measures to combat organised crime, both repressive and preventive measures.
In several points in paragraph 7, for example, measures to prevent organised crime are confused with measures to prevent small-scale crime.
Apart from the fact that in my opinion it is not the task of the European Union to make such detailed statements on these issues, I also reject some points because of their content (the introduction of voting rights at local level for foreigners, giving priority to crime prevention projects in the context of the reform of the Structural Funds, attaching increased importance to alternative forms of reaction).
We are voting in favour of all the report's good advice to the Member States, but we are strongly opposed to all those elements which point to EU harmonisation of this sector, whether now or in the future.
Mr President, a model for political action in Europe is the market economy, or at least the social market economy.
The Commission's Social Action Programme therefore has an important status even in principle, and not only for unemployed, excluded, disabled and disadvantaged persons.
It creates the general conditions for new fields of responsibility in social policy, particularly in employment.
For this reason it is particularly regrettable that it is only a medium-term strategy until 2000.
The Commission mentions it only randomly, however, instead of devoting a chapter to it.
We thank Stephen Hughes, the rapporteur for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, for his excellent report.
He has also accepted some of the demands of the Committee on Women's Rights, such as the directive on equal treatment between women and men in social security schemes, the social protection statute for assisting spouses and the evaluation reports on the health and safety of pregnant women and on equal pay for work of equal value.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group I would firstly like to thank Stephen Hughes for his report, which is a good and balanced one, as we have come to expect from him.
The Commission communication, however, contains an assortment of good ideas that have been put into practice but only very modest plans for the future.
The debate about the new Social Action Programme is taking place in the context of the Amsterdam Treaty; this means that the new instruments - the employment chapter, the Protocol on Social Policy, Article 13 on anti-discrimination and the instrument of social dialogue - should in future ensure a new quality for Europe's social policy.
The consequences of European monetary union, of the euro and of enlargement to the east, on which our committee has often asked for information, are not mentioned.
Citizens have lost a great deal of faith in us due to the irresponsible behaviour of the Council of Ministers in this area, and incidentally the poverty reports demanded by Parliament are not mentioned.
Many points have already been discussed this morning in the context of the van Velzen report.
If you continue in this way, including in other legislation, you will be able to count on the support of our committee and my group.
I think these things are very hard to reconcile, because social policy will be important not only within the European Union of today, but also in our dealings with the new states which will be joining the European Union early in the next millennium.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the chairman of our committee on this important report and echo his support for the Commission communication on this new social action programme that presents significant new areas for intervention.
This is also clearly illustrated by this report, as when the rapporteur states that there is a need for an action programme which is 'more explicitly a political document rather than simply a list of intended actions'.
But we are seeing in Denmark too how things are changing towards a more personal system, in which it is up to individuals to save and take out insurance for themselves.
It is stated in the Commission's proposal and in the report that the introduction of the European social model is important in relation to the internal market and EMU.
I refuse to accept a social principle which is based on the principles of the internal market, where it is reasons of competition which determine what kind of social policy is pursued.
I also welcome Commissioner Flynn, who has been unstinting in his efforts to encourage a very close dialogue between the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Commission in this area.
We face three tremendous challenges in the European Union at the moment: the advent of economic and monetary union, enlargement and the policy to combat large-scale unemployment.
I agree with Bartho Pronk and Barbara Weiler that it is regrettable the Commission has only really planned for an action programme up to the year 2000, which is just over 18 months away.
We need something longer term, particularly as the Amsterdam Treaty - which has not yet been ratified in all the Member States - will have greater powers in the social area than any previous Treaty.
The social action programme should form the heart of Europe's social policy agenda.
Creating a genuine European welfare society, with an improved quality of life and strong social cohesion, calls for the drafting and subsequent implementation, in practical and objective terms, of a political document reflecting the new status of a European Union social and employment policy, something that has already been acknowledged.
Regrettably, instead of covering a longer period, 1998-2006, the timetable has been limited to 1998-2000, hampering the issues of employment and other social matters in Community policy.
The European Union's new economic framework, resulting from the completion of the Single Market and the new monetary policy, which is about to come into effect, makes interaction between economic policy and social policy all the more important and accentuates the need to consolidate relations between EMU, the Single Market, the cohesion policy and effective social and employment policies.
The new social action programme, as a strong component of a European social policy, should be taken on board by all the European institutions, by the Member States and by the social partners, stressing the importance of more objective and decisive ways of bringing about civil dialogue in the future.
The report emphasises the need to strengthen the existing legislative framework, particularly in the areas of labour organisation, workers' individual and collective rights and social measures aimed at regulating a free market economy.
We know that Mr Flynn has made enormous efforts here, and we would like Parliament to support him in this.
The new social action programme is different from the previous action programmes in that it does not contain any specific proposals for directives on such things as the working environment and social protection.
Mr President, the new social action programme for 1998-2000 proposed by the Commission is securely based on the guidelines for employment as agreed at the European Councils of Amsterdam and Luxembourg.
However, the proposals could certainly have been more daring.
For example, there should be more active participation by working people in the decision-making process in companies, and the rights of their representatives should be amplified.
But a special approach is also needed for small and medium-sized enterprises, which takes account of their special features and needs.
Mr President, Commissioner, let me begin by saying that I regard this present debate on the excellent report by Mr Hughes as a very important symbolic debate.
I think this must be followed up, and I stress that the emphasis placed on dialogue with the civil society in various forums is extremely important, though more important still is social dialogue with the social partners, which is of course not just a fashion which has had its day.
I call upon the Commission to give greater prominence to updating minimum social standards in the Social Action Programme 1998-2000.
A fundamental aim of European social policy is to develop a European framework of social legislation that guarantees a common basis of binding and enforceable minimum social standards, which does not demand too much of weaker states and does not prevent more developed economies from maintaining or improving their social standards.
I look on the report as being very supportive of the Commission Social Action Programme.
For the record I should like to say that, from the Commission's perspective, the constructive way we have worked together to develop this programme was quite exemplary and has brought us a long way in the development of the relationship between the Commission and Parliament.
The Social Action Programme 1998-2000 adopted by the Commission on 29 April provides a strategic overview of how we see the key priorities for the future development of European social policy.
Indeed, European citizens want a very strong, dynamic and forward-looking social policy and this programme provides a framework within which all of that can be achieved.
The programme responds to the very significant potential of the new Amsterdam Treaty in the social field.
Employment is the principal means by which we can deal with many social problems and sustain the core values of the European social model.
The Commission is already preparing for the implementation of the other provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty as soon as it is ratified.
I should like to say a few words about the debate held in the Council on 27 October on the social action programme.
I believe that Member States would like social policy to have more emphasis in our enlargement discussions and I expect that will be the case.
There was a strong message from the Social Affairs Council as to the necessity of strengthening social dialogue.
We have made some progress but it has been rather limited and I am going to have to work on that a little harder with the social partners.
There will certainly be a need for a new social action programme post-2000.
We will have progressed further in the whole evaluation of the national action plans and then we will be in a better position to get a longer term view for the next programme.
Remarks were made by Mr Hughes on social protection and the framework of investment.
Our plan contains three elements.
In a matter of weeks we will publish a review of the 1992 recommendation on minimum income support schemes within the social welfare systems and next year we will publish a new communication on the future of social protection.
As we set out in the Action Programme we want to use Article 137 to develop a framework for national policies, including social protection systems to work against social exclusion.
Perhaps after the two studies have been published we can talk about it again.
As far as home workers are concerned I should like to tell the House that the Commission will be adopting a communication on modernising the organisation of work.
We hope to do that on 25 November.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the goal of coherence of economic and social development is enshrined in the Treaties.
The Commission's clear remit to promote social dialogue, the European Social Charter, the Agreement on Social Policy which has now been incorporated into the Amsterdam Treaty, the employment chapter in this Treaty and not least the effects of imminent monetary union give the social dialogue greater significance than ever before.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs supports all the basic elements of the proposals drawn up by the Commission to increase the efficiency of structured European social dialogue, as presented in the Communication of 20 May 1998 on adapting and promoting the social dialogue at Community level.
In future not only the employment guidelines but also the economic policy guidelines of the EU are to be discussed in the Standing Committee on Employment.
Europe's social partners have a crucial role to play in this process, a role which is expressly recognised in the Treaty.
The new chapter of the Treaty devoted to employment, which was inserted at Amsterdam, also refers explicitly to consultation of the social partners.
What is more, under the Treaty the social partners may negotiate European-level framework agreements on relevant social policy issues falling within their competence.
Thus, because of the steadily increasing significance of the social dialogue, I should like to touch on three matters which crop up in the Commission's communication and are also referred to in Mr Peter's report.
The second matter is sectoral dialogue.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the social dialogue procedure is still a relatively new arrival in the European Union.
Even if 80 % of UNICE's members are from SMEs, UEAPME, as a direct and individual SME representative at EU level, has so far been forced to adopt a completely unacceptable position in the social dialogue.
UNICE and UEAPME are now concluding a contractual agreement that should allow SME representatives to participate directly in negotiations within the context of the social dialogue.
The role of national authorities and the EU institutions is to further cooperation between autonomous and independent negotiating partners, as the rapporteur rightly says in paragraph 8.
With any model of social dialogue and social partnership, rights are devolved to the social partners to negotiate, consult and come up with framework agreements which should be implemented on a European basis.
We should also look at questions like the disability sector, the education sector and the importance of life-long learning and education and training with regard to employment and other social exclusion problems which we discussed this morning, when we were speaking about the Van Velzen report and the Commission's response.
Maybe we should now examine how we can bring more people into the social dialogue.
Sometimes we in Parliament feel that we are presented with a fait accompli agreed by the social partners, and that this is political blackmail - we cannot oppose it because the social partners have agreed it.
Therefore some role must be found for Parliament in the interactions between the social partners.
However, bearing those points in mind, I would commend this report to the House and my group will be supporting the position of the rapporteur.
Mr President, let me begin by thanking the rapporteur for producing such a fine and eloquent text.
I would therefore urge people to take heed of paragraph 13 in Mr Peter's report.
If this agreement is finalised on 4 December by the decision-making bodies of the two organisations, a major step will have been taken towards achieving something which the PPE Group called for at the time of the Maastricht Treaty, namely full participation in European social dialogue by a partner speaking specifically for SMEs.
We are in favour of social dialogue, Mr President, but as a democratically elected body we cannot but approve of growing autonomy for the social partners, provided these are sufficiently representative - that word again.
This presupposes, amongst other things, that these partners together will cover enough of the ground to ensure that different interests are given sufficient consideration in negotiations.
This agreement represents a particularly significant step in that direction.
Mr President, Ireland's version of the social dialogue, which we call social partnership, is well established and has played a major part in the economic success which our country has achieved over recent years.
Our version of social partnership is in many ways ahead of the social dialogue.
Commissioner Flynn is to be congratulated for coming forward with a draft directive on worker consultation in firms with more than 50 employees.
Ireland fits somewhere between the continental European social model and the Anglo-Saxon model.
If agreements by the European social partners acquire legal force in the European Union in the area of work by making them generally binding through a Council decision, the SMEs will be among those most affected as they employ the majority of workers in Europe.
A conference organised by the Austrian Presidency took place in Vienna last week on the European social model and the social dialogue.
The effective answer to globalisation is the European model, the social market economy based on social partnership and social dialogue.
The Group of the European People's Party will therefore be voting in favour of the Peter report.
It has to be helped to play its full role within the framework of supportive and efficient information, consultation and negotiation procedures.
Secondly, the importance of creating a more coherent and efficient framework within which the sectoral dialogue could develop and, finally, the question of representativeness.
The Commission's communication on adapting and promoting the social dialogue at Community level was adopted on 20 May this year.
It addresses these three issues and sets out to strengthen the social dialogue at the European level and to make it more adaptable so that we can link the work of the social partners much more closely with the development and the implementation of all our European Union policies.
It is clear that the institutions have to fully respect the autonomy of the social partners during their negotiations.
It is the social partners which, in this context, are responsible for ensuring sufficient representativeness.
It must be remembered that the Court of First Instance recently supported this approach in a landmark judgment.
In view of the European Parliament's call on the Commission to reform the Standing Committee on Employment, as a matter of urgency, the Commission adopted a parallel to the communication: a proposal to the Council to reform the current structure.
In short, the Commission suggests to the Council creating a single, transparent and representative forum for high-level dialogue on employment.
So the ball is really in the Council's court, to ensure that the real dialogue on employment is not restricted just to a core group of social partners.
With regard to the other consultation procedures, the communication introduced a liaison forum, involving quarterly consultations with all recognised European social partners on policy matters.
The first of these forums has already taken place and has proved to be a very useful exercise indeed.
This decision caused some initial fears of a reduction in support for the sectoral dialogue.
So the need to discuss industrial restructuring in employment matters is present today in all sectors of activity.
I would simply like to reiterate the importance of respecting the autonomy of the social partners.
I would therefore question whether it is politically or, indeed legally, feasible to involve any form of consultative committees in the negotiations between the partners or to involve any national organisations directly at European level.
This should not come as a surprise because, as I have already stated, the position taken on these issues in the communication takes into account to a large extent the position of the European Parliament.
As emphasised in our draft report, this standpoint is clearly reiterated in our communication, and I know there are ongoing contacts between Parliament, the Council and the Commission in order to resolve this particular issue.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
New Transatlantic Marketplace The next item is the report (A4-0387/98) by Mrs Mann, on behalf of the Committee on External Economic Relations, on the Commission communication on the 'New Transatlantic Marketplace' (COM(98)0125 - C4-0271/98).
Mr President, Commissioner Brittan, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address a few fundamental points before I discuss the report.
Today's debate will be dominated by the Americans' threat to impose sanctions in the form of duties on products from Member States of the European Union, in particular from France and the UK, in order to undermine the present regulation on the banana market before 1 January 1999 and to stir up trouble among the Member States.
It is particularly ironic that the General Affairs Council made its decision on adopting the Action Plan for the Transatlantic Economic Partnership on 9 November 1998, at almost the same time as the Americans decided to impose unilateral sanctions on the European Union.
The huge merger of Daimler and Chrysler is only a foretaste of what we can expect in the near future.
The present report on the Action Plan 'Transatlantic Economic Partnership' expressly supports the initiative of the Commission and the Council.
You will all remember that during the last summit between the European Union and the United States in London, the Council, particularly France, withheld its approval and presented a new plan that was less ambitious.
The result of the process was then the Transatlantic Economic Partnership rather than the Transatlantic Marketplace.
The Action Plan for the Transatlantic Economic Partnership proposes firstly the coordination of multilateral activities and secondly the coordination of a bilateral agenda for the following areas: first, removal of technical barriers; second, intensification of the role of labour in services; third, increased market access for EU and US companies in government procurement; fourth, better protection for intellectual property; fifth, strengthened dialogue and the creation of social cooperation structures in the areas of food, plant and animal health and biotechnology, and the creation of an environmental group.
Mr President, the relationship between the European Union and the United States is a very important one.
I congratulate the rapporteur on her report and I thank her for including in it the specific proposal contained in the Foreign Affairs Committee opinion on this important issue.
I have pressed the Commissioner for it on several occasions.
My second concern is about anti-dumping measures in the EU and the USA.
Even the US Congress says in a major report that the ratio last year was 35 anti-dumping cases on the American side compared with just two on the European side.
Mr President, these relations are also extremely important as far as jobs are concerned.
Both parties can play a part here in the forthcoming WTO negotiations.
Optimum competition does not always have the best outcome for all parties in the world.
The European Parliament has played a key role in this process, first with its call in January this year for a new impulse in transatlantic relations and afterwards through its involvement in the evolution of the transatlantic economic partnership.
We fully share your desire to see positive results in the areas of MRAs, food safety, government procurement, intellectual property, compliance with international rules in the liberalisation process and many other areas.
The position is really quite simple.
The WTO ruled against certain aspects of our regime and gave us until 1 January next year to comply with the ruling.
It has the right to challenge this if it wishes, but only according to the procedures established by the WTO which are readily available to deal with precisely this sort of disagreement.
I look to the European Parliament to be robust in the defence of European interests where they are under attack but also to take the broader view of what we need to do for the future.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the issue of trade and economic relations between the European Union and the USA is one which usually inspires very heated debates and, I would say, intense passions.
That happens because so far we have been unable to form relations of mutual trust and open, sincere communication, despite the prolonged talks and negotiations, despite the planning of an ambitious programme and despite the honest efforts both by the Commission and by our rapporteur, our esteemed colleague Mrs Erika Mann, whom I congratulate on her report.
From what you have said, Commissioner, it is clear that we are still facing a very difficult interlocutor who is also burdened by activities which have shown that the United States, to promote its own exclusive interests, does not hesitate to violate international rules, and this to the cost of the poorest and weakest countries.
Fifth, any agreement must be compatible with the high standards that prevail in Europe concerning health and safety, consumer protection, and the protection of the natural and human environment.
The USA's relations with the European Union are a high priority for all of us, and in future, despite all the conflicts caused in our bilateral relations both by ourselves and particularly by the USA, we will continue to place great importance on the fact that we are dependent upon one another.
I say this because it must be clear that, as Sir Leon said, it must be the WTO requirements that determine our rules.
The transatlantic economic partnership which has now been agreed can put an end to the succession of trade disputes we have seen in recent years.
The agreement may serve as an example to the rest of the world.
Bilateral agreement between two leading trading blocs will enable the Union and the USA to develop a transferable trading model consistent with the multilateral framework of trade, and in particular with the rules of the WTO.
A new transatlantic economic partnership has major implications for private citizens and businesses in terms of jobs and prosperity.
My group is very anxious too to preserve the acquis communautaire and especially the services of general interest which have a considerable influence on our social and economic cohesion.
We need a more autonomous and unified European Union and we would ask our American partners to show more loyalty towards the commitments they have made.
We would finally like to stress the need to develop a new political doctrine for the Union in terms of both the content of the negotiations and democratic control.
Within the partnership, we must not prepare the basis of an agreement between two giants - the United States and Europe - before the next millennium.
Finally, I would like to emphasise the fact that our institutional procedures are showing a political and democratic deficit.
But not in the way you see it, Sir Leon.
It does not contain anything about setting up joint programmes for sustainable development in the world economy, nor does it say anything about commitment to a better quality of life, about using fewer natural resources, or about strengthening the multilateral system.
On the contrary, Charline Barschifsky stated on 28 July what the important issues are for the USA: the rights of US industry, the enforcement of US patent laws, crushing European protection laws in the field of biotechnology, the business interests of American banana producers, Helms-Burton, hormonized meat and genetically-modified food on European tables.
You, Sir Leon Brittan, wish to sacrifice all European and national standards on the altar of free trade, in accordance with your neoliberal philosophy.
Now the US does not care about the WTO and is threatening a full-scale attack on European products if the EU does not given in to US interests in the banana dispute.
This new partnership is obviously preferable to any notion of a single market between the European Union and the US, which was rightly rejected by the Council last April.
The Action Plan proposed today by the Commission to establish this dialogue provides a framework for the negotiations in the months ahead.
In my opinion, it is, for example, essential to establish a common strategy between the European Union and the United States with a view to laying down minimum social standards within both the WTO and the ILO.
And surprise, surprise, the products concerned come from countries in the Union that produce bananas.
Moreover, on 21 October, Congress introduced a new provision that clearly has an extraterritorial effect, by adopting a corresponding amendment to Article 211 of the Finance Act, aimed at banning all transactions involving a well-known confiscated brand.
Perhaps the Council has some concerns in this respect, since it thought it necessary to formally state that the Commission could not give a definite decision on the Union's position in the future multilateral trade negotiations, particularly in the audiovisual sector, without the Council's approval.
Today, Commissioner, we are returning to it in a context that has three aspects: the United States' trade deficit, which we have all discussed; the negotiations in the World Trade Organisation, which are multilateral and that is why we cannot understand this bilateral move, unless we recall the unpleasant memories of Blair House and your colleague, Franz Andriessen, at the beginning of the 1990s; and finally, of course, the American tradition of the big stick policy, with its attacks on Iraq, imperialism in the audiovisual sector, and selfishness in Rio.
The truth is that world trade, despite the myth, only plays a residual role.
It does not even represent 10 % of our production.
I do not in fact believe that this is the case, because we could have applied many of the arguments we now use in connection with United States imperialism to each other in Europe in the past.
In my opinion, this report reflects our philosophy.
In addition to being absent, the Council takes decisions without consulting Parliament.
As the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has stated, the existing obstacles must be removed, and here, we are certainly not in a very happy position.
As Parliament can express its support for your claims, you will be in a stronger negotiating position and so will we.
It is not acceptable that our companies should still be experiencing difficulties in the area of government procurement in the United States, and there is a long list of other problems I do not think it appropriate to elaborate on here and now.
My question to the Commissioner is: In such a market place as he proposes, how do we protect European citizens' preferences in public health and environmental areas, as illustrated by the GMO issue?
Mr President, the relations that link the United States and the European Union are very special.
The global economy requires us to participate in this regular dialogue, but recent events lead me to fear that this enhanced partnership, which we have achieved after months of work and negotiations, might be at risk if one of the partners does not apply the principles on which it is founded.
A solution will have to be found to this dispute within the framework of the WTO, that is, through the multilateral legal channel.
In any case, the application of unilateral sanctions against European products on the part of the United States would be unacceptable and would seriously damage the trust and cooperation that characterise our relationship.
In addition, I fully agree with the proposal to create a US-Europe interparliamentary group.
Free trade, which is the freedom of markets rather than people, is often an attack on the structures set up in a nation to protect its people and its environment.
Market forces have no social or ecological responsibility.
I would firstly like to say that I am surprised that the United States is using retaliatory measures towards the European Union.
The United States has been playing this type of game for a very long time and, without getting involved here in kneejerk anti-American reactions, we should nevertheless remember the serious case of the Helms-Burton Act in which the European Union adopted an extremely timid attitude.
It therefore seems to me to be time to put an end to this imbalance, particularly since - and I would like to mention this point - the United States has just showed itself up once again through its intransigence in Buenos Aires where it totally ruined a conference that was absolutely essential for the future of the planet.
And it involves making general use of the principle of mutual recognition, particularly in areas such as biotechnology, food quality, the environment and social protection, which seems to me to be extremely dangerous.
Mr President, improved trade relations with the USA are a welcome development.
The position of the individual Member States is fairly weak within a multilateral trading system, certainly since the advent of the World Trade Organisation.
Earlier this year, Parliament approved a resolution on the environmental, health and consumer protection aspects of world trade.
The Union's position in these must remain independent of the USA, especially in debate with and about the developing world.
I am concerned to ensure that this new transatlantic marketplace should not hamper the European Union in its worldwide pursuit of sustainable development and a fair distribution of prosperity.
The same goes for other initiatives for cooperation by developed nations, for example the multilateral agreement on investment.
The Member States of the European Union, for example, have a different system for protecting intellectual property.
Mr President, the report by our colleague remains very quiet about the serious imbalance that characterises the economic and trade relations between the European Union and the United States.
It was the subject of a theory a good few years ago by Professor François Perroux of the Collège de France in Paris.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy is, in fact, totally silent on this point, yet it is perhaps in the area of defence and arms that Europe is subject, in the most serious way possible, to American leadership, even going so far as accepting the gunboat diplomacy the United States currently applies towards European countries like Yugoslavia.
For its part, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy pointed out, very appropriately, that the discussions with the United States on the transatlantic marketplace should have respected the acquis communautaire , particularly in the agriculture sector, the association agreements and the Lomé Convention, which is far from being the case.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights pointed out that the problem raised by the unilateral Helms-Burton and d'Amato-Kennedy Acts was still not settled.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs fears the loss of agricultural jobs in Europe with these transatlantic negotiations.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in paragraph 4 of its opinion, fears discrimination against European industry.
The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media states in paragraph 7 that European television programmes only account for 2 % of the American market while American productions totally dominate this sector in Europe.
This really is unilateral trade where Europeans are playing the role of the 'submissive colony'.
Finally, the American federal states do not always feel bound by the agreements signed in Washington.
We have seen several examples of this, particularly in the case of the market for electrical engineering a few years ago.
With these few comments, we can see clearly that Europe is scarcely more than a satellite of the United States, and the real objective of this report should have been to discuss that issue.
The project for a transatlantic marketplace, as it stands, will give a little more encouragement to the colonisation of Europe by the American economic powers.
Mr President, this is an excellent report but I have to say that I do regret its juxtaposition to the deep concern many of us have expressed here today about the threat to our banana regime.
The Caribbean bananas which enter the European market account for only 7 % of the EU's market in bananas and also, if this wrangle is about Article 13 of WTO, there are other North-South arrangements that do not sit that happily with Article 13.
I hope the United States recognises that as well.
I hope that the European Union will stand firm and say that there is a moral issue here, an issue of obligation and responsibility to our traditional suppliers in the Caribbean in particular.
I hope that you will continue to make the case for real justice for the people of the Caribbean in the face of what is perceived by all of us here as the completely unacceptable attitude of the United States towards the European Union.
Nevertheless, we regret the lack of mechanisms to prevent the United States from taking unilateral action in contravention of World Trade Organisation arrangements and to the detriment of bilateral relations.
Mr President, we are convinced that transatlantic relations can be seen as an opportunity for Europe, especially in respect of difficulties still outstanding.
Secondly, in terms of a bilateral relationship, looking into the longer term, we are wanting to see a broader partnership.
The last point is that this will not operate, as our rapporteur has said, unless we have parliamentary dialogue - a legislative dialogue - because the problems which we have had on Cuba, the problems which we have on bananas, come from the US Congress and therefore you need a parliamentary dialogue based on equality, balance and substance to be able to make this important initiative succeed.
Unfortunately, our friends and partners in the United States only understand firm and aggressive language.
It really is remarkable that last week, as the Council of the European Union was adopting the action plan paving the way for the Transatlantic Economic Partnership, our friends in the United States should spring a whole range of unilateral measures on us, in blatant disregard of the rules of the game and in clear violation of the obligations entered into within the World Trade Organisation.
Thank you, Mr Salafranca.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is questions to the Commission (B4-0705/98).
Article 105 of the Treaty adds that without prejudice to the objective of price stability, the ESCB shall support the general economic policies in the Community with a view to contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the Community as laid down in Article 2.
These objectives are concerned, among other things, with promoting sustainable and non-inflationary growth and a high level of employment and social protection.
In accordance with the Treaty it has always paid attention to the specific share of investment expenditure in general government deficits, as witness its recommendation of 25 March 1998 concerning qualification of the Member States for participation in the third stage of economic and monetary union.
Perhaps it might be better if my colleague, Commissioner de Silguy, answered the matter in writing.
The Court, basing itself on Article 6 concerning discrimination on grounds of nationality and Article 59 on freedom to provide services, has consistently condemned discriminatory practices.
The Commission will continue to be vigilant in upholding respect for basic principles of Community law and will, wherever appropriate, have recourse to the Court of Justice.
Furthermore, for almost ten years, the Commission has been negotiating with Member States on the introduction of a European Union-wide over-60s card as called for in the Commission's recommendation of 10 May 1989.
The Commission launched a second feasibility study in 1995 aimed at updating and deepening the first one.
The final report on this study has been received and copies have been given to the members of the European Parliament Intergroup on Ageing.
The report has also been presented to the NGO members of the liaison group for older people.
Mr Evans, I would not be too optimistic.
There are two main obstacles to a card for older people.
The second problem is that the picture is constantly changing.
I just wish to say that the Commission has already announced its intention in the 1998 to 2000 social action programme to launch a debate on the use of the future Article 13.
Article 13 provides for appropriate action to combat discrimination based on sex, racial and ethnic origin, religion, belief, disability, age and sexual orientation.
So we are examining the possibility of legislation as soon as the Treaty is ratified.
I have just announced our intention under the programme to present a communication on the issues you have referred to as part of our contribution to next year's United Nations Year.
Perhaps more action could be taken at European level to help improve the flow of information.
The Commission could consider supporting the development of a website on concession schemes available to older people in the Union.
I do not whether you think that would be helpful but it might be a first step in breaking the log-jam.
Mr President, Mrs Malone, Parliament was late in expressing its wish to declare a Year Against Violence Against Women, with the result that the Commission no longer had time to present a formal proposal, ensure appropriate finance and plan the activities carefully.
The first conference will take place from 1 to 4 December on the role of the police in fighting violence against women, in particular against immigrants.
The campaign's closing conference will be organised in cooperation with the Finnish Presidency.
Question No 45 by Gerard Collins (H-1029/98) Subject: EU support for computer purchases for schools At Shanagolden Primary School in Limerick, in Ireland, a new computer room with eight computers has just been opened which will enable teachers to work with pupils, including remedial pupils, in furthering their education through the use of new technology.
In this context, a joint call for proposals on the subject of educational multimedia was published in December 1996, in which in particular Socrates, Leonardo da Vinci, TEN and three research programmes took part.
One example of the 46 projects selected is the 'European Schoolnet' project, which involves the education ministries of the Member States.
The Socrates programme is aimed at European cooperation in education and promotes cooperation in these areas, in particular within the context of open and distance learning.
The proposal for Socrates II provides for a new action that is to promote the critical and responsible use of information technologies in schools and colleges.
Finally, there are numerous research and development actions under various research programmes, which serve to develop an infrastructure and the resources to use it, to create new tools such as simulations or virtual classrooms and to promote open and distance learning.
Thank you, Mrs Wulf-Mathies.
If the current investigation confirms that Community environmental law is being violated, the Commission will decide whether infringement proceedings should be instituted in accordance with Article 169.
However, we are aware that this issue is a source of concern for the people from that area and they are therefore entitled to receive a reply from us as soon as possible to confirm whether environmental regulations have been violated.
Question No 47 by John McCartin (H-0945/98) Subject: Local partnership companies in Ireland Is the Commission aware of the concern of Partnership companies in Ireland (receiving funding under the Operational Programme for Local Urban and Rural Development under the sub-programme for the 'Integrated development of designated disadvantaged and other areas') that the programme will be cut short when it has only just got up and running (operational only in 1996)?
It is not the Commission's intention either to introduce reprogramming or to reduce funding.
On the contrary, the Commission is convinced, on the strength of the information provided by the monitoring committee for the Operational Programme for Local Urban and Rural Development, that partnership companies will succeed by the end of 1999 in dividing up between the projects all the programme funds available under the TAI Programme II.
It acknowledges the progress that was achieved within the current programme in promoting local socio-economic development and in compensating for disadvantages, and is open to proposals on ways of promoting local development and, in particular, combating social exclusion in future as well.
Mr President, I understand the concern.
Secondly, the Commission is generally interested in promoting local partnerships in the next programming period as well.
However, since we attach great importance, in the new proposals for structural reform, to local initiatives and, in particular, to local employment initiatives, I am assuming that continuing to promote similar measures in future as part of a programme will be an important concern for all of us.
Question No 48 by Konstantinos Hatzidakis (H-0973/98) Subject: Defective work in implementation of Greek Community Support Framework According to information which has come to light in Greece, a great many of the projects jointly funded from the Community budget under the Second Community Support Framework for Greece, particularly road-building, have been carried out in a slipshod manner and, in general, do not meet Community specifications.
The results of this second ESPEL inspection are to be presented in two days, that is, on 19 November, at the next meeting of the Community Support Framework Audit Board.
I have the published figures for the second quarter from the report by the Special Quality Control Council, which show that projects not conforming to specifications are found in a very high proportion: concrete materials of poor quality 77 %, substrate material of poor quality 91 %, foundation materials of poor quality 95 %, and so on.
So I want you to tell me what action you intend to take with the Greek Government, and tell me also, since you say you have comparative figures, what is happening elsewhere.
Sincerely, I ask you for a more specific answer because this is an issue of the first priority for my country.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first like to hear from you which exactly are the projects we are discussing, who are the contractors, and who are those responsible in the various services of the Greek State for monitoring these projects.
In this respect, I now consider this discussion to be a further impetus for the representatives of the Commission to take appropriate action at the meeting of the monitoring committee on 19 November.
I give the floor to Mrs Wulf-Mathies to answer Mrs Kinnock's question.
The Cardiff European Council has declared in this connection that political agreement on the whole package is to be achieved by March 1999 at the latest.
The Commission was pleased to note that the German Government intends to keep to the Cardiff timetable during its Presidency of the Council, as stated by the German Chancellor, Mr Schröder, in his inaugural speech on 10 October.
If this is the case, Parliament could agree, in particular, to the proposal for a Structural Fund Regulation with general terms and conditions by the end of the current legislative period.
The regulation could then be finally adopted in May 1999.
If we take into account the period of time that is necessary for drawing up the regional development plans and negotiating the Community support frameworks, the Commission's decisions on the distribution of the funds under Objective 1 could therefore be issued in the first quarter of the year 2000.
The list of eligible areas for Objective 2 could be adopted by the Commission in the third quarter of 1999, because the consultation process is longer in this area due to the flexibility that was introduced.
I think it is therefore truly important that Parliament and the Council give a clear signal that they also intend to keep to this timetable.
I hope very much that Parliament at least will do this tomorrow at the first reading on the reform of the Structural Funds.
The Commission already submitted its proposals in March this year, and in this respect, more concrete results could have been achieved had they been wanted.
However, as was already said, this is the Commission's proposal, and the Council and Parliament still have to agree to it.
Question No 50 by Reinhard Rack (H-1011/98) Subject: Future substance of the Community's Interreg initiative The details of the future framework conditions for the new objectives 1, 2 and 3 are now beginning to emerge very clearly.
It believes that in future this should comprise three forms of cooperation.
Secondly, transnational cooperation between regional and national authorities with a view to promoting the economic integration of peripheral regions, and closer European integration, as well as deepening cooperation in regional development.
Thirdly, interregional cooperation with a view to exchanging practical knowledge and proven methods, as well as promoting the transfer of know-how between the regions in question.
However, Interreg measures in the regions bordering on the applicant countries are linked to the PHARE cross-border measures, under which cross-border cooperation is financed in the PHARE countries.
The aim of this reform is to make cross-border cooperation more efficient, and to reinforce the cross-border nature of measures by means of common structures and common programmes.
Since we have no more time for questions to Mrs Wulf-Mathies, Question No 51 by Mr Schröder will receive a written answer.
Finally, Commissioner, I would like to know whether you are in receipt of any communication from the United States' Congress on this matter, requesting the Commission to state its position on the content of the letter in question.
Above all, the reasons we have not concerned ourselves to set a deadline is that, for the moment, under the agreement, the United States is taking no action against any European company under either Title 3 or Title 4 and has indicated that not only does Total get a waiver agreement but anybody else who invests in Iran on comparable terms will similarly get a waiver.
Although the Commissioner has told us, the United States, is not at present implementing the Helms-Burton law in certain respects, is he aware of the fact that many European businessmen have been intimidated into refusing to take the risk of incurring liability under Title 3 and Title 4 of the bill and, if they have had relations with the United States, have preferred to limit relations with Cuba or not have any at all.
The negotiations have not been terminated but, being frank about it, I indicated that the prospects were not good.
I am glad we have made some progress in starting down that road at the WTO ministerial meeting in Singapore.
Meanwhile, there have been the negotiations on the MAI in the framework of the OECD.
I am very pleased that the British Government, as reported on 13 November in the Guardian , has said that Ministers have decided the way forward is to include labour standards and environmental concerns from the outset.
I hope that the Commission will take that view in its relations with the WTO.
As Mr Barton is not present, Question No 55 lapses.
Question No 56 by David Bowe (H-1034/98) Subject: Steel What action has the Commission taken in response to the recent court case in the Ohio State Court in the USA which was directly aimed at preventing foreign steel from entering that particular state, an action that appears to be in contravention of US and international law?
I give the floor to Sir Leon to answer Mr Bowe's question.
On 17 November 1998, however, the Ohio State Court where the case was pending dismissed the action brought by the Ohio corporation.
If the American Government gives in to this type of pressure, what is the European Union - and the Commission in particular - going to do to protect its steel companies?
As far as Europe is concerned, EUROFER has been to see me and has indicated that it will be putting forward a complaint alleging that there has been dumping and possibly other unlawful trading activities in the steel industry.
I give the floor to Sir Leon to answer Mr Watson's question.
We attach great importance to our economic and commercial links with both China and Taiwan so we must be available to discuss these relations as and when necessary.
There are other aspects that still have to be considered.
Question No 58 by Paul Rübig (H-0924/98) Subject: Directives on the recognition of diplomas and discrimination against consultant engineering firms The first and second directives on the recognition of diplomas govern entitlement to exercise a profession, or rather the evidence entitling a person to pursue a regulated profession in an EU Member State.
The directives relating to the general system of recognition of diplomas make no provision for coordination of training nor for automatic recognition of vocational qualifications.
Indeed, ever since the Fontainebleau summit the vertical sectoral approach - that is, specific directives - for specific jobs and occupations has been replaced by a horizontal approach, in other words the general system based on semi-automatic recognition of qualifications without prior harmonisation of education and training systems.
Question No 59 by Antonios Trakatellis (H-0940/98) Subject: Decision on complaint concerning the Thessaloniki underground railway and implementation of Community legislation on public contracts Almost four years since the Thessaloniki underground rail project was incorporated in the section of the 2nd CSF for Greece (1994-1999) entitled 'Improvement in living conditions', and almost two years since a complaint was made to the Commission that the project was in breach of Community legislation on public contracts, the only progress has been the transfer of ECU 26 million of the ECU 60.7 m of the Community's total contribution.
Will the Commission, therefore, say whether it has taken a final decision on the complaint, what that decision is and whether it may be overturned in the light of new information?
If that is so, how can the Commission ensure a swift review of the case when it took 18 months to make any statement on the complaint?
The competent authorities in Greece were informed in a letter dated 18 September 1998.
Question No 60 by Sören Wibe (H-0951/98) Subject: Parallel imports into the EEA One of the effects of a judgment delivered by the European Court of Justice in summer 1998 is to prevent parallel imports of branded clothing from countries outside the EEA.
Sweden has protested in the Council against this ruling, as it affects Swedish consumers and retailers.
This bears out the Commission's interpretation of the 1989 directive on trade marks.
I would stress that the protection of intellectual property rights is crucially important in developing innovation in Europe.
Nevertheless, Commissioner, you may take the floor if you wish.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
There is nothing more in it than has been available in the past.
Thank you, Mr Gallagher.
Since the time allowed for Question Time to the Commission has now come to an end, Questions Nos 61 to 119 will receive written answers.
Total spending on these projects is ECU 44.7 million.
To date some 315 applications - project proposals - for aid under the 1998 budget have been received in total.
This is for some 35 projects, whilst preparations for decisions to be taken in the Commission are largely complete in respect of ECU 18 million, that is to say for about 41 projects.
So we really expect the Commission to have taken a decision within the next three weeks on 76 projects to a total value of some ECU 37 million - I am still talking about 1998.
Out of the total sum of 44.7 million, that leaves about five to six million which have already been earmarked for civil society projects in Kosovo.
These are criteria which have been applied in earlier years to project assessment, and in other years too only some, a third to a quarter of all applications, were approved.
The budget remarks for 1998 made no provision for that, and for the same reason it was not possible to draw on part A of the budget line.
The Commission will make that request before the second reading of the budget.
These possibilities, namely the interinstitutional agreement on the one hand, plus the question of budget remarks allowing outside assistance on the other, may provide a solution in the shorter term.
But I would prefer to discuss the alternatives with you at a later date, because we feel that for the moment our first priority must be to secure the situation for the rest of this year and for 1999 through an interinstitutional agreement and remarks in the budget.
I will end by saying this: give us the tools if we are to do the job.
I think that what we are putting to you now is the best solution possible and the best guarantee possible for the period from now until the end of next year.
In the longer term, and I agree with the Commissioner here, ad hoc solutions are no longer acceptable.
Madam President, this means that I think the Commission will this year need to find a few extra staff in DG IA to deal with the remaining problems, because I do not know, in all honesty, whether the civil society project in Kosovo is feasible this year.
So I think priority should be given to human rights problems on a rather broader base.
This Commissioner knows full well that in the Netherlands, in the area of development cooperation, ambassadors have little stashes of money which they can spend, subject to certain conditions.
But these visits never took place, which accounts for part of our annoyance.
Most importantly of course, six months before an election they could really stab us in the back if we were to reclaim one of the most humane features of the European Union in a reorganisation.
I admit that all this is very difficult but perhaps we should discuss it together at some point.
The process of constant reorganisation within the Commission is damaging the Union's human rights policy and has damaged it in the past.
But I have her authority to say just one thing, and that is in response to what Commissioner van den Broek said a moment ago.
I refer to the tension which exists between our inclination to favour small-scale projects, because these have a more direct influence on human rights in countries where this is needed, and the scrutiny exercised by the Commission.
Madam President, Commissioner, with the coming 50th anniversary of the UN Charter of Human Rights, I think it is quite shameful for this House to be engaged this month in a discussion on what is so bad about the management of DGIA.
I was glad to hear you say therefore that in the 1999 budgetary procedure, together with the Commission and Council, we are going to find a solution for next year, and I hope for this year too, as you indicated.
If that is the new Commission policy on human rights, then we might as well give up, and then a new debate on the true meaning of the construction of civil society and the defence of democracy and human rights both inside and outside the European Union will begin.
Every year, for example, I table an amendment asking for more officials for the internal management of this item, but this amendment is never adopted by the Committee on Budgets.
So we now find ourselves in a very delicate situation where appropriations might not be committed.
They cannot accept the excuse that our procedures are unsuitable and that they must therefore wait until the year 2000 for us to sort ourselves out.
I suspect that due to the shortage of personnel in the Commission, you have decided to simply hand this year's money over in large chunks to the international organisations.
Madam President, on the point about the interinstitutional agreement, I should like to ask the Commissioner by whose authority the interinstitutional agreement by which there was an advisory committee, established between Parliament, the Commission, the Council of Europe and the G24, was unilaterally abrogated on 9 January this year.
I used to represent Parliament on that committee, and there were officials from Parliament too.
It is important to know that the Commission decided then to take all these matters in-house.
Further, why, in response to a number of questions here, the contract in the tender brochure, properly entered into, which was won by the Human Rights Foundation, was never enacted.
I should add, and I have not heard anyone make the point here tonight, that these projects are also human rights projects and civil society projects organised with the Council of Europe for the Baltic states, and in Albania too, and we all know what is going on there, and in Ukraine.
The emphasis is still on small projects, but with all the difficulties inherent in them.
So we need an interinstitutional agreement in order to be able to continue the legal base.
The Commission cannot do all that itself without outside assistance.
We are very much concerned, for example, with a region like Eastern Europe where the whole process of developing a civil society is naturally part of the efforts to foster an effective process of integration.
We have to try to find a solution to this, and I shall certainly play a part in assessing the ideas put forward for the longer term concerning agencies and suchlike.
I hope that in the short term, budget remarks will in any event provide a solution for next year.
Thank you, Mr van den Broek.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Patents The next item is the report (A4-0384/98) by Mr Añoveros Trias de Bes, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, on the Commission Green Paper on promoting innovation through patents (COM(97)0314 - C4-0342/97).
Further technical issues with a bearing on the future of a Community patent are raised: harmonisation, the impact of the information society and electronic commerce, to name but a few.
The proposal for a resolution adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes harmonising this legislation within the European Union in order to consolidate the internal market, which is particularly important in advance of enlargement.
The European Patent Office should be the technical operator of the patent, in cooperation with national authorities.
In the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs, a Member State must not abandon its national language since a patent is a means of providing information concerning the state of the technology and legal certainty.
The Green Paper is subtitled: 'promoting innovation through patents'.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to thank the Commission for taking the initiative to produce this Green Paper.
Pursuant to Article 52(2) of the European Patent Convention and the corresponding national patent laws in the European Union, computer programs are excluded from patent protection.
If we do not want to lose our competitive edge in the field of computer software technology, we need to change this legal situation.
The rapporteur's preferred solution here is also the one I have supported in my opinion for the Research Committee.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, patent policy is a very important instrument in economic policy, and licensing policy is directly derived from patent policy.
A good patent policy is a particularly effective way of supporting research policy.
That is why I am in favour of harmonising national provisions, because it is important, for both small and large companies, to identify the basic conditions which will make a single procedure possible.
That is why I very much welcome the Commission proposal, precisely because international policy on patents and licences is an extremely important instrument for Europe.
Mr President, the patent system plays a crucial role in promoting innovation, growth and employment in the Community.
A coherent and effective Community system of patent protection is a vital element in this context.
The Commission's Green Paper has been successful in generating a very broad-based debate on this issue, in which those concerned have participated enthusiastically.
The overall message emerging from these discussions is that the effectiveness of the patent system should be boosted by fully incorporating the practical needs of users.
The Economic and Social Committee, for its part, was virtually unanimous in adopting a highly positive opinion on the whole range of proposals aired in the Green Paper, including the introduction of the Community patent.
To conclude, the Commission is now thoroughly convinced that the patent system must be modified as soon as possible.
In addition, this new framework could perhaps include Community action to support efforts made by national patent offices to promote innovation.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
The Commission's very well-structured Green Paper addresses this question - and it does so in a responsible fashion, as do we in the European Parliament, in these times of widespread crisis when the two most crucial and worrying issues of all are the economic future of pensioners and jobs for young people.
We were nevertheless able to agree in the Legal Affairs Committee on a few little rules, which I believe are of some interest and comply with freedom of establishment, freedom to make cross-border investment, and so on and so forth.
Madam President, in my opinion the essential merit of this Green Paper is that the Commission clearly specifies that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it is for the Member States to decide on the role of the first, second and third pillars which form the basis of pension schemes for employees and the self-employed in the Member States.
I believe that the Community framework needed to ensure the development of a genuine single market for pension funds must be limited to removing the obstacles to the free choice of pension funds, to the free movement of persons and to the freedom to provide services.
Taxation is clearly a potential brake on the free movement of persons and on the freedom to provide services.
I believe that tax treatment in the European Union must be harmonised, providing for tax exemption or deductibility when rights are constituted, and that beneficiaries should be taxed in accordance with Member States' income tax rules.
Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for producing this report because it is a very important one.
One of the most enriching experiences I have had in the European Parliament is a look at the structures which have governed Europe economically since 1945.
The Socialist Group will support the European market model of codecision and codetermination.
One of the people that I looked to for inspiration was Tom Paine, who took part in two revolutions, one in America and one in France, and strove for political democracy.
I believe, with the Socialists, that democracy is best served by the European social market model.
Madam President, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has incorporated the principal amendments proposed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in its report, and has thus made appropriate comments on the Green Paper.
Community legislation should not discriminate against pension funds, either in terms of prudential supervision provisions or in terms of tax conditions.
Fourthly: basic tax conditions for supplementary pension schemes need to be harmonised and improved across the internal market, so as to better exploit the potential of the internal market in pension schemes and to make it more competitive.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, but also the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, for endorsing the proposals made by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to modify the Green Paper.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the future, and the future is very important for everyone.
Babies born today will probably live to be 100 years old!
At present fewer than two per cent of all workers in Europe are employed in another Member State.
I would ask the Commissioner to take this a little further.
Madam President, pension schemes are based on three pillars.
I wish Commissioner Monti luck in this mission, which is a 'mission practically impossible'.
This approach runs the risk of creating a system based on private insurance which would gradually replace social security.
The basic aim of the pension fund strategy is to channel savings towards the financial markets.
The French MEPs in my group are totally against pension funds.
Rather, we must defend the pay-as-you-go system which is alone in guaranteeing the rights of employees and which allows the latter to claim a pension in a context of national solidarity between workers and pensioners, between generations and between the nation and its workers.
Mr President, the Green Paper on supplementary pensions in the single market had two main aims: firstly, to launch the widest possible debate on ways of ensuring the financial sustainability of pension schemes in the Member States.
In 2015 this ratio will be in the order of two to one, or even more unfavourable in certain Member States.
As regards the second aim of the Green Paper, we must strive at EU level to ensure that supplementary pension schemes, based on capitalisation, can benefit fully from the advantages of the single market.
These restrictions are hampering the integration of capital markets in the Union, to the detriment of growth and employment.
Finally, and in particular, because of the lack of coordination of taxation systems, life insurance companies and pension funds are not free to offer their services throughout the Union.
This situation is all the more unsatisfactory, considering the way that supplementary pension schemes are flourishing in the EU.
Pension fund assets in the Member States already constitute 25 % of EU GDP, and a growing number of countries are relying on these bodies to tackle demographic and budgetary changes.
In addition, more and more people now wish to work in different EU Member States, and they must enjoy the freedom to do so without running the risk of losing their supplementary pension rights.
The Commission has received almost a hundred responses to the Green Paper, from the Member States, the Economic and Social Committee, and financial and social circles.
This same conclusion was reached in the context of the action plan on financial services, proposed by the Commission on 28 October.
Finally, the Commission will cooperate closely with the Member States in an attempt to abolish the main fiscal barriers to the creation of an internal market in supplementary pensions.
All of this naturally plays an important role in employment policy.
I therefore believe that few issues are as central to Europe's economic and social system as this one is in several respects, and I thank Parliament once again for its most valuable contribution.
I also wish to point out the distinction between a firm producing goods and services in which, at least in some Member States, there are forms of involvement of workers employed in it and a financial intermediary in a broad sense, like a supplementary pension scheme.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, given the reputation, at least in Britain, of buses being late and given the fact that this particular report is coming back to us a second time, having been delayed since April of this year, it is probably apt that we are starting a little bit late on the debate this evening.
I told him that my proposals would have removed those derogations because to all intents and purposes Members of this House accept that most vehicles are safe and ought to be granted type-approval, not just in their national markets, but also in the European market.
Nevertheless I believe it merits serious consideration by the Commission.
The legislator then has to decide whether the height of the step for boarding a bus should be 240, 260 or 280 mm.
Secondly, European standardisation bodies will be involved, and they have accumulated a wealth of experience with this type of legislation.
The demands placed on a bus in Sicily are completely different from those placed on a bus in the north of Finland, or in a large city such as London, or in a small town such as Oberplattling in Bavaria.
As you know, this proposal fits into the Community system of type-approval for motor vehicles, governed by framework Directive 70/156/EEC.
The proposal follows the detailed approach traditionally used in the motor vehicle sector, both within the Community and internationally.
The revision of the 1958 agreement of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, to which the European Union only acceded in March 1998, has led to a number of international regulations on the fitting-out of urban and interurban buses.
First of all, the proposed test does not fully fit either into the traditional, detailed approach taken in regulations in the automotive sector or into the new approach centring on essential requirements.
In actual fact the rapporteur's amendments appear to be guided by the new approach, in that the technical specifications set out in the Annexes are removed.
Secondly, the report provides for the establishment of a new group, the technical working party, to comprise representatives of operators, manufacturers, standardisation bodies and consumer groups, among them representatives of the disabled.
Fourthly and lastly, let us not forget that this directive completes the overall system of type-approval for this category of vehicle.
We do of course wish to complete the Community regulatory system in conjunction with the European Parliament, with the legislator in the context of codecision.
It is our intention to carry forward this task with the assistance of the rapporteur and of Parliament in a constructive manner, in such a way as to satisfy everyone concerned.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for a few years now the Union has been devoting considerable attention to European aerospace policy, as can easily be seen from numerous communications issued by the Commission.
The present report, however, does not merely deal with one of the many aspects of this strategic domain, but also analyses the current situation in its entirety, and on that basis devises a coherent European policy for the future.
But this economic potential can only be used to the full if the present fragmented European aerospace industry is restructured to strengthen its competitiveness in the world market, a necessity arising from the increasingly complex nature of the aerospace products that are now in demand.
This becomes all the more important if we consider the significance of the aerospace industry as a source of employment which provided more than 377 000 direct jobs in 1997.
The fact that the European aerospace industry has been affected in recent years by stiffer competition, cuts in public funding and the meteoric pace of technological development does not make the restructuring process any easier.
Alarm bells started ringing in earnest within the European industry last July with the merger of Boeing and McDonnell Douglas.
This American example of restructuring clearly shows the direction in which the European aerospace industry should also be heading.
Within only five years, three gigantic groups have emerged in the United States through mergers and takeovers.
One example is the project for a European Aerospace and Defence Company, which is surely incontrovertible evidence of a desire for restructuring within both the industry and national governments.
Following a number of meetings, Daimler Benz Aerospace, Aérospatiale, Casa and British Aerospace have devised a clear plan of approach, setting out the aims, scope and operational structure of a common aerospace policy covering both the civilian and military branches of aerospace activity.
The first step in this direction will be the creation next year of the Airbus single corporate entity.
Civil aviation is certainly the most important branch of the aerospace industry in financial terms, but a long-term European strategy must also be established in the other branches.
The framework programme also ensures the provision of a specific coordinating mechanism for activities within the various thematic programmes in the field of aerospace technology.
In institutional terms and in respect of ownership arrangements, the guidelines for privatisation in France have recently been drawn up, but much still remains to be done.
Two things do give me cause for satisfaction: the allocation to the aerospace sector in the fifth framework programme, which is almost double that of the fourth, and the growing consensus apparent in both political and industrial circles in Europe concerning the satellite navigation programme.
Mr President, Commissioner de Silguy, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hoppenstedt, everyone knows that the European aerospace industry is a prestigious jewel in the crown of our European economy, of our economic power and therefore of our political power.
Like the rapporteur, I must firstly welcome the Franco-German-UK declaration of 9 December 1997 on this subject.
I firmly approve, as does Mr Hoppenstedt, of the European-level restructuring of our military and civil aerospace industry.
The reason I am saying this is because there are many other sectors which are or will be affected.
This is now clear and we cannot pretend or say otherwise.
The two final points which I must stress are the need to jointly develop the next generation of military equipment and airframes and never to forget in Europe the importance in social terms, and in terms of direct and indirect jobs, of the civil and military aeronautical industry and therefore obviously the need to introduce Euroworks councils as quickly as possible.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by thanking my honourable friend Mr Hoppenstedt for his excellent report.
I believe that, while we must create the conditions for the development of a European aerospace industry, it is even more important that companies within the aerospace industry in Europe should get together properly, and there is still much to be done in this respect.
I am not sure whether we in this House, you in the Commission and the governments in the Member States are fully aware of the problems associated with the global satellite navigation system.
In this context, the Hoppenstedt report has come at an opportune moment.
As Europe must act quickly and appropriately in order to maintain its place in the aerospace industry, our four main objectives must be: to consolidate the initial success of the launch of Ariane V; to develop a subsonic long-haul Airbus A3XX; to achieve the space and terrestrial components of the European satellite navigation systems GNS 1 and 2, and finally, in terms of research and development, to develop cheaper, lighter and more powerful satellites to meet the needs of telecommunications and Earth observation and also prevention, particularly of natural disasters.
The competition from the US must be met by a resurgence in Europe.
Technological developments in the aerospace industry represent aid for employment.
Mr President, this report conforms to the Commission's approach by supporting the current restructuring in the European aeronautical industry.
The stated desire to confront Boeing and its might forms the basic argument justifying the aim of and the need for a major European aerospace grouping.
The report speaks of efficiency.
The Greens are particularly concerned that, in the absence of safeguards, mergers in the aerospace industry will trigger an irreversible arms spiral in Europe and that this will all happen without transparency and democratic control.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in thanking Mr Hoppenstedt for his report, I must repeat what previous speakers have pointed out, that the restructuring of the European aerospace industry is essential.
The Member States and manufacturers are clearly aware of this and they are currently making progress towards a joint solution which will soon be satisfactory to all the partners.
Parliament must assist this approach by ensuring that social progress is achieved, particularly in terms of Euroworks councils, as has just been mentioned.
The importance of the trade agreements resulting from this type of industry will clearly have an effect on the standard of living of people in Europe.
The Community's financial support for research in this sector must therefore not be reduced but should actually continue in parallel with the considerable effort being made by the government of the United States in respect of the restructuring of the American aerospace sector.
However, we must also take advantage of this ambitious financial programme to improve the organisation and distribution of subcontracting, so that this vital industrial effort can best serve the interests of industrial development in all the European regions concerned.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no-one can be more delighted by the success of our aerospace industry, and in particular the exemplary cooperation represented by Airbus and Ariane, than the National Front.
The aim behind the integration of the civil and military sectors is not to bring into play any synergies, dual technologies or possibilities of public subsidy for research, but is merely to let the armament industry join the common fate of the European economy in terms of competition at any price and seizure of control by Brussels.
Mr President, the rapporteur has very clearly emphasised the significance of the European aerospace industry as a genuinely important factor in our economic future.
If we recall that the European Union still has but a tiny share of the world market, and if we consider that in 1996 the value of aerospace exports just edged over the ECU 15 billion mark, which is equivalent to about 3 % of all EU exports, we cannot fail to realise that aerospace is so important that the European Union, for all its successes, still needs to achieve more in this sector.
The large number of aerospace companies in a relatively small internal market means that research, production and marketing potential is dissipated, which is not without an influence on the competitiveness of the European Union.
Mr President, pardon my smiling, but it is pleasing to be able to conduct a political debate, even at this late hour.
Mr President, allow me to deal with an aspect that was not expressly mentioned in this excellent report, namely the question of component supplies.
The aerospace industry awards contracts to hundreds of small and medium-sized businesses in most Member States of the European Union.
I would remind you that the aim of this communication is to draw attention to the urgent need to accelerate restructuring and regrouping in the European aerospace industry.
We must therefore be as strong in the world market as the Americans in order to be able to cooperate.
The exponential growth in development costs and the financial risks exceed the resources of the European aerospace companies, even the most powerful.
The second factor relates to the market.
The same applies to the aid for research and technological development that American companies receive from the American Government.
The Member States must therefore understand that the future of the European aerospace industry is linked to the interdependence of the structures existing within the European Union.
Although the manufacturers must be the main protagonists in this restructuring, it is clear that the governments have a decisive role to play in this process.
They must promote the creation of companies at European level by guaranteeing genuine commercial flexibility based on suitable support and training structures.
As several MEPs have rightly stressed, the first stage in this restructuring should be the transformation, which has actually already been agreed, of Airbus Industrie into a single corporate entity involving the companies participating in the GIE.
However, Mrs Ainardi, I must tell you that, in relation to 1980, the European aerospace industry is now much more oriented towards the civil side.
Despite the difficulties caused by the problem of restructuring in the defence sector, the immediate progress to be made in the civil sector must not be delayed.
The question of the level of employment in the aerospace sector is implicit in the Commission's approach which aims to increase the competitiveness of this European industry.
To conclude, I must stress to Mr Malerba and Mr de Lassus that the Commission is making new efforts in research and technological development to support this restructuring.
You will remember that we prepared a communication on this subject in January 1998.
The Commission will propose the approach to be taken with regard to satellite navigation in a new communication in the first half of 1999, together with financing proposals.
Finally, only integrated action by the companies involved and the Member States can provide the framework needed for the survival and development of the European aerospace industry.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner de Silguy, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing today with the amendment of a regulation laying down the denominations and physical features of the euro coins to be put into circulation.
Afterwards, I should like to add a few words on the subject of monetary union to my party colleague Mr Fischer in Rome.
The problems that had to be resolved in this report related to the number of coins to be introduced, the denominations in which they would be produced, and lastly the choice of material and the physical characteristics of the coinage.
When the Council, unfortunately, rejected this and other proposals, including moves to prevent the use of nickel on the surface of the coins, Parliament called on the Council once again in second reading to heed the opinion of the European Blind Union and reduce the number of coins.
The European Blind Union is not satisfied that the 50 cent and 10 cent coins are properly distinguishable, because their excessively similar physical characteristics could lead to confusion between the two.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy voted by a narrow majority against my proposing the scrapping of a denomination again in my report.
With a view to enhancing the symbolic value of the 100 euro coin as the sign of a united Europe and a strong common currency, it should not have a national side as the other coins have, but should uniformly bear a powerful symbol of the European Union.
The second step is social and environmental union.
I have emphasised that point because it has taken a long time to build up this confidence, and more time is needed to consolidate it.
This is why I support the proposal to simply delete the 20 cent coin, which would solve some of the problems raised.
I also support the proposal to change the definition of the edges of the 50 and 10 cent coins, which would solve some of the other problems.
Simpler and more reasonable decisions would have reduced the three-year production period expected from 1 January 1999 to 1 January 2002.
Finally, I also support the request for a gold 100 euro coin.
For all these reasons, I can confirm my support for the report and for the amendments which have already been approved in the main in committee.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago in Parliament we set out our principles: the introduction of a gold euro and the reduction of the coinage to six denominations, possibly eliminating the 2 and 20 cent pieces.
Or will the development of electronic money be so far advanced by then that these problems might be avoided, or is it necessary to make a one or two euro note instead of printing 200 euro notes?
Yet Parliament pressed in December 1997 for the number of coin denominations to be kept as small as possible and for their value to be linked to their diameter, precisely in an effort to prevent fraud and make life easier for blind people.
The introduction of the euro would be a unique opportunity to prove that the European Union is prepared to make a gesture for the benefit of those citizens whom fate has placed at a disadvantage.
I am in favour of the introduction of a gold 100-euro coin, one reason being, as the rapporteur so eloquently put it in her report, that it would enrich the new currency by lending it an emotional aspect.
I consider it right and proper that the 50 cent coin should be 0.8 grams heavier so that coin-operated machinery can distinguish more reliably between 50 cent and 20 cent coins.
I consider it right and proper that the edge of the 50 cent coin should differ from that of the 10 cent coin, since it has proved difficult for people with visual impairments to distinguish between the two.
What is the reason for minting a 100 euro coin in gold?
For one thing, the proposal is consistent with the decision of the European System of Central Banks to hold only 15 % of currency reserves in the form of gold.
In the past, many European governments have used metal and its value to prove their commitment to stability.
A euro coin made of gold can therefore continue this laudable tradition.
The 100 euro coin is also an overdue successor to the 200 franc Napoleon coin which circulated throughout Europe; it will be a collector's piece, a coin of value, a symbol which may well help the euro to win over the hearts and minds of the European people.
With the introduction of the euro only a few weeks away, confidence-building measures are precisely what is needed, and they are precisely what these proposals will help to achieve.
I will very quickly answer the two questions posed, one on the content of the regulation and the second on the issue of the gold 100 euro coin in which interest was shown during the first debate on the Commission's proposal last November.
The reasons for and content of this proposal are as follows: we have proposed amending the basic regulation for purely technical reasons.
This proposal is in response to purely technical problems involving two coins, the 50 cent coin and the 10 cent coin.
These problems arose after the mint-masters, on the basis of the regulation of 3 May, produced the much more detailed specifications needed for the production of the coins and when the first coin samples resulting from an industrial production process could be tested.
Two sets of necessary but very limited modifications are therefore proposed to solve these two technical problems.
Firstly, the weight of the 50 cent coin must be increased slightly to allow easier differentiation between it and the 20 cent coin, and secondly, the definition of the edges of the 10 and 50 cent coins must be changed by replacing the coarse milling with a shaped edge with fine scallops.
This will allow the coins to be more easily identified by touch.
A gold 100 euro coin would pose risks of confusion and fraud and there is also a risk that these coins would be collected rather than used.
Mr Wibe clearly explained these risks just now, specifically with regard to the existence of a 100 euro note.
The intrinsic value of a 100 euro coin could exceed its spatial value following fluctuations in the price of gold.
It is considered that for easier use and to be aesthetically pleasing, a 100 euro coin would have to have a face value of EUR 300 to 400.
The technical aspects involved in the issue of such a gold coin require an exhaustive study to be carried out and these aspects cannot be defined at this stage.
