I would like to say to Mr Thors that it had been hoped that the EuroLaw server would be available immediately on the Internet.
What I must say, however, as a general principle, is that the Commission believes that competition among the various suppliers and products certainly benefits the consumer compared with a system of exclusive distribution and committed ticket sales.
In any case, we should start with Council's decision to fix compulsory values by 2000 and indicative values by 2005.
However, there are a few things that I want to point out.
Mr President, we in Parliament can note with pleasure that the Council has tightened up the Commission's original proposal on important points and moved in the direction of Parliament's position.
Mr President, economic arguments have long prevailed in debates on this subject.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
The Committee on Budgets has been consistent with the Parliament's decision and has tabled its Amendment No 1 in this sense.
Amendment No 2 states that the information records as proposed are to include a data register.
What is even worse, these processes did not even exist!
How could this House demand something that did not exist at that time?
I therefore propose that we vote for these amendments through a concern for coherence, in particular, Amendment No 27.
Mr President, I can agree wholeheartedly with my party colleague, Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz.
That would further intensify the crisis which exists, for many reasons, between Sweden and the EU.
Mr President, the Commission's 1989 proposals were aimed at establishing a system of close checks on irradiated food, right through from producers' use of the process to sales of products to end-users.
So the Commission must stand by the Council's wording and reject Amendments Nos 8 and 19.
I am referring here to Amendments Nos 1, 2, the first part of 3, 4, 7 and 12 to the framework directive and the first part of Amendment No 1 to the implementing directive.
Amendment No 10 links the conditions for permitting irradiation of food to the obligation on Member States to provide the Commission with information.
Amendments Nos 21, 22 and 28 restrict the opportunities for using and exploiting the irradiation of food.
However, I would also like to read, just for information and out of curiosity, paragraph 2 of Article 70, which states that, "In the light of the conclusions of the Conciliation Committee, Parliament's delegation may recommend that consideration of the common position and any amendments tabled to it be resumed or, in consultation with the committee responsible, propose new amendments for consideration by Parliament in accordance with Rule 72' .
That is exactly the point of Amendment No 19, to make sure that Parliament still has a say under Article 100a when the positive list is received.
I am referring to Rule 72, not to the sentence that you referred to, but to Rule 72, 2c.
It states that amendments are only admissible if they seek to amend a part of a text which was not included in the proposal submitted in first reading, etcetera.
For Parliament not to be consulted or not to have any appropriate say at the next stage of proceedings would be a total absurdity and I hope that this will be taken into account when you consider the rulings you are giving tomorrow and when the Commission reflects on what it said in removing almost all of these amendments from the book.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, the European Union's waste policy is at an earlier stage in its development than European policy on air and water quality.
Firstly, it is important to recognize that this directive, if it is fully implemented - and that is a big 'if' - would result in a switch of emphasis away from landfill as a means of waste disposal.
The targets set out in Article 5 are very precise even if they are national ones and not designed to apply to specific sites.
One consequence of ignoring subsidiarity is that a universal solution is proposed for very different situations in the Member States.
For the first time the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has at every stage passed amendments to tie the Member States down to the commitment they will make by agreeing such a directive.
Finally, we should not forget that the Member States voted unanimously for the former version of this directive which effectively excluded 50 % of EU territory from its scope.
It has risen like a phoenix from the ashes and Parliament must congratulate the Commission, in part, on the proposal.
There are many other technologies available and, in particular, steps in the development of large-scale composting as an alternative to dealing with organic waste in the last few years have meant that this is a real and genuine alternative if energy and effort - and other resources - are put into bringing this into regular practice across the Union.
I have to correct her by telling her that the last time this proposal was dealt with by the Council of Ministers it did not vote it by unanimity, which was why when we rejected it in Parliament they could not reinstate it.
This directive on the landfill of waste should most certainly form part of this.
Mr President, this proposal on the landfill of waste has taken a long time, but hopefully the end is in sight now.
In Denmark, about 90 % of drinking water comes from groundwater.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has made it rather more one-sided and some of its amendments would effectively change policy to incineration only.
The Commission document published recently on methane gas recognizes the importance of this.
The need for such a strategy was particularly pressing given that, as mentioned previously, in Member States such as Portugal, 54 % of waste until very recently went to unmonitored tips, approximately 10 % to controlled tips, and only 36 % to landfills.
I would also like to emphasize the discrepancy between the position of the European Parliament which advocates a reduction of 25 % by the year 2002, and the Council's position which refers to the year 2006.
The main landfill in the autonomous region of the Azores' application to the Cohesion Fund constitutes a policy that could well serve as an example to be followed.
That is something which is an argument made and accepted both in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and by Parliament as a whole.
Mr President, it gives me great pleasure to see that the European Parliament has put waste disposal on the agenda for today.
The Community should long since have passed a directive to ensure that waste is disposed of in an environmentally responsible way.
The Commission put forward its first proposals in July 1991, and as we remember and have been reminded during the course of the debate, the European Parliament rejected that proposal in May 1996 on the grounds that the level of environmental protection was not high enough and that there were too many exemptions.
The new proposals contain a lot of new elements reflecting the developments which have occurred since the Commission's last proposals.
The many complaints which the Commission receives concerning the disposal of waste emphasize that the Community needs to act.
I am therefore pleased to be able to say that the Commission can accept 16 of the amendments.
In Germany, this is defined as recycling, not as disposal, and so waste disposal legislation does not apply.
And so I cannot accept that exempting regulations should be introduced for underground disposal.
It was precisely because of all the exemptions that the European Parliament rejected the Council's previous common position, whereas Parliament now wishes to introduce more exemptions.
The approval requirements of the old framework directive on waste are not in line with developments in this field and cannot ensure that waste is disposed of under safe, controlled conditions.
So the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 25.
This brings us finally to Amendments Nos 27, 30, 33 and 36, where the Commission believes that the provisions of the annexes should be laid down by the technical committee referred to in Article 16 of the Commission's proposals.
I would beg the Commissioner to accept that but if she will not accept it, I hope that Parliament will stick to its guns and go into conciliation on those points.
In fact, both Amendment No 16 and Amendment No 23 contain parts that relate to the altered texts.
Does the Commissioner agree with Amendment No 23 or not?
I hope that she does.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 11.45 p.m.)
