Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 2 October 1997.
Are there any comments?
In fact, we were all seriously defamed by a broadcast on 13 October last on a Dutch television channel, NCRV.
In fact, on Friday 19 September, as many of you will recall because there were many of us present, we were debating the excellent report by Mr Hallam in this House.
She too has signed for 500 Florins.
He has done that in order that I may be able to deal with the administration of my group and to give me some time when I do not need to be in the plenary.
Mr President, it will take me less than a minute to say that my group fully supports the honourable Members who have been so unjustly attacked, and I am sure our chairman, Mr Martens, will be happy for me to say so.
Mrs Fontaine, you were in the Chair throughout the sitting.
Secondly I want to say this: the measures proposed in this Parliament under your Presidency and that of your predecessor can do a great deal to enhance our credibility.
I simply wish to make the point that there is perhaps a way of adding to the justified indignation a necessary response which, in my opinion can only come from the President of the European Parliament, for it is he who defends the Institution.
This response consists, for the President, in making use of the legal right of response in the media when this right exists and for the countries where it does not exist, to demand a moral right of response in order to protect the Institution.
Mr President, it is quite clear from this discussion that some members of the European Parliament have been unfairly criticized in this programme.
Thank you very much, Mr Fabre-Aubrespy.
Mr President, my problem is covered by Rules 2 and 3 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, that is, the rule concerning mandates and the rule concerning privileges and immunities.
Mr President, on a point of order, following Mr Coates' point, I think I can help the House.
This is not the time to discuss domestic political issues, as you know. (The Minutes were approved) Calendar of part-sessions 1998 Following the ruling by the Court of Justice of the European Communities of 1 October 1997 (Case C-345/95) the Conference of Presidents, at its meeting of 16 October 1997, has decided to propose that no partsession should be added to this year's calendar of part-sessions, but that a part-session from 5 to 9 October 1998 should be added to the calendar of part-sessions for 1998, which was adopted by the European Parliament on 17 September 1997.
The deadline for tabling amendments to this proposal will be 12 noon on Tuesday, 21 October 1997.
The vote will be taken at 12 noon on Wednesday, 22 October 1997.
Mr President, the Conference of Presidents did in fact decide to propose what you have just mentioned to the House.
I wish to recall that our group was against this proposal since it does not enforce, for the year 1997, a decision of the Court of Justice.
We therefore request that it be possible to amend this proposal in the two respects you have specified, that is, both for 1997 and 1998.
Nevertheless, in the absence of legal reasons we find ourselves in the situation described by M.
But we cannot hold the two additional part-sessions in November and December!
Preamble 29 is crystal clear on this subject.
The Conference of Presidents confirmed that it was in practice impossible to hold another part-session in the months of November or December; in November because of problems in drawing up a full agenda and in December because the Chamber is occupied by the Council of Europe.
The legal rule ad imposibilia nemo tenetur is old enough for all jurists to be familiar with.
Mr President, we are all aware of the gravity of the situation in Afghanistan.
Mrs van Bladel, this is neither the time or place to raise that point, so I am not going to answer you in any way.
Mr President, I am very sorry, Mrs Maij-Weggen, but we did not discuss this point again in the group today.
That means, Mr President, that we have arranged for a resolution in the topical debate on Thursday.
We do not therefore want a debate on Tuesday but we want to deal with it in the normal way in the topical debate on Thursday afternoon.
With this report, Mr President, the first question which this House needs to examine is whether the necessary procedural criteria apply for parliamentary immunity to be considered.
In this first case - procedure 384/96 - these procedural requirements have not been met.
I repeat: this is because of a failure to conform with the procedural requirements demanded by our European regulations, together with and in reference to Portuguese Constitutional Law, specifically Article 160 of the Portuguese Constitution.
I am not going to state here the private interests at stake because they are a matter for the judge, not for us.
People in the political parties voted in different ways.
As has been said, this case goes back over three years to the time of the last elections to the European Parliament in the summer of 1994.
The report before you notes that there were three particular allegations.
We all know that the press can present matters and statements in a way that does not necessarily show a Member of the European Parliament in a favourable light and in this case certainly one remark was taken out of context and misconstrued by the press.
In this Parliament, Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure covers the matter.
The purpose of Rule 6 is to protect both Members and Parliament itself by guaranteeing the independence of the institution.
In any constitution or any democracy, the opposition's role is sometimes to support the government but also to oppose when it sees fit.
There are obviously two different cases involved here: there is a case of personal defamation, but there is also a more political case, a dispute with the present government.
In other systems anything a person says in the context of his political mandate, whether or not it is offensive - but it was clear that these offensive remarks were made in the course of the election campaign - is considered to be part of his political mandate.
Especially as regards what happens within this House, parliamentary immunity should operate and should exist in the interests of the institution and not in the interests of individuals.
The lifting of his parliamentary immunity would allow him to defend himself, to justify the serious accusations which he made against our two colleagues.
The debate is closed.
Satellite communications The next item is the report (A4-0279/97) by Mr Hoppenstedt, on behalf of the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the 'EU Action Plan: Satellite communications in the Information Society' (COM(97)0091 - C4-0131/97).
One deals with the European Union and space travel, namely the promotion of applications, markets and industrial competitiveness, the other covers the EU action plan for satellite communications in today's information society.
Unfortunately, the first report cannot be debated today.
A total of 17 possible suppliers are in the market, including a European company.
We shall do our utmost to support the Commission, since we know that the European dimension has a role to play not only for Europe but also for Africa, and that Europe must collaborate with the other market participants I have already mentioned, namely Russia and America.
This perception of a strategic business is very clear in the focussed and concerted action taken by American industry in research plans supported by the American Government, both in the NASA civil programme and in the military programme, and even in the international undertaking assumed by the Federal Communication Commission.
The action plan presented by the Commission deserves our full support and great encouragement.
On the other hand, we are shortly expecting an action plan for satellite navigation, which has not been covered by this communication and which, in our opinion, is just as urgent as the subject of the report we are dealing with.
As a result of that meeting there is clearly a need to coordinate that EU action to complete the EU internal market and remove trade barriers to the creation of the home markets for satellite communications, in particular in the manufacturing sector, and also in the services sector.
I believe that the fifth framework programme will be part and parcel of that, when it comes.
In my view, there are other models of liberalization that do not include privatization.
Perhaps some sort of compromise should be found between the Commission playing a lead role and the CEPT playing the lead role in terms of being the spokespersons, simply because some Member States may not yet be in a position to adopt that.
Mr President, we are dealing with an expanding sector with a very high level of technology which, as has been mentioned in earlier speeches, has a very extensive international market from which, obviously, the European Union cannot afford to be absent.
Mr President, satellite communications touch on a range of areas.
So in this respect we must welcome the fact that the European Commission is making proposals to remedy the current situation and respond to the challenge by encouraging public and private investment in this sector.
Mr President, first let me express my thanks to the rapporteur and all those who have voiced fundamental support for the proposals contained in our action plan.
For this reason, our action programme states that Member States must participate fully.
Incidentally, what I have always said would happen is now taking place in the field of telecommunications.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Bangemann.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after one and a half years of extremely tough negotiations with the Council, and I mean extremely tough, which on a number of occasions were close to failure, the European Parliament through its conciliation procedure finally succeeded in increasing funding for the current research framework programme by ECU 115 million.
This was especially difficult because - and I emphasize the point - the Commission itself had seemed well satisfied with a figure of ECU 100 million.
It has often been said, and I repeat the fact here, that an estimated 110 million land-mines have been laid around the world.
We also approved an additional ECU 35 million for BSE research - a real success in my opinion.
It is also interesting that in the budgetary process Parliament had been hoping for ECU 200 million through the reallocation of funds for research, whereas the Council finally only agreed ECU 115 million.
However, the Council only wanted to spend ECU 115 million on research.
If it were not for his efforts in enabling ECU 100 million to be put on the line from the reserve through the supplementary budget, we would not have had the impetus for this tiny success.
The Council of Ministers has been less helpful, if not obdurate, in its approach.
There were two very unsatisfactory meetings, the first of which showed no recognition of the role of the European Parliament.
The second, fortunately, did produce some movement and added ECU 15 million to the figure to be spent on Parliament's priorities.
This is the third reading in a codecision procedure for a programme which is of major importance for Europe's future - namely, research and development.
Nevertheless, we have opened up several lines: we have an extra ECU 115 million.
This is simply a first step, but one I think we can be satisfied with.
Therefore, Mr Linkohr, I can tell you that the Group of the European People's Party will give you its majority support.
The final financial increase of ECU 115 million in the financial Framework Programme is very small.
In fact the Council was extremely inflexible.
Despite this very unsatisfactory result my group will vote in favour, because the decision has been taken and consultation has taken place and unfortunately there is nothing more to be done.
Now to the next item.
And all this without altering our agricultural policy.
For this reason, Mr Linkohr, it is going to be very difficult for us indeed to support your report tomorrow.
Madam President, it is certainly true that we are adding ECU 115 million to the research programme as a result of this report, but that has to be seen in the context of the original indicative figure of ECU 700 million.
When in April 1994 the first joint decision was reached between Parliament and the Council, two countries were opposed to the granting of a sum of ECU 12, 359 billion.
There would be ECU 11, 700 billion, and then ECU 700 million would be refinanced as things went along.
Today let us confirm not only that the Council has not met its commitments, but that there are still these two countries which, up to the last moment, have prevented us from obtaining larger sums, notwithstanding the fact that the financial perspectives have not been revised.
Of course, to be fair, I would say that it did its duty conscientiously by presenting a proposal for ECU 700 million.
So, let us approve the candle lit for us by Rolf Linkohr.
This means that next year we have an extra ECU 115 million available.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, this topic - the European Parliament and Council Directive on the legal protection of designs - has been occupying us for some time.
Discussion of spare parts starts with an almost philosophical question: do we protect the overall design of an industrial product, or just a part of it?
When there is a serious accident in which people are killed, normally the car is a write-off, but most car accidents happen in our cities, when somebody comes too close alongside and the car gets scraped, resulting in damage to the door or mirror, or perhaps just the bumper.
Because of this, the spare parts industry is becoming important in many European countries.
Other people disagree, saying that design protection should only cover the overall design and therefore, if a single part of the design is damaged, that part is not protected.
Therefore, I call upon this House to support the amendments which have been approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
I share Manuel Medina's annoyance that the Council thought fit to reject the very fair solution that this Parliament worked out in its first reading.
As Mr Medina Ortega said, the British market will remain open but we are worried about jobs being lost if we cannot export to other countries.
Madam President, I only wish to examine the point that has been the subject of particular discussion within the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
With regard to the point discussed today, and mainly that of the prices of spare parts in the automobile and motorcycle industry, the Commission starts with a motion that provides for the rights of the manufacturers of the original parts forming part of a composite unit to be protected for only three years.
Parliament considers this solution inappropriate and resorts to the compulsory licence system, which does offer protection, but protection that should not prevent the free circulation of spare parts, free manufacture and compensation by giving fair indemnity.
This solution is clearly unacceptable, which is why the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights proposes once again, through the rapporteur and with a large majority, that the amendments and therefore the position that Parliament had already voted for be reintroduced.
As the specialists explain, competition can either relate to aesthetics, in the sense that, for the same price a product is more attractive if it is more beautiful -and this is the sense in which the automobile and motorcycle industries are competing today - or to the price, in the sense that, with the same product and aesthetics, consumers are offered a better deal through a price reduction.
Finally, I would like to recall that the Court of Justice, in its ruling of 6 April 1995, said on this subject that the intellectual property right has to be reconciled with free competition and freedom of movement.
Madame President, we have before us a text which is very delicate because of its content.
The proposed directive on designs and models was the subject of a common position adopted unanimously by the Council.
By returning to the repair clause adopted at first reading, we have created a system which is inapplicable in the circumstances.
In reality, in terms of price, respecting industrial property is not prejudicial to the consumer.
In the United Kingdom, where copying is free, the prices of spare parts increased by 13 % between 1989 and 1993, whereas in France, a country where industrial property is protected, during the same period prices increased by only 1.6 %.
Finally, in accepting the copying of spare parts from day one, this clause goes against the basic principles of industrial property and represents a very high economic risk for manufacturers who have to invest massively in the aesthetic elements.
Madam President, right from the start the discussion of this important subject has focussed on the famous repair clause.
I hope the European Parliament will follow the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in promoting a proper balance between all the interests involved.
The protection of designs is in fact not only important to the car and cycle market.
It is important for the car market and that market is important.
The protection of intellectual property is the legal expression of our intellectual curiosity, creativity and inventiveness, which are beneficial not only to the further implementation of the internal market but above all to our competition with our main trading partners.
It is in that spirit that I hope Mr Medina Ortega's report will be approved.
Madam President, the problems which have arisen during debates about the common position on the legal protection of designs have been caused not by attempting to protect artistic design, but by trying to resolve the conflicts of interests between manufacturers and consumers.
Madam President, I would like to say that Parliament's position is a balanced one and has weighed up all the pros and cons in this debate.
So Parliament is entitled to ask if this is actually a Council position or the position of one Member State.
I am of course referring to the opinion expressed during at first reading by our Parliament on 12 October 1995.
So the position is now very clear.
On the one hand we have the European Parliament, without prejudging tomorrow's vote, where 314 votes will be necessary, we have the Commission and the Economic and Social Committee, which do not favour protection of designs and models in spare parts.
The arguments have been rehearsed in my political group, the Group of the European Radical Alliance.
I am not going to hide the fact that some of my colleagues take a different view and oppose liberalization of the spare parts market.
To sum up, certain Members in my group have decided to fight a posteriori against fraudulent copying, knowing that the safety risks have different consequences in the motor vehicle sector than in watches or handbags.
In other words, the design of spare parts cannot be separated from the original product.
In practice we do not know how this compensation can operate or how the designers will be able to obtain maximum value from their rights.
In fact, with the introduction and approval of the amendment to article 14, albeit at second reading, Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs sought to protect the market and the workers.
If article 14 is excluded their position is worse and with the introduction of the individual states' right to choose between freedom and monopoly, the Council is distorting the very principles of the European Union.
And this is a price which European consumers will have to pay.
I would like to say on this that in some cases it is the sub-contractor who develops a spare part - and observes the standard - meaning that we have here cooperation between motor manufacturers, sub-contractors, and so on.
Madam President, I very much welcome the Commission proposal and would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work.
I therefore support the Commission proposal and the amendments adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
On the other hand, the European Parliament has always shown great concern about the level of unemployment in Europe, quite rightly moreover, and about relocation, which considerably aggravates the unemployment situation in the industrial sector.
The motor industry is powerful, true, but it is also very fragile and the arguments in favour of the amendments before Parliament, although they are very cogent in legal terms, do, in my opinion and in certain cases, lack economic sense and logic in the real world of day-to-day economic existence.
In future the Commission and the Council will not take Parliament's first reading seriously - even if there is unanimity in the House.
The repair clause does not deprive the car industry of its market share of the spare parts trade but merely opens it up to competition.
Car manufacturers currently control 88 % of the spares market!
The question is whether or not the free market will in future be able to maintain a 12 % share of the spares business.
This will soon become reality if we accept the suggestion that the 180 car and motorcycle manufacturers concerned will end up charging more for repairs and, consequently, for insurance.
This approach is entirely justified when one realises that car manufacturers actually have to buy-in 70 % of their original parts.
The conclusions to be drawn from this are as follows: yes to design protection - but with a repair clause which allows the reproduction of visible components under quite specific conditions, namely that the original manufacturer is notified that copyright royalties apply.
Madam President, it is regrettable that the debate on the very important report submitted by Mr Medina Ortega concerning the legal protection of designs has basically become restricted to the repair clause.
In my opinion a decision supporting this repair clause would represent a pyrrhic victory for the motorists' representatives.
Then we have material reasons for rejecting Amendments Nos 1, 5 and 6.
The debate is closed.
