Madam President, we had tabled two resolutions.
So Parliament does not need to take action on this issue. (Parliament approved the request) Welcome Before we begin the debate on the state of the Union with speeches from the Presidents of Parliament, the European Council and the Commission, I would like to welcome a very distinguished visitor to our Parliament today who will be listening to this debate, Sir Edward Heath. (Loud and sustained applause) Sir Edward Heath was Prime Minister of Great Britain from 1970 to 1974.
His many years of public service are very closely associated with Europe and with Britain's membership of the European Union.
Above all else, he embodies the central fact that there is no contradiction between love of country, loyal service to the national interest, and support for Europe.
Today, 50 years later, in a Union of 15 European states, the impression we gain from our talks with people in all the Member States, for whom the European institutions in Brussels, Strasbourg and Luxembourg represent a distant and abstract world, is always the same: the people are not against the Union, not against European integration, not against Maastricht or Brussels.
On that depends the success of monetary union and also the success of the Intergovernmental Conference.
True, the Member States bear the main responsibility and therefore also the main burden for the creation of jobs, for the distribution of work and the organization of work.
The 18 million unemployed in the Member States of the European Union - and not only they - expect us finally to make progress on coordinating the Member States' employment market policies, making optimum use of the European Union funds to create jobs, improving education, training and further training, making the European economy more competitive.
Since December 1994 our heads of state and government have been declaring at every European Council that fighting unemployment is the top priority.
The Commission has submitted a confidence-building pact on employment.
The Council is having it examined.
Ladies and gentlemen, these same ministers of finance who are considering whether they have ECU 1 billion available for the trans-European networks wordlessly accept the fact that our Union is spending ECU 1 billion a year to subsidize tobacco-growing! (Applause) People who behave like that are not short of money but short of sense!
The single market accounts for 90 % of our goods and services.
So long as we do not use this potential first and foremost for growth and employment, so long as we continue to accept the luxury of 14 different currencies in our single market, all the lamentations about the consequences of globalizing the economy will be nothing but feeble excuses!
One Member State has endeavoured to use its right of veto not merely to prevent a particular decision from being taken but to render the Union as a whole unable to take decisions.
But when it is a question of war and peace in Europe, when it is a question of protecting people from murder and expulsion and rape at least on our own continent, when it is a question of making the fundamental values of our European way of life applicable for all Europeans, then all we hear is a Babel of languages from the Member States and embarrassed silence from the Union.
The Union will have to carry out its responsibility for coordinating the world-wide support measures; and as regards the demands on the Union budget, the principle applies that new policies and tasks also need new financial resources.
In its common foreign and security policy, but also in the third pillar, it should therefore be possible in future for those Member States that are willing and able do so to lead the way towards common action in the Union.
We must not abandon the aim of acting through common institutions in the Union.
The Intergovernmental Conference will continue until next summer.
The Intergovernmental Conference is faced with the consequences of two historic decisions the Union has already taken: the introduction of the common currency and enlargement to the east and the south.
You went on to say in the debate that the greatest challenge at the end of this century is to reform the Union in such a way that it can expand to the east and the south without disintegrating or self-destructing.
We owe a huge debt to the visionaries who gave birth to the European Union, one of whom, the late Emile Noël, was last week compared to James Madison, the constitution-maker of the United States, such was the role he played in the development of the Union.
We can best honour the memory of Noël, of Schuman and of Monnet by ensuring that the Union we pass on to our successors continues to be vital, relevant and, above all, one with which our citizens can identify.
As governments prepare for the special European Council on 5 October in Dublin I ask the Members of this Parliament in this debate for their views on how we can best - all of us, including the Irish presidency - win support anew in this generation for the European Union.
The European Union today and, in particular, the concept of a developing European citizenship are based on this new model.
In the European Union one can be simultaneously someone who owes allegiance to Flanders, to Belgium and to the European Union and, at the same time, work and live together in the same street with somebody who has a different set of allegiances.
Furthermore, the European Union is now seeking to deepen its unity while, at the same time, enlarging its membership: an especially difficult task, as any student of the nineteenth-century history of the United States can remind us.
To win the hearts of Europeans at this stage in our history, the European Union must show that it is the best vehicle through which the continent and its citizens can prepare for the world of tomorrow.
Europe's share of the world's population is only 7 % and is going down.
Yet Europe consumes 18 % of the world's oil.
Carbon emissions in the world continue to increase.
Already the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere has gone from 280 parts per million in the nineteenth century to 350 parts per million today.
Closer European integration is, however, a recognition of the reality that the modern global economy is moving towards a more globalized political model.
Only the European Union is big enough to enable Europeans to influence and shape global politics in an effective way.
The first task is to make the Union relevant to its own citizens.
The ordinary man or woman in the street, whether he or she be in Barcelona, in Berlin or in Belfast, will not judge the European Union by its treaties, by its institutions, or by its policy documents.
The effect of the Union on each person's daily life will be the yardstick that they will use.
There are more unemployed people in the Union today than the combined population of the four smallest Member States.
We must understand the dynamic of unemployment on a world scale.
When the demand price for low-skilled work falls below the level which society considers to be an acceptable minimum income - what one might call the welfare level - then we have unemployment.
That requires coordinated European action on basic education as well as on training, on the mutual recognition of qualifications and on infrastructural investments that make our total economy more competitive.
Many are deeply concerned about their future.
This requires structural change and enhanced consumer confidence through quality assurance.
The fabric of rural life and the single agricultural market must be preserved, so change must take place in an organized way.
This is an important challenge for the Union particularly in the context of the BSE crisis.
The presidency is committed to finding a solution to the BSE crisis based on the restoration of consumer confidence in the beef sector and the adoption of interim measures to ensure the survival of beef producers.
All our societies have seen increased crime over the past few decades.
We do not want the single market for goods and services to become a single market for drugs and crime.
We hope the Dublin European Council will adopt substantive conclusions in December in the fight against drug trafficking.
Recent events have brought home to us all throughout Europe the obscene and shocking crimes perpetrated against children in our continent.
The Irish presidency is working closely with other Member States to draw up measures at European level to deal with this most evil of crimes.
I hope that at their meeting next week in Dublin Justice and Home Affairs Ministers will be able to agree to this initiative.
The second task facing the Union is to bring the IGC to a rapid and successful conclusion.
The new Treaty must equip the Union for the internal and external challenges facing it as it enters the twenty-first century.
The functioning of the Union's institutions must be made more effective, more democratic and more transparent.
The IGC must strengthen the role of the European Parliament in the Union. (Applause) Issues which need to be addressed include the extension of the co-decision procedure, the simplification and reduction of the number of decision-making procedures and the question of a ceiling on the membership of Parliament after enlargement.
The IGC offers us a unique opportunity to bring the Union's work closer to the public by making the Union more transparent and comprehensible.
The new Treaty must also equip the Union to play an international role commensurate with its importance through an effective coherent common foreign and security policy and thereby contribute to peace.
Economic and monetary union must commence on time and in line with Treaty requirements.
The EMU convergence criteria do no more than set out a sensible path for budgetary policy which every state should aspire to in any event.
Stable public finances deliver low interest rates, low inflation, higher investment and, ultimately, more jobs.
In other words, the convergence criteria make social and economic sense even if the project for EMU never existed.
It will place Europe firmly centre stage in the global economy.
Economic and monetary union will also cement the integration of peoples in Europe and reinforce a European identity.
That sense of identity will be enhanced by the fact that the economic policies of all participating states will be framed within a stable economic environment and will no longer be driven by short-term pressures that sometimes continue to affect individual national currencies.
The fourth task facing the Union is enlargement to include the associated states of Central and Eastern Europe and of the Mediterranean which have applied for membership.
As stated in the conclusions of the European Council at Madrid, enlargement is both a political necessity and an historic opportunity.
Ireland looks forward to holding discussions at ministerial and official level with the applicant countries within the framework provided by the structured dialogue and to welcoming the Heads of State and Government of the applicant countries to Dublin for the European Council in December.
Europe must promote democracy and the rule of law and respect for human rights throughout the world.
And differences exist at the moment with regard to the extra-territorial effects of two recent acts passed by Congress.
I raised these on the occasion of my visit to Washington last week with both the President and representatives of both parties in Congress.
We must therefore continue our efforts to make it work in regard to this matter and in preparation for the World Trade Conference in Singapore.
We must also cooperate with the United States in developing more sophisticated methods to deal with organized international crime.
We must also develop political dialogue with our partners elsewhere in the European security area and strengthen the OSCE.
We must support a reform process in Russia and in other countries of the former Soviet Union on the basis of partnership.
We must assist all the parties in the implementation of the peace initiative in the former Yugoslavia and particularly in regard to the Dayton Agreement for Bosnia-Herzegovina.
In the wake of the elections of 14 September, the international community must support the High Representative, Carl Bildt, to ensure full implementation of the constitution of Bosnia-Herzegovina, as agreed at Dayton.
In regard to the Middle East, the Union has used recent high-level contacts with the parties there to urge them to re-engage in the peace process and to offer our full support for the pursuit of a comprehensive, just and lasting peace.
Our relations with the Mediterranean regions and with Africa are of vital interest to Europe.
We must promote indigenous economic development in those areas and we must implement in full the Barcelona Declaration.
The European Parliament has a key role to play in all of this work.
We are called to develop a new Europe, proud of itself and commanding the pride of all its citizens.
A Europe inspiring confidence by its unity and drawing allegiance through diversity.
By way of preparation for this debate, I reread my speech on the state of the Union in November 1995.
The institutional apparatus conceived by Jean Monnet has stood up well.
That is the context within which I should like to examine this state of the Union.
I should like to do so with reference to three major areas of priority: the single currency, the integrated strategy of growth and employment, and the Intergovernmental Conference.
We are on course for a success which will be unprecedented in the history of our integration - indeed, in our history as a whole.
The single currency is coming, and it is coming on 1 January 1999.
I have no doubt that a substantial number of Member States will be involved in it from the start.
There is, of course, the obligation imposed on us by the Treaty, but that is not the main factor determining the actions of the Member States.
This necessity is strengthening the determination of the Member States to do what they have to in order to qualify for the single currency at the earliest possible date.
The Member States, which have made great efforts to reduce their budget deficits, have achieved good results in terms of job creation.
I have every reason to hope that the meeting of the 'Ecofin' ministers next weekend in Dublin will achieve progress on three important topics in preparation for the decisions to be taken by the European Council in December: the stability pact, as an additional guarantee of the strength of the single currency, the exchange system between the Euro and the other currencies, as a guarantee of greater stability, and the legal status of the Euro, as a guarantee of confidence in the transition to the single currency.
The process has become irreversible.
Mr President, economic and monetary union is an instrument in the service of economic growth.
Two European Councils have made employment a priority.
And the reality of the situation calls upon us to do more, really to mobilize at every level.
That is the message behind my pact for employment, which was endorsed by the European Council in Florence.
The new negotiations on flexibility and working hours are at the heart of our ideas for the future of employment.
It is essential that the social partners should now enter into the responsibilities given them by the Treaty, as they did in the case of parental leave.
Next, an accelerated reform of the labour markets.
We have now developed a procedure which obliges the Member States to submit multiannual programmes.
The report which will be presented in Dublin by the Commission will emphasize the political recommendations arising from this exercise in comparing and analysing the reforms that have taken place at national level.
Finally, our policies need to be more closely geared to the objective of job creation.
There has been no hesitation on the part of the Member States, or that of the cities and regions, in responding.
This general mobilization must not make us forget those decisions that have already been taken but not yet implemented.
This also applies to the internal market, still a fundamental trump card in the Union's hand.
The Council must finally decide, as it must decide before Dublin, on the plan of action for the small and medium-sized enterprises proposed by the Commission.
The Commission will pay careful attention to ensuring that this market really is open on 1 January 1998.
The national authorities, as they are obliged to do by subsidiarity, must act to simplify life for our businessmen and to encourage the spirit of enterprise and innovation.
The Commission will shortly be summarizing initiatives in these areas.
Its purpose is to enable us to exploit our economic potential to the full, and certainly not to weaken our European model of society.
Even so, solidarity is and must remain at the heart of our European model.
There is a second phenomenon which worries me even more - and that is the challenge to the rule of law community which our Union is and must remain.
The paralysis of the workings of our institutions, adopted as government policy during the BSE crisis, was avoided only at the cost of substantial political efforts.
It would be making itself an accessory to a challenge to the single market and, I have no doubt, to the Union as such.
Admittedly, we find an Irish presidency which is unsparing in its efforts to galvanize the conference and, with determination and commitment, is doing everything it can to enable a draft text of a treaty to be presented in Dublin.
But, on the other hand, I also detect serious doubts as to the commitment on the part of all the Member States to come to grips with the problems and move forward.
The European Council meets on 5 October.
Well, this aspect is still conspicuous by its absence from the proceedings of the conference.
The initial negotiations on enlarging the Union are to begin six months after the end of the Intergovernmental Conference, and dates are already being proposed in some quarters for the accession of the first new members.
Mr President, for my part, I am in favour of enlargement but I must make it absolutely clear that this scenario will not be viable if the results of the Intergovernmental Conference fail to rise to the institutional challenge that enlargement represents. (Applause) Alongside the institutional reform, the Intergovernmental Conference must be used to strengthen the external identity of the Union.
This is the only way that Europe will be able to defend itself effectively against, for example, such unilateral acts as the Helms-Burton legislation in the United States.
Still in the area of foreign affairs, how can we expect the Union ever to assert a strong identity internationally without a common foreign and security policy worthy of the name.
But if we want to change this, if we want the full weight of the Union to be felt, it is up to us to do it, and we know what needs to be done.
We need to pool our analytical resources, improve our decision-making procedures, speak with a single voice in external affairs and strengthen cohesion between the various aspects of our external, economic, commercial and political activities.
Mr President, European identity is inconceivable without an area of freedom, security and justice.
But, of the four freedoms cited in Article 7a, this is the one that has suffered from the most delay, although it is the one which affects the citizen most directly.
This is no great surprise, because this particular freedom must necessarily go hand in hand with effective measures to prevent its abuse.
Maastricht represents a useful first step towards acceptance of this effect, but, let us face it, the apparatus set up at that time is inadequate for today's requirements.
Drugs, violence, organized crime and the trafficking in and sexual exploitation of the most vulnerable remind us of our responsibilities.
Obviously, it is impossible to gloss over the tragic events which cast a pall over one of our Member States this summer.
The Commission, for its part, will not be idle.
The limited budgetary margins of our Member States are not just a constraint - they are also a challenge to do better, to act more effectively, and so in other words to think about some of our policies.
The enlargement of the Union will be complicated, but this too can be successfully managed, provided that the Intergovernmental Conference does not shirk its responsibilities, especially as regards the reform of the institutional rules.
As far as these two subjects are concerned - the financial package and enlargement - the Commission will be taking a detailed, rigorous and constructive approach to its work.
It will keep its promises, and it will present its contributions once the Intergovernmental Conference has ended.
All of which leads me to conclude that the Union is in much better shape than one might think from the numerous critical comments being made.
Mr President, I wish to begin by expressing my personal thanks to President Hänsch, Prime Minister Bruton and President Santer for their excellent contributions this morning.
There can be nothing else going on in this building that is more important than this debate, and that message will certainly be transmitted to my Group at its meeting this evening.
In our debate last year we looked forward to the opening of the Intergovernmental Conference.
We were then aware that, if we were to prepare this European Union to meet the historic challenge of enlargement to Eastern and Central Europe, the Baltic, Cyprus and Malta, it was incumbent on us all to secure an effective, democratic, open European Union which, more than anything, reconnected with its people, reconnected the vision, the hope and the aspirations which inspired the post-Second World War generation to embrace European integration and reconnected that vision with the people.
The last year has been characterized by stagnation and paralysis: stagnation in the fight to create jobs in Europe; stagnation in the IGC process for all to see; paralysis in our desire to defend the common policies which make up the European social model; paralysis in our ability to generate a common will on issues challenging peace and stability on our continent.
That is not European money being spent simply on people and places far away, rather it is money spent to make absolutely sure that our children will not be engaged in a long and bloody conflict for the next generation on European soil.
What is missing in our political analysis and thinking for the future is the recognition of the importance of our culture to our people.
Let us have a strong message to Europe's people; let us hear that the leaders of our countries are at least united in insisting that there will be an employment chapter in the new Treaty with real bite.
Let us hear that there will be a commitment not just to economic and monetary union but to people - their economic future and their well-being - and let us hear, as well, that the Union can be united in securing a commitment to fight discrimination against our ethnic minority population.
Let us give to all those living in our countries trust and confidence in tolerance as our first virtue, to give non-European citizens and residents confidence in our humanity.
Let us hear that the European social model is alive and kicking, is secure in the hands of our government leaders and will be the building block on which everything else is built.
We will all have to work on this, and I will also be transmitting this sentiment to my group.
For the second time we are to assess the three political bodies, the state of the European Union, and the path along which we are together travelling to the birth of a unified Europe.
Therefore, a strong and organised Europe is needed more than ever before to bring peace and stability and radiate humanism, social justice and freedom, values with which we so like to identify ourselves.
This reminds us of the Yugoslavia drama, about which the Belgian general Francis Briquemont, who was in charge of the UN troops, recently said: "since the events in Bosnia I have become aware that you must intervene as an outsider if innocent civilians are systematically being slaughtered.
Free movement, the opening of the borders, globalization and free trade offer great new opportunities for economic growth and employment.
But if this obstacle-free space is seen as an unsafe place, with cross-border crime, the mafia, terrorism and the sexual exploitation of children - the great drama in my own country - the resistance to European integration will increase further.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are now preparing for two important summit meetings.
Firstly, have the governments decided to complete the negotiations of the IGC under the Dutch presidency by June 1997 at the latest?
We are aware of the range of possibilities that will arise in the first six months of 1998, when almost at the same time new the Treaty will have to be ratified, the negotiations for the entry of Malta and Cyprus as well as most candidates from eastern Europe will be starting, the decision will be taken who will be among the first members of Monetary Union, and finally the financial commitments will be up for renewal.
We also realise that these first six months of 1998, have many possible dangers, but it is a period on which all hope is pinned.
The Commission will have to play its part to the full in this relaunch, and we will not deny it our political support.
The second objective is to make daily progress in the fight against the cancer of our society, namely the unemployment of the young and long-term unemployment.
Our group is a great advocate of respect for people, solidarity and freedom, values that cannot continue to exist if the social fabric is torn, or if exclusion results in the marginalisation of millions of people.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote Jean Monnet, and would recommend everyone to read his biography to rediscover the true sense of European integration.
Jean Monnet said before this Parliament: "Nous nʼavons que le choix entre les changements dans lesquels nous serons entrainés et ceux que nous aurons su vouloir et accomplir' .
Mr President, ba mhaith liomsa i dtosac báire céad mile fáilte a chur roimh Taoiseach na hEireann, John Bruton, ar an ocáid specialta seo, ar an céad turas dó go dtí Parlaimint na hEorpa.
I am proud of the fact that I am here and I very much appreciate the comments that have been made by people this morning.
The representatives of the 15 Member States are in the process of preparing draft changes to the European treaties which the Irish presidency hopes to have ready in time to present to the Dublin summit at the end of the year.
But I believe it is far more important to find agreement on a series of initiatives for tackling the fundamental issues which are of primary concern to European citizens at the present time, even if this means postponing the presentation of a revised draft Treaty until next year.
In most of our countries unemployment rates continue at unacceptably high levels.
The IGC negotiations provide the Member States with an opportunity to refocus the Union's policies towards initiatives which will actively promote employment growth in each of our countries.
The President of the European Commission presented a series of proposals to the last European summit which had the potential to begin this process of redirecting the European Union's resources towards tackling unemployment.
European countries have not been able to make serious inroads in their unemployment rates through unilateral initiatives in recent years.
At the same time, our main competitors on the world stage - the United States and the Far Eastern countries - have experienced strong growth in employment levels.
The drug trade is an international business and can only be properly tackled through effective international action.
The European Union is capable of assisting the national police and customs services in their efforts to combat this evil trade provided that the political will exists at national level to work together at European level in those areas where transnational cooperation can play a useful role.
If the European Union is to continue to enjoy the support of the majority of our citizens then it must show itself capable of contributing to finding solutions to the major problems confronting society.
The Monetary Union and the Intergovernmental Conference can decisively strengthen the Union, but they could also bring about a split in Europe between Member States, governments and peoples.
The Union does not listen to its people.
A common market was promised by the Member States before Maastricht, but the same countries are not taking the slightest notice of what they agreed in Brussels.
And if the IGC is not ratified, the admission of countries such as Poland and Hungary will be delayed.
It is time our Member States finally permitted the Union to act against the three most important scourges of our time: nationalism, crime and unemployment.
The fight against unemployment is primarily a responsibility of the Member States.
Commissioner Van Miert did excellent work here.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Union talks too much about secondary matters and too little about the main ones.
Mr President, this debate is certainly an excellent opportunity for the representatives of the people and the European institutions to made a diagnosis of the state of European society and the way its democratic institutions are operating.
As we all know, according to the official statistics there are 18 million unemployed - something over 10 % of the active population.
We must understand and share the anxiety and fear for the future of wide groups in society.
We must make sure that these feelings do not become a culture medium for racism and xenophobia suffered by 13 million immigrants, especially those without residence permits.
In this panorama our parliamentary group is very critical of the decision taken by governments to refuse to consider the effects of the current model of monetary union at the Intergovernmental Conference.
In a democracy it does not make sense for propaganda to hinder information, fully responsible decisions and, in some cases, reconsideration of decisions.
This logic even reaches as far as the European Parliament, with cuts in the cohesion funds and also on the use of the surplus from the common agricultural policy.
The reason is easy to understand because although in some countries, for example, inflation is falling to a minimum, the extreme competitiveness we are subject to has meant that the existing differential from the convergence levels - which is the average of the three countries with the lowest inflation - has increased.
Under these monetarist policies jobs come to be regarded as no more than a scarce commodity on the market, with no respect for the values of democracy, which must take the human being as reference, and no account taken of the future cost of unemployment in political, economic and social terms.
That is what would give sense and credibility to a truly single currency for all Europeans.
We must not waste the opportunity offered by the Intergovernmental Conference to strengthen the institutions and bring them closer to the citizens.
We support the 'communitarization' of common foreign and security policy, and justice and home affairs, because Europe needs to have one voice in an international scene where the language of force continues to be given priority, in a world where the economy is becoming globalized and where organizations without democratic legitimacy, like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, take the principal decisions.
We want and we demand institutions close to the people and responsible to them, European institutions where information, discussion before decisions are taken, and subsequent evaluation of the results of the policies are possible.
The Council, the club of national government interests, is playing with fire if it believes it can provide for the urgent need for a more pan-European approach, social ecology, the principle of democracy, which also means participation, transparency and openness, and take the aims we set for the Intergovernmental Conference ad absurdum.
The Member States, the governments will have to learn that democracy does not interfere with the development of Europe but is essential to it.
Mr President, referring back to my last speech on the state of the Union, I might be tempted to repeat what I said then, virtually word for word.
A climate of intolerance, xenophobia and violence is developing in Europe.
The Common Foreign and Security Policy continues to disappoint its keenest supporters.
As far as the IGC is concerned, ideas being put forward especially - though not exclusively - by the authorities in my own country suggest that we might renounce an ambitious reform and be content with minimal modifications.
The success of enlargement is conditional upon the success of the IGC, but at present the IGC is dragging its feet.
My second point is addressed more specifically to the President of the Commission, and relates to the public services.
It would seem that the Commission is persisting in an attitude of indifference towards Parliament and hostility to the existence of the public service and to what it means for the peoples of Europe.
On 9 May this year we adopted amendments to a draft directive on the postal service.
The debate was highly detailed, and Parliament's position carefully considered.
It is contrary to the code of conduct which we had undertaken to respect, and, in the present case, it shows how little interest the Commission persistently takes in this fundamental concept of public service in the general interests of the citizen.
We call upon the Council and the Commission, as a matter of urgency, to display all necessary firmness in finally putting an end to this crisis.
Your European commitment, your determination to make a success of the single currency, your concern to solve the problem of unemployment and the social problems, your desire to strengthen cooperation with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe on a pragmatic, effective basis - all these things give us encouragement, and we thank you for them.
Germany is trying to use the proposal of economic and monetary union to regain its former influence in the East.
France, disorientated by the strategic and tactical errors of some of its leaders, is sinking into a climate of economic crisis and will not meet the Maastricht criteria in 1997, with a real public spending deficit in excess of 4 % of GDP, despite everything you may have heard to the contrary.
Once again, the Commission would have us believe that almost everything is going well, and that those things which are not going well can only improve as a result of the rush to integration.
Mr President, the Union seems to me to be ailing: we have 20 million unemployed; in our countries there is unrest and racist outbursts even, like that of Bossi in Italy where greens shirts are reappearing, rekindling the very grim memory of the brown shirts; and we have governments uninterested in achieving the kind of central Union that leads to political Union.
If we do not, then the same will happen as has occurred in Iraq and other places, with Europe continuing to cut the same old figure.
I hope that the Irish presidency will be able to set political Union on track again, even if that involves delaying enlargement and tackling it once more, through Maastricht, in a constructive spirit but one which takes proper account of the true state of affairs in our countries.
We must not go against history and, above all, we must not go against the needs of the people of Europe.
But it would also be a good idea for the Commission and Council at least to put something of this critical awareness into words.
We all know what troubles the citizens.
But nothing is moving in regard to employment, in regard to foreign policy or to internal security.
The European position on the Helms-Burton law is the right one.
The whole world heard that Europe had spoken with one voice and had faced down our American friend, saying that it cannot do what it wants without reckoning with us.
On the other hand, the lack of a European position on the American attack on Iraq is a sad situation.
They do not understand why Europe exists in theory but not in reality.
Mr President, we are today discussing the state of the Union, as we move closer to two events which will shape Europe's future: the enlargement of the Union and, more especially, the achievement of the single currency.
This is a process that will take some years, two phases during which Europe will finally come into being or will cease to exist!
President Santer was right to say that we need to bring politics closer to citizens.
If we do not confer on the European Union the kind of substance that brings it close to citizens, the effect will be that of an egg pierced underneath by a pin and emptied of its content: from the outside it will look perfect but in reality it will be redundant - an empty shell.
If EMU is attained too quickly, we shall certainly be confronted with these problems, and it will cost us dear.
We cannot export our own model even to Central and Eastern Europe, let alone to the world as a whole.
But citizens should also have the opportunity to influence the Union's constantly increasing activities in the world, so democracy and transparency really must not be forgotten at the Intergovernmental Conference.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sadly, the Council's statement contains nothing about the most flagrant breach of the national right to self-determination which took place a few hours ago.
I am thinking especially of Samir Geagea, the indomitable head of the Christian resistance who has been held in a secret prison for three years without seeing the light of day, Samir, who is my friend, and all the others I have met over there - tortured, persecuted, prosecuted because they want to safeguard the liberty and sovereignty of the fair land of the cedars.
But, after all, Hafez-elAssad, the murderer of our paratroopers, has only expedited a process similar to that afflicting my own country, engulfed by a tide of immigration whose form and scale will radically change the political, cultural and social characteristics of our society.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I want to address myself today to the Irish presidency to express my congratulations and my appreciation.
My congratulations are for the work it is carrying out: in the brief period since Ireland took over the presidency, Ireland has demonstrated its great ability and its government's great responsibility.
And my appreciation is because, on the basis of this work, we expect that at the end of the Irish presidency we will have taken a step forward in the construction of Europe.
The point you made on the globalization of the economy and the challenges it presents for our competitiveness is important, but at the same time - repeating what previous speakers have said - I do not think we can regard competitiveness as conceivable if it has to be based on social cost.
European practice ever since 1945 has been based on achieving a very high level of competitiveness with an increase in our social welfare and in equality between our citizens.
The European Union has achieved the present degree of economic development by facing up to a fundamental economic law.
Perhaps the best example is what happened in the United States after the Civil War of 1861-65, when there was enormous enrichment of the North and enormous impoverishment of the South.
The European Union has managed to avoid that.
At this moment there are some who talk of dismantling the structural funds, the structural policies, the agricultural policy and the cohesion fund in order to achieve other objectives.
If this were to happen, Europe would be heading for a social and economic crisis which would put our construction at risk.
I urge the presidency to continue along the path followed up to now, strengthening the elements of cohesion which have made possible the development of our Union and the peace of our continent.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for having the courage to remind Parliament about something we have forgotten, namely that the basic problem relating to the European Union's economic performance is its low level of competitiveness.
The requisite structural changes are not being implemented consistently and with coordination, and while some governments are courageously taking the necessary though often unpopular measures towards financial discipline, society's reactions are dissuading other governments from progressing towards a true convergence of the economies of the Member States.
Low rates of development are perpetuating serious social problems, especially that of unemployment, and many of us - even here in Parliament - are seriously considering a reduction of working hours as a panacea for that problem, and instead of trying to make Europe more investment-friendly, inspiring it with a spirit of development and making its human potential more capable of meeting the challenges of new technology and competition, we are seeing how best to share out human misery and indigence more fairly.
In my humble opinion, ladies and gentlemen, that is the situation in the Union today and Europe's citizens are wondering whether there are any leaders who can provide us with enough vision to emerge from the swamp.
Mr President, it seems to me to be appropriate today, as we are debating the state of the Union, to talk about Bossi and his outbursts.
Gentlemen of the Council and Commission, you have constructed a fortress of words here today against Parliament's criticisms but above all a fortress of words against the fears and concerns of the people.
President Santer presumed to claim that the convergence criteria of monetary union do not conflict with the requirement of full employment.
In connection with the state of the Union, I would like to say a word about the insecurity affecting the weakest members of our various societies.
This Europe of ours has seen a five-fold increase in crime since its creation in 1957.
The lax attitude to crime which is often fashionable in the various States is not a complete explanation.
This moral situation was a deliberate political choice, because the politicians wanted to denigrate family values in the name of a cut-price Freudianism.
They wanted to strangle patriotic values in the name of a Masonic-style cosmopolitanism.
They wanted to disregard values of personal virtue and responsibility in the name of a decadent egalitarianism.
And the result: five times as much crime as in 1957.
Through our activities we must give the people of Europe reason to be pro-European, i.e., we must find solutions to the burning problems and concerns of the people.
You know that we will be holding elections in Austria in three weeks' time.
In spite of the high level of employment and high social standard in Austria, our citizens' first wish is to see employment and high social standards in Europe.
We have to invest in social programmes, in research programmes and above all in educational programmes.
For education, training and further training are very closely linked to employment.
Le Pen's most recent statements prove how important that is.
Combatting racism and xenophobia is just as important to peace and security in Europe as combatting drugs and crime, as the endeavours to establish a common security and foreign policy.
We should always congratulate ourselves on these joint deliberations, although we must also remember that the formal debate on the overall political assessment of the state of the European Union must take place under the auspices of Article D of the Treaty which provides for a debate after presentation of a written report from the Council of the European Union, so we will have to put that off for a few months.
But as I said, I think this debate is an excellent opportunity for transmitting our main concerns to the Council.
I want to highlight a fact that I consider essential at this time: the basic point the President-in-Office of the Council made was that economic and monetary union and the single currency are irreversible, and the decision has already been taken.
This must be made very clear to all the citizens and it is the great message which must go out from this debate.
I am convinced that even those who are reticent about this great objective will be major beneficiaries of the consequences of this great historical step which will give us European Union.
And I think the BSE tragedy ought to teach us a great deal.
National governments, amongst others, have a grave responsibility to shoulder, not only towards their citizens but towards the whole Union.
We too must mention the implacable challenge of security which both you, Mr President and President Santer, have mentioned.
Citizens must be able to feel they live in a free and safe Europe, so the fight against terrorism and organized crime must pass from rhetoric to action.
A Treaty provision covering the impossibility of political asylum for citizens of the Union is a priority.
Empowering the Court of Justice of the Union in these areas is another necessity.
It is also an economic necessity, but we must face the great challenge of economic and institutional change it involves.
We cannot disregard that situation and imagine we can take another step forward without deepening our institutions.
Mr President, as this House goes about its usual business - which includes this often sterile debate on the state of the Union - none of our Italian colleagues has sought to focus attention for even a moment on the fact that, on Sunday last, a Member of this House - albeit one who has not deigned to grace the House with his presence for a year now - officially proclaimed the creation of an independent and sovereign republic inside one of the founder countries of the European Union, announcing the setting-up of a provisional government and a paramilitary national guard.
No-one from the Commission, President Santer, wished to respond to the question we put three months ago, expressing concern at the risk of armed struggle and civil war in Italy.
Mr President, all these demands have been put forward by members of the public.
What Europe requires today is coordination and cooperation at a European level to create jobs for all of our people.
If economic and monetary union is to be a success it must not be associated in people's minds with increasing unemployment and cuts in welfare.
This is the way to create the kind of Europe which is truly relevant to our people and I hope that this is what will happen in the future.
We in Parliament represent over 340 million individuals across the continent, all of whom suffer from the same problem of unemployment.
However, you must resist the temptation to let things stagnate until then.
If you are looking for the respect and the hearts of the people of Europe, and particularly the young people, why do you not start by reversing the 10 % decrease that the Council of Ministers have proposed in the development cooperation budget?
I am not speaking here as an election campaigner but am speaking before the European Parliament as an elected Austrian Member.
I am not fuelling fears but putting the concerns of large sections of the population before this Parliament and the representatives of the Council and the Commission.
The fact of the matter is that in this century, 190 million people have been killed in wars, 60 million of those in Europe.
Furthermore, history is on the side of the Union because all the trends of modern technology show that interdependence is the order of the day.
We are affected by one another, whether it be through the Internet, through international communications, or through money moving across the exchanges.
Furthermore, the problems of the environment, on a world scale, can only be tackled by the Union.
I will carry that message back to the Dublin One Summit and the Dublin Two Summit.
So please, you, the Members of the European Parliament, you are the leaders of European public opinion and if you keep saying in debates here in this House that the Union is not achieving its objectives, that there are grounds for Euro-pessimism, then people will begin to believe you, and your predictions will become the reality.
I want to say one thing about the Dublin One summit.
There have been some points made here in this debate which suggests that Dublin One should do this, Dublin One should do that and Dublin One should solve this problem and solve the other problem.
We can only create a Social Europe if we have the economic means of doing so.
Mr President, you have already mentioned the argument, but here we have the habit of first dealing with reports concerning legislative proposals before we vote on the other reports.
Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you every success in your work and welcome you to the European Parliament.
Mr President, in that case, I ask for this report to be referred back to committee.
We cannot just take the Rocard report and then not the following reports.
For the first time for a long while social Europe is making positive headlines again with the directive on the posting of workers.
In view of the many risks of social dumping, especially in the building industry, as a result of the temporary posting of workers from EU and third countries, it has become increasingly obvious that free competition in the single market and the policy of openness towards third countries must be flanked by social measures if the entire social system is not soon to collapse.
That period no longer exists now, which means that barring a few minor exceptions the right to a minimum wage and to a minimum paid annual leave must apply in full in the host country, thus also precluding social dumping.
This directive on the posting of workers, once applied, not only represents real progress for workers but also progress for the single market which clearly and specifically prescribes cross-frontier social absorption in addition to the freedom of entrepreneurs.
That is why the report by Mr Helwin Peter deserves our full and entire support.
The text before us now makes it possible to prevent this social dumping from the first day of posting.
However, it was also made possible for either national legislators or national social partners to extend this threshold for a period up to one month.
Even politicians know that air pollution is one of the pressing problems in the cities of the Union, and hence the need to adopt the amendments Mrs Pollack has tabled again.
Through the amendment calling for a review of the proposal after two years, Parliament's Committee on the Environment emphasized its wish to see a tightening of the individual provisions of the proposal at an early stage.
As things stand at present, Parliament hardly has any alternative but to follow the recommendation of the rapporteur, in other words to reintroduce the amendments which it adopted earlier in the year at its first reading of this proposal to amend Regulation (EEC) No 259/93.
We can thank a non-EU Member State - Norway - for the fact that the Commission has changed its mind and taken on board the proposal that exports of waste from OECD countries to non-OECD countries for recycling purposes should also be prohibited.
At first reading, I proposed that a single list should be drawn up which has only one colour, namely red, and I stand by that proposal.
The text no longer refers to the keeping of species of wild fauna and flora for non-commercial purposes, as is apparent from the change in the title of the Regulation.
However, the text does still contain one weakness in Article 9, which makes any movement of the specimens referred to in Annex A subject to prior authorization, which would make life difficult if not impossible for the competent authorities.
My group has tabled an amendment to correct what I regard as an unfortunate chance accident in the common position, because there is no reason virtually to prohibit falconry in the European Union.
I regret that Parliament has not adopted this amendment.
That apart, the common position is acceptable, and there is certainly no reason to reject it.
Our group tabled six amendments to Mrs van Putten's report.
That is why my group has voted against some amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
I am thinking particularly of Amendment No 12, which does away with the possibility of using species of wild fauna and flora for research activities or educational purposes designed to safeguard or preserve species.
The six amendments proposed by my group are designed to protect the traditional activity of falconry.
I hope that this position will be adopted by the majority of my colleagues during the vote.
Breyer report The maximum levels for pesticide residues in agricultural products consisting in 0.01mg/kg for every individual substance and to 0.005mg/kg for the sum of pesticide residues, laid down in the proposal for an amending directive, have very serious implications for the production and consumption of foodstuffs in the EU, the productivity and competitiveness of European agricultural products and international commercial standards.
The current system of fixing the individual maximum levels, at the point of authorization (registration) for every substance and every crop on which that substance is used, has been operating at an international level for more than 30 years.
That system has been evaluated and improved by the FAO, the World Health Organization and the Codex Alimentarius so as to facilitate international trade in foodstuffs, by averting the risk of damage to health.
The fact is that, currently, the use of every substance is authorized for one or more crops in accordance with directions for use that are specifically laid down, and a maximum residue level (MRL) is set for each of them.
In Italy, the adoption of the combined approach - involving the use of chemical and biological products - the attempt to rationalize use, technical progress and the development of new products has already achieved a reduction of some 25 % in the quantities of pesticides used.
We therefore accept the proposal in question but must point out that we shall be voting against all of the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in particular Amendments Nos 1, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 20, 22, 23, 24 and 31 concerning changes to the MRLs.
In order not to appear to be a social step backwards or a redistribution of poverty, it ought to include compensation through wages; but in this case, even allowing for the saving in terms of unemployment benefit, it is in danger of proving expensive and so destroying the jobs it hopes to create.
In order to avoid this vicious circle, such an approach has to remain cautious and contractual, and, above all, must not cost the public treasury more than the total saving in terms of unemployment benefit.
Until such time as this problem is solved - either by a deliberate policy or, perhaps in the much longer term, by a gradual restoration of international balance - the reduction in working hours cannot be the subject of a general policy, merely that of isolated experiments.
The Socialists have now proposed on the one hand incorporating a chapter on employment in the Treaty on European Union and on the other reducing working hours.
Our first question is concerned with the enormous diversity of employment situations from country to country which are difficult to reconcile with solutions applied uniformly to the different countries.
The new world market in which we now compete makes it imperative that we must be as competitive as possible.
Flexibility in the organization of working hours that will not infringe on workers' basic rights could form part of an integrated solution to unemployment.
In particular the lack of a cost analysis on the SME and VSE sectors flies in the face of other Community actions to assist this sector, recognised by all as the engine for employment growth and economic growth in Europe, for example the third multi-annual programme for SMEs - Article 118 of the Treaty.
Under these conditions, reduction of the working time without loss of earnings could be a decisive step in addressing the problem, and would ensure the standard of living of working people and the creation of new jobs.
But at a time when those organizations face very serious problems, savings of their expenditure could be used to improve their financial situation and enhance the level of public social security.
In our opinion, a policy to deal with unemployment should be based on shortening the working time without loss of earnings, on a reduction and gradual abolition of overtime, on the encouragement of productive investment, especially in labour-intensive branches, and on addressing the problem of relocation to third countries where labour is cheap.
Although, with unemployment at 3 %, Luxembourg does not have the same employment problems as those affecting other EU countries, the fact is that in my country, too, employment has become a major concern.
That is why Michel Rocard's report should equally be taken very seriously in the Grand Duchy.
The reduction in working hours is a taboo for employers, who fear an increase in their costs, for employees, who fear a reduction in their earnings, and for governments, who take cover behind the contractual freedom of the social partners.
Despite this, the general approach adopted by Michel Rocard's report must be of interest to us.
It starts by recording, very appropriately, that whereas annual working hours in 1880 totalled 3, 000, that figure had fallen to 1, 700 by 1970, while the same period saw an increase in earned income and a sharp rise in productivity.
What Michel Rocard is now proposing are courses of action which are inevitable even for a country with a low rate of unemployment.
It is interesting to note that, as the discussions have proceeded, so Michel Rocard's proposals have dispelled many fears, both among the unions and among the employers, since on the one hand he is proposing to compensate for the burdens on undertakings and on the other he is not requiring any cut in incomes.
The idea is to dip into the ECU 350, 000 million (14, 000 billion Luxembourg francs!) which unemployment benefit costs in Europe in order to compensate for the costs incurred by undertakings in the event of a reduction in working hours, without any loss in income for the workforce and in exchange for the creation of new jobs.
Michel Rocard is opening new avenues, stimulating thought and action.
He is asking the Commission to undertake studies and draft a recommendation to the Member States, he is inviting the social partners to the negotiating table, and he is inviting all concerned to bank on an approach which no one, previously, has really taken seriously.
The situation is too serious for us to be able to ignore this opportunity.
I shall therefore be unable to vote for this report.
As representative of the Green Group I naturally welcome this report on using shorter working hours as one weapon in the battle against unemployment.
For workers a reduction in working hours can only be a good thing, since their quality of life will improve and the social gulf which exists between those in work and those without it will be reduced.
This report is a step in the right direction.
I have voted for the Rocard report.
I did not do so because I believed that it would solve the problem of high unemployment in Europe.
We adopt social flanking measures or measures to encourage recruitment, which are costing fortunes to all our countries: ECU 350, 000 million (or more than 2 billion francs, 4.5 % of the gross national product of each Member State, 120, 000 francs per unemployed person per year), yet without creating any jobs, without restoring the dignity of the millions suffering from exclusion, without giving any hope to our millions of young people.
For this reason, I can only thank Michel Rocard for having worked so hard on this subject, giving priority to the human aspect of this challenge.
In his report, Michel Rocard makes proposals which will be accepted by a large majority in this Parliament - I have no doubt of that.
The 32-hour working week makes sense in historical terms.
And technological changes are forcing us to accelerate this process.
Only a massive reduction in working hours, only a different way of organizing work, more flexible, with more diversification as between jobs, negotiated between the social partners, can meet the challenges of unemployment, with a statute of equality guaranteeing the same rights, the same safeguards, the same career prospects. 10 % more people could be recruited and millions of new jobs created in the European Union!
Michel Rocard's original idea deserves our full attention.
The wage compensation could be provided either by direct subsidy based on savings made on the cost of unemployment, or by changing the social security contributions: the contributions could be cut by half up to 32 hours, and multiplied by 4 over and above that.
Which, at the same time, would be a strong deterrent to challenging the additional hours, the equivalent of 3 or 4 million jobs in Europe.
The 32-hour working week, selective part-time working, progressive retirement, the reduction in overtime will bring a change in lifestyle.
Allowing people two or three days off each week means one more day devoted to a different way of living.
The proposals on shorter working time in the Rocard report are in fact most unrealistic in their absolute form, however a pragmatic approach to the problem could certainly produce positive results.
The cost in time and money of training a highly specialized workforce is in itself a barrier to maintaining existing jobs, when a skilled worker leaves a firm temporarily or for good.
The problem of unemployment therefore cannot be solved by measures which do not take account of the skills requirements, now or in the future, of what is an increasingly internationalized labour market.
Austria has the second-lowest unemployment rate in Europe and the lowest youth unemployment rate in the world because of its very efficient dual training and further training system.
In Sweden the number of hours worked annually in a fulltime job has, on average, increased by 100 hours per year.
A normal working week of 40 hours is in reality 40.7 hours.
It is the endeavour of the Swedish party of the left to achieve a more just distribution of working hours between men and women, between wage-earning and unpaid work.
We therefore regard a reduction of the working week as the best method but share the rapporteur's view of the necessity of shortening working hours as a means of reducing the number of unemployed.
The challenge is complex and unfortunately there are no easy solutions.
It would send the wrong message to the people to say that reducing working hours is going to produce full employment.
The ideas and proposals in the Rocard report are additional factors in the range of measures that need to be mobilized.
It needs to be reiterated that economic growth is necessary but not sufficient.
Society needs to find its own equilibria.
To achieve that, certain essential revolutionary fiscal measures can make it possible to ensure sufficient income for each home and allow its members a flexible range of options.
I consider the report as a whole to be good and have absolutely nothing against the Commission undertaking a study of the situation.
In the Explanatory Statement it is suggested that they should increase to ECU 4.5 per hour if more than 39 hours a week are worked and/or be reduced by ECU 4 per hour if the working week is less than 32 hours.
This would mean that a half-time job (20 hours per week) would cost SEK 50 or 100 less an hour than a full-time job.
Finally, I believe that the rapporteur could have mentioned increased employment in the public sector as an effective means of reducing unemployment.
With the Rocard report I presume Parliament will finally state quite clearly that it will not be possible to tackle the scandal of mass unemployment in Europe, which now affects more than 30 million people, without massive cuts in working time.
But even on the basis of these interim proposals, all the social forces in the Member States who are striving for an economic and social changeover to a new type of full employment can and will give new impetus to the public debate.
However, the amendments by Mr Rocard and the Group of the Party of European Socialists that were accepted during yesterday's compromise discussions show on what a weak political basis these discussions are currently still being conducted.
It was evidently considered necessary rapidly to abandon the central approach of re-allocating at least part of the current ECU 350 000 million spent in the Member States for the administration of unemployment on state support for the reduction of working time.
The budgetary procedure set up by the Treaty should be the high point of collaboration between the institutions concerned.
The Interinstitutional Agreement of 1993 established the framework for such collaboration.
Since then the importance of cooperation has clearly increased year by year.
Subsequently, our trialogue in early July made the Council aware of Parliament's principal concerns, particularly in the area of compulsory expenditure, and thus proved to be a valuable preparation for the meeting and conciliation held on the morning of the Budget Council on 25 July.
That meeting provided an opportunity for all sides to spell out the crucial points of the 1997 budgetary procedure and to take cognizance of the objectives they saw as essential in this particularly testing financial year.
It also allowed your representatives to raise specific issues of concern to Parliament, in particular the possibility of a review of the Financial Perspective, the question of legal bases and some other matters.
The special economic and financial circumstances surrounding the 1997 budget may well have something to do with that.
However, whatever the reason, such close cooperation can only be advantageous to the Community and is to be welcomed.
In the light of these detailed exchanges of views with representatives of Parliament and the Commission, the Council established its draft budget for the financial year 1997.
In so doing, the Council was guided by the same principles of budgetary discipline and rigour as the Member States have set for themselves in 1997.
To achieve the same objective at Community level, the Council decided to reduce the preliminary draft budget by ECU 1, 000m in the area of agricultural expenditure and to make an identical reduction in the payment appropriations for structural operations.
The Council takes the view that these measures are inextricably linked and should run in parallel.
These essential measures for the 1997 budget procedure constitute the crux of the discussions at the conciliation meeting on 25 July.
Clearly, the Council regards it as absolutely vital that the European Parliament go along with this overall strategy and we hope that it will.
In this area the Council has amended the preliminary draft budget in two ways.
Moreover, in accordance with the conclusions reached at the ad hoc conciliation meeting, the Council agreed to enter appropriations totalling ECU 62m in the reserve, drawn from the three budget headings for which the Commission agreed that its budget estimates could be altered.
Starting with agriculture, therefore, we want to display our commitment to reasonable budgetary proposals and achieve a 1997 budget which remains at the 1996 level.
However, as regards the payment appropriations for this heading, the Council introduced the second aspect of its overall savings strategy by effecting a ECU 1, 000m reduction in the payment appropriations.
In so doing the Council wishes to assure you that this measure can be undertaken without jeopardizing the smooth operation of the essential policy funded by such appropriations in the light of the out-turn in the recent past.
On the basis of this criterion the reduction has no effect on Objectives 1 and 6 of the Structural Funds, nor is the Cohesion Fund affected in any way by this reduction.
The Council accepted all the allocations proposed in the preliminary draft budget for the Cohesion Fund, namely, ECU 2, 749m in commitment appropriations and ECU 2, 326m in payment appropriations, which represents an increase of about 12.5 % in commitment appropriations and just over 21 % in payment appropriations over the 1996 figures.
For structural operations as a whole the amounts entered in the draft budget stand at ECU 31, 477m in commitment appropriations and ECU 26, 300m in payment appropriations, increases of ECU 2, 346m and ECU 545.8m respectively.
Where internal policies are concerned the Council has again this year placed emphasis on two of the Community's priority policies, namely research and trans-European networks; that is, B6 and B5.
In that context the Council agreed to all the commitment appropriations proposed by the Commission for sub-section B6, namely ECU 3, 450m, an increase of 8.4 % over 1996.
Where payment appropriations were concerned the Council accepted the allocation suggested for the Joint Research Centre.
Given the 1995 rate of out-turn a reduction of this nature will not hamper normal funding of these programmes.
With regard to the trans-European networks - that is, B5 - the Council accepted the preliminary draft budget allocations in commitment appropriations for financial support for transport networks, namely ECU 352m, an increase of ECU 72m on 1996.
The payment appropriations entered, while slightly down on the preliminary draft budget, nonetheless show a 25 % rate of growth.
For the energy networks the draft budget is slightly under the preliminary draft budget and in the telecommunications field the draft budget equals the 1996 budget where commitment appropriations are concerned and exceeds it for payment appropriations.
For this title as a whole the Council has entered substantial amounts, namely ECU 489m in commitment appropriations and ECU 346m in payment appropriations, which corresponds to an increase of ECU 79m in commitment appropriations and of ECU 69m in payment appropriations.
In this way the Council has clearly demonstrated its wish to give preference to these two major Community policies which can exercise a direct influence on growth and unemployment.
For example, it has laid stress on essential policies such as education, vocational training and youth and other social operations.
It has also reserved a special place for policies which are now well established such as that on the environment, consumer protection, the internal market and industry.
The Council has allowed a margin of ECU 348.2m in this heading of the Financial Perspective.
It trusts that the other arm of the budgetary authority, namely Parliament, will approve these or equivalent measures and join the Council in a policy of confining itself to realistic budget entries in the particular context of 1997.
To cover the whole of this sub-section the Council has entered a total of ECU 5, 310m in commitment appropriations and ECU 4, 106.5m in payment appropriations.
The Council considers that the budget authority cannot avoid its duty to accord preferential treatment to those areas that represent high priorities for the Community.
Thus it has entered all the commitment appropriations provided for in the preliminary draft budget for the Central and East European countries and Mediterranean third countries in line with the conclusions of the Cannes European Council.
Regarding international fisheries agreements and in keeping with the conclusions of the conciliation procedure on compulsory expenditure, the Council agreed to insert a second budget heading under the relevant article entitled 'Contributions to international organizations' and to increase the amount transferred to the reserve.
Another essential cooperation policy vis-à-vis the independent states of the former Soviet Union has been allocated ECU 541m in commitment appropriations and ECU 445m in payment appropriations.
The share for TACIS has been increased slightly in relation to 1996.
Cooperation with the former Yugoslavia has also been allocated substantial funding.
Elsewhere the draft budget broadly follows the Commission's requests for other cooperation measures, in particular, in respect of measures in favour of democracy and human rights, whether in Central and Eastern Europe and particularly Yugoslavia, in the newly independent states, in Mongolia, Latin America or in other countries.
Thus, while on the one hand the Council has endeavoured to maintain essential policies by agreeing to substantial commitment appropriations, it also considered that it can be more realistic with the payment of appropriations needed in the light of expected out-turns.
Aware of the problems which are currently entailing severe restrictions in public expenditure in the Member States, the Council is advocating and implementing a very stringent approach to expenditure in this area.
In providing for an overall amount of ECU 4244.6 million, the draft budget represents more or less the status quo in real terms.
In its decisions the Council has been particularly stringent in respect of certain types of expenditure, such as consultancy costs, and expenditure relating to restaurants and canteens, data-processing and transport equipment.
The Council has not agreed to any new posts, except for the Commission, and in a very restricted sense for the Court of Auditors and the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions' common structure, and then only for requirements arising from enlargement.
Under this heading the Council has left a margin which it regards as essential.
I would stress, however, that, as for last year, the Council considers that this margin should not be used for the requirements of any single institution.
Those then are the main points of the draft budget established by the Council.
Moreover, the Council is very much aware that its draft budget constitutes only one stage in the budget procedure.
It is conscious of the fact that close collaboration, and even a shared understanding with your Parliament, is indispensable for implementing a budget which is well balanced.
On behalf of the presidency, I should like to say that it will spare no effort in working towards that end throughout the budget procedure in order to obtain, together with Parliament and the Commission, a budget which most closely reflects the Community's interests.
In conclusion, I wish to thank everyone who has been involved in this exercise and who will doubtless continue to be so, within the two arms of the budgetary authority and the Commission.
Since assuming the presidency I have come to appreciate the huge amount of time, effort and commitment which all of those people, and others indeed, have brought to this challenging task, and I want to say thank you for that.
The preliminary draft budget presented in April was up to that challenge: growth rate, without BSE, below the rate of inflation, significant margins in Categories 3, 4 and 5, and a growth in personnel down to zero, except for enlargement.
It is understandable that Member States in this situation took a hard look at Community expenditure and found a majority for a so-called zero growth draft budget.
For this the Council majority decided to take risks.
But at the same time the Community cannot switch off the lights.
The priorities of the draft budget are not the priorities of the Commission.
The draft budget wants to stop the pilot programme for voluntary civil service without giving it a proper chance, cut the funds for consumer protection, cut funds for the fight against fraud, reduce the information budget by more than half and cut funds for programmes for equality between men and women.
Funds for environmental protection should at least be maintained.
This underlines again, as I have pointed out repeatedly, the importance of an agreement between the Institutions on this very question.
On the substance of the matter we are further away than we were a couple of years ago.
We have more than forty budget lines where the Council has either cut back totally or nearly totally on the grounds of the legal base.
This situation has quite clearly been caused by the lack of willingness on the part of Members of the Council to spend structural funds.
I should like to end with two specific questions to the Commission.
The Committee on Budgets not only recognizes but praises the fact that the budget reflects the continued climate of rigour and austerity indispensable to achieving monetary union, and follows the lines agreed at the meeting of the delegations from the Council and Parliament.
As regards the 1997 budget procedure, I want to stress the significant agreement achieved in the tripartite dialogue between the Council, the Commission and Parliament on 16 April, which limited the creation of new items within the commitments already contracted in the context of the enlargement.
The Council proposes to strengthen the language departments as regards Finnish and Swedish, as well as persevere in the improvement of the cost/efficiency ratio, on which, of course, we are in agreement.
The Committee on Budgets pointed out that, in the first draft of the 1997 budget and in the area of administrative costs, the limit of heading 5 had been exceeded by ECU 14.55 million.
As regards the credits in Title II - Buildings, equipment and miscellaneous operating costs - it has to be said that the most striking increase - 49.81 % -relates to Parliament but, in the end, we are all aware of that the Council has taken on commitments which forces Parliament to follow suit with the same commitments.
On the other hand, the credits allocated to the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions have been revised downwards.
Greater precision as regards the Court of justice, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions would not disturb us, Mr President.
We are glad that account has been taken of the report from the Court of Auditors - and as I am mentioning it, I want to pay homage to its good work - on the leasings for the Court of Justice.
This report, which was requested by Parliament, will serve to unblock an entry of ECU 60 million reducing the last instalment on the annexes for the Court of Justice or, through renegotiation with the government of Luxembourg, permitting a reduction of ECU 6 million annually in leasings.
As regards the Economic and Social Council and the Committee of the Regions, I am sorry that Chapter XX - Buildings - of the Council's draft does not consider the needs of these institutions now that the European Parliament has announced its intention of leaving the Van Maerlan building, agreeing to the conclusions and questions I put to it in my document No 5.
And finally, it just remains for me to mention the lack of agreement in the system of calculating and invoicing the average cost of interpreting per day.
We think there should be further study, thought and information about the fact that a quarter of the allocations authorized in 1996 - ECU 94 million - and intended for redundancy payments is reserved for invalidity pensions.
Mr President, those are the comments from the Committee on Budgets on the Council report.
We are working constructively with the authorities concerned and we hope during our presidency and in Council to make progress on this issue which, we are all agreed, is not just desirable, but absolutely necessary.
But it is not really for me to deal with it two days ahead of my Minister for Finance, who was dealing with it in Dublin at the weekend.
Mr Brinkhorst raised two rather detailed questions.
First of all as far as support to nongovernmental organizations is concerned he took the valuable initiative of organizing a hearing next week in the European Parliament.
I do not want to make an impromptu analysis of this report today but we are willing, later, to present an assessment to the Committee on Budgets.
If that is not the case then there is no logic or justification for our efforts.
Mr President, I am aware that Members have been carefully watching events in Iraq.
The conflict in northern Iraq has led to a serious humanitarian emergency and there is even the threat of further consequences, with the possibility of military action between Iraq and the United States.
Unfortunately, despite this international protection, it did not prove possible to resolve the bitter and long-standing differences between the two main Kurdish parties of Iraq - the Kurdistan Democratic Party and the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan - after the Gulf War.
For some reason, a temporary cease-fire in the hostilities between the two factions was established and certain confidence-building measures were agreed between them, but the fragile peace that existed through 1995 has recently given way to renewed hostilities.
Turkey argued that its incursions were justified on the grounds that elements of its own outlawed Kurdish Workers Party, the PKK, have been availing of their relative protection in northern Iraq to strike at Turkey.
The situation in northern Iraq was discussed by EU Foreign Ministers at their informal meeting in Tralee on 7 and 8 September last.
As it was an informal meeting there were, of course, no formal declarations, but I believe that on the basis of the Tralee discussion there is a broad measure of agreement among Member States on the central issues of the current conflict.
The Union is greatly concerned at the potential for large-scale deaths and economic and social disruption involved in incursions into northern Iraq by outside forces, including those of the Iraqi regime.
The Union remains in favour of the maintenance of a Kurdish enclave in northern Iraq.
The Union will continue to pursue these objectives in cooperation with the international community through all available channels.
The presidency has also instructed the Troika Heads of Mission in Ankara to request the Turkish authorities to remove recent administrative changes in NGOs working from Turkey into northern Iraq, so that the NGOs can be better placed to help alleviate the humanitarian consequences of the current situation in northern Iraq.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council Mitchell, the Commission is naturally very concerned about the increase in tension in northern Iraq and the humanitarian situation caused by the recent military conflicts.
The European Union continues to be firmly convinced of the need to apply in their entirety all the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council relating to Iraq, emphasizing the obligation on Iraq to respect Security Council Resolution 688 and refrain from taking action against the Kurdish people or against other minorities in Iraq.
In this context, the Foreign Ministers condemned the Iraqi incursion into the Kurdish protection zone and called on the Iraqi government to withdraw its forces immediately, and the European Union also welcomed the agreement reached on Security Council Resolution 986 authorizing Iraq to export oil in exchange for humanitarian supplies.
Some estimates put the number of refugees in the tens of thousands on the Iraqi side of the border, and this is in addition to approximately 40, 000 refugees who have already been permitted entry to Iran.
The Community's department for humanitarian aid (ECHO) is actively collecting all possible information through its partners in Iraq.
At this moment, the Commission is working in Iraq through 22 non-governmental organizations and it is expected that the relevant United Nations agencies will shortly draw up their estimates.
There is no need to remind Members of Parliament of the significant aid already given by the European Union to the Kurdish peoples of northern Iraq in the tragic situation following the end of the 1991 Gulf War.
From 1992, the European Union has committed approximately ECU 83 million to humanitarian aid in Iraq and 80 % of this sum has been specifically assigned to the north of the country.
In addition to this amount, the Commission has earmarked ECU 8 million for rehabilitation programmes in northern Iraq, and other amounts have also been channelled to NGOs for the development of decentralized cooperation.
However, I must make it clear that we are very concerned about the Iraqi government's statement of 11 September that the amnesty promised to the Kurdish population of the north would not apply to Iraqi nationals, described as traitors because they have worked for international humanitarian aid agencies in northern Iraq.
The Commission wants to take this opportunity to point out that both the foreign members and the Kurdish members of the humanitarian aid teams funded by the European Community in northern Iraq have been carrying out purely humanitarian work and therefore the Iraqi regime cannot call them traitors, which is an unacceptable and unjustifiable form of pressure.
So the Commission calls on the Iraqi government to avoid any reprisals endangering the safety of either national or foreign staff members of NGOs in the north of the country.
We hope this meeting will produce a commitment from the apparent victors of this war between Kurds that will protect Union and Kurdish staff working on the ground.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, let me begin by saying that I appreciate the humanitarian effort that the Commission is making in the region: it is very important and I do not undervalue it.
Many commentators have asked why Saddam Hussein chose this moment to open up a conflict with unpredictable results and assume there to be some kind of link with the forthcoming American elections.
I actually believe that the deterioration in relations between Israel and the Arab countries; the real danger that the measures for peace - taken by Arafat with the support of the moderate Arab governments - may collapse and fatally undermine the political role of those promoting that peace, has reopened the leadership battle in the Arab world.
Since the Gulf War, in recent years Arafat, Mubarak and King Hussein of Jordan have occupied the international political stage by adopting an approach that is strategically opposite to that of conflict with Israel and, in the final analysis, the United States and Europe.
It is therefore our view that it is not merely a question of taking military action to deter Iraq but of evolving economic and security policy measures and doing so jointly with all countries that have influence in the area: the United States first and foremost, the European Union, Russia, the moderate Arab countries and the UN.
The failure to involve the other protagonists weakens the pressure on Saddam Hussein.
We must reflect on this if we want to tackle the situation generally and respond adequately to Saddam Hussein.
The first thing that is needed is for the European Union to shoulder its responsibilities by seeking cooperation with the United States, Russia and the Arab countries which have so far supported the Middle East peace process.
Mr President, it is good that the European Parliament can agree on the resolution condemning the Iraqi incursion into the Kurdish security zone and demanding the total withdrawal of all Iraqi forces.
In its proposal the Liberal Group expresses its full support for the American missile attacks - a response to Saddam Hussein's incursion into the Kurdish security zone which he can understand.
In any event, Mr President, the Council should feel highly flattered at Parliament's great confidence in it.
The intervention by the Baghdad regime in the southern provinces of Iraqi national territory has provoked not only the desperate flight of Kurdish civilians and a political and military crisis with unpredictable consequences throughout the Middle East but has perpetuated and aggravated the unprecedented suffering of the whole of the Iraqi population.
While no-one can justify Saddam Hussein's action, similarly unjustified and completely disproportionate is the violent unilateral response of the United States, the long-range missile attacks, the preparations for further and more massive military operations against Iraq and the extension without any UN mandate of the no-fly-zones.
We are therefore very surprised, not to say downright dismayed, to hear more or less veiled or explicit declarations supporting the foolish initiatives of the United States made in this House, or declarations that will at any rate be interpreted as such by the Clinton administration which, until yesterday, was able to count only on the support of Kuwait, Bahrain and the British Government.
The Clinton administration has now decided to extend those sanctions sine die and not even allow the exchange of limited exports of Iraqi oil for foodstuffs and medicines.
But let us also remember that after the Gulf War in 1991 part of the Kurdish territory in Iraq was declared a safe haven.
For years the Kurdish people have not really been protected against constant attacks, including military attacks, on the part of Iran, on the part of Turkey and on the part of Iraq.
However, as the presentations from the Council and then from the Commission rolled on, I came to ask myself increasingly what we were doing in the Kurdish area, or what were we doing in Iraq.
All fifteen Member States belong to the United Nations.
We have got to put our efforts into self-determination for the Kurdish people, autonomy within Northern Iraq and within Kurdistan in Turkey, all these areas, because that is the only way to a lasting solution.
From the point of view of international law there may be a number of critical questions concerning the recent military action of the United States in Iraq.
The country is gradually recovering from the Gulf War.
The lack of unanimity on the part of the European Union concerning the events in Iraq once again demonstrates the difficulty of putting in place a common foreign policy.
Mr President, for electoral and oil-related reasons the Clinton administration has just ordered several thousand American troops to Kuwait.
Clinton cannot forgive the Iraqi government for having thwarted the plot hatched by the CIA to overthrow it and demonstrated that the great majority of the four million Iraqi Kurds would prefer, together with Mr Barzani's party, to remain within their national borders.
The United Kingdom and Germany immediately supported the act of aggression, as they have for five years been supporting the criminal, methodical and hypocritical genocide of the Iraqi people.
All observers of all shades of political opinion have denounced the fact that, every day, the blockade kills more than a thousand people in Iraq, including six hundred children.
This criminal policy has already killed more than a million Iraqis.
It is absolutely essential, in the name of justice and human rights, to lift the blockade totally, and even that will not appease your conscience or pay for your crimes!
There is a very strong case at this time perhaps for Parliament - and certainly for the Union - to send a new factfinding delegation which could also convey our profound concern and help us to make an even better contribution to resolving the problems of that region.
Mr President, the assumption by the United States that it is able unilaterally to resolve problems dating back to 3000 B.
Mr President, the members of the USA-Europe interparliamentary group discussed the HelmsBurton legislation in Washington a few weeks ago and criticized the fact that the European Community was not consulted.
The trans-Atlantic dialogue is a model of cooperation, of the exchange of information and the definition of common aims.
I call upon the Council and the Commission to agree a tactical and strategic common European Community position on the necessary measures.
Over the last decades Europe has demonstrated that it is possible to resolve conflicts on the basis of European culture and European policies, by sitting down together, by discussing the problems, by creating rules of play.
And the most important aim and motive of political activity is to secure peace for our citizens the world over.
Mr President, I think that the essential comment from a Member of the European Parliament on Iraq must be that, once again, events have taken us by surprise.
But there is no doubt that our diplomatic fragmentation and, in spite of the mechanisms of intergovernmental cooperation, the lack of a real understanding between the governments, means that the European Union seems to have been taken by surprise.
Apart from that, I think we ought to insist on the need for a firm and clear response to Saddam Hussein's action, for rejection of the principles of totalitarianism and implacable dictatorship which he imposes on Iraq and for the rights of the people of that country to be respected first and foremost by whoever governs them.
The European Council in Florence reaffirmed that the success of the Middle East peace process remains a fundamental interest of the Union.
A number of speakers raised the question of the Union's response to the future of northern Iraq and the humanitarian situation of the Iraqi population.
The Union will continue to pursue these objectives through all channels.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
Political situation in Turkey The next item is the statement by the Council on the political situation in Turkey and the statement by the Commission on the implementation of the customs union with Turkey.
The European Union has long recognized the importance of close and constructive relations with Turkey.
The formal relationship established with the Association Agreement of 1964 has now entered a new phase with the entry into force, at the end of last year, of the Customs Union.
The Customs Union should be seen as a central element in the European Union's strategy to support the process of democratization and internal reform in Turkey.
Economic development, which the Customs Union is intended to stimulate, should contribute to the creation of a favourable climate for accelerating internal reform in Turkey.
The closer integration into European structures which the Customs Union entails can be expected to strengthen Turkey's European orientation and enhance the European Union's capacity to exercise a positive and helpful influence on developments in Turkey.
The Council has continued to monitor the human rights situation and democratic developments in Turkey as requested by the European Parliament when you gave your assent to the Customs Union.
We have continued to make it clear to the Turkish authorities that observance of the rule of law and basic liberties are the basis for the rapprochement between Turkey and the European Union.
The process of ratification of the Customs Union, and the clear stance adopted by the European Union in that context, gave valuable impetus to internal reform in Turkey.
We were encouraged, moreover, by the assurances that the Turkish authorities saw these measures as a stage in a continuing process of constitutional and legislative review.
Mrs Çiller, when she visited Dublin in July last, assured the Irish presidency that she would pursue in her present capacity the reforms she initiated as Prime Minister.
The Council recognizes the seriousness of the internal security problems which the sustained campaign of violence in south-east Turkey poses for the Turkish authorities.
It condemns all acts of terrorism unreservedly.
Democratic government can best withstand the terrorist threat, however, by remaining true to the values on which it is founded.
The enduring appeal and resilience of democratic society is rooted in large measure in the protection it affords to the individual and the scope it offers for freedom of expression.
It follows, as a matter both of principle and practicality, that the fight against terrorism must be pursued within the law and with full respect for human rights.
The Council believes that the situation in the south-eastern provinces should not be approached exclusively as a security problem.
We are encouraged in this regard by the legislation recently enacted by the Turkish Grand National Assembly aimed at lifting the nine-year-old state of emergency in those provinces. (Protests) We urge the Turkish authorities to pursue their efforts to improve the situation of the Kurdish minority.
It should be imaginative and generous enough to allow for appropriate expression of the Kurdish cultural identity in a manner consistent with full respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Turkey.
A lasting political settlement would ensure internal stability and cohesion in Turkey and release valuable resources for economic and social development.
Turkey has an important role to play in the emerging European security architecture and has been an active participant in the international efforts to consolidate the peace process in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The Euro-Mediterranean partnership launched in Barcelona in November 1995 has added a new strand to the European Union's relationship with Turkey.
Both parties are now actively engaged in a major initiative which aims to ensure that the Mediterranean region becomes an area of trade and dialogue guaranteeing peace, stability and prosperity.
The adoption of the MEDA Regulation by the General Affairs Council last July, following Parliament's assent, was an important step in developing the Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
It established the regulatory and budgetary mechanism necessary to give concrete expression to the Union's commitment to contribute more actively to the socio-economic development of its Mediterranean partners, including Turkey.
The special financial regulation, a complementary measure intended to help Turkey adapt its industrial sector to the new competitive environment created by the Customs Union, remains to be formally adopted.
The draft regulation, approved by Parliament earlier this year, envisages financial assistance of ECU 375 million for Turkey over a five-year period.
The Council issued a declaration in July recalling that relations between the European Union and Turkey have to be based on a clear commitment to the principle of respect for international law and agreements, the relevant international practice and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Member States and Turkey.
The Council considers that disputes should be settled solely on the basis of international law.
Mr Spring will be meeting Mrs Çiller again...
Mr Spring will be meeting Mrs Çiller during the UN General Assembly and will be seeking her response to that declaration.
On Cyprus, the European Union has decided that accession negotiations will commence with Cyprus six months after the conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference, taking the results of that conference into account.
It is vital that this opportunity is grasped and that the pre-accession period is used constructively to make progress towards an equitable and sustainable settlement.
The recent disturbances and tragic deaths in Cyprus are matters of deep concern.
The European Union has strongly deplored the recent violence in Cyprus and the disproportionate use of force by the security forces in the north of Cyprus in response to unauthorized entry into the buffer zone.
It condemned the brutal killings of two civilians and expressed its deep concern about the injuries sustained by many others, including United Nations peacekeeping personnel.
The Council has called for restraint and calm in the wake of these tragic events.
It has urged both sides to avoid further confrontation and to cooperate fully with the United Nations force in Cyprus in its efforts to defuse tensions.
The Council hopes that this meeting will lead to a resumption of political dialogue and progress towards an agreed solution.
These incidents in Cyprus have highlighted the urgent need to intensify efforts towards promoting a comprehensive political settlement under the aegis of the United Nations.
The European Union fully supports the Secretary-General's efforts to make progress towards a solution on the basis of a bi-zonal, bicommunal federation within the framework already established by the relevant UN decisions and resolutions in regard to Cyprus.
The various states and international organizations concerned with the Cyprus issue should play complementary roles reflecting the different contributions they can bring to the search for a solution.
The European Union's role in this process flows logically from the accession perspective and its potential as a catalyst for a settlement.
The Union has a natural and vital concern for the stability of countries with which it will engage in accession negotiations.
The Council, accordingly, is actively engaged in the international effort to find a comprehensive political solution in the framework of the United Nations.
I have outlined in my earlier contribution the Council's efforts to create appropriate conditions for the further development of the Union's relations with Turkey.
Access to the single market should act as a powerful stimulus to economic development throughout the island.
We will pursue our efforts to convince both sides that there is everything to gain and nothing to lose from the entry of a unified Cyprus into the European Union.
The reaction against the Greek Cypriot demonstrators was disproportionate and unacceptable.
This means that we must keep to our decision to start the accession negotiations with Cyprus six months after the closing of the Intergovernmental Conference at the latest.
It also makes it necessary to double our efforts in finding a political solution to the Cyprus problem.
The presidency and its special representative, Ambassador Heaslip, together with the United Nations and the United States, must do everything possible to bring life back into the negotiating process.
This brings me to the Unionʼs relations with Turkey.
This report will also contain our evaluation of the developments in the field of democracy and the protection of human rights.
Exports from the European Union to Turkey have grown considerably, while imports from Turkey have also increased.
The financial support associated with the customs union agreement of 6 March 1995, the 375 million special aid in the form of gifts and the 750 million loan from the European Investment Bank are still blocked for political reasons.
As regards democratic development and human rights, I would again, anticipating the report, note that in our opinion the results of the national elections in Turkey at the end of 1995 are still affecting the situation.
These political changes have had a slowing effect on the economy and politics in Turkey, particularly on legislative work.
It is an important country with a significant responsibility for freedom and stability in the region.
With the presidency I hope that matters can be discussed with Mrs Çiller on the fringes of the General Meeting of the United Nations next week in New York.
But Mr Van den Broek put matters right.
However, I must say I am shocked at the statement from Mr Mitchell.
I could not believe we are serious in this House about asking the Council to take on our foreign policy after hearing that statement about one of the countries with whom we are supposed to be dealing in foreign policy.
Mr Mitchell, I must say that I was concerned when you opened your statement by saying you understood we wanted Cyprus and Turkey to be taken together.
Cyprus is an integral component of our political relationship with Turkey because Turkish forces are occupying the northern third of Cyprus.
So, of course we want to consider what has happened in Cyprus as an integral part of our political relationship with Turkey.
Forty-five Turkish Cypriot organizations have condemned the murders which took place in the buffer zone in the summer.
That has to be an integral part of our discussion this afternoon.
Conciliatory resolutions and double standards have no place in our relations with Turkey.
We call on every political group in this House to support this approach and expect the Commission and the Council to respect our view and to act accordingly.
We must have the best information about what really took place before events descend into further chaos.
It is a very serious situation and one in which the Council ought to have taken a much closer interest.
We believed that we could encourage Turkey on a new path to develop the pluralism and the democracy which that country, of an Islamic tradition but of a secular, political context, seemed to be moving towards.
But Turkey is a country of great value to Europe.
These conditions should be applied.
Therefore, the EPP takes the view that we should begin the process of freezing the financial arrangements with Turkey and that we should stop the MEDA programme in all respects forthwith, except for those matters dealing with human rights, democratization and the development of civil society.
Turkey is the key element in this area as demonstrated in different ways by its growing dispute with Greece over Cyprus and the Aegean, the agreement with Israel, the military presence in Kurdistan and the attitude it had adopted to the Iraq crisis.
But we are against continuing with a dialogue which seems to be bearing no fruit and damaging the authority of the European Union.
What is therefore required, as Commissioner van den Broek himself appears to want, is a dialogue founded on very different, rigorous, demanding and strong bases to show that while Europe can understand the crises, it will not be made a fool of.
Mr President, the situation in Turkey is a tragic one.
For nearly two years, Turkey has been experiencing an extremely complex political situation.
There have been ministerial reshuffles, resulting in a government crisis, then legislative elections followed by interminable negotiations and the installation, last March, of a coalition government which was itself replaced last July by a government of Islamic obedience.
And, above all, there was the treason of Mrs Çiller, who is now a hostage of the government.
More than ever, the internal situation is encountering difficulties and criticisms relating to the efforts at democratization, respect for human rights, the Kurdish question and the situation in Cyprus.
Finally, this Monday, Turkey was found guilty by the European Court of Justice of burning a Kurdish village in the south-east, in 1992.
The investiture of Mr Erbakan has totally changed the foreign policy hitherto pursued by Turkey.
Turkey intends to play the part of a regional superpower, aspiring to greater freedom to shape its own destiny.
Mr President, I would like to make it clear, for the benefit of my colleagues, that I am not speaking in this debate in my capacity as chairman of Parliament's delegation to the joint parliamentary commission.
I have no hesitation in saying that I shall be voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution which is before us and its provisions for freezing financial aid.
I want our Parliament to express itself clearly about our relations with Turkey.
The situation has deteriorated.
Our Parliament voted in favour of the Treaty, last December, arguing that this vote in favour and the Treaty itself would help the Turkish authorities to deal positively with the problems confronting them.
Well, nothing - and I repeat nothing - has changed.
In conclusion, Mr President, after Parliament has voted, by a majority I feel sure, I would like to see the Commission and the Council expressing themselves in the most forceful terms possible in their relations with the Turkish authorities.
This is a question of political necessity and, I say in all sincerity, it is also a question of the dignity of the European Union.
When the Customs Union was adopted the European Parliament was playing that part, and that was the prelude to a play in three acts.
It set out three conditions: democratization, release of the Kurdish deputies, an end to the war and a political solution to the Kurdish question.
Shortly before the vote Mrs Çiller is presented as a guarantor of democracy and a guarantor of a secular Turkey.
The argument gains ground that he who wants to put a stop to fundamentalism, to Erbakan, must be for Çiller, must support Çiller, must vote for Customs Union!
It is most disturbing to find the Council continuing to believe in Mrs Çiller as a trustworthy guarantor.
The entire leadership of the HEP party in prison and on trial last Thursday.
Mr President, I am speaking today on my own behalf, and I would like to start by saying that there is something deeply troubling to me about the attitude of our Parliament, and of the European Union in general, towards Turkey.
Since the agreement was signed, Turkey has had two government crises in succession, and the Islamic party has come to power for the first time, a situation which has not resulted in civil war or in a wave of counter-reforms.
From an economic standpoint, we already know that it is the European Union which is the major beneficiary of these agreements.
Only then will our requirements regarding the functioning of democracy and respect for human rights in Turkey have any real meaning.
When the customs union was being dealt with in Parliament last year, things appeared to be progressing favourably in Turkey.
Now, however, we see that the situation in Turkey has developed in a very disappointing manner.
The resolutions at hand contain shocking facts in this respect.
There is every reason for indignation about what is happening in Turkey, but we do not believe that so soon after a change in power in the country our relations with Turkey would be served by economic measures.
Mr President, ten months ago a majority made up of socialists, Christian democrats, liberals and RPR Members voted in favour of customs union with Turkey.
A fortnight later, the Islamic party won the legislative elections.
The agreement on customs union, far from resulting in a reduction of Islamic influence, is going to help increase it.
Not only will this free-trade agreement expose our industry to competition from an underpaid workforce, but it will also destabilize Turkish society, accelerating the rural exodus which is casting millions of uprooted people adrift in the metropolitan areas of Istanbul and Ankara.
I say nothing of the living conditions of the Kurdish minority in Turkey: they seem to create less emotion than those prevailing in Iraq.
But this agreement, ladies and gentlemen, has a more serious implication.
As laid down in Article 28 of the Treaty of Ankara, it represents a decisive step towards the integration of 65 million Turks into Europe, 65 million more to add to the millions that are already here.
Finally, let me remind you, the Turkish government had promised to find solutions to the Cypriot problem.
I believe that our governments would do well to revoke this ill-starred agreement.
But in future I promise to stifle my laughter even if the presidency of the Council insists on giving us details about the undertakings given by Mrs Çiller.
These conditions are, let me repeat, human rights, democratic reforms, a solution to the Cyprus problem and also to the Kurdish question.
I am still keeping a letter that Mrs Çiller sent me and the other 626 Members of this Parliament in which she asks us to help her so that she can achieve all this.
It is not just that the situation in Turkey in each of these four areas has worsened, but Mrs Çiller has misused our help in order to actually bring into power the very person she wanted to keep out.
Mr President, if there were a prize for cocking a snook at the European Union, one country in all the world would deserve to win it outright: the Turkey of that unnatural couple, Erbakan and Çiller.
The main argument was to help Mrs Çiller as the pro-Western buttress against the danger represented by the Islamicist Mr Erbakan.
The governments also pressed for approval of the MEDA regulation, but our Parliament insisted that the prerequisites for implementation of the regulation should be respect for human rights, the cessation of Turkey's provocations against its neighbours, and its cooperation in solving the Cyprus problem.
The whole civilized world looked on in horror at the television screens showing the bestial way in which they carried out their mission, killing two young Cypriots.
Mr President, nine months ago this Parliament voted for the customs union.
This support had a clearly conditional character.
I have submitted an amendment to the same effect for the draft budget of the Union.
Mr Mitchell and the Council are guilty of disgraceful hypocrisy, overpowering opportunism in favour of unclean interests served by Turkey in this critical area of the Middle East, the Mediterranean.
It will be a contribution if we approve this resolution - even paragraph 5 of it, which specifies and calls for specific measures: the freezing of funds for Turkey from Customs Union, from the MEDA programme - as a first step in adopting some specific decisions.
And that, Mr President, would also contribute to the credibility of our Parliament, it would encourage the democratic forces of the Turkish people who are struggling against this regime, and it would contribute towards stability and peace in that dangerous part of the world, which could spark off more general conflagrations.
I think it is rather awkward to have to make a speech without a copy of the text.
This may help the Turkish Government to realize that the situation with the Kurdish minority in eastern Turkey cannot be resolved militarily.
We must at long last set an example, otherwise no one will take our fine words on democracy and respect for human rights seriously.
The situation in Turkey has deteriorated dramatically since the beginning of the year, despite the implementation of Customs Union.
Recently, Turkey was condemned by the Human Rights Commission of the Council of Europe for its behaviour towards the Kurds.
More particularly, Turkey's aggressive policy is directed against my own country, Greece, and against Cyprus, a country with which the European Union has special relations.
Turkey's provocativeness in the Aegean is in direct dispute of European territory and frontiers, and is a threat to peace in the area.
In Cyprus, Turkey is continuing its illegal occupation of parts of the Republic of Cyprus and refuses to comply with international decisions for a peaceful, fair and viable solution of the problem.
We must grasp the fact that we are dealing with a country which operates outside the law, a country whose ruling class sets no store by the concepts of justice, respect for human rights and democracy.
This horrific episode took place in November 1995, just days before our Parliament voted through the customs union with Turkey.
We were told then that the Turkish authorities condemned state torture and that they were making serious efforts to respect fundamental human rights and democracy.
Yet, on 7 March 1996, Yasar Kemal, Turkey's most renowned living writer, was given a 20-month suspended sentence for 'initiating hatred' in an essay entitled 'Dark Cloud over Turkey' .
And then we were assured by Mrs Çiller only nine months ago that Article 8 of the Anti-Terror Law had been changed.
But most of those who have had retrials are still in prison and instead the authorities have been using Article 312 of the penal code under which Yasar Kemal was tried.
Since 1991 87 people - I hope the Council representative is taking these figures in - have been killed during raids on houses in these cities.
As at least one speaker has said, Leyla Zana, the current Sakharov Prize holder, is still in prison.
It seems to me that there is a lack of political will in both the Commission and the Council to tackle the Turkish Government on their human rights record.
Mr President, we are today to implement and bring into effect the Customs Union between Europe and Turkey, an agreement which the House approved last December when Turkey seem on course for a youthful democracy that had left behind the religious and extremist barriers that had hitherto been the hallmark of most of that country's governments.
We are in favour of the customs agreement but this could be the last opportunity this Parliament gives Turkish democracy to show that it really is a democracy.
Mr President, today's debate is a painful and sad experience for the three parties involved: Parliament, Council and Commission.
The situation has deteriorated constantly since the customs union came into force.
The Commission will no doubt confirm this shortly when it submits to us its report on the human rights situation in Turkey, as it formally undertook to do at the time of the ratification of the customs union.
Strictly speaking, we could have accepted the present situation - deplorable though it is - as a starting point, allowing Turkey the benefit of mitigating circumstances, but only on condition that we demand that improvements should be set in train and - a very important point - that those improvements should be capable of proper evaluation by independent bodies.
This requires, first and foremost, that Turkey should itself take the initiative in renouncing, henceforth, the practice of concealment and the opportunity for it unfortunately provided by certain provisions - especially Article 11 - of the European Convention against Torture.
In a word, it is important that, as a sign of goodwill and in order finally to prove its good intentions, Turkey should now agree to ensure the greatest possible transparency in this matter, renouncing on its own initiative the opportunity to shelter behind that article in order to prevent these indescribable practices from being brought to light.
As far as we are concerned, there is a duty of mea culpa .
Unfortunately, it has since been demonstrated and confirmed that geopolitical ideas, strategic considerations, the fear of Islamic fundamentalism - in short, realpolitik - cannot be used as a pretext for abandoning respect for the basic principles and values of our civilization, which in any case were solemnly accepted by the guilty country.
And it was this alleged guarantor of democratic progress who, as has been said, then gave 65 million Turkish lire from a secret government fund to the infamous Grey Wolf fascists to finance their punitive expedition to Cyprus, where they killed two innocent and unarmed demonstrators.
We must say that we cannot work with these partners and that on the contrary, without wanting to interfere in Turkish politics, we have to strengthen those forces that represent an alternative, that genuinely offer a guarantee that there is democracy in Turkey.
Today we feel betrayed and can do nothing but express strong criticism of the situation in Turkey.
The agreements undertaken by Mrs Çiller have not been fulfilled.
The situation regarding democracy, human rights, the Cyprus question and the problem of the Kurds has deteriorated and not improved.
Commissioner Van de Broek has indicated that the report on the customs union will be presented next month.
In any case I would like to remind of my intervention of nine months ago concerning the situation of the textile and clothing sector, one of the most sensitive sectors in the working of the customs union.
Commissioner, I have received letters from people in positions of responsibility in this sector stating that great attempts have been made by Turkey to slow the imports of textile products from the European Union.
My question is: can you guarantee us within one month that the customs union can function normally and as well as you have presented it today?
But I think that we now have very few hopes, given what the compulsory annual report by the Commission tells us of political progress in Turkey in relation to the three points I have referred to.
But still, the recent and terrible events justify our concerns about political developments in Turkey and we should not forget that we should be most demanding of those countries which are still our allies and economic partners.
The number of refugees in the country today is estimated to be three million.
The Kurdish party HADEP was not permitted to conduct an election campaign in rural areas.
The government has not taken up the opportunity for a ceasefire proposed by the Kurds in order to reach a peaceful settlement.
Political prisoners, including members of parliament, are still in Turkish prisons, among them Leyla Zana.
Parliament must condemn the killing of Anastasios Isaak and Solomos Solomos and demand that those responsible are brought to justice.
The European Parliament must obviously call for a peaceful solution to the Cyprus question in accordance with the UN Security Council resolution.
The Commission must therefore immediately stop all loans under the MEDA programme for Turkey, except of course for those parts which support democracy and human rights.
Turkey is committing a serious infringement of international law by its establishment of a security zone in northern Iraq.
The human rights situation has become considerably more difficult, as Mr Moorhouse pointed out.
In fact 23 % of the world population does support Islam and the Islamic faith can be found in more than 100 states.
The conflicts with Greece in Cyprus and with the Kurds have become exacerbated and it is our duty not to fan the flames any further in this difficult situation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Langen implied is dangerous.
We have held a debate once before, at the end of last year, in which everything centred round the consideration that we here in the European Parliament, that the European Union should take care to ensure that our policy does not lead to destabilization in Turkey and therefore to destabilization in the region.
Just imagine if the rapporteur of this House on the fight against racism and xenophobia, Arie Oostlander, proposed Le Pen as President of Parliament next week.
For many people elected Tansu Çiller in the hope of preventing the move towards Islam in Turkey.
And nor can Mr Van den Broek be the European Parliament's interlocutor.
It is up to us finally to begin supporting the democratic forces in Turkey, for if Turkey really were democratic, if this country really did respect democratic and human rights, then of course it would be a welcome partner of the European Parliament.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I in turn would like to begin my remarks by restating a conviction and a fact.
It was this geopolitical reality which, at the time, explained a number of our decisions, and which also explains the evolution of our relations with that country.
It is that same reality, today, which justifies, explains and highlights our disappointments and our serious anxieties.
Finally, it is this established fact which justifies our firmness regarding the future, the firmness which the socialists and all the other groups are calling for in this debate.
I have some personal knowledge of Turkey because I was a member of the joint Europe-Turkey committee for five years from 1989 to 1994, and I was able at that time to measure the change in the state of mind of our opposite numbers.
It must be said that Islam had progressed in the meantime, and that the USSR had disintegrated, giving Turkey dreams of a dominant position in that region.
It was in this climate of opinion that a year ago, in late 1995, on the eve of the Turkish legislative elections, a fantastic propaganda machine was started up to ask us to accept customs union.
It is clear that, today, the political conditions on the basis of which the European Parliament gave its agreement no longer exist.
They must therefore be called into question, and Europe must freeze all the appropriations under the financial protocol and all those within the framework of the MEDA programme.
I hope that that statement by Mrs Çiller will have lost, even for her, its validity after the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights last Monday, which states explicitly that the Turkish Government burns villages and in doing so violates the European Convention on Human Rights and its Protocol No 1.
It is important to point to this verdict, because it is a sign that Turkish links with Europe in the long run can be fruitful also for the democratic situation in Europe.
But that demands action, and what I regret in the Council statements is that there is an unwillingness for any action whatsoever, apart from the simple continuation of the customs union.
My Group is determined to continue to block the appropriations for Turkey deriving from the Financial Protocol of the Customs Union Agreement in the 1997 budget.
Some Members have pointed to an aspect of particular importance to this Parliament in its relations with Turkey, and I will repeat it: according to statements by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the fascist Grey Wolf youth organization received 65 million Turkish lire from the treasury in order to go to Cyprus.
Where the Council of Ministers resigned itself, Parliament exploited the situation for the benefit of democracy and human rights.
Elected members of the Turkish National Assembly are still in prison, and other people have been imprisoned because they are calling for a peaceful dialogue between Turks and Kurds.
Mr Blak and I were present in Ankara at the trial of a Danish citizen of Kurdish origin, Kemal Koc, who was imprisoned for something he did in Denmark which is legal there and which the Danish authorities do not wish to investigate.
There is concern at the role the Turkish ambassador in Denmark has played in this and many other cases.
The pessimists were proved right.
Mr President, I have listened to the debate with great interest and will certainly take into account the various points which have been made.
At the outset I should like to thank Brian Crowley for his magnanimous comments.
We will report these views to the Council and take them into account in our deliberations.
I will also ensure that the Tánaiste , Dick Spring is fully briefed on this debate before his meeting with Mrs Çiller next week, which will be the second in a matter of weeks.
I made very clear in my statement the Council's determination to pursue the concerns, which we fully share with Parliament, regarding the human rights situation in Turkey.
We are strongly urging an approach to the Kurdish situation which will ensure freedom of expression on the politically acceptable approach to the Kurdish problem.
If a Turkish representative had been present here today, I wonder whether he would have criticized the Council for the implications of what we did say in our statement.
We will continue to press for a constructive response to this declaration.
And, as I also said, these tragic incidents highlight the urgent need to intensify efforts to promote a solution under the UN aegis.
This means that by then the discussions with Mrs Çiller will have taken place in New York, the results of which can be taken up in the debate.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
For a long time now my group has held study days devoted to this problem, first of all in Carcassonne and then in Dublin, and these resulted in the adoption of a number of texts.
What is more, many of our group representatives have tabled amendments to the budget to introduce new spending lines for measures to help minors who are the victims of violence; these budgetary lines are separate from the budgetary lines used for policies to support the family or disadvantaged groups.
They were proposed by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment.
Our amendments will be discussed during the coming weeks and it is our hope that all of the groups will be able to meet us half way in our campaign.
I wish to state once again the main points of our joint resolution.
They are: the provision of appropriate instruments to study and prevent violence against minors, interpreted in a general way and whatever its form; the implementation of joint and global measures bringing in both the Member States and the applicant states; the appropriateness of taking into account in any cooperation agreement with non-member states the need to combat international activities such as the international trafficking in minors, migrant prostitution and sex tourism.
I again stress the need to provide for budgetary lines that are adequate and specific to cover the problem.
Joint action by the Member States should be put into effect under the third pillar - cooperation between the judiciary and between police forces - in the context above all of the Schengen agreement and the Europol convention.
We need also to pay particular attention to all of the new technologies such as the Internet, through which young people, and minors in particular, are able to be contacted.
Mr President, the tragic events of the summer of 1996 will remain engraved on the collective memory for ever, but there is a time for emotion, a time for reflection and a time for action.
Hitherto, there has been a notable lack of positive support for the campaign against the sexual exploitation of children.
The Dutroux affair has shown us many shortcomings in our judicial and police systems.
Is it not the function of the State, first and foremost, to ensure the protection of its citizens?
Every Member State will have its part to play in ensuring that another Dutroux cannot escape the vigilance of justice in the future.
I welcome the initiative by the Council of Justice and Interior Ministers, who will be meeting on 26 and 27 September in Dublin to try to improve cooperation between our police forces and judiciaries.
With about 120 million children in the Union, it is unacceptable that the Treaty, as presently worded, contains no reference to children.
We might have been able to identify the shortcomings of the authorities and the legal inadequacies and disparities that exist between the Member States.
It is not yet too late, but it is high time to combine our forces, our resources and our powers to prevent other children from being sacrificed amid the silence of society's refusal to face up to the reality of the appalling acts which have plunged us into the abyss of horror.
These practices have plunged not only the families of the victims into mourning and a state of shock, but also the whole country.
However, the case in Belgium clearly demonstrates that houses need to be put in order in one's own country first.
The socialist group has indicated its agreement with the joint motion for a resolution, and I should like to add at this point, unambiguously, that what we want is the communitization of cooperation within the framework of the campaign against the trafficking in human beings, in women and children.
I would like to say unambiguously that Europol must play its part and must include this campaign among its objectives.
The socialist group is unanimous in this and unanimous in repeating it forcefully to the Council and the Commission.
In fact, there is very little expert knowledge in this field, because the subject was long regarded as taboo and difficult.
We believe, too, that it is necessary to harmonize the definitions of rape in our various legislations; that we need to harmonize the concept of an offence associated with the exploitation of children and young adults; that we need to tighten our legislation by abolishing, in some of our countries, the principle of double incrimination, especially in connection with sex tourism; and, finally, that we need to amend our legislation to flush out instances of concealed trafficking in children, either in the form of adoption or in the form of sham marriages.
And, finally, we must combat child pornography, in other words the trivialization of the sexual exploitation of children.
Mr President, colleagues, you will recall that in our debate in July I made a prophetic request for a central data base on which details of all missing children would be recorded and my proposal has proved to be, as I have said, prophetically tragic.
It is impossible to get accurate statistics for the number of children who are missing in the European Union.
Some children, however, are criminally abducted and are never found.
I told you in July that in the United States they have on record the National Institute for Missing and Exploited Children over 367, 000 children.
Confronting these problems will require a radical reform of Member States' laws to protect our children more effectively.
Most of the clients of the sexually abused children come from Western countries and, because these children are far away, we have succeeded in ignoring what is being done to them.
We need a system whereby those who have been convicted of paedophile offences are registered both nationally and internationally, with access only available to legal officers or those considering offering employment with privileged access to children.
They have done an exceptionally fine job with very few resources and many of them were initiated by parents who have experienced the anguish of losing their children and, in many cases, finding their children had been murdered.
Mr President, a few weeks ago, in Brussels, we were expressing our outrage against the crimes perpetrated against children in one of our Member States.
Today, we are engaging in a substantive debate on the sexual exploitation of children, because it is urgent that we should react.
Secondly, ill-treated children are not always able to react, and it is sometimes very difficult to break this law of silence, this law of impunity, which is so common when these abuses are carried out by close relatives.
In our joint motion for a resolution we mentioned ways of fighting this problem.
For my part, I would have preferred them to be rather more specific with regard to the action to be taken, especially in this programme we are so anxious to see.
That is why our call for protection for children must be universal.
The news stories we see every day have become an inescapable fact of society.
Mr President, the fight against the scourge of paedophilia and the sexual exploitation of children must be carried on at all levels - local, national, European and international.
Sexuality is an extraordinary form of human energy, which is beneficial, and which is wonderful when it is associated with affectivity - when there is a profound relationship between two people.
The Council shares the feeling of honourable Members about the tragic events which have taken place recently involving the abduction of children for the purpose of sexual exploitation.
It is determined to do everything in its power to put in place arrangements which will allow for effective cooperation between the Member States and effective international and multilateral cooperation to put an end to this scourge which has caused, and is continuing to cause, so much suffering.
The tragic events in Belgium came to light on the eve of a World Congress Against Commercial Exploitation of Children, which took place in Stockholm on 27-31 August 1996.
There is also a commitment to enforce laws, policies and programmes to protect children from commercial sexual exploitation and strengthen communication and cooperation between law enforcement authorities.
The development and implementation of national laws to establish the criminal responsibility of so-called 'service providers' , customers and intermediaries in child prostitution, child trafficking, child pornography, including possession of child pornography, and other sexual activity is also emphasized.
On 6 September 1996, the EU indicated its determination to maintain concerted action to put an end to the sexual exploitation of children by means of a declaration concerning the follow-up to the Stockholm Congress.
As stated in the declaration, Europe's resolve will also be shown through fresh initiatives in all appropriate European bodies.
It would cover the activities of paedophiles and those who supply children to them as well as the trafficking in women for the purposes of sexual exploitation.
The Council also has before it three proposals which the Belgian Government has put forward for joint actions designed to promote cooperation against the sexual exploitation of children.
These will provide for the establishment of a multiannual programme of training and exchange for the benefit of those engaged in action against trafficking in persons and the sexual exploitation of children; the creation of a directory of competences and specializations in the fight against crime, particularly crime of this nature; and improved judicial cooperation in relation to this form of crime.
The Irish presidency has made special arrangements so that these proposals can be considered quickly.
It is intended that concrete measures be in place very shortly after that.
During the Irish presidency, trafficking in persons will be one of the chief points for discussion in the Structured Dialogue between the European Union and the Associated Countries of Central and Eastern Europe in the Justice and Home Affairs area.
In addition to its commitment to strengthen police and judicial cooperation, the European Union is conscious of the need to provide physical and psychological support for the victims of such outrages and to promote their recovery and reintegration in accordance with the Declaration adopted in Stockholm.
The Council is aware of the view expressed by honourable Members that the question of the rights of minors should be considered in the Intergovernmental Conference with a view to the introduction of Treaty provisions in relation to them.
This is a matter which is currently under consideration in the IGC.
What happened in Belgium could happen in any Member State or any other State.
It is happening in Ireland, it is happening in Britain, it is happening in Belgium, it is happening in all our Member States and we will start to deal with this problem when we acknowledge that reality.
The Irish presidency also proposed that the EU takes a common position, as I mentioned earlier.
I want to assure you that the presidency and the Council of Ministers are indeed so concerned.
Mr President, as I said in my contribution, we are aware of the views expressed by the Parliamentarians here, and this is a matter which is currently under consideration in the IGC.
I have been asked by some Members, and by people outside this House, if we should not extend the Treaty provisions to include a provision for citizenship for children.
As far as I am concerned, if additional wording would tighten up the provisions in the Treaty and assist us in our campaign, you would certainly be pushing an open door with me.
I attended the congress on the sexual exploitation of children for commercial purposes, which was held in Stockholm at the end of August.
The declaration which was adopted stresses not only the need for further national measures but also the need to support international cooperation.
The declaration emphasises the necessity of establishing close cooperation between governments, international organisations and other sections of society.
I dearly hope that all the attention which is now being devoted to the problems means that the battle against all forms of sexual exploitation will be given priority.
The problem is often a cross-border one.
Within the framework for cooperation within the fields of justice and home affairs there are excellent opportunities for strong EU cooperation in this area.
It is heartening to see that several new proposals have already been introduced as a result of the recent events.
This also shows how valuable third pillar cooperation is.
In this connection I should like to endorse what my Irish colleague said, namely that our Treaty also provides ways of placing the situation of children centre stage in a totally different way than we have to date.
The Commission also wholeheartedly supports the Irish presidency's initiative to extend the EDU mandate without further ado to include all forms of trafficking in human beings.
This would mean that EDU could begin work straight away on issues affecting trafficking in women and children for sexual purposes; this would be of considerable value.
As you know, I myself, together with the Austrian government, organised a conference in Vienna in June this year.
Another important conclusion was that close cooperation must be established with voluntary organisations, which can be described as having been active in the field longest.
In September 1989 the Council of Ministers responsible for family issues adopted an agreement on family policy.
Various models of how child abuse can be stopped have been presented, some at the group's most recent meeting in June this year.
The Commission is also very active internationally, not least as regards development work and human rights.
The proposal paid particular attention to the issue of sex tourism.
Today's new means of communication bring with them new kinds of problems.
In this area too we must take measures.
Prohibitions can be difficult to enforce but I do not want to exclude any options.
The aim is that those who put this kind of information onto the Internet should be called to account for their abominable actions.
It has already been ratified by the parliaments of 187 states, among them all the Member States of the EU and the countries of Eastern and Central Europe.
The Commission has noted with satisfaction that certain EU Member States have introduced what might be called extra-territorial legislation, making it possible also to bring to justice those who exploit children in other countries.
For my part, I hope that all the EU Member States will introduce this kind of legislation.
The battle against all forms of sexual abuse must thus be continued.
Mr President, the Irish presidency has today announced that the mandate of Europol is to be expanded and will also cover trafficking in children.
What are we waiting for to bring cooperation between the judiciary and police up to Union level, to give the Commission powers, and the European Parliament democratic control?
In the Netherlands, for example, Internet users have set up a special reporting point for this purpose.
Parliament also calls for the putting in place of measures to prevent the distribution of child pornography via the Internet and the latest media.
Finally, child pornography and prostitution exist because some individuals have a perverse nature.
Mr President, a Europol official recently admitted that the trafficking in and exploitation of human beings is becoming the most profitable form of trade for international organized crime and that this is taking over from or at any rate matching profits from drug-trafficking because it is proving to be more profitable and less dangerous.
We shall not even scratch the surface unless a integrated scheme of measures is adopted, at local and international level, in the various sectors of education, prevention and prosecution, with the different institutional players.
The structure of the report which the House approved on the trade in human beings should be taken up as a whole, even if it needs to be gauged and studied in terms of the specific issue of children.
It is sad indeed that it took the tragedy of the Dutroux affair for this House to debate this problem today and to understand that a million children are caught up in the sex trade each year worldwide, several thousand of them in our continent.
This is why I support all those honourable Members who have said that the first step must be to take action at the legal level, making good the shortcomings of our legislative systems and harmonizing them in the area of child protection and paedophilia; and that the Intergovernmental Conference must create a legal basis to enable us to pursue a Community policy against the trade in human beings.
Until such time as that happens, it is also important for the European Observatory to be equipped with substantial human and financial resources to enable it to play a real part in the application of the legislation.
It is right that this House should adopt a new philosophical approach to these problems.
Our continent must show the necessary determination to raise children's rights to the status of one of the fundamental values of our European civilizations.
In order to do this, as you have said, we must pursue an appropriate policy on the family.
Today, at a time when some of our colleagues are accepting men and women without papers and becoming involved, perhaps, in a political operation, how can we avoid the thought that, the more the values of our continent are undermined, the less willing we will be to accept those men and women who turn to us in despair for help - material or moral help?
As Mrs Todini has recalled, I tabled an amendment to the budget for the appropriation of the necessary credits - about ECU 5 million - to set up a European Union action programme to combat sex crime against children.
I would like to stress a number of activities which seem to me to be useful.
I believe all my colleagues have done so.
I might perhaps add one point which is not included in either the resolution or the amendment: irrespective of everything that has been said, we should also be on the alert to deal with the traffic in organs, surely an equally appalling and perhaps even more secretive practice, which takes place clandestinely and sometimes reaches right to the borders of the European Union.
I hope that the amendment to the budget - in its current form or slightly amended - will be adopted by the end of the year.
We shall then have the weapons to meet the challenge we confront, and I feel that it would be a great thing for the European Union to show that it is not a heartless machine but that it can, lastingly, make a specific extra contribution to the action of the Member States in a field which directly affects the citizen and which focuses our concerns on the dignity and integrity of mankind.
Mr President, my group will be supporting the resolution and all of the measures for which it provides and which have been described by my colleague, Mrs Todini.
But we have to admit that this resolution comes a little late.
We are therefore backing all of the measures that have been proposed: education but also vigilance; protection but also prosecution in all of the countries of our Community.
I therefore believe that we should take strong action in regard to those countries, by taking specific measures including economic measures.
Some of our political, religious, juridical and police institutions have been implicated in corrupt collusion with this evil.
I would now ask the Council to consider such cases in its delegations of justice ministers in Dublin at the end of this month.
I would like a further response from Council today.
We in the European Parliament are very much for freedom of speech and freedom of information but we are even more concerned to protect children against criminal and violent abuse.
Mr President, I regret to have to say that today, in my opinion, on some benches we are witnessing political hypocrisy.
The judicial system in Belgium is racked by a lack of resources, by political appointments and political interference in the magistrature, and above all by an unimaginably lax policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic events in the Dutroux case, which has stunned my country, have just slapped us in the face with a reality which is hard to bear because, in point of fact, we are not just dealing with isolated acts of paedophilia.
What the Dutroux case shows is that there is a form of organized crime targeting children and young people: Dutroux is not alone, and there are many like him, unknown to us as yet, who are also not acting alone.
And there are other organized gangs, too, in Europe and in South-East Asia, supplying the sex tourists from our own countries with the children they abuse and the facilities to satisfy their desires.
I should like to emphasize six points which seem to me essential.
There is an urgent need to create a specialized, centralized register of abducted or lost children.
Such a register has existed in the United States since 1984, up to which time - as still happens here - there was not even any systematic identification of abducted children, and no inquiry was begun until 24 hours had elapsed, long enough for all traces to have vanished.
There is an urgent need to give Europol, the convention on which must be ratified by all our countries, the necessary mandate and means to identify the channels used for the trade in human beings and to dismantle them.
There is an urgent need to legislate, in all the Member States, to combat sex tourism and the trade in videos intended for paedophiles, making it a crime merely to possess such videos.
There is an urgent need, too, to legislate at international and national level to ensure that the modern communication networks are not used to support rings of perverts or organized criminals.
Because they have been useful in our own country, as experience has shown, there is also a need to assist the NGOs specializing in the tracing of vanished children or combatting the sexual exploitation of children.
We need more guarantees for our children, and less clemency for sex criminals and child murderers.
The question we have to ask is: what can Europe do to provide an effective response to the need to protect our children from violence, abductions, paedophile rings, Internet abuse and other exploitation?
I call upon the Council today to amend the Treaty to include a specific, legally sound reference to children and to citizens' rights for them.
We need a clear commitment today from your presidency that before the end of December you will have put the necessary proposal on the inclusion of a special chapter on the rights of children and adolescents in the Treaty to the Intergovernmental Conference.
Mr President, it is time that this House took a serious and resolute parliamentary initiative to tackle at an early stage the problem of paedophilia and the exploitation of minors.
We know that at least 15 million children throughout the world are involved in prostitution; we know that many travel agencies do more than good business, in complete freedom and openly, with sex tourism; we are aware of the incredible number of minors who have disappeared or been kidnapped and the veritable trade in newborn babies; we are also aware, despite all of that, of the very limited structures for prevention, aid and psychological help for minors.
For that very reason, we need, in addition to a public campaign of condemnation and increased awareness, to call for a Community fund specifically for the protection of children, in particular minors who have been the victims of violence.
Many people have realised that sex tourism and sexual abuse of children is not just something that happens in holiday destinations several hours away by plane but that it has come very close and that it also concerns every one of us here to some extent, for here too children are abused every day.
I welcome the fact that both the Commission and the Council intend to give real consideration to this question on 26 and 27 September at the informal meeting of ministers of justice and of the interior.
But above all, we must insist that the 1989 UN Convention on the rights of children is ratified, implemented and respected immediately, in my country Germany too, for about 30 % of our population is under-age.
Thank you, Mr President, for allowing us to denounce today, from this Parliament, what the editorials in the major European publications are currently asking: what is going on in the heart of a society that it can produce so many aberrations and crimes against children and adolescents?
The Stockholm Congress also denounced the spectacular growth of a new tourist diversion which highlights the moral poverty of a generation which has made pleasure, obtained at any price, the supreme aim in life.
Just a few hours ago this Assembly was the scene of a debate on the role of public and private television, both certainly larded with TV trash which leaves young people without moral reference points.
The panorama is desolate.
We cannot contribute to the consolidation of a scandalously superficial and grossly consumerist society, where everything is sacrificed to the laws of a crude and highly profitable market, but which makes victims of children and women.
Austria - as you said, Madam Commissioner - was the first country to react, tripling the sentences for these crimes, including a two-year prison sentence for clients of child prostitution, and introducing the absolute right of compensation for the victims into the criminal law.
I also ask for ratification of the Europol Convention which will give it powers over trafficking, sexual exploitation, abuse and trade in abandoned children.
And finally, Mrs Gradin, I would like to ask you, together with the President-in-Office of the Council and this Assembly, to do something very specific: support the creation of a European network of non-governmental organizations fighting crime and the sexual exploitation of minors and giving strong support to the families of the victims by filling the gaps which unfortunately the state organizations are often unable to cover.
Mr President, I believe that everything has already been said about this matter but I should just like to recall that when we had a debate about the white slave trade it was quite clearly demonstrated that such traffic involved young adolescents who were abducted and taken off to prostitution centres from European Union Member States and that this traffic did not only hail from third countries.
The recent dramatic events in Belgium show, in my opinion, two things: first of all, the deterioration of moral values in this Christian, humanist and supposedly civilized Europe, a deterioration which could lead to Europe's destruction from within.
We all agree about the fact that we must find solutions and the fact that we must act rapidly; there are two measures which seem to me to be vital here: first of all, as other Members have already said, harmonize criminal legislation.
On the other hand, finally, Mr President, I think that this is one of the areas where Europol could play a very important, not to say fundamental, role - provided there is the political will to give Europol such responsibilities.
Mr President, the Dutroux case has not only brought to light the existence of an international paedophile ring and revealed complicity between certain political and legal circles in Belgium and the criminals.
The deaths of Julie, Melissa, Ann and Efje have also shown the inertia of the authorities in dealing with crime.
If the multiple offender Dutroux had received his just punishment, Julie, Melissa, Anne and Efje would still be alive.
They paid with their lives for the insane irresponsibility of those who argue in favour of a murderer's right to life.
Freud was right.
It is at close range, and in all environments, that children are victims of this structural paedophilia.
Since ancient Antiquity, our culture has been steeped in paedophilia.
In 1947, André Gide, formerly denounced as a paedophile, received the Nobel Prize for Literature.
Nearer to home, need I mention the highly popular Serge Gainsbourg, singing the praises of incest with his daughter Charlotte?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in incidents of abuse and violence against minors and adolescents that has come to light of late, the world trade in minors and the increase in paedophilia in all countries are causes of great concern.
We need to increase cooperation and the exchange of information between the Member States with the help of Europol whose objectives of fighting international crime include the trade in human beings.
The Council of Ministers should, finally, work towards the adoption of an agenda which has the effect of an invitation to the national parliaments to adopt recommendation R91/11, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 9 September 1991, calling upon parliaments to debate as soon as possible measures on sexual abuse, abduction for libidinous purposes, rape, pornography, prostitution and the traffic in children and adolescents in terms of criminal law and harmonizing national legislation in such a way that the problem is finally resolved.
She is correct and I certainly noted her comments during this debate.
The civil society also has an essential role to play in protecting children from commercial sexual exploitation.
It is imperative to build a strong partnership between governments, international organizations and all sectors of society to counter such exploitation.
I also feel strongly, as I said at the beginning, that the European Union must also act and clearly give leadership at the outset in tackling this problem.
This has been done in some countries already and it is important that we all look at the possibility of doing it.
Similarly, we could all legislate in our own Member States to outlaw sex tourism, as has been said during the debate.
In relation to the ratification of the Europol Convention, it has only been possible to do this recently because the Convention was delayed by one of the Member States.
The Belgian case has certainly made it more urgent, more acute and has brought it home more to the minds of citizens.
Similarly, as I mentioned earlier, I spoke on this subject at a Council of Europe meeting some months ago, following a presentation that I made to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe of a series of articles on paedophilia and sex tourism in The Irish Times .
But the Belgian case has brought home to all of us just how serious this problem is.
I am delighted to be in a position to reply to this debate.
Sadly we have to have this debate but it is timely that the European Parliament has raised this important issue which is of concern to every citizen of the Union.
The debate is closed.
It is a report on a Commission report in relation to loans and the guarantees on those loans.
The Committee on Budgets report therefore concerns the report from the Commission on the guarantees covered by the general budget as at 30 June 1995 and it is the ninth report of its kind.
Anybody who reads about the extent to which we are engaged in covering that lending by guarantees will see something of the economic impact of the European Union in developments not only inside but particularly outside the Community: the developments which are taking place in the Mediterranean, Latin America and Asia; the developments that are taking place in those countries covered by the PHARE arrangements; the lending and borrowing that is particularly related to the CIS countries; our involvement in countries as diverse and as far apart politically as Israel on the one hand and Algeria on the other.
The motion for a resolution notes that at the European Summit in Cannes there was a conclusion that there needed to be an extension of the lending and borrowing activities of the Community to third countries.
Failure to do so is, in fact, going to result in a strangulation of our capacity to guarantee the very programmes that heads of state and government were committing themselves to at the Cannes summit.
We hope that given the constructively critical way in which we have approached the Commission report this time, it will react to it equally constructively and give us a basis on which we can work collaboratively in the future.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for the fine report he has produced.
The Commission report on the budget guarantee is also a very good report, which looks in detail at the situation of the countries for which loans are provided.
Economically weak countries or countries that are politically unstable have particular difficulties in repaying their loans.
Over a period this results in a great strain on the budget of the Union.
So, the PPE Group believes it is necessary to create new background conditions for the Guarantee Fund.
Secondly, with the allocation of financial help to third countries the Article 235 is still applied, wrongly in my opinion.
The European Parliament must not be kept outside the decision-making process.
The PPE Group would therefore ask the Commission to create new conditions for the Guarantee Fund.
I myself have spent two days trying to understand the complex mechanisms that John Tomlinson lists in his report and to work out what it is all about.
In this spirit, I would ask the Commission and the Council to submit proposals to this House.
The purpose of the six-monthly report on guarantees is to inform the budget authority about developments in the granting of loans and loan guarantees that affect the Union's budget.
This report presents the annual development of risk up to the year 2002 on the basis of the activities decided upon or proposed by the Commission.
Consequently, it is pleasing and I think we all could and should welcome the fact that this discipline is prevailing in the operation of the mechanism in question.
For that reason, in July 1995 the Commission informed the budget authority in a special statement, that the six-monthly report on guarantees is not the appropriate means to assess the operation of the system and to submit new proposals.
In September 1995 we submitted a report to the Council, a copy of which was sent to the chairman and rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, in which we propose reducing the total guarantee proportion to 75 % for EIB loans outside the Union.
Recently, indeed, in agreement with the EIB, the Commission submitted a new report with new amendments.
That report concludes that a reduction of the total guarantee proportion to 50 % is compatible with maintenance of the highest level of solvency available so far for the EIB.
In such a case, that sharing would result in exemption of the Community budget from what we call 'commercial risk' .
The Commission's proposal will have the indirect result of reconciling the financial discipline imposed by the guarantee mechanism with an appreciable increase in the total amount of loans, in the sense implied by the conclusions of the Cannes and Madrid European Councils.
Mr President, I thank Commissioner Papoutsis for his response.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
This must be accompanied by additional measures to improve the cooperation between the authorities of the European Union Member States.
When I undertook to do this report I tried to avoid the old arguments and to approach the subject from a different perspective.
I believe that excise duty should not be seen purely as a revenue-raising exercise, but also as an employment-creation instrument.
The Single European Act set out the principle of harmonization of indirect taxation within the European Union.
I would also like to draw the Commission's attention to compromise Amendment No 23, which highlights the difference between the rates of excise duty on wine, beer and spirits and says it should not be increased.
If we accept that there is competition between alcoholic beverages - and I know that the Commission does accept this principle, because it formed the basis of its argument to the World Trade Organization when it took on the case of the Japanese liquor tax - we must not allow one country unilaterally to increase excise duty on one beverage, thereby benefiting the other beverages.
Finally, we cannot discuss this issue of excise duty without bringing in the question of health.
Mr President, Parliament has done its best with a report on excise duties from the Commission in which, remarkably, no concrete proposal is to be found.
If the Commissionʼs answer to this question is "yes' , it must come up with a clear proposal.
The Commission report underestimates the problem in an almost incredible way.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in considering all the products affected by excise duty, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development wanted to favour European agricultural producers, and I was happy to note that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has adopted many of our conclusions.
Wine is an agricultural product, made once a year.
The disappearance of European tobacco production would result in very serious desertification of less favoured rural areas.
The area under cereal, oil and protein plants in the European Union and some Member States, including France, is in danger of being extensively exceeded.
Mr President, I am the co-rapporteur for the excise report on mineral oils.
On this area I think it is worth pointing out that the excise tax on mineral oils is tried and tested in all of our fiscal regimes.
We are calling for a comprehensive tax base with regard to mineral oils, and if there are exclusions such as aviation gas or kerosene or natural gas, the Commission should justify these and explain their effect in terms of the operation of the internal market.
Mr President, alcohol is part of our social culture.
Sweden therefore has the lowest per capita alcohol consumption of the entire Union.
Taxation is just as high on Swedish spirits as on those we import and we import all wine from Member States under the same conditions.
However, there are few subjects in the world which have been so thoroughly researched as the relationship between people and alcohol.
The World Health Organisation report entitled 'Alcohol Policy and the Public Good' , for example, is based on over 700 scientific studies.
Per capita consumption of wine in France, Germany and Spain is extremely high, but consumption of spirits is also significantly higher than in Sweden, and they have a correspondingly high frequency of alcohol-related illness.
Consumption of alcohol has fallen significantly since 1980 in, for example, France, Spain, Germany and Italy.
Alcohol producers thus naturally want to increase their markets in countries where consumption remains low.
Mr President, it was very exciting to sit on the committee during this work, because the issue in question is a very significant one, both from the point of view of economic policy and in many other respects.
I hope that the Commission will come to Parliament next year with a more detailed proposal for altering the excise system.
The Green Group is entirely in favour of using product taxation to pursue broader objectives, such as public health and environmental protection.
There is no reason for this, and we have tabled an amendment of our own on this subject too.
The committee's results were not very clear.
It was a controversial set of votes with sometimes just one or two votes in it and then an accusation that the voting procedure was not correct and request for a repeat vote.
The only fair way is to impose excise rates for alcoholic drinks according to alcohol content.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must thank the rapporteur for his efforts, and also my colleague Philippe Martin for his report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Some of us would like the rates of excise duty to be raised or lowered in order to assist this or that category of economic operator.
Personally, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I do not want to take sides in favour of any particular undertaking, but I do want to defend European agriculture as a whole.
With regard to the excise duty on wine, spirits and alcoholic beverages, I must remind the House that wine is an agricultural product, not an industrial one, and that consequently the zero rating principle must be maintained, along with the principle of taxation by volume and not by strength, as certain lobbyists for the beer and whisky industries would prefer.
Our international agreements allow it, and we must have the political will to do it.
This report provides an occasion for Parliament to provide its view on the harmonisation of excise duties, without having to go into details on the various rates.
The Commission statement on the informal Ecofin council of Verona made it clear that over the last 15 years tax on labour has increased by 20 % and tax on capital has fallen by 10 %.
Paragraph 4 on the upward harmonisation of tobacco prices; paragraph 20b on a considerable increase in the minimum prices for engine fuels; paragraph 20c on the internalisation of externals costs; and paragraph 20f on an all-encompassing taxation basis for mineral oils and their competing products all clearly point in the right direction.
But there seems to be a taboo in this Parliament on increasing alcohol prices, and particularly on the introduction of a minimum excise duty on wine.
Coming from the Netherlands, where even mineral water has an excise duty, this does seem to me to be somewhat incredible.
What also bothers me is that this report so clearly bears the vestiges of specific lobby activists.
Such gifts for specific lobbies do not add credibility to this Parliament.
Finally, I must unfortunately say that some parts of this report are absurd, for example where the direct sale at distance by small producers and small cooperatives is recommended is actually the method to encourage harmonisation to the lowest level of the Union.
So the best thing we can do tomorrow is to vote with my group against large parts of this report.
Mr President, on behalf of those who have lived through the excise duty saga in this Parliament, let me say that we are finally reaching a happy ending.
We all know what the initial situation was: a tax of 18 francs per litre of wine in the United Kingdom and Ireland, about 15 francs in Denmark, 0 francs in the majority of Mediterranean countries, and in France a mere 22 centimes per litre of wine, which was a simple marketing tax.
In other words, Mr President - you are Portuguese and I, since my name is Martinez, am French - in all the producing countries and in the majority of consumer countries, excise duty was at zero.
If you wanted harmonization in the name of market necessities and the single market, you should have started with the taxes or levies which created the greatest distortions.
You dived into this situation, and you will remember, as far as excise duty on wine was concerned, it was the Council of Ministers which was able to save the situation, because you had started with 65 centimes per litre of wine.
Of course there are always people in this House who believe they can carry out health policy by imposing exaggerated excise duties, especially on the consumption of tobacco and alcohol.
Tens of thousands of jobs in agriculture and industry depend on this branch of production.
Much has already been said about the differences in excise duties between the Member States.
Regarding excise duties on alcoholic drinks, some colleagues make an impassioned plea for the zero rate on wine, because this would concern a purely agricultural product.
The interests of winegrowers are evident, but so equally are those of public health.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are debating relates to the range of measures for the realisation of the internal market.
Article 99 of the Treaty authorizes us to try and harmonize legislation on excise duties, insofar as that harmonization is needed to bring about the establishment and operation of the internal market.
In all events excise duties constitute an anomaly both in the taxation system and in the operation of the market.
This anomaly, however, is deeply rooted.
For centuries, the taxation authorities in our countries have specified a number of products - formerly salt and spirits, nowadays alcohol, petrol and tobacco - in order to raise certain revenues, taking advantage of the particularly inelastic demand for those products.
Greece and Italy have the same taxation system, but the price of Marlborough differs by 40 % between the two countries.
We must harmonize taxation systems, but it is not our job to facilitate the manoeuvres of the oligopolies via excise duties, the more so since it has been proved that the imposition of a minimum 57 % tax from today has led to a convergence of the burden of taxation and, according to one view and certain figures, of retail prices as well. (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, attempts at fiscal harmonization for alcoholic beverages almost always start from an idea of harmonizing the concept of an alcoholic beverage.
This simplifying idea puts products like beer, vodka and wine on the same level within the term 'alcoholic beverage' , ultimately proposing similar treatment for all of them in terms of penalizing consumption or in terms of taxation.
Wine is an alcoholic product, but it is an alcoholic product of the European Union which has vast socio-economic incidence both on employment - with two million people working in the sector - and on social cohesion, because the wine business is largely concentrated in certain districts with serious social problems, and it generates activities around it which are in some way dependent on wine.
Mr President, I would like to take up part of the Von Wogau report, the part that speaks of the beneficial health effects of alcohol and wine in particular.
There is a direct and proportional link between alcohol consumption in a country and the damage caused by alcohol.
The conclusion is therefore that Sweden must be permitted for public health reasons to retain its high taxes on alcohol.
Unfortunately Parliament has nothing to do with the tax questions and nothing to say on them.
Regional and economic interests are dominating this debate.
Mr President, in my view the excise duty system with its fixed minimum rates in force since 1 January 1993 has largely proved its worth.
Great emphasis was laid in the European Parliament's report on gearing excise duties to ecological concerns, which is very right and very true.
I also think that health and environmental aspects rightly play a part in relation to the other excise duties too.
There is broad agreement on the proposals on excise duties on cigarettes and tobacco.
However, the fiscal treatment of tobacco must continue to comply with ecological aims.
In most Member States, however, they account for more than 10 % of tax revenue.
Thus, the Commission encouraged Parliament to concentrate its efforts on the identification of more general policy issues it considered would affect the future development of Community policy on excise duties.
I gather that the proposal on mineral oils raised no serious doubts in Parliament.
That fact is encouraging, in that it is consonant with our own position concerning the line to be followed in the context of our commitments to ECOFIN, in relation to the submission of new proposals for a general system for the taxation of energy products.
The taxation treatment of those products always encounters objections, and is often influenced by various geographical criteria within the Union, which in turn create different political priorities.
Clearly, Parliament's opinion on those matters will be taken seriously into account in our future work on those sectors, as well as the various views expressed during the consultations.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if the European Union and the Member States are really to give priority to employment, it is high time we more strongly focused our attention on small and medium-sized enterprises.
For example, we see it as a great step forward that from now on in the multiannual programme reference is made to the new SME definition.
I hope that the Commission sticks to its guns and can convince every Member of the Council of the necessity of the clear indication of the target group for the programme.
Because there is some uncertainty in some sectors, I would ask the Commissioner whether he can confirm that persons of the free professions and SMEs in the tourist sector are not excluded from this programme in relation to the horizontal aspects of the SME policy?
I hear that some Member States are urging for a mixed committee on SMEs and the social economy.
Finally, the execution of the programme will also depend on the proper functioning of DG XXIII.
That is why we have proposed doubling the number of SMEs participating in the framework research programme by the year 2000 and reducing the cost of applications.
Furthermore, we should consider contributing more than 50 % of the costs to SMEs.
The rapporteur has pointed out how important it is for us to have a single data-base and not a variety, a variety of software or a variety of networks, which in the end are no use to anybody.
The best way to help the small and medium-sized enterprises is by the rational development of the Cordis data-base, which can be accessed via the Internet.
That said, the wallet that funds this programme is pretty thin at ECU 180 m.
In this respect I am extremely heartened by the fact that the Dutch practice of tripartite meetings between big business, SMEs and the trade unions is now receiving its British expression in the first tentative meetings between the GMB Union and the Forum of Private Business.
I hope, Commissioner, that you will be able to take on that task, but I warmly welcome this new programme for the future of SMEs in the European Union.
I think that the Commission will have achieved something very commendable if it moves in that direction and if it considers it appropriate, as seems to me quite apparent, to seek the cooperation of all of the associations in that category, in an effort to collect the most wide-ranging and detailed documentation possible.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has done some very good work.
It is exceptionally important that the third multiannual programme is set up as a part of the pact for jobs.
Moreover, in SMEs job growth is stronger than in large enterprises.
But the Union also has its task.
We call on the Commission to more carefully evaluate the effect of its legislative proposals on the SME.
Administrative problems cost the business community more than 150 billion ECU each year.
The pilot project SLIM which concerns more simple legislation for the internal market, and which actually concentrates on four sectors, is investigating the possibility of simplifying legislation.
We look forward to the results of this project, to be announced in November, and to the initiatives the Commission will take in this respect.
Secondly, we cannot accept that the Council of Ministers tarries so long with the approval of the statute of the European Company, the first proposals for which were already formulated by the Commission 21 years ago, namely in 1975.
Thirdly, I believe the Union must encourage the development of access to risk capital.
I hope these words do not become empty ones, but are actually put into action by the Commission and by the governments of the Member States.
In view of this, it is quite understandable that, for example, in my country people had high hopes of the opportunities which would be created by the Union.
It is quite clear that international cooperation is important in all fields.
We know very well that the Finnish company Nokia would not be the second largest producer of mobile phones in the world if information had not travelled across borders.
The multiannual programme before us is the culmination of years of endeavours on the part of the Council, Commission and Parliament to put the SME on the European agenda.
It is very clear that the Council is not able to solve this problem itself, not with the Delorsʼ White Paper or via the European networks.
And en passant the Council is also killing the Elise programme.
And the Commission may rightly count on the support of the Council.
But if the Council has its way in a budgetary sense, we in this Parliament will have to carefully deliberate about the programme.
In the context of improving the business environment of SMEs, it is recommended that there should be a Europeanization of business strategies of SMEs through the provision of information and support services.
I hope that in a practical sense this will mean that there will be an expansion of the European business information centres programme in my own country of Ireland.
There should be a business information centre in every county in Ireland.
One of the real difficulties for SMEs is the marketing of their products in other countries.
In conclusion, the proposed budget of ECU 144m for this scheme represents an increase of 60 % on its predecessor.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the small and medium-sized enterprises which represent more than 99.8 % of all the companies in Europe, and 50 % of which, sadly, collapse in the first three years because an extremely complex taxation, legal and administrative system; because of difficulties in gaining access to programmes of research; weaknesses in managerial capacity; difficulties in obtaining funding at a reasonable cost and because of the existence of barriers which impede access to the markets in goods and services.
Some Member States have made considerable efforts and have approved measures that will help small and medium-sized enterprises.
Consequently, not only does that jeopardize the opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises to invest in production and innovative technology, it also diminishes their competitiveness on the national and international markets.
Mr President, on arriving in this Chamber a little more than two years ago, one of the first conclusions I drew may have seemed obvious but was very effective.
There were in Europe 18 million small and medium-sized enterprises and there are, take note, some 18 million unemployed.
The work completed by Commissioner Papoutsis and DG XXIII a few weeks ago is very important: the new multiannual programme 1997-2000 which, compared with earlier programmes, I believe introduces two major innovations which make it different and more important.
The first is of a political and organizational nature, that is to say it finally accords the small and medium-sized enterprises the role they merit on the European economic stage; it is no longer a question of size; the focus is no longer on the big companies alone but also on the small and medium-sized enterprises.
The second aspect is sectoral.
We have noted at last with satisfaction that the new multiannual programme pays particular attention to certain until recently undervalued economic sectors which we know to have great potential: I am referring in particular to trade; to the craft industries and, to a lesser extent, tourism also.
I believe that in those sectors above all there are enormous opportunities for professional and operational growth, new jobs, in short opportunities which should finally be seized by the market for the small and medium-sized enterprises.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly pleased to have the opportunity today, to talk about the Commission's proposal on the new multiannual programme for small and medium enterprises (SMEs).
The programme supplements activities carried out in the framework of other Community policies, and also supplements activities by the Member States.
The last three European Councils, Cannes, Madrid and Florence, confirmed that policy on behalf of SMEs is among the priorities of the European Union.
I agree completely with the rapporteur that the aid we intend to provide for SMEs is an indissoluble part of a policy whose aim is to combat unemployment, and of course to create job opportunities all over Europe.
The first priority is to address the complex administrative environment that impedes the creation and development of SMEs.
SMEs in Europe are still short of capital.
The third priority is to improve the access of SMEs to the Single Market, and to the opportunities provided by international markets.
Our aim is to improve the quality of services offered by the Euro-Info Centres, as Mr Gallagher rightly stressed a while ago.
The programme's last aim - which is particularly important in my opinion - is to promote the entrepreneurial spirit, to create a new enterprise culture by a number of special activities concentrated particularly in the area of the crafts and very small businesses.
This relates especially to women, but also to young entrepreneurs and enterprises owned by people who belong to minority groups, a thing which I know the European Parliament is particularly interested in.
We also agree with the need to take into account the special needs of the various types of SMEs, as described and determined by the definition of SMEs presented by the Commission on 3 April 1996.
At this point, Mr President, I would once again like to thank the rapporteur and the committees involved in formulating the amendments tabled.
More specifically, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 2, 3, 8, 10, 16, 17, 20, 21, 23, 35, 36, 39, 40, 44 and 45.
We can also accept parts of Amendments Nos 4, 5, 19 and 42, 33 and 34.
As for Amendments Nos 26 and 46, we consider that the Commission's initial proposal covers that issue sufficiently well.
Finally, as for Amendments Nos 49 and 50, we cannot accept the proposed link with the 'HOSPITALITY' programme, since this would create great confusion for the effective implementation of both programmes.
The Commission can also not accept Amendments Nos 54, 57, 58 and 59.
Mr President, the programme we have presented today embodies an overall package of activities whose approach will enable SMEs to be definitively involved in the challenges of the coming years.
I would therefore like to express my satisfaction at the rapporteur's statement that the sum of 180 million ECU is the very least required for correct implementation of the programme.
And I want to thank Parliament for its support in this respect.
That, however, entails coordinated and continual effort by all those involved in business development, and all those involved in the formulation and outlining of policy on behalf of SMEs, and I refer especially to the European Parliament, the Member States, the business organizations of SMEs, and the European Commission as well.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that only in that way will we convert broad political support for the implementation of effective measures for SMEs, into positive and productive action.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Just as justice delayed is justice denied, so delay in normal commercial negotiations can effectively deny new network operators a significant hold in this crucial market.
It is not possible, in my view and that of the committee, to envisage the future of interconnections, at least in the immediate future, without regulation.
Once again, the Economic Committee and I are concerned about the latitude given to national regulators in this and other matters.
I would simply remark here that in trying to peg what is said in this report to previous pronouncements from the Commission, we are not trying to hold to a nebulous and rather nervous definition, but rather to seek an indication from Commissioner Bangemann and his colleagues of when a proper and acceptable definition of universal service will come forward.
I know there has been opposition to it in some quarters but I believe it is the least we can do in order to satisfy the necessary concerns at points of interconnection that environmental considerations may be set aside in the course of negotiations between the old and new players in this market.
You have seen that there is an amendment which has reincluded the original definition, because if the telecom services are excluded, as is now the case in the position of the Council, the value of the regulation would be reduced by some 25 to 50 %.
It has greatly disappointed us that the Council has deviated from this on 6 or 7 essential points.
A second point is that we go further on transparency of costs in the interconnection agreement.
Thirdly, we want a greater say at a European level.
It is all very well, with a view to subsidiarity, that we give many possibilities to the national governing bodies, but if the Commission cannot play an important role here, I predict that little will come of a European telecommunications market.
The need for an EU directive on cost calculation and the financing of universal services can also be questioned.
Disputes should in the first instance be resolved among service providers at national level, and a system of comparison should be established jointly by the various national regulatory authorities.
Once again I thank Mrs Read and all who took part here.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
The amendments that we have tabled in the second reading, and this has been done to a certain extent in consultation with the European Commission, and indeed with the expert committees that deal with vehicle safety, are largely technical amendments to tidy up the legislation.
What I do want to say to the many people, particularly in my own country, who question the validity or the usefulness of the European Union is that what we have been able to do in the European Parliament, with the support of Commissioner Bangemann, and through the measures that have been agreed in the Council of Ministers, is to take measures that will come into force in 1998 and will lead to a substantial reduction in serious accidents and deaths on the roads.
This is a tangible example to explain to the citizens either in the United Kingdom, who as you know are debating the whole issue of Europe yet again, or in other countries in the European Union - and we have elections coming up in Finland and Austria in the very near future for the European Parliament - of how Parliament acting in a sensible way in collaboration with the other institutions of the European Union, can put in place legislation, using our codecision powers, that will make some significant differences.
So I would like to thank the Members of the House, because this has been very much a cross-party initiative in this House, and Commissioner Bangemann for his political support at a very difficult time when we felt it was going to be rather hard to get the Commission and Council to accept the approach that we were taking.
I really hope that when the legislation comes into force, in 1998, the car manufacturers will ensure that the vehicles that they are building for our citizens in the future fully respect the new laws and therefore protect not only the drivers but their passengers too.
So basically we can all be very satisfied.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
It is a fact that criticism of the recently decided standards that are being implemented has remained within bounds.
However, it calls for account to be taken of the Treaty provisions of Article 130 r(2).
Well, that is obvious, given that we all believe in respecting the Treaty and it is simply not possible to list all the provisions of the Treaty again in a single report.
In all these fields I consider attuning with the international standardisation bodies such as the ISO and IEC of great importance.
My conclusion is that the expansion of standardisation benefits the integration of Europe.
I consider the establishment of a European mark that indicates conformity with European standards as an appropriate tool of quality policy that can contribute to improving our competitive position.
Standardisation relating to the environment and safety at the workplace can also make an important contribution to the debate about social and environmental dumping within the framework of the organisation of world trade.
It does not have to happen overnight, but at some point we ought to create a common legal basis for CEN, CENELEC, ETSI and EOTC.
I thank the rapporteur for taking on board so many of the comments we made in the Research Committee and I hope that the completion of the single market will not continue to be hindered by national standards.
Mr President, our communication was designed to draw the attention of Parliament and of course of the general public to the importance of European standards.
So you can be sure to find yourself in the right environment too.
The debate is closed.
