All that appears is: Mr Puerta of the GUE Group, voting against my group every time.
The statement reads as follows: The Committee on Budgetary Control is taking into account Parliament's vote of 17 December 1998 by which its proposal to give discharge for 1996 was not approved.
Fourth, will present to Parliament a report by 31 March 1999.
the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 3950/92 establishing an additional levy in the milk and milk products sector (COM(98)0158 - C4-0296/98-98/0111(CNS)); -A4-0496/98 by Mr Fantuzzi, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, onI.the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 1766/92 on the common organisation of the market of cereals and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 2731/75 fixing standard qualities for common wheat, rye, barley, maize and durum wheat (COM(98)0158 - C4-0292/98-98/0107(CNS))II.
The EAGGF must remain the principal source of funding for the common agricultural policy.
What the European Commission's proposals do not include, and the Committee on Agriculture is adding this, is any mention of a policy on agricultural product quality.
If there is one thing Europe needs after the BSE crisis and all the fuss over the quality of foods, it is for Europe to devise a policy for the quality of agricultural products.
All the structural measures under Objective 1 and Community initiatives.
In conclusion, I have a comment on one contentious point in our proposal, namely the cofinancing of certain agricultural expenditure.
It includes a recital in which the Agriculture Committee is cautiously in favour of that cofinancing, but there was a tied vote on whether or not to include an article on this.
Eighteen members of the Agriculture Committee were in favour of cofinancing for certain types of expenditure, 18 were against and one member abstained.
Ladies and gentlemen, as everyone has discovered, the Commission's proposals advocate a reform in which these three concerns are not central.
The approach favoured in this case, contrary to previous reforms, means that it is moving towards market regulation through price control, which is why it is proposing to lower the intervention price by 30 % and abandon the public intervention system.
As the Asian and Russian crises reveal the Commission's excessive confidence in international markets this option appears increasingly viable.
As regards the lowering of prices, I am proposing a 15 % reduction to stimulate consumption and maintain a correct competitive relationship with white meat, which will benefit from a reduction in cereal prices.
In this respect, it is obviously by placing demands for high quality products in terms of taste and health at the centre of the COM that we will be able to restore consumer confidence in them.
I proposed to deal with this within the budget set for this COM in Agenda 2000.
This report, which was put to a vote in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in December, was not adopted, probably for reasons which go beyond its content.
And yet, majority votes were obtained on a number of issues: 15 % price reduction, maintaining public intervention, uprating aid for suckler cow herds and extensification, the need for veal calf premiums and maintaining the deseasonalisation premium.
The essential measure put forward in this connection consists of putting aside a sum of ECU 1 800 million, in the form of extra payments, to grant a slaughter premium for male bovines, suckler cows, dairy cows, heifers and veal calves.
Such a premium would be allocated on the basis of Community criteria of a slaughter ceiling for each country, determined on historic bases, and a premium ceiling per animal for each of the categories mentioned, so as to avoid distorting competition between Member States.
This is why, Madam President, I think that the conditions are now right for Parliament to adopt this report in the near future.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, the Commission's proposals on the organisation of the market in milk cover three main areas: price support, income support for milk producers, and the provision on guaranteed quantities.
The Commission's proposals on price support provide for a reduction in the price of milk of 17 %, and a reduction in the intervention prices for both butter and skimmed milk powder of 15 %.
These measures are proposed in order to encourage the consumption of milk and milk products in the Community, and to improve the competitiveness of these products on the world market.
We therefore propose reducing the target price for milk by 12 % instead of 17 %, and the intervention prices for butter and skimmed milk powder by 10 % instead of 15 % in each case.
Turning now to income compensation, the Commission is proposing four components: a dairy cow premium (Article 15), an additional payment (Article 16), a supplement to the dairy cow premium (Article 12) and an additional payment within the limits of global amounts (Article 13).
These proposals are extremely complicated and will lead to serious implementation and monitoring problems.
Now, as regards the provisions on guaranteed quantities, we support the Commission's proposal to extend the quota until 2006 and, rather more reluctantly, the proposed 2 % increase in quotas.
You should give these families the same chance as all the others in the European Union.
Finally, I am grateful to have been given the opportunity as a Member of this House - almost ten years after German unification - to have a hand in the reorganisation of such an important market.
I especially wish to thank those who did the groundwork for me and who have supported me in this complicated, but interesting work.
It makes little sense to me to increase internal support, at an additional cost of some hundreds of millions of euros, in a sector which - although it accounts for 11 % of gross saleable agricultural production in the Community - alone consumes 40 % of the CAP budget, in other words EUR 17 billion out of 40.
I hope the Christmas break has given everyone time to reflect, and that the vote in Brussels on 28 January will lead to a revision of these amendments.
The gap between the intervention price and the world price is wider than that at present; thus the reduction proposed through Agenda 2000 should be even greater, strictly speaking, as the President of the Court of Auditors reminded us in this House a few weeks ago.
The second rectification needed is a set-aside rate of 10 %.
Its proposed abolition in 2000 is unrealistic.
The third rectification lies in demonstrating greater solidarity and cohesion in the COM for arable crops than currently exists.
If the Commission itself acknowledges in its introductory statement that the CAP reform of 1992 has not worked to the advantage of less favoured regions and producers in respect of arable crops - the most significant item of expenditure, representing the bulk of direct income support - we cannot remain hidebound by the logic of 1992.
I hope that these rectifications will be accepted; looking to the future, they would make aid more justifiable in social terms.
I believe that these aspects should also be included in other reports on Agenda 2000, for example the one on the horizontal regulation.
With EUR 40 billion earmarked for 7.5 million individuals, when twice that number are out of work, economic arguments alone are ultimately no longer enough unless they are accompanied by the environmental, social and territorial considerations for which society is pressing hard.
It cannot be maintained that because of the crisis in Russia or eastern Asia we should reject or review the reduction in cereals, milk and meat prices.
For Europeans to shut the door to the outside world has always been a mistake: it is precisely at times of crisis that Europe must be a little more adventurous and assert its presence on the world stage.
What is more, such a defensive stance sends a most unfortunate message to the CEECs, to the other Europe.
The last thing that farmers need is for everything to be deferred until October.
Madam President, I should first like to provide a formal clarification: I am speaking here as rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, as all the other previous speakers have also done so far.
The basis for this proposal is of course the premiums, which were introduced in 1992 in the so-called MacSharry reform - as yet we have not heard much of the Fischler reform; we still need to introduce that - when prices were lowered and it was said that compensatory payments would be made in the form of premiums.
Let me quote the European Court of Auditors.
And then a point was reached where 80 % of these premiums were going to 20 % of holdings and where, for example - according to the Court of Auditors - one leading holding received DEM 6.61 million from Brussels in one year.
The intention is for 20 % to be deducted between ECU 100 000 and ECU 200 000, and 25 % above ECU 200 000.
That would therefore give a reduction of up to 45 %.
Calculations showed that under these arrangements, 97 % of holdings would be wholly unaffected.
Madam President, the grain reform programme in Agenda 2000 involves undoing much of the regulation relating to letting the land remain fallow.
The adoption of developed technology has brought new opportunities for the exploitation of bioenergy, and that will allow us, in the future, to increase our level of self-sufficiency in energy production in Europe.
Recognition of the non-food option in Agenda 2000 would also prove that the Commission meant business.
Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur for his hard and time-consuming work.
Madam President, in its Agenda 2000 communication, the European Commission includes proposals that improve and consolidate economic and social cohesion through the reform of structural policies, the common agricultural policy and the policy on rural development.
Within the proposals for agricultural reform, the top priority is the Union's commitment to maintaining some viable rural communities and to protecting European rural heritage.
In this context, the Commission has set out its proposals on direct support schemes within the common agricultural policy relating to all common organisations of the market that grant direct payments.
In the proposal for a regulation in question, the Committee on Budgetary Control calls on the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to incorporate three amendments that have the common objective of ensuring that Parliament is better informed.
The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
Without wishing to question this approach, it is important that the measures adopted to guarantee payments to farmers benefiting from these schemes are accompanied by a certain degree of coordination at Community level.
I should like to outline the German Presidency's priorities on agriculture and fisheries; I hope that Parliament will be a constructive partner in this work and will actively support us in the quite enormous project we have ahead of us.
Despite the uncertainty over financing - and further intensive discussions will also be held on this - I will, as chairman of the Agriculture Council, lead the negotiations on the agriculture part of the Agenda on the basis of the Commission proposals.
It is intended that this group should prepare for negotiations in the Agriculture Council and demonstrate possible ways of reaching compromises, and that it should, therefore, prepare draft decisions to a very large extent.
At the federal government's meeting with the Commission on Monday of this week in Bonn, Commissioner Fischler and I agreed that, if convincing alternatives are presented, the Commission is prepared to review its proposals and if necessary to table new ones.
In the future, European agriculture will have to be competitive in order to hold its own against international competition.
With this in mind, European market organisations ought to be reformed and geared more closely to the requirements of the market.
I must add, however, that in so doing it still is, and will continue to be, up to us to maintain and further improve our high standards of environmental and consumer protection, and also - in the interests of fair competition - to ensure that these standards are adequately safeguarded in international trade agreements.
As always in the first half of the year, negotiations on agricultural prices are on the agenda, the importance of which has admittedly - as we all know - diminished.
In addition, we attach great importance to animal welfare and combating epizootic diseases.
They are as follows: decisions on treating laying hens in battery cages in a way appropriate to their species; laying down standards for the carriage of animals by sea; continuing to specify minimum slaughtering standards; and incorporating the Council of Europe recommendation on animals kept for farming purposes into Community law.
Of course the Agenda 2000 negotiations also affect the fisheries sector.
The Fisheries Council will also be dealing with restructuring the common organisation of the market in fishery products.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to warn you straight away that I shall need rather more than ten minutes to comment on all the reports before the House today.
The report on the reform of the market in wine is on the agenda for February, and the reports on rural development and on pre-accession aid were already dealt with in November.
As rapporteurs, all of you have contributed to our being able, so far, to keep to our timetable for dealing with the Agenda 2000 proposals.
Most farmers and farming unions now agree that reform of the common agricultural policy is unavoidable.
The danger of further surpluses - despite growing demand on the international agriculture markets - the forthcoming WTO round and rising production potential, which will also increase considerably with eastward enlargement, are factors which are shaping the discussion on the future structure of market management policies.
In addition, there is an important internal debate on what society demands of agriculture.
The effects of agricultural production on the environment are part of this debate, as is the question of social criteria for agricultural policy and the desire for a better quality of life, be it through higher food safety and quality standards, or through sustainable development of rural areas and considering the purposes they serve for our society.
I am therefore opposed to any attempts to adopt only a slimmed-down reform or to leave important areas out of the reform.
The question now is what the final reforms should consist of, so that we can equip European farming for the challenges ahead.
The European Parliament has played an active part in finding an answer to this question, and has prepared a number of amendments in this regard.
The transition from price support to direct income payments will not lead directly to savings in the agriculture budget.
Independent academic institutes estimate the increased cost to the budget to be between EUR 3 billion and EUR 4 billion, but put savings to the consumer at between EUR 10 billion and EUR 17 billion.
That means a reduction in the consumer price index of between 0.3 % and 0.45 %, and thus an important contribution to stability in Europe.
The most important objective of our proposal for the new EAGGF regulation is, in the future, to use the Guarantee Section to finance rural development measures outside Objective 1 programmes.
This is an attempt to take account of multifunctionality and would also make it easier to defend the common agricultural policy at international level.
The legal base for the regulation is Article 43 of the Treaty.
But, Madam President, this proposal only relates to provisions specifically on EAGGF financing; basing this regulation on Article 209 as well is therefore superfluous.
A number of amendments concern the issue of cofinancing for measures which are at present financed exclusively from the Community budget.
This would mean, however, that the budget year in which the change was made would last twelve and a half months, resulting in a one-off cost to the budget of around EUR 800 million.
On the wish you expressed for financing under the Guarantee Section not to disrupt the management and implementation of measures not previously financed by the Guarantee Section, I should like to point out that financing the supporting measures from the 1992 reform out of the Guarantee Section has not caused any particular problems.
In addition, we intend to set up a special advance payment system for rural development programmes.
This is an interesting idea, but the rules in the Financial Regulation for the Community budget do not allow it.
If the European beef and veal industry is to be able to maintain beef production at anywhere near current levels, then, according to our analyses, a 30 % reduction in the intervention price is imperative.
I cannot endorse this proposal, because it cannot guarantee the future of the European beef industry.
On the other hand, I do also admit that the common agricultural policy needs to be more environmentally friendly.
This is one of the key elements in the future success of the European model of agriculture.
Although I cannot formally accept the amendments concerned at this stage of the discussions, I should also like to point out that this issue needs to be examined further, and that I am favourably disposed towards improvements.
As regards the situation after 2006, I agree that we should turn our attention to this well in advance of that date.
In this context, Amendment No 45 seems to me to be quite acceptable.
As far as the allocation of additional quotas is concerned, we have based our proposal on priorities, set according to the support expressed by Parliament on various occasions.
The proposal to apply sanctions when the reference quantities are exceeded, as a means of managing the market, may admittedly seem attractive at first sight, but in practice I see it causing us huge difficulties.
As regards transfers of quotas, what we are trying to do in our proposal is to extend and improve the options Member States have under the law, without restricting their room for manoeuvre in this field.
I conclude, from discussions in various forums, that our proposals present a balanced and reasonable answer to the challenges facing the milk sector.
I cannot, therefore, support the amendments advocating a greater or lesser degree of price reductions for milk as a starting-point for reform.
Moreover, it is unlikely that the fall in institutional prices in the milk sector will be fully reflected in producer prices.
Unfortunately, the various alternatives discussed in the report do not meet these criteria.
The third point is related to the system of national envelopes.
Our proposal tries to give the Member States scope to modulate the aid, so that they can take account of producers' different circumstances.
This should provide a guarantee against distortions of competition.
But it will certainly be necessary - once the final shape of the beef and veal production model is clear - to make sure that the compensatory payments in the milk sector fit in with this model.
I fear that a price reduction of less than 20 % would not allow us to achieve our objectives.
I can certainly support any efforts to find new markets for agricultural products in industry.
In the case of maize, I should, however, like to emphasise two points.
I can only comment on the main aspects of the changes here.
I should just like to add a few words on the quality of cereals.
Our produce must conform to the needs of the market and, in particular, to the requirements of importing countries, which means that we have to produce high-quality cereals.
Although I cannot accept the form of wording chosen, I do share Parliament's concerns in this regard.
The proposed ceiling on direct payments should help the social balance.
Clearly, however, this would have corresponding consequences for the budget.
They should not simply be used for income support or structural measures.
At the heart of the debate between the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council is much more the fact that, for the Commission, the agricultural part of the Agenda will be its position for the WTO negotiations to be reopened at the end of the year, which will result in further liberalisation of the agricultural markets.
This may indeed be more convenient and perhaps it also wins more approval in certain quarters, but European agriculture - like other sectors of the economy - needs stable basic conditions.
The Agenda provides these, while also allowing European agriculture to have a share in the growth of the agriculture market.
I am therefore extremely grateful for the broad support which our proposals on rural development have found in this House.
I can assure you that I am open to all practical alternative proposals which share our objectives, as I have already suggested here in connection with the beef and veal sector and step-by-step reductions.
Applause Madam President, I should like to ask the Commissioner if the Commission could give Parliament a list of its position on all the amendments which have been tabled to the Agenda 2000 proposals.
I ask this because we have to vote on 28 January.
Madam President, I think that it would be useful to have a list of this kind.
Ladies and gentlemen, in this parliamentary trilogue - and I should like to start on a positive note - we agree on one point: CAP reform is inevitable and necessary, and it is not only up for discussion because of imminent eastward enlargement.
This state of affairs becomes nothing short of grotesque when 80 % of this aid is paid out to just 20 % of farmers, who are also the wealthiest ones.
European support policy, Mr President-in-Office - and I believe this to be one of the most important headlines to have emerged from recent discussions, including under the new presidency - European support policy in rural areas must, in critical aspects, become social policy.
The Social Democrats in the European Parliament call this policy a policy for rural areas.
The beef regime is the most complicated of all the regimes, mainly because it has the longest lead time.
For example, pig and poultry meat consumption at 23 million tonnes is now more than three times higher than beef consumption at 7.1 million tonnes per year.
When imports of beef into the EU are added to domestic production, the total is almost one million tonnes higher than the internal market uptake.
A major difficulty arises because of the constraints of the Blair House agreement on export volumes and the level of export refunds payable, together with the collapse of the Russian economy and the strategic downward price pressure which is applied by other third-country markets as they take advantage of the Russian problem.
The 10-month and 22-month premium for steers and the deseasonalisation premium must be kept in place.
Finally, I wish to say to the Commission that I understand what it is trying to do but, until the beef market has time to recover from the recent crisis, it is absolutely necessary to ease the very severe proposals so that farmers can stay in business.
I should like to know how Commissioner Fischler sees his proposals in relation to the availability of funds.
However, and above all because the world situation has changed significantly from two years ago, the general line is a smaller price cut than that envisaged by the Commission, together with full compensation for that reduction.
The Liberal Group favours the cofinancing of income subsidies, not in order to improve the net payment position of certain countries, but primarily because this is unavoidable in the context of the accession of the Eastern European countries.
Many farmers will have to work in other sectors in order to earn a living.
It is interesting to see that the five reports were produced by Members who come from the rich areas of Europe and who naturally have shown evident impartiality for which I must congratulate them all.
We agree almost totally with his proposals and we naturally consider that the modulation is important.
Madam President, Commissioner, I will simply make a few general comments on Agenda 2000.
Commissioner, before beginning this debate, we must take two basic facts into consideration: firstly, the result of the votes in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development; and secondly, the debate on the Cunha report.
Although it is true to say that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has not managed to produce clear reports on the reforms of the common organisations of the market, we must take account of the fact that the Commission's proposals have been rejected by a wide majority.
The reasons for this situation are clearly outlined in the Cunha report and reflected in Parliament's limited authority in agricultural matters.
The Commission's proposals do nothing more than take the 1992 CAP reform one step further.
As a result, these proposals would compound the social problems in rural areas.
The Commission should have been aware of the problems in presenting proposals for Agenda 2000 when it drew up a package of proposals on rural development that attempted to convey the idea that it would compensate for the negative effects of reforming the common organisations of the market.
However, there is no indication of how the CAP would apply to the new members, nor of how it would be financed after 2006.
In truth, my group believes that the proposals in Agenda 2000 are not so much related to enlarging the European Union but rather to developing negotiations within the World Trade Organisation.
Lastly, I would like to make a brief comment on the financial aspects of Agenda 2000.
In this respect, the Commission's lack of political vision has given rise to the suggestion in the context of the report on own resources that direct aid be cofinanced.
Madam President, Commissioner, our group believes that the approach being taken to reform is a step in the right direction.
I believe that both the policy of reducing prices and, in particular, the policy in the beef and veal sector, constitute a step towards abandoning intervention.
Our next criticism is that you are still not concentrating enough on the internal market.
Allow me now to comment on the conduct being displayed here in Parliament.
It is the opposition which is at work here, and the present opposition still has to learn to adopt a constructive approach.
I hope that at the Council negotiations a way will be found to move employment and the environment to the centre of agriculture policy, and that in 2006 we shall be able to set this agricultural policy back on its feet once and for all.
The ARE Group, in its proposal for a federal and united European Union, contributed substantially to this report and fully endorsed the proposed European agriculture model.
In the context of today's debate we must enter into the spirit of the Cunha report and the measures adopted by Parliament, in particular regarding future CAP financing.
The cost of enlargement to include the countries of Central and Eastern Europe requires a more ambitious reform and equitable budgetary revision.
For the second year in a row, the average agricultural income per holding has fallen in the Union.
What is more, after more than a year the Commission has still not responded to the political demands of the European Parliament.
I should like to remind you that although the 1992 reform led to a temporary improvement in markets, it did not remedy the main problems in the operation of the CAP.
For the European Union to be able to cope with the challenges of enlargement and renewed negotiations within the WTO, the CAP needs to be thoroughly reformed so as to provide us with a viable system for the next ten years.
Simply proposing a unilateral reduction of the intervention prices of agricultural products does not in itself constitute a policy.
In this context, what new approaches can be taken in relation to these five reports, none of which was fully adopted in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development because of national disagreements, despite efforts by my fellow rapporteurs who should be congratulated for their work and tenacity.
In terms of milk, which is the only COM that was not amended in 1992, a delicate balance has been created by introducing quotas.
Like the rapporteur, I am in favour of balanced development in all regions and of equal income.
Additional quotas that do not distort the market must be granted firstly to young farmers and less-favoured areas such as mountainous regions by increasing aid for processing high-quality milk products.
The Commission's refusal to propose a specific regulation for high-protein oleaginous crops does not bode at all well for future WTO negotiations.
By the same token, voluntary set-aside for environmental reasons or non-food purposes must be reviewed.
To conclude, once again on behalf of the ARE Group, I call on the Commission to set this necessary and urgent CAP reform in motion by redistributing aid in a way which resolutely favours the rural economy, the environment and product quality, for the benefit of farmers, consumers and European taxpayers.
For many reasons, of which you will all be aware, the CAP in its present form is neither sustainable or permanent.
It is the Commission's duty to bring CAP reform closer to Community preference by basing its bilateral agreements on equitable trade rules that are aimed at maintaining jobs in agriculture and a balanced number of holdings in line with the notion of rural development adopted by Parliament.
Any future CAP must respect the right of Europeans to control their agriculture and their food.
This is the price the European Union will have to pay if it wants to be a leading player in globalisation.
Once again, to conclude I would say that it is not more or less aid that is needed, but better aid!
We are now embarking on a further reform of the common agricultural policy under Agenda 2000.
Madam President, Commissioner, the debate on the agricultural facet of Agenda 2000 and its 8 regulations would appear to provide us with a solid legislative structure and a whole range of attractive new elements.
Nothing has changed: price reductions - 15, 20, 30 % - the Malthusian set-aside, rationing and austerity.
It is true that you have at least achieved something new tactically speaking in that you have succeeded in dividing the Committee on Agriculture.
Lastly, pressure is being exerted by the WTO 2000 negotiations, given that Agenda 2000 is the progeny of WTO 2000.
Even before negotiations got under way, it began by aligning itself with the United States and not once did it call on them to engage in fair trade which would take into account animal welfare, environmental protection, social protection for farmers and food quality.
By way of example, under the Guarantee section of the EAGGF, ECU 500 million are to be redirected to cover pre-accession funds.
Commissioner, we are told that the aim of the reform is to achieve the European agriculture model as developed by Arlindo Cunha.
But at least the character of Pluto is as nice as Sissi, which will mean that Austria will get out while the going is good.
Madam President, today we are debating the proposals for reform of the various agricultural sectors without knowing the possible financial impact of such proposals and, above all, whether or not they fit in with the future financial perspective.
Also, the possibility of adjusting the reference periods for regionalisation plans in some Member States should be raised, and even the idea of setting different production levels for maize in comparison to other cereals.
Moreover, it does not seem necessary to use surface area to even out aid for oilseed in relation to aid for other cereals.
A similar situation applies in the meat sector.
I wonder, however, with whom we are supposed to compete.
I reject conditions of competition of this kind.
I would take advantage of his claim that 20 % of farmers receive 80 % of the aid, but I am not even sure if he really knows what he is talking about.
I hope that you only want to ask a question, since we are not going to embark on a debate amongst ourselves.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, the Luxembourg summit called for agricultural production to be able to continue in all regions of the Union, including wherever there were special problems.
The realisation of this expression of political will is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, for which Parliament drafts an opinion.
Agricultural conditions vary widely in the Union.
Maize does not grow in all Member States.
Otherwise aid for maize will distort competition in the single market.
In Finland, the Union's northernmost Member State, food production is possible thanks to the Gulf Stream.
The reductions in producer prices in Agenda 2000 are too great for producers in the EU's most problematic regions, as farmers there will not even be able to recover their production costs at current market prices.
The crises of the global economy in Asia, Russia and South America have forced world market food prices down.
For that reason the proposed reductions in producer prices in Agenda 2000 should be halved and farmers should be fully compensated for those reductions, so as not to put too great a squeeze on European producers.
I have a question for the President-in-Office: how do you intend to make sure that the considerable producer price reductions in Agenda 2000 do not lead to a wave of bankruptcies in Europe?
Many farmers may not survive to benefit from the long-term measures of the proposed reform which is the subject of Agenda 2000 and this debate.
Down the road this Parliament will find itself having to address the serious problem of the human resources of agriculture necessary for the continuity of the agricultural sector.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, everyone is engaging in an analysis of the exceptional conditions which appear to have reduced today's debate to an impasse.
In fact, although the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development clearly rejected the Commission's proposals, it has been unable to come up with any coherent alternatives in spite of the quality of the reports presented.
There are at least three reasons for this.
The second reason for this impasse is the financial constraints imposed by the Stability Pact with the introduction of the euro.
The third and most fundamental reason is the decision to base this reform on the need for capital returns through a reduction in agricultural prices, and not on the needs of producers, consumers or society.
The Commission can firstly be reproached for having retreated into the triple across-the-board logic of reducing prices, dismantling market management instruments and reducing European financial intervention.
It can also be reproached for wanting to impose all its ideas despite their unpopularity.
In this context, it is incumbent on both Parliament and the Council to develop an alternative policy.
I also think that the Committee on Agriculture's vote on the various reports has revealed an overall desire to reject alignment with world prices, to protect agricultural incomes, to pay for all the social benefits agriculture offers in terms of employment, land development and the environment, to limit and modulate public aid by distributing it more fairly and to maintain producers' organisations and market management instruments by improving them.
This constructive and alternative approach can once again be demonstrated either in preparation for Parliament's vote on 28 January or by referring the reports back to committee, which would give the Commission a strong hint that it needs to formulate other proposals.
The decisions this House will make on 28 January must remain faithful to these aims.
Madam President, the Agenda 2000 package of reforms provides a major challenge to Europe's decision-makers and I do not underestimate that in any way.
The common agricultural policy clearly must be examined and adjusted in an attempt to strike a balance between on the one hand providing proper support to our food production industry, and on the other hand ensuring that good value is achieved for the expenditure of public funds.
The diversity of circumstances across the European Union in the agricultural sectors clearly requires due consideration in the new common agricultural policy, which must be tailored to properly fulfil its purpose.
Scotland, politically, is in a disadvantaged position at this moment, with our national interests being represented from London.
Our farmers, as well as our consumers and our taxpayers, are entitled to expect that reforms will bring about a genuine improvement in any new package and that specific changes, once agreed, can be carefully phased in so that our farmers can adjust to further changes in a properly managed way.
Madam President, Commissioner, in September 1997 when I drew up the opinions of the Committee on Agriculture on the Agenda 2000 Communication and on the Structural Fund reform, especially concerning Objective 2, I highlighted the financial problems of the CAP as well as the dramatic consequences that the initial proposals put forward by the Commission would have on European farmers' incomes.
The CAP, I should like to stress, is the only genuine common policy we have and I was surprised to note today that the defenders of a federal Europe are prepared to sacrifice it in favour of other interests.
If there was one reform needed it would evidently be needed in this area, but the Commission's proposals - your proposals, Commissioner - for price reductions force farmers to seek compensation for this steady fall in their income through ever more intensive production methods by enlarging their buildings, finding ways to reduce their input costs and by intensifying production to the detriment of environmental issues.
For others it will mean using growth activators and using less costly animal feed.
Madam President, as is well known, the CAP is based on three principles: the unified market, Community preference and financial solidarity.
Regrettably, these principles are increasingly being called into question.
European decision-makers are all too often in the pay of the United States which has forced its ideas, its operation and production methods on us to the detriment particularly of European farmers - 40 million jobs in agriculture have been lost since 1960 - and the cultural dimension of European agriculture.
There is a huge distance between the debate on quality and the measures actually taken to implement this quality.
Budgetary phobia, added to the bad handling of what has been termed the mad cow crisis, has considerably undermined my confidence in the Commission, in its ability to shrewdly predict the future - and not only the future of European farmers - and its overall approach to what is generically referred to as rural society, its role and its future, without forgetting the Community preference provided for in the Treaty of Rome.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, for us the Agenda is a package.
I think that the votes in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have made it clear that there will be no majority in this House in favour of the Commission proposals, as they currently stand.
After all, if we look at America, we find that two years after the farm bill came into force, discussions on parts of it have already been reopened.
On the financial side, I should like to say that obviously the issue of fair contributions and a balanced budget in terms of both income and expenditure forms part of the Agenda debate.
The question of cofinancing also belongs in this negotiating package.
As you know, Parliament will be giving its definitive opinion on this in February.
I must of course also confess, Mr President-in-Office, that the reason why the question of cofinancing is so controversial with German farmers and the subject of such contentious debate is that they might see themselves being faced with considerable problems - in view of the transposition of the accompanying measures and the reluctance of several Länder to cofinance them - if we were to choose this approach.
Commissioner Fischler, I should like to say very clearly that the experts recently drafted in by the Commission, whom you specifically referred to as testifying for the Commission proposals, produced reports which are based on very foolhardy theories.
When, during this presidency, we are debating and arguing about employment policy, we should not forget that these experts are assuming that there will be a substantial decline in the number of those employed in agriculture, if these proposals go through as they stand.
Madam President, there is widespread agreement in Parliament that we should have agricultural reform.
The question is whether we can agree on a reform which has the right balance, so that the agricultural sector does not end up carrying the heaviest load, and so that the burden in connection with the reform which will take place because of enlargement and the WTO negotiations is evenly distributed.
I would like to bring the attention of both the President-in-Office and the Commissioner to the fact that cereals are the most important element in controlling agricultural production.
If the price of cereals is low, this will result in over-production of animal products in the form of beef and veal, pigmeat, eggs and poultry, because the farmers will want to have compensation and everyone will exploit the low price of cereals.
Finally, Commissioner, a comment on the calculation showing that EUR 3-4 billion is being saved on the budget and that consumers are saving EUR 10-15 billion.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, 1999 will be a decisive year for the future of European agriculture.
In Agenda 2000 the Commission proposed a reduction in support prices, an increase in direct aid to producers, cofinancing by Member States, and so on, but it remained frustratingly silent about the increase in the production of agricultural products for non-food purposes, which is something I regret deeply.
I remain absolutely convinced that the European Union needs to create a development strategy for non-food agricultural products and that the Commission needs to include a specific section on such products in the CAP reform.
This is why, on behalf of the UPE Group, I have tabled three amendments along these lines, in the context of the Graefe zu Baringdorf report.
The support for large farmers and holdings must be drastically limited and the aid to family-based agriculture and small and medium-sized holdings must be significantly increased through positive and genuine modulation.
Furthermore, sufficient resources must be provided to finance a common policy which aims to include new countries struggling with the fall in prices and the American requirements in terms of the next WTO round of talks.
Finally, it must be reaffirmed here and now that the recent cofinancing proposal, that is, the recent proposed renationalisation of the costs, and only the costs, of the CAP, is not acceptable, neither in the light of solidarity nor on the basis of the Treaties.
The recent rejection of the proposed regulations in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is a sign which must be fully respected by the Commission and particularly by the Council.
Madam President, one of the intentions of CAP reform is to reduce support prices to bring them into line with the world market, in order to comply with international agreements.
Even US experts warned that full-blown liberalisation would threaten international agricultural commodities markets with the same fate as that of US farmers - a loss of income of 16 % - and advocated market stabilisation measures.
Thank you, Mrs Raschhofer.
VOTES Mr President, the text of the Treaty is perfectly clear.
But we are still hopeful of finally arranging a meeting with the Council so that we can work together on amendments which will enable the Council and Parliament to agree on a solution which both respects Parliament's prerogatives and guarantees the cultural quality of the cities chosen in 2005 and beyond.
Mr President, I should like to clarify two points in relation to this report.
The reference to Portugal in paragraph 2 should therefore be withdrawn.
Mr Sainjon, thank you for your explanations.
Mr President, I can confirm that approval of the Kittelmann amendment means for us the approval of paragraphs 20, 21 and 22.
I must add that for us the voluntary nature of the code de conduite is a crucial point.
Mr President, as regards paragraph 19, I should like to withdraw the Liberal Group's amendment in favour of Amendment No 9 by the PPE Group on condition that a phrase is added, namely 'for boys and girls' after the words 'career opportunities'.
We are withdrawing Amendment No 4 in favour of Amendment No 9, provided the words 'for boys and girls' are added to Amendment No 9.
We have decided not to support this report.
Pollack recommendation (A4-0483/98) Mr President, I would like to emphasise the importance of Mrs Pollack's report.
It is part of a general endeavour to improve air quality throughout the European Union.
I hope the Council of Ministers will also take Parliament's position seriously.
Ullmann report (A4-0507/98) Parliament underlined the importance of EU legislation in this area on 17 June 1998, in a resolution in which it argued that it was necessary to create a legal framework at European level to ensure mutual confidence in digital signatures and to promote the development of a number of certification schemes which could be used in various areas such as electronic shopping and electronic communications between government bodies and citizens.
The Commission's proposal for a directive on a common framework for electronic signatures is a positive measure and a major step in the right direction.
Elchlepp report (A4-0437/98) It is gratifying that negotiations with the applicant countries are progressing and that agreements are being reached on a country by country basis.
It was assumed that it would take approximately ten years for the applicant countries to complete the transformation from dictatorship and a planned economy to democracy and a market economy.
However, the political and economic pressures on these countries are enormous.
The financial crisis in Asia also changed the situation.
Unfortunately, we know that the euro is much more important to him than social well-being.
And his refusal to give Parliament an annual report on the situation in Korea simply means that we will never have the Commission's position in writing on this.
Brok report (A4-0488/98) Mr President, I abstained from the vote on the Brok report, not because I do not agree with most of his proposals; of course I do!
Indeed, this week I am more strongly than ever in favour of Parliament having a stronger influence over the Commission.
We must ensure that Parliament is no longer the Commission's slave but that instead the Commission - which must of course also be strong, but supported by Parliament - is monitored by a strong Parliament.
I am in favour of the strictest measures in the current crisis, perhaps going as far as a motion of censure.
Amendment No 2 is also more circumspect, pointing out that it would be wise for Member States' governments to take account of the outcome of the European elections when nominating the candidate for the presidency of the Commission.
It is therefore not right for the German Government to claim that it will start the process of nominating the next Commission at the Cologne European Council set for 3 June, before the European elections!
The method thus proposed allows the necessary involvement of the other relevant and pro-European political forces in the Commission by means of the Commissioners in important posts.
However, this method is the only way for the nomination and future appointment of the Commission to correspond to a genuine agreement - as specified in the Amsterdam Treaty - between the Council of Ministers and the Parliament directly elected by the people.
Parliament would surely gain in legitimacy - because the elections would have a higher turnout - and also in responsibility.
The Commission President would gain in authority in respect of the Commissioners and the governments.
This is essential in order to guarantee that the Commission is the independent body acting as the political driving force of the European Union and defining the Community interest, as is provided for in the Treaties.
The experience of the appointment and performance of the Santer Commission and the circumstances which caused this motion of censure demonstrate that realpolitik has not led in this case to satisfactory solutions, be it for the EU and its prestige, be it for the Member States and their citizens, or be it for the European Parliament and its irreplaceable role in the construction of a European democracy.
Since the beginning of my term of office as an MEP, I have met many European citizens who deplore the lack of democratic dialogue within the Community institutions and particularly within the European Commission.
The most frequent criticism relates to the European Commission's lack of direct democratic base, which is partly due to the more or less secret negotiations it holds and the balances it strikes without most of the electorate knowing.
Article 214 of the Amsterdam Treaty confers new powers on the European Parliament and brings the Commission's term of office into line with that of the European Parliament.
A more tangible Europe, and one which is closer to its citizens, has never seemed as realistic and feasible as it is now, thanks to the Brok report.
Last October, the President of the European Parliament in this House welcomed the new role conferred on the Commission by the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties, which according to him involve the Commission exercising political, legislative and budgetary management.
Today, through the Brok report, the Committee on Institutional Affairs takes over by trying to create new provisions in the Amsterdam Treaty, the 'catalyst for fundamental changes in Community interinstitutional relations'.
The new provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty are deliberately quite unclear, in line with the tried and tested federalist way.
In any case they have never been clearly explained to the citizens, as the debate currently taking place in France goes to show.
The legal basis is exploited for the good of the cause.
In particular, the 'political guidelines' evoked in Article 163 of the Treaty are, in the context of this Article, aimed at constituting the Commission's instrument of internal discipline and not an 'investiture programme'.
Furthermore, such a programme certainly does not exist under Article 158, which deals with the Commission's appointment.
In fact, despite its ambiguities, the Treaty leaves the Council the right of initiative in choosing the nominees for the Commissioners' posts and the power to finally appoint the new Commission (Article 158).
These provisions should also be viewed in the light of the Treaty as a whole, which leaves the Member States the most important role, both under Article D, which entrusts the European Council with responsibility for providing the Union with the necessary impetus and defining the general political guidelines thereof, and Article 145, which gives the Council the power to take decisions, coordinate economic policies, and confer implementing powers on the Commission.
Fraud is the natural outcome of poor European institutional planning.
Similarly, we are not avid supporters of each group in the European Parliament having its own candidate for the position of President of the Commission as part of the election campaign.
I voted against the report, because what the rapporteur is seeking goes much too far.
The Amsterdam Treaty gives the European Parliament greater powers in the appointment of the Commission President.
The President of the European Commission does not have to be elected on the basis of a political programme, since the Commission, as I say, is the executive arm of the Council and Parliament.
If the vote on the discharge for the 1996 budget is now considered to be in the past and if the vote of censure of the Commission is currently making a mockery of this parliamentary session, then the motion for a resolution currently being examined doubtless belongs to the future.
And thirdly, the Commission shall carry out its duties respecting the political guidelines as set out by its President.
It will be a tripolar structure which a priori may seem somewhat fragile, unstable even.
With the implementation of the Amsterdam Treaty, it is obvious that neither the Council nor Parliament will be capable of forming their executive body without first taking into account the position of the other.
In short, the main thrust behind the proposal put forward by Jacques Delors is, in my view, relevant.
My third point concerns the desire to better politicise relations between Parliament and the Commission and, in this connection, to reduce the Union's democratic deficit.
That said, it is absolutely vital that the reform of European institutions takes place within the context of future enlargement to include Central and Eastern Europe.
An enlarged Europe including some 20-25 members would be totally inefficient if it were to have a European Commission that comprised at least one Commissioner for each Member State.
The vital reform of the structure and composition of the Commission should therefore confer on it a legitimacy other than that conferred on it today through the national appointment of its members.
In any democratic state the government is formed as a result of ideologies that exist in representative assemblies which reproduce more or less faithfully the divisions existing in the society that elected them.
In an ever closer union, genuine democratic legitimacy will always be visible in this House which is elected by direct universal suffrage.
Implementing the report's proposals in this regard will constitute a further step forward in both Parliament's emancipation and in the democratic unification of the European continent.
The aim of this report was, among other things, to support the proposal put forward by the Jacques Delors 'Our Europe' foundation, which suggests that the appointment of the future President of the European Commission should be an issue in the next European elections.
Our proposal to make European elections more personal and more political by encouraging electors to participate in appointing the future President of the Commission was watered down in the Brok report to the point of being ridiculous.
In short, they are anxious to retain control over the appointment of the President of the Commission without any outside interference, be this from the electorate or from political parties.
If this continues we may end up with the following outcome regarding the future President of the Commission: on 3 and 4 June 1999, at the Cologne Summit, the German Presidency proposes to initiate the process of appointing a new Commission by nominating a President; -on 13 June 1999 the European elections take place.Henceforth electors will only have to record the result of 'in camera' negotiations of Heads of State and Government.
It is an attempt to turn the EU into a federation without giving Member States the chance either to discuss it or take a decision on it, and this I cannot accept.
We should like to point out that the Commission has never been regarded as independent, but as a joint decision-making body with Parliament and the Council.
In our view, the report goes too far in its interpretation of some of the provisions contained in the Amsterdam Treaty.
The report is also full of contradictions.
The report tackles some of the institutional problems that exist in the Union, above all from a democratic perspective.
The Commission, Parliament and the Council are institutions which can only work together thanks to the interinstitutional way in which they operate and the internal balance between them.
Although the governments of the Member States nominate the President and Members of the European Commission, the Treaties wisely put a counterweight to power, the motion of censure, in Parliament's hands.
On the other hand, if each political group were to put forward a candidate for the Presidency of the Commission, this candidate would actually become politically dependent on a particular political persuasion and would therefore not have the necessary independence.
What is more, this would lead to a tendency to create some support or opposition groups in Parliament which would in turn upset the free political game where all Members are part of the opposition from the outset and have no reason to support either the President or the Commissioners.
It defends the collegiate responsibility of the Commission and yet, at the same time, supports the possibility of calling for Members of the Commission to resign from office.
It is for this reason that the Presidency of the Council rotates, is restricted to six months and only plays a coordinating role.
Sainjon report (A4-0423/98) Globalisation offers more opportunities, but it also brings new dangers.
Using the ILO Declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work and other international minimum standards as a starting-point, a minimum code of conduct should be drawn up, to be ratified voluntarily by the European multinationals.
The Danish Social Democrats voted in favour of the report concerning the upholding of human rights in international trade.
Furthermore, the EU should ensure that a social clause based on ILO principles is incorporated into agreements with third countries.
The need to take the social dimension into account when liberalising international trade has, in the past, been evoked by those who in fact wish to increase protectionism in the industrialised world to the disadvantage of developing countries.
It has also said that it is willing to support the principle of a more in-depth dialogue on this issue, within the multilateral framework of the WTO.
Even if it contains several inappropriate comparisons, for example, regarding child labour in the United Kingdom, which are based on unsubstantiated information (school children or students who do a morning paper round cannot be considered in the same light as those who work 12 hours a day making carpets), the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations has nonetheless decided to vote in favour of Mr Sainjon's report.
The suggestion put to the Commission to intervene in WTO decision-making procedures to ensure that respect for minimum social standards by the applicant countries is upheld as a criterion for admission is also very positive.
It is in fact clear that the decisive level for action in this area as in many others is global and not European.
The European Union and the Member States must therefore work at global level to promote the need for binding measures to put an end to both unacceptable working conditions and the phenomenon of distortion of competition linked to social dumping which has a direct effect on European companies and jobs.
The increasing liberalisation of world trade has shown that this area of human activity cannot do without standards and values either.
Danesin report (A4-0372/98) Since 1996, in discussions about the common transport policy action programme for 1995-2000, Parliament has considered using private capital to fund TENs.
Although the concept of the public-private partnership has the support of high-priority projects, there is doubtless great interest in smaller-scale infrastructure projects which are also 'of major potential value at local or regional level' (paragraph 17 of the resolution).
Jarzembowski report (A4-0375/98) The port sector handles more than 90 % of the Union's trade with third countries and approximately 30 % of intra-Community traffic, as well as more than 200 million passengers every year.
Similarly, it must not be forgotten that ports constitute a crucial factor within the regional economy, particularly in the peripheral and ultraperipheral maritime regions of the Union.
The European Commission's Green Paper has the advantage of initiating a broad debate with all the parties involved (port authorities, sea transporters, freight forwarders, Member States) on the opportunities for improving the infrastructure and economic efficiency of European ports.
I welcome the fact that the House has had the opportunity to participate in the debate and, as an elected representative from a large port city in the south of France, I should like to make two comments.
Nonetheless, a large number of installations, services and undertakings in sea ports can be classed under this category.
The key role that ports play in local employment should not be undermined.
In our opinion, the ports constitute a fundamental part of the European and trans-European transport networks, not only in terms of European competitiveness in the world economy, but also for intra-Community traffic and for the integrated development of the whole European territory.
The French lorry-drivers' strike, for example, paralysed a large part of the economy of several regions, and this is a warning that Europe needs transport alternatives based particularly on sea and rail transport.
Every port must retain its autonomy.-Finally, the success of a port depends partly on the economic and fiscal policy of the country in question.
The economic importance of European sea ports lies in the fact that more than 90 % of Member States' trade with third countries and almost 30 % of intra-Community trade is handled by them.
However, it must be stressed that Member States' ports differ in terms of ownership as well as in their organisational and administrative structure.
This structural complexity generates a considerable number of problems when it comes to analysing the differences in aid to be given so that the level of fairness in competitive terms can be gauged.
Our group endorses all the points contained in the Committee on Transport's resolution.
The Green Paper we are debating gives notice of specific legislative proposals, such as a proposed directive on port dues, a regulatory framework for the liberalisation of the port services market, facilitating the participation of private capital in port activities, the adoption of uniform pricing principles, etc., supposedly to improve the 'competitiveness' of ports, whereas in reality it promotes cost cutting and increased profits for private capital with major adverse consequences for society as a whole, on the pretext that there are prospects for the further development of international trade, for increasing European exports and for intensifying competition against other major ports outside Europe.
The Commission is ignoring the fact that besides purely commercial transit functions, ports and port authorities provide very important services related to monitoring the implementation of safety requirements, carrying out surveys and reviews, exercising supervisory and administrative responsibilities, for example in the context of implementing the principle that ports should be controlled by the state, and social services to the benefit of the coastal and island regions they serve.
The cost, of course, will not be borne by the shipowners who have been pushing in that direction, but will emerge in the end price, in other words the price paid by the travelling public and in consumer prices for goods.
Finally, as regards the inclusion of ports in the trans-European transport networks, we wish to stress that the said inclusion is not intended to secure Community resources for their development, but to impose the involvement of major capital in that sector.
Workers in my country and in other countries too are already disturbed by these proposals, which some governments are already trying to implement by amending their national legislative framework.
Langenhagen report (A4-0413/98) The Commission's proposal for an EU strategy for Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) deserves the full support of Parliament.
With a world market for GNSS estimated to be worth EUR 50 billion in 2005, it is clear that a European strategy must be given high priority.
The action plan proposed by the Commission represents a practical step towards developing a civil multimodal system, fully integrated into the trans-European transport and telecommunications networks.
Everything must be put in place to enable Europe's Member States to gain a leading position in this highly competitive satellite market which is at present dominated by the United States.
A large number of amendments tabled to the reports we are discussing today sadly demonstrate that some political groups in this House are more interested in short-term political advantage in the run-up to the European elections, than in achieving realistic reforms to create an agriculture policy appropriate for a Europe of 20 to 25 countries in the 21st century, operating in a global economy and subject to World Trade Organisation rules.
The tough negotiations taking place here in both the Council and Parliament are proof enough of this.
I am particularly concerned about the COM in beef and veal and about extensive production systems in general.
The difficulty of managing this reform is further complicated by the milk reform and other general measures.
Mr President, today we are in the home stretch for the completion of approval for the part of Agenda 2000 which relates to the common agricultural policy - I would say its most important part, given the importance of the agricultural sector at many levels and its multi-functional character, let alone the extent to which the agricultural guideline plays a part in the Community's budget.
The proposed regulations for financing the markets for beef, cereals, dairy products and the direct support systems constitute a substantial package which relates to the rules and procedures for financing the common agricultural policy, while in parallel it concerns three common organisations of markets which absorb most of the agricultural guideline.
The addition of new actions to the EAGGF's field of intervention in the Guarantee Section, especially the measures concerning the development of the countryside and pre-accession aid to the applicant countries, raises serious questions about whether it will be possible to finance those policies in the future in parallel with expenditure related to the COMs, given the resources available.
A second but very important problem will be created by the proposal to introduce a cofinancing system for direct income subsidies by the Member States.
Commissioner, if cofinancing is adopted under pressure from the Member States who regard themselves as net contributors to the Community's budget, this will clearly be a first step towards renationalising the CAP and will act as a catalyst to exacerbate inequalities and nullify progress towards economic and social cohesion within the framework of the Union.
The attempt to renationalise the CAP is at the same time an attempt to call into question the fundamental principle of financial solidarity upon which the European Union's only common policy so far has been based.
The general comment concerns the need to increase support for small producers and for producers in mountain and disadvantaged areas.
The problem is not just a recent one, it began after the 1992 distribution and, unfortunately, though the Commission claims that it is trying to eliminate or mitigate the inequalities between products from different countries and areas, where milk is concerned it is causing this really distressing situation in Greece to continue.
I want to highlight four priorities with regard to the CAP reform, which were actually contained in the report approved last June.
The proposals of 15 % for beef and veal and 10 % for milk and milk products presented by this House seem more acceptable than those of 30 % and 15 %, respectively, presented by the Commission.
The reduction of 0 % approved by Parliament for cereals seems unrealistic.
The second priority is that it is essential for every effort to be made to achieve the internal rebalancing of the CAP by strengthening its second pillar and particularly by strengthening structural policy, agri-environmental and agri-forestry measures, special aid to disadvantaged areas, support for quality products and, in general, economic diversification and rural development.
The third priority is that it is necessary to avoid an uninformed decision in terms of the criteria for establishing different types of quota, premium rights or reference surface areas.
Finally, I want to say that the option of renationalising 25 % of the CAP financing is a matter for debate which must not be considered within this reform.
I would remind him that yesterday in this House, his colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, said that one of the main reasons for reforming the common agricultural policy was to reduce the expenditure of the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, Parliament deserves no bouquets for its failure to reach a compromise on a number of dossiers.
So I found it particularly interesting to hear Mr Santer saying this morning in his first speech that he was very sorry that Parliament had not welcomed a partial renationalisation of income support or national budgets.
We have been too prone to see European agriculture as the producing of food in a way we have been accustomed to for years.
No decision was reached about own resources, nor about the way to divide the cost of enlargement.
The important decisions were left for March in Brussels, and there is no Council position on how much of the cost of enlargement is to be borne by Europe's citizens.
Let us also remember that in the last two Community budgets the upper limit of own resources never rose above 1.15 %, while a limit of 0.4 % of GDP has also been set for the Structural Funds.
This cofinancing for agriculture is really tantamount to partial renationalisation, indeed up to a significant level of 24 to 25 % in accordance with the third solution in the Commission's report.
The proportion of cofinancing must be related to the level of economic strength of the Member State concerned, and in that case special attention must also be devoted to agricultural products in which the European Union is deficient.
We support the 'fair assumptions' on which the rapporteur at least wishes cofinancing to be determined, but we disagree with the choice of Article 43 of the Treaty as the decision-making procedure to be followed.
We favour Article 209, granted that what is involved is a financial amendment which requires unanimity in the Council, and we oppose partial renationalisation and the introduction of a generalised structural mechanism.
Now, as regards the reform of the CAP, we call for equal treatment for Mediterranean products and full compensation for loss of agricultural income by direct aid, especially for small producers and disadvantaged regions.
In that sense, I think we are rapidly moving towards worsening conditions governing the exercise of agricultural policy, which ought not to abandon agricultural production and the countryside to the dictates of the free market, but should take into account demographic and environmental factors and the danger that large areas of agricultural production may be deserted.
I wish to express our complete opposition to any attempt to use financing provisions to renationalise the common agricultural policy in any way, which would be particularly intolerable for countries with the weakest national budgets and financial means, and also to express my opposition to two major imbalances: firstly, between products from the north and the south, and secondly, between large and small producers.
It is not right that a few Members and the Commission are speaking on behalf of farmers.
Under this policy, just 2.5 % of the population will still have links with the rural world.
I will only mention three specific major points and three minor points.
As regards the major points, I should like to discuss the innovative aspect of Agenda 2000 regarding rural development.
Therefore, the main objective in agricultural policy, Commissioner, must be to support the population in the rural environment and here there are two major problems: that of young people, and that of supporting women in the rural environment.
As for the minor points, I cannot forget a few long-standing problems.
Mr President, the common agricultural policy, which was set up in the 1950s when there were only six Member States, is now facing change.
Everyone, or virtually everyone, recognises that this policy is not equipped for an enlargement which means that the Union is going to consist of more than 20 countries.
I believe in fact that people should be aware that the process which will be started by Agenda 2000 will lead to more and more liberalisation in the agricultural sector.
We Danish Social Democrats are very happy with the Commission's proposal, and we think it is a necessary change both in view of the WTO agreements and also because of the enlargement project and the whole financing situation we are in.
We therefore have to find a solution which can be implemented, and we also have to respect the time factor.
Mr President, I agree with those colleagues who are concerned that the very valuable debate being conducted on Agenda 2000 might result in low-profile conclusions in terms of CAP reform.
Our reforms must continue to use the common policy as a social tool.
There is merit in the proposal for area payments.
We must not build a huge bureaucracy living off the back of small farmers.
I would now like to discuss two points contained in the Graefe zu Baringdorf report.
Where services rendered by farmers with a view to preserving the agricultural environment go beyond good farming practice, special payment should be given, for example within the framework of Regulation 20/78.
The second point I would like to discuss concerns the employment situation in rural areas.
Mr President, I also wish to welcome the President-in-Office of the Council.
I do not want to reiterate what has already been said today but I should like to mention to the President-in-Office one of the points he mentioned: the WTO.
I have long argued within the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development that it is important that Agenda 2000 and WTO dovetail together.
I just qualify as being under 55 - I am not quite sure whether that also applies to the Committee on Agriculture.
I should like to air one or two things which have already been said.
There are three main issues in British agriculture which worry us.
We have seen a 40 % fall this last year in our income and yet we talk about such things as national envelopes and a renationalisation of the common agricultural policy, which strikes fear into people's hearts in the United Kingdom because it allows governments to control the spending on agriculture.
One of my colleagues mentioned modulation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the success of the Agenda 2000 negotiations is closely linked to success in all parts of the Agenda, in other words to a compromise that we must all accept.
It is obvious that proper financial regulations are not possible without appropriate changes in agriculture, the area that accounts for almost 50 % of the European budget.
President Santer rightly pointed out that the negotiations on the future financing of the budget represent one of the key elements of the Agenda 2000 negotiations.
Awareness of the need for reforms, as proposed by the Commission, will increase rapidly in the Member States if in future the Ministers for Agriculture have to fight with their Ministers for Finance for part of the funding.
The proposed cofinancing is not in fact a means of solving net contributor problems but instead will play a crucial role in restoring the balance between market policy and income policy on the one hand and structural policy in rural areas on the other.
Mr President, the common agricultural policy must manage and control agriculture all the way from Sicily to Utsjoki, in countries that have totally different natural conditions.
One of the many problems with the Agenda 2000 agricultural reform is the plan to turn grain policy upside down.
The reduction in the administrative intervention price of grain proposed by the Commission is a problem.
At the same time the Commission is proposing that only half the reduction in the administrative price should be paid back in compensation.
Grain production in the areas that are classed as peripheral in Finland is now very unprofitable, so that any reduction in price would cause production to suffer even further.
Preserving the model of the family-run farm is dependent on the political will of the European Union.
If we can put our trust in the future of European agricultural production and unanimously take the necessary decisions, Europe will have a vital, diverse food and agriculture industry for the next millennium.
In contrast, other Member States receive considerable increases in quotas that they neither need nor have ever requested.
There is no explanation for the fact that a Spanish livestock farmer can produce milk with an average fat content of only 3.63 % and yet, in contrast, a Danish livestock farmer is allowed to produce milk with a 4.31 % fat content.
All this, as you know, has serious consequences, not only for profits but also for the quality and viability of farms.
Perhaps, Commissioner, an interim solution would be to allow all dairy production with an average fat content reference quantity under 4 % to be exempt and not subject to an additional levy.
Mr President, Commissioner, regardless of the outcome of the vote on the Agenda 2000 agricultural package and of the decision taken in the end by the Council of Ministers, I think it is clear that we expect - and must expect - European farmers to undergo enormous changes.
For the majority of farmers in Europe - and these are the smaller farmers - the package of reforms is a step in the right direction, even if it is often lacking in vigour and is not sufficiently binding in terms of environmental and social criteria for aid.
Members of Parliament have now even received euro key-fobs from the Commission.
It would be much more important to launch a campaign to support farmers not only with practical matters such as adapting facilities and adjusting to change, but to lend them what we could perhaps call moral support.
A reduction in prices to world market levels for milk, beef and cereals has been proposed.
In some cases, Parliament is proposing lower price reductions and thus lower fixed compensatory payments.
In the debate, it has been said that 20 % of farmers would receive 80 % of the support, but in fact most farmers come within the 20 % band.
Mr President, I should like to begin by expressing my regret that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was unable to come to any opinion on these reports in committee.
However, sadly, the vision of many of my colleagues in the Agriculture Committee appears to be one of national interests and not the global view that has been expressed by the Commission.
The reductions in support prices envisaged by the Commission are not only desirable but vital in the light of expansion and our WTO commitments, not to mention the legitimate concerns of those who have levelled criticism at the level of support enjoyed by this sector.
I have doubts as to whether the proposals will meet the objective of lowering the cost of agricultural products to consumers, but I sincerely hope that the Commission's forecasts are correct.
In conclusion, we need reform.
I hope that my colleagues can be realistic in their voting pattern on 28 January and ensure that at least, at minimum, the Commission's proposals will be accepted.
The common agricultural policy is a cornerstone of the Union's European integration and an incentive towards development in the agricultural sector.
The possibility of cofinancing will in essence lead to renationalisation of the CAP, even in part, and will affect mainly those countries which fall below the Community average in economic terms, such as Greece and other countries in the south, while in parallel it will have negative consequences for the development of Community agriculture.
Finally, I disagree with the proposal for pre-accession financing of agricultural measures in the applicant countries from the Guarantee Section, and I support the entry of a separate category of pre-accession aid, one that is independent of the guideline for agriculture.
A second reason for dissatisfaction comes from the work which we have done - or rather, I should say, have not done - in Parliament, in that only one of the five reports under discussion was approved in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
It has to be said, all things considered, that the scope of these proposals is very broad, in a territorial sense as well as time-wise.
Reference is made to a target date of 2006, but the effect of this attempted reform will probably last even longer.
What is perhaps missing, Commissioner, is a little more attention to people, to farmers themselves, who are still somewhat unprepared for all these developments.
Farmers are in fact a dying breed, Commissioner, given that 3 % of them are lost every year.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of important events, it seems that everyone wants to have their say on agriculture today.
Compensatory payments, introduced in the 1992 reform, are almost always really only partial compensation for losses incurred by farmers in the past and still today as a result of price reductions.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, in the two minutes I have been allocated in this important debate I will merely state clearly, in view of the significance of the present reform proposals for the existence of European agriculture, that these proposals could have unreasonable consequences for agriculture and for the European economy and society as a whole.
They are therefore not acceptable unless they are amended as my group has recommended.
I would remind you that, following the exploratory debate by the Ministers of Agriculture on the European agriculture model, the EU Agriculture Council on 19 November 1997 unanimously requested that the agricultural reforms should be organised in such a way as to allow the European agriculture model to be maintained.
In my small country the proposals in their present form would result in income losses of LUF 650 million, and would of course mean that agriculture would, quite unreasonably, be dependent on public finance.
However, the proposals as presented by Mr Goepel are the absolute minimum if we wish to prevent milk production from disappearing in many European regions.
I fear, Commissioner Fischler, that it is a naive fallacy if you would have us believe that the drastic price reductions you propose, which are so damaging to farmers, would allow consumers to enjoy price reductions in the order of EUR 10 to 17 billion.
The structural deficiency of the sector in these regions has led us to ask that premiums be allocated not in relation to the average Community milk production, as the Commission suggests, but rather in relation to the actual national or regional average, which is very different to the virtual Community production.
The 1992 reform introduced direct payments for farmers as a result of a price reduction.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that everyone wants to have their say today.
Seldom have such great expectations been held of an EU presidency as of the German Presidency in the first half of 1999.
Bringing Agenda 2000 to a successful conclusion is almost equivalent to squaring the circle.
But to achieve the same result with less and less money is, in my view, a very difficult task.
Perhaps this reform is the last available.
In twenty years of professional involvement in agricultural policy I have never seen consumer prices fall as a result of lower agricultural prices.
Then we will be in agreement.
I was a bit disappointed that the President-in-Office of Council talked more about animal welfare, environmental considerations and consumer protection than about the livelihood of farmers.
Farmers may complain about the common agricultural policy, but without it we would have a worse situation in Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to concentrate mainly on two areas: milk and beef.
Examples include the important alternative proposals concerning price support and income support for milk producers, particularly in the disadvantaged mountain areas.
Finally, in my opinion the Member States should be paid in accordance with objective criteria, taking particular account of their respective production structures, especially in the mountain areas, so that they are not so dependent on variations in the market.
Action needs to be taken in this regard, as Commissioner Fischler said earlier today.
I already indicated in my introductory speech this morning that I place great importance on hearing your opinions and taking part in discussions with you.
But because it is such a crucial one, I would like to quote it here once again to show that it was not the case that I completely neglected this aspect of agriculture.
In total, if we include the applicant countries, we will have a large number of consumers throughout Europe who can mobilise enormous purchasing power.
On the other hand, if European agriculture produces under very specific requirements - whether crop or livestock production - because society demands it, but the agricultural systems in other competing countries do not do so because their societies react differently to certain production conditions, then both compensatory payments and a minimum level of protection from foreign competitors must be guaranteed.
But it does not relieve farmers of the business decision; it does not relieve me, as a manager, of the responsibility of taking the necessary decisions in my company to ensure its long-term existence in the light of the current conditions.
With regard to the view that we should perhaps nationalise the financing of the agricultural policy, which means that we would only receive money from Europe if we had organised national funds in advance or were obliged to organise these funds subsequently, forgive me for saying so, but I think that would be the end of a Community agricultural policy.
The Minister did not give me any information on this subject and he did not answer me, but I asked him if the German Presidency had changed from its traditional position.
I do not know what the Foreign Minister said on this point, but if he thinks, as I understand it, that we can reduce expenditure without saying how and in what area it is to be done, then I would be inclined to say that just as I would come to an agreement with the Foreign Minister before expressing an opinion on foreign affairs, so should the Foreign Minister come to an agreement with the Minister for Agriculture before expressing an opinion on agricultural issues.
I do not have sufficient information to speak for the other Member States of the European Union, but I can speak for Germany and for its Länder: it makes almost no difference - please note that I say 'almost' - what instruments we use in agricultural policy or what we focus on, we have had an average drop-out rate of 3 % in farming in the last 50 years since the end of the war.
Note: the last 50 years.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to thank all those who contributed to this debate.
On the many questions concerning specific amendments, I will repeat what I said this morning, which was that I am prepared to distribute a list clarifying which amendments the Commission considers acceptable.
Firstly, our products must be competitive, and they can only be competitive if we pay greater attention to quality that we have hitherto, if we realise and act upon our consumers' new appreciation for quality, and above all if we take into account the strength of European agriculture, which, as we know, lies in using agricultural raw materials to produce high-quality end products.
However, competitiveness in European agriculture also means that services other than the production of agricultural products must be accorded economic value and must be integrated into our market economy system.
That would really be a mistake.
The question here is surely how we are in future to achieve a reasonable ratio, so that we do not have an imbalance like the present famous 80: 20.
With regard to environmental policy, I would like to remind you once again of the principle on which we in the Commission based our considerations.
This means that the more we push forward rural development and the more importance we attach to payment for environmental services and similar, the more likely it is that cofinancing will become automatic, but in a form that does not allow cohesion to fall by the wayside.
The vote will take place on 28 January at 9 a.m.
It does not take 15 years to reduce the number of chickens in a building.
I am aware of what is at stake economically in connection with consumers' recent interest in this sector of production in the European Union, and also in connection with potential future exports.
I also want to put them on their guard about the fact that the application of a complete regulation is being delayed even further, with the risk that the European Union - a pioneer in this field - might have only have to meet the general standards of the codex alimentarius , its text being currently under discussion, with all that that also involves in terms of the actual nature of imports from third countries.
As in other agricultural sectors, the lack of a strong common proposal threatens to weaken the Union later on in the World Trade Organisation, because we know the debate is going on in the United States to try to impose GMOs, the use of urban sludge, irradiation of foodstuffs, and even natural hormones on organic farming.
All this is very different from our European conception of this sector.
As a result, I call on the Commission to stand by its proposal, and even withdraw it if it is being excessively distorted by the Council.
And I am also very hopeful when I call on the Council to have another in-depth look at this proposal, in the knowledge that we are, of course, in agreement with its proposal of last December, which lays down the principles of organic breeding.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Barthet-Mayer, we dealt with this issue in the Agriculture Council of 14-15 December and, as you know, agreed on guidelines, but we also urged that it should be adopted as soon as possible in the spring of this year, in accordance with your wishes, as the Council also saw the need for speedy adoption.
Certain amendments were proposed in order to solve this problem.
They concern in particular the tethering of animals and requirements in terms of the lying area and litter area that should be provided for each animal.
With regard to future action I would simply like to clarify that the Commission is of course prepared to defend its proposal and if necessary to justify why certain exceptions are necessary on a temporary basis.
All this - you know that I defend the Commission and also the Council on all important issues - fell victim to propaganda in my home town during the election.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, organic farmers have often been depicted as outsiders, and I believe that if this continues they will continue to be outsiders.
In Austria we have learned that almost 20 % of current production comes from areas of organic production.
But that is not the issue here.
Mr President, the history of the regulation on organic farming began in 1992.
The Council requires a unanimous vote to reject this modified proposal containing Parliament's amendments, if the Commission keeps to its proposal.
With the codex alimentarius due to determine the rules relating to production, labelling and marketing of organic products as from the end of June 1999, the Union needs to adopt a clear position that incorporates strict standards.
Finally, as regards labelling, our group is opposed to the harmonised European logo for organic products that some people want.
American consumers have succeeded in getting this proposal withdrawn and our group welcomes that fact.
The socialists are the leading accomplices of this system: in France, for instance, they only grant FRF 100 per farm per year for conversion to organic farming.
For the leading agricultural nation in Europe, faced with the challenge of a rapidly expanding market, this is ridiculous.
Mr President, I would like briefly to answer two questions.
I have received eight motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to Rule 40(5).
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Question No 2 by Inger Schörling (H-1236/98) Subject: ECHELON One of the subjects discussed during a debate in Parliament on 14 September was the ECHELON surveillance system.
The relevant Council bodies are currently dealing with a draft Council resolution on new technologies which is clearly connected with both the Council Resolution of 17 January 1995 on the lawful interception of telecommunications, and the discussions on the interception of telecommunications within the framework of the Draft Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union.
The requirements of the competent authorities with regard to the technical implementation of lawful interceptions in modern telecommunications systems are summarised in the 1995 resolution.
The 1995 resolution is applied in principle to current and future telecommunications systems.
Moreover, the issues concerned are of a highly complex technical nature.
At its meeting on 3 and 4 December 1998, the Council examined the most difficult political issues.
A broad majority of Member States took the view that the country in which the target is located should be informed in these cases and should be in a position to demand that it is not monitored, or that it ceases to be monitored.
Parliament should be informed, Member States should open up this discussion so that people in the Member States know what is going on before it is too late.
The first concerns the 1995 resolution on the lawful interception of telecommunications.
The European Council has also asked all Member States to participate fully in helping to achieve, on the basis of solidarity and careful budgetary management, a fair and balanced outcome that is acceptable to all.
Mr President, Mr Alavanos, the situation is such that all proposals which were made by both the Commission and the Member States during the discussions up to now are still on the negotiating table.
This does not mean that the package which is to be adopted as a final compromise will include everything that is currently on the negotiating table, but that all proposals which the Commission has made, and which have in the meantime come from the Member States, are part of the negotiations which the presidency is currently holding.
Moreover, I can assure you that solidarity in financing the European Union and making decisions on the European Union's budget is a matter which is of crucial importance for the German Presidency in particular.
As soon as all the instruments of ratification have been deposited in Rome, the treaty and the protocols in the annex, which constitute an integral part of the treaty, will enter into force on the first day of the second month following the deposit of the final ratification instrument.
Mrs Spaak, this last sentence was so incomprehensible even in my own language that I should prefer to clarify it.
At the Vienna European Council on 11 and 12 December, it was agreed that the ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty still constitutes our first priority.
When it meets in Cologne the Council will decide when and how to tackle the institutional problems which are not resolved in the treaty, and which must be resolved before enlargement takes place.
The important question which you raised, Mrs Spaak, must be considered in this context.
Moreover, the Council would point out that, until now, there has been no formal confirmation of the date on which the current accession negotiations with the applicant countries will be brought to a close.
As regards the question on Article 189, formerly Article 137 of the consolidated treaties, it should be noted that the number of 700 Members of the European Parliament from the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty is valid for the number of Member States in the Union at that time.
The Council has not yet dealt specifically with the proposals you mentioned, but has merely discussed the question of how the unresolved institutional problems are to be tackled.
The Polish Government has indicated that it believes it will be ready for accession in January 2003.
As you know, there are altogether 31 packages for negotiation.
To answer this question very precisely, I do not believe that we will be in a position where the negotiations on accession have been concluded, but the European Union is not ready for enlargement because the institutional issues have not been resolved.
Could the Council give me some indication of the composition and the activities to date of this Council group, as well as an insight into the further priorities of the German Presidency in this field?
Experts within the Council group on police cooperation are dealing with crime in European cities.
In the last year, Mr Voggenhuber, Mrs McCarthy, Mr Schiedermeier, Mrs Pack and many others have been attacked in Brussels.
My office carried out a survey of 300 offices in the European Parliament; over a third of them reported an incidence of criminal assault in Brussels within the last year.
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer these two questions together.
The conclusions read as follows: With regard to the decision taken in 1991 on duty-free sales for travellers between the Member States, the European Council has asked the Commission and the ECOFIN Council to examine by March 1999 the problems which may arise with regard to employment and, on the basis of proposals from the Commission, to look at how these problems can be dealt with, including the possibility of extending the transitional provisions for a limited period.
Mr President, Mrs Moreau, as you can imagine, the opinion of Mr Schröder, the President of the Council, is well known to me.
Mr President, at the start of this afternoon's sitting, I asked for the list of the 27 cases referred to UCLAF so that Parliament could deliver an informed opinion tomorrow.
I would ask you as President to take the necessary steps to procure this information for Parliament before we vote.
Thank you very much, Mrs Maes.
I should like to underline the words of the President-in-Office when he emphasised that the Vienna European Council spoke only of a possible extension of the duty-free regime and said that this would be for a limited period of time.
I would like the Council to pay due attention to those two conditions.
The Council is aware that opinions on this issue vary a great deal both in the Member States and in Parliament.
This directive has been in force since 1 May 1992, and Articles 20 to 28 in Chapter 3 include provisions for imports from third countries.
There is also a 1972 poultry meat directive which makes EU and UK producers equally uncompetitive.
I just want an assurance from the Council of Ministers tonight that it is not its intention to put our own poultry producers out of business.
It was because the Burmese Government did not respond to this demand, nor to the Union's appeal to the SPDC to promote democracy and national reconciliation, that on 26 December 1998 the Council reformulated its common position on Burma, extending its scope and expressing it in stronger terms.
I thank the President-in-Office for his reply.
He is quite right to say that the Council has been consistent in its opposition to the regime in Burma.
I would ask him to consider, during the German presidency, putting this matter either on the informal Foreign Ministers' meeting or on the Heads of State agenda so that we can look at further measures for tackling this regime.
The aim of promoting the European Union's clear position on human rights and human rights issues in the area of international relations and wherever possible, to not only convey our concern regarding human rights issues, but also to take action to remedy the situation, is an absolute priority for our presidency.
Arising from the reply from the President-in-Office, would he consider requesting a proposal from the Commission on this important matter?
Question No 13 by Liam Hyland (H-1207/98) Subject: Reversing rural depopulation Does the President-in-Office of the Council consider that the extent of rural depopulation is a cause for serious concern at the level of the European Union and that a comprehensive strategy to safeguard the common agricultural policy and promote new rural development policies should be considered as an essential way of reversing this decline?
Finally, does he agree that rural development policy will not achieve its full potential in isolation from integrated regional policy?
I firmly believe that we will manage to target European Union funds in the area of regional and structural policy even more efficiently on this objective, not least within the framework of the reforms which are being carried out under Agenda 2000.
Moreover, I am firmly convinced that the reform proposals which are under discussion within the framework of Agenda 2000 will considerably improve the quality of life in the countryside as well.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
As the author is not present, Question No 14 lapses.
Mr Gallagher will be aware that in view of the whole background to these discussions - that is, Agenda 2000 - decisions on these issues are being taken on a comprehensive basis.
These decisions will include the future status of regions in the Community from the point of view of their classification according to different objectives and the corresponding financial support provided by the Community in the area of structural measures.
At the same time, the Council would point out that Ireland will continue to enjoy the Community support it currently receives until the end of the next programming period under a phasing out arrangement, no matter what the outcome of these decisions.
It is therefore obvious that these accession negotiations do not involve negotiating mutual concessions, but rather guaranteeing that the applicant countries adopt all of the acquis communautaire , and are also in a position to transpose it effectively.
The Union will analyse these positions and prepare its response in the first half of 1999.
As usual, the Commission will make a proposal for a common position to the Council, and the Council will establish the Union's common position for the negotiations.
In short I presume it can be said that, in the negotiations, any applicant country will have to comply with existing criteria, and that any transitional arrangements will have to be limited.
In the regions and the coastal area of our country, an island state, we have no alternative source of employment.
We will deal with the Irish case in the review of the common fisheries policy, but other small states should learn from the serious situation in Ireland, as a result of fisheries not being treated on the same level as agriculture or indeed industry.
Reference was made to the Structural Funds, and I should like to ask the President-in-Office whether he believes that Ireland will qualify for the transitional arrangements.
Also, your country, Ireland, is participating in the accession conference and has every possibility to raise the national and supranational viewpoints you have described during the negotiations.
I should like to thank Mr Gallagher for the question and the President- in-Office for the very positive response.
As you are a new and fresh man in this particular position, may I also remind you, concerning the question of conservation, that somewhere in a cupboard in the Council or the Commission there is a very important scientific report concerning seals and the living resources in the North Sea.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
As the author is not present, Question No 16 lapses.
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Crowley's question.
Moreover, the German Presidency will take an initiative under criminal law against fraudulent activity in awarding contracts in the internal market.
The presidency will arrange initiatives which will make it possible for the Council to closely examine to what extent and in which priority areas some form of approximation or harmonisation of the Member States' laws could help to fight organised crime.
Europol will take up its duties on the basis of a mandate which in the end was extended to include terrorism and certain aspects of trade in human beings.
In addition, great importance is attached to the development of a strategy for the period following 1999, under which measures to reduce demand will play an important role.
This role was confirmed at both the recent meeting of the United Nations General Assembly and the conference which followed it in Vienna in December 1998.
What we want to hear from the President-in-Office to day are specific measures for a common European strategy to save the future generation from dying from the effects of drug abuse.
It is naturally also a joint task which we should tackle - as far as possible - within the framework of the European Union.
Mr President, please excuse the fact that this answer will also be relatively long, because it is a very complex issue.
The work of the conference in Stuttgart will therefore cover all three chapters of the partnership.
As in the case of the second ministerial conference, the Council expects a Commission communication this time as well; this should be available at the beginning of March, and will serve as the basis for establishing the EU's position for the conference in Stuttgart.
Close cooperation with our Mediterranean partners will continue to be necessary in order to guarantee a successful outcome at the conference.
Within the framework of the economic and financial partnership, particular importance should be attached to the work carried out by government experts on economic transition and the overall view, which covers issues of free trade and the effects of economic transition in the region in accordance with the conclusions of La Valetta.
Moreover, the Euro-Mediterranean Conference on regional cooperation, which is being held on 28 and 29 January in Valencia, will prepare for the discussion of various aspects of regional cooperation at the conference in Stuttgart.
The EU's programme for these discussions will essentially be based on the Council's conclusions concerning the Communication from the Commission on the Euro-Mediterranean partnership and the single market.
At the ad hoc ministerial meeting in Palermo on 3 and 4 June 1998, an integrated approach for regional stability was adopted, and it was made clear that we need to devise a common understanding of the factors which can, according to general consensus, contribute to a regional stability programme of this kind.
With this in mind, the Council will work to ensure that greater attention is paid to human rights and fundamental freedoms as crucial elements of security in the region.
The Council will work energetically towards the adoption of the charter which I have referred to.
The conference in Stuttgart could give a lasting impetus that allows us to move a little bit closer to achieving this objective.
It seemed as if the President-in-Office was talking and was saying something, but in fact, he said absolutely nothing.
How are you going to safeguard the right to life of the dying rural population in Algeria - where 20 people died today, 20 yesterday and 40 the day before that - if the Council of the European Union does not take the hint, not even to say that it will take some action?
However, I would ask you to understand that I must report the positions which are supported by 15 countries.
Such an answer does not reflect the capabilities or intentions of the presidency; it reflects the state of affairs in the European Union in the area of foreign and security policy.
It is merely in a position to exert an influence - by continuing the intensive political dialogue which has already been started with Algeria - on the improvement of relations with regard to democracy, human rights, rule of law, and fair social development.
I can assure you that the German Presidency will work towards this in this dialogue.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentleman, we have reached the end of, and indeed gone beyond, the time set aside for questions to the Council.
Questions Nos 12 and 19 to 29 will receive written answers.
We are talking about 2.6 % of public spending in national budgets which, compared with the Community's own budget, is even higher.
It is obvious that the resources available to the Commission to carry out such controls on each situation where aid is granted or on each aid scheme are clearly inadequate.
To this end, the Council adopted a financial regulation in November 1997 which allowed the Commission to exempt the Member States from declaring certain categories of aid, such as for small and medium-sized enterprises, for research and development, regional aid, aid for employment, aid for training, and so on.
The Commission's proposal for a regulation that we are considering today is the second stage of this reorientation which the Commission's new direction is based upon.
With this very objective in mind, the rapporteur has suggested three amendments to the text which the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has adopted and which simply seek to strengthen the guarantees of transparency and legal certainty and to eliminate some aspects of the proposal which we believe to be of a discretional nature.
Regarding the fiscal aid that the Commission has tolerated up to now, I would heavily criticise the Commission decision published in the Official Journal of 18 December last year, which classifies Ireland's extremely low corporation tax that applies only to foreign undertakings as aid for exploitation and distortion of competition, but at the same time allows it to be extended until 2003 or even 2010.
It is very difficult for a country to admit that it has made a mistake.
What the Council has arrived at this time could perhaps be improved next year, because we are always becoming better or more skilful at administering these rules.
I would therefore like to wish the Commissioner and the Commission good luck in future, and point out that Parliament supports the Commission in this area.
Mr President, as the rapporteur said just now, we are discussing this dossier here, which is nevertheless an important one, in what is almost an intimate atmosphere.
In a way, we are discussing this subject amongst ourselves, amongst people who are familiar with it and want to improve things, a desire which is not new.
This is our second initiative on the basis of Article 94, and you will remember that we made one attempt before without success.
This time we have managed to agree two proposals and, between ourselves - since we have been debating privately among friends, as the rapporteur said - we have done it far faster than I had expected.
A proposal which was put forward several months ago was in the end dealt with very quickly by the Council of Ministers.
And now, a few months later, to my astonishment, the Council of Ministers adopts our proposal on the substance in five minutes flat.
Most Member States do just that, but in some of them it is extremely complicated.
This leads to a certain discrimination between Member States.
We have tried to correct this, because there has to be consistency in implementing Commission decisions throughout the territory of the European Union.
But in other sectors too, it is sometimes necessary to be able to check whether the undertakings given are indeed being respected.
That said, I know that the question arose in Germany as to whether the Commission can do something which is not in accordance with national law.
That needs to be discussed, because once again, if the Commission's decisions are implemented in most Member States but not in one or two others, there is a problem.
On one or two points, I cannot allay your concerns, because we do not agree, as is sometimes the case.
In reply to the last question put by Mr Metten it is true that we were in a special situation because in the past, rightly or wrongly, the Commission accepted this system.
But I am sure that we shall discuss this again on future occasions.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at at 11 a.m.
The Commission's document contains two closely related proposals, both aiming to improve the common VAT system.
The present lack of uniformity in this system directly results in the fragmentation of what should be a single market, or rather an internal market, as we prefer to call it.
It is important to stress that these proposals are merely provisional, pending the entry into force of the definitive rules governing the common VAT system based - as we all know - on the principle of a single place of taxation and deduction.
The Commission takes the view that at present the best way to simplify significantly the common VAT system is to authorise taxable persons to deduct the VAT paid in another Member State in the periodic VAT declaration submitted in the state of residence.
This proposal requires an amendment to Article 17 of the sixth VAT directive introducing a regulation governing relations between Member States as regards compensation and VAT refunds and revoking the special VAT refund procedure described in the eighth VAT directive.
The effects of this proposal for taxable persons residing in the Community are that, if the taxable person is identified for VAT purposes in a single Member State, the VAT is deducted there, irrespective of the Member State in which he incurred the VAT-bearing expenditure.
If the taxable person is identified for VAT purposes in several Member States, then if he is identified in the Member State in which he has incurred the VAT-bearing expenditure, the VAT is deducted in that state.
If the taxable person is not identified in the Member State in which he has incurred the VAT-bearing expenditure, the VAT is deducted in the Member State where he supplies goods or services for which the expenditure is used.
Hence, the amount of VAT eligible for deduction will be determined in accordance with the rules of the Member State of residence, rather than of the Member State which collected the tax.
This proposal introduces a derogation from the eighth VAT directive by establishing that the Member State of purchase will be responsible for verifying that the VAT has actually been paid, whilst the Member State of deduction will be responsible for monitoring the actual deduction of the tax.
Only three Member States - Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands - guarantee the right to full deduction, the only exception of course being expenditure which has no business element.
The Commission is proposing harmonisation of the different national rules, whilst leaving the individual Member States a margin for discretion.
In other words, the choice of a seaside, mountain, lake or other location for a business congress outside the tourist season enables such locations to be revitalised even in the off season or low season.
The national legislation of only eight countries out of the 15 allows use of the option provided for in the Sixth Directive No 388 of 1997.
The level of the deduction depends, as one would expect, on the rules applicable in the Member State of residence.
If, however, a company is identified for VAT purposes in several countries, and has outgoings in one of them, the right to deduct value added tax will also be granted in the country of purchase.
The first stage corresponds to the assessment performed by the Member State granting the VAT deduction.
This state electronically informs the state in which the expenditure was incurred of the amount of turnover for which a deduction was allowed pursuant to Article 17(3)(a).
With business travel in particular, it is certainly the case that action is required on the flat-rate deduction of 50 % in respect of accommodation costs.
We live in an internal market operating within the Union, with the free movement of goods, services and capital across the territories of the 15 Member States, covering a population of nearly 250 million people.
There is no common VAT system operating within the Union at this time and this lack of uniformity at this time has led to the fragmentation of the working of the single market across the 15 different fiscal areas.
In particular, SLIM has identified the need to bring in more simple VAT refund procedures, which would assist businesses across the Union in the payment of refunds for the sale of goods and the provision of services.
The European Union must introduce fair and definite rules governing a common VAT system based on the principle of a single place of taxation and deduction.
Mr President, my group also supports the Commission's proposals for simplifying the VAT system among the fifteen Member States.
Mr President, in this case my group supports the Commission rather than the rapporteur's amendments.
We are certainly in favour of objective and transparent experiments to find ways of using VAT to promote employment.
I would ask the Commissioner when Parliament can expect to see this proposal.
The principle of harmonising the rules on expenditure for which VAT cannot be deducted in full is also a step in the right direction, but here we support the amendment tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Garosci.
Mr President, Mr Garosci's report has my full backing.
These amendments relate to so-called 'business tourism' - conventions, congresses and business travel - which already accounts for nearly 20 % of European tourism and is highly likely not only to increase significantly in the medium term, but also to compensate for one of the most complicated phenomena in the tourist sector, namely seasonal variations.
Business tourism is therefore a way of helping to ensure that employment in the tourism sector remains stable throughout the year.
In fact, business tourism occurs in particular outside the high season, thereby contributing to a more balanced and more profitable operation of tourism businesses throughout the year.
It must be borne in mind that competition in this sector is quite tough, despite Europe having exceptional conditions in terms of its supply.
The proposal solves a number of existing problems, but this change to the VAT directive is not enough.
The Council's proposal to simplify the system for deducting VAT expenditure incurred in a Member State in which the taxable person is not established, a proposal which was improved by the amendments of Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, is a small step in the right direction, a very small step, since this simplification will make life difficult for the fraudsters.
Mr President, Commissioner Bangemann, ladies and gentlemen, in principle I welcome the proposed changes in the deduction and refund system for VAT.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is therefore expressly in favour of simplifying the procedures.
We also have a proposal on translation costs.
The work of the SLIM group has led to a series of important recommendations which we are following up as a top priority within the Commission's work programme, so as to improve the operation of the VAT system.
As regards the first aspect, the refund procedure - the purpose of which is to allow a taxable person to recover the VAT paid in a Member State in which he is not resident - has been identified as an area where simplification is urgently needed.
The procedure set out in the eighth directive has proved very unsatisfactory in practice, both for national administrations and for operators.
The Commission has concluded that the only modification likely to bring about true simplification consists of abolishing this procedure altogether and replacing it with a mechanism enabling a taxable person to deduct, in his regular returns, tax paid in a Member State in which he is not resident.
The second aspect is harmonisation of the rules governing deduction of VAT paid on expenditure which is of both a business and non-business nature.
Furthermore, the Commission is proposing a flat-rate deduction of 50 % of the VAT payable on expenditure on accommodation, food and drink, and a total exclusion for expenditure on luxuries, amusements or entertainment.
The amendments put forward relate mainly to the provision for a 50 % flat-rate deduction in the case of expenditure on accommodation, food and drink.
Consequently, the Commission is proposing a flat-rate deduction of 50 %, with a view to simplifying - that is the key word - verification, especially in view of the obvious risk of improper deduction.
Indeed, were the Council not to agree unanimously on flat-rate deduction but to argue that the application of the normal rules creates no insurmountable problems of verification, the Commission would then be prepared to suggest a practical solution, allowing a Member State to apply either a deduction in accordance with the normal rules or the flat-rate deduction of 50 %.
As has been pointed out, the Commission presented a communication to the extraordinary European Council in Luxembourg in November 1997, asking the Council to back this proposal.
As you know, there has since been some inconclusive discussion in the ECOFIN Council.
The Vienna European Council invited the Commission to authorise the Member States to apply the reduced rate on labour-intensive services having no cross-border content.
I know that this matter is of great concern to Parliament, and I am pleased to take this opportunity of announcing that I intend to present the relevant draft amendment to the Commission in February, in order that Member States wishing to do so may, on an experimental basis, apply a reduced VAT rate to labour-intensive services.
I believe that the best way for taxation to help employment is to move towards fiscal coordination, and Parliament has always supported this major undertaking of recent years.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11 a.m.
It could be argued that highly complex organisations, such as the information society and interactive IT networks, should be regulated not from the centre but from the periphery, as happens in the biological world.
When, at the Bonn Conference in July 1997, the Americans proposed the promotion of world-wide electronic commerce, Europe was able to respond in the same vein, reasserting the principles of user protection and free access for all citizens, personal data protection and security of communication, fiscal non-discrimination where new technologies are used for electronic rather than traditional commerce, and intellectual property rights.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on External Economic Relations welcomes the Commission's proposal on international coordination, since this is the interests of both the public and private sectors.
It is important that the entire business community should be involved, as at the round-table conference on 29 July last year in Brussels.
Parliament must be closely involved in drafting legislation, whether binding or not, and in particular must be closely involved in any future conferences on the subject.
If we compare the European Union's performance in the field of electronic trade with that of the United States, we are forced to concede that the European Union is already lagging behind.
Mr President, Commissioner, as the information society has begun to use new technologies in trade, one of the problems that has emerged is the need to establish a system of general legal guarantees for supranational transactions made on open access networks.
But it should be possible to achieve this objective if, on the one hand, the open access nature of the Internet is preserved and, on the other hand, the plurality and diversity of the network is maintained.
In adopting Mrs Ewing's opinion unanimously, our committee showed itself to be less keen on this project to create an Internet charter than the European Commission and Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
Whilst our committee agrees with the European Commission on the universal nature of information networks, which transcend regional, national and European borders and require an international response, it does not agree with the Commission's analysis of the legal and technical nature of the problems created by the globalisation of the information society.
The Committee on Culture believes that our approach to the development of these new digital technologies is a mistake.
We believe the current approach, which seeks to make the regulation of electronic commerce a priority in the development of the information society, is effectively giving preference to a constricting policy which is geared solely to competitiveness and which fails to appreciate the extent of social and cultural change.
As regards the plan to create a world economic area, barely disguised in the electronic commerce sector, it seems to me that the European Commission and our Economic Affairs Committee underestimate how far ahead the United States is in the technology and how far it is commercially dominant in the information sector and the Internet, accounting for more than 80 % of the world market in computers, software and electronic banking services.
It will only benefit the multinationals, Microsoft today, Netscape or Sun Microsystems tomorrow.
After this first stage, these new technologies should also be placed at the service of the citizen, to encourage cultural and linguistic diversity and to further the development of general-interest networks.
Only in this way will the myth of a European model of the information society become reality.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are not yet living in the information society; we are still on the way there.
Apart from companies and consumers, it is important that everyone should have access to this system.
The central issue now for an information society in which electronic commerce is assuming a previously unimaginable dimension is to urgently establish, by worldwide consensus, the main economic groups of the world and the respective leaders.
The objective is to provide a solid and coherent legal framework that can regulate the activity of the information networks.
It enables the people and the elected representatives of Europe to engage in a debate which, as we know, has major implications for society and I know that Commissioner Bangemann is personally very aware of that.
So for me the proposed text is a starting-point for our shared deliberations, but we all know that it cannot be an end in itself.
The idea of a global charter is interesting and I am in favour of it, even if it cannot answer all the challenges entailed in developing new communication tools.
I also agree with the rapporteur on the question of electronic commercial transactions and his desire to protect the consumer or user by means of secure systems of payment and the respecting of civil liberties.
Mr President, Commissioner, it seems to me that a great deal has happened since the Commission first began work on its initiative nearly a year ago.
In my view, we have also taken forward the debate on the information society.
Thank you very much, Mr Lukas.
Mr President, may I begin by thanking the House for this debate, which has confirmed that there is no fundamental disagreement between Parliament and the Commission on this issue.
We have also been involved in promoting the Global Business Dialogue, which has been officially launched in Brussels.
The OECD meeting in Ottawa produced a list of some 12 to 15 problem issues, many of which can only be resolved through political decisions.
Laughter and applause Thank you, Mr Bangemann.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on cross-border commercial communications also considers that the Commission is failing to do its duty.
In his eight-point plan last Monday, President Santer promised the European Parliament greater transparency and more information.
Parliament must be informed on a very regular basis, perhaps through its Committee on Legal Affairs, and I would propose that the committee should set up a working party to monitor infringement procedures, and not just those relating to commercial communications, of course.
On the other hand, we naturally have great respect for national values and cultures.
This is why, Commissioner Monti, we are extremely happy with your proposals to liberalise the European market for commercial communications too, first in the Green Paper and now in the follow-up communication.
Objective criteria can be applied in each case to determine whether a national restricting measure is in the public interest, or whether the intended public health or consumer policy objective, say, could be guaranteed by less drastic measures.
Finally, the principle of mutual recognition and the country of origin principle must be the keynotes for commercial communications too.
The first is the emphasis on mutual recognition in this area.
Also, the idea of a complaints register accessible on the Internet links the last debate with this one rather nicely and empowers those who have difficulties in this area.
Mr President, Commissioner Monti, ladies and gentlemen, the notion of commercial communications might initially seem a rather abstract one.
The term commercial communications therefore covers advertising, direct marketing and sponsorship, as well as sales promotion and - significantly - public relations.
The suggestions here focus on the need to improve the methodology for assessing proportionality, on the one hand guaranteeing that none of the proportionality criteria are used as a pretext for retaining protectionist barriers and, on the other, making this method for assessing proportionality mandatory in every infringement procedure.
I must say that I agree with both proposals and shall attempt to ensure that this instrument is applied effectively.
Moreover, the names of the national representatives have been made known, and several Member States have established working groups with the relevant national organisations to inform them about discussions held in the expert group.
I hope that all the Member States will eventually proceed in this fashion, so that the organisations concerned are kept fully informed and can contribute to the debate.
Finally, since we are expecting two opinions per year on average, we hope to be in a position to present these to Parliament on a regular basis, together with the initiatives proposed by the Commission in response to these opinions.
Turning to the innovations proposed in the resolution concerning the Article 169 infringement procedure, I am particularly grateful for these contributions because I attach considerable importance to infringement procedures.
As for the second proposal, the fact of asking the complainant's opinion on our analysis before the Commission reaches its collective decision would inevitably cause further delay.
I am very keen on transparency and, as you know, one essential instrument of transparency in terms of compliance with Community single market legislation is proving very useful: the so-called scoreboard, which is putting pressure on the Member States to be more rigorous in enforcing the rules of the single market.
With regard to transparency in the infringement procedure in particular, I would point out that since 1996 we have been abiding by our decision of that year to inform the press systematically of every decision concerning a reasoned opinion or the referral of a case to the Court of Justice.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
You have one minute, Mrs Larive.
Mrs Larive, as I said in general terms and also with particular reference to these last two points of yours, I reserve the right to carry out a more in-depth assessment.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, with one million five hundred thousand employees and a hundred thousand post offices serving the public, postal services play a leading role in employment and social cohesion.
Everyone will agree that it is essential to have the proper information at one's disposal before taking any new decisions.
Mr President, Europe's postal services are big business: with a turnover of 360 billion francs, they handle a total of 108 billion items, their network comprises more than 106 000 contact points, but above all they employ 1 400 000 people and have more than 370 million potential users.
Mr President, the oral question on postal services and the subsequent wind-up motions give this Parliament an opportunity to reaffirm its often stated position on the future of postal services in the European Union.
It is also a great coincidence that this subject is being discussed on the same agenda that Parliament is considering the motion of censure on the Commission.
One of the reasons for the deterioration in Parliament/Commission relations without doubt has been the arrogant attitude sometimes displayed by certain Commissioners.
We experienced that ourselves in 1997, and I think we are about to experience it again in 1999, when Parliament overwhelmingly supported the report I put forward but it was dismissed at that time by Commissioner Bangemann with the words that he would return to pursue his highly liberalised plans - plans that have been rejected by Parliament.
Parliament knows I am a reasonable man.
What you need to do is to listen to what Parliament is saying to you, listen to what the people in the European Union want and stop this folly of trying to liberalise the postal services purely on a dogmatic basis.
Thank you, Mr Simpson.
I have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to Rule 40(5) to wind up this debate.
A fresh proposal for a directive was supposed to have been submitted by the end of 1998.
Mr President, as we have heard in the debate this evening, everyone knows our position.
It also appears in practice, in countries like Sweden, for example, or the Netherlands - and Sweden is not a small, densely populated country like the Netherlands, it is an enormous place covering huge distances - that a privatised service or a service where competition is possible can be just as good as the inefficient monopolies that also provide social services.
On the contrary, Parliament has already asked the Commission to assess the economic and social consequences, as well as the state of the postal sector, on a country by country basis.
We as a parliament clearly cannot overemphasise our position on liberalising postal services.
No one in the European Parliament would dispute the need for a functioning single market in the postal sector; we shall therefore need to expand on the existing market liberalisation directive within a reasonable time frame.
I appreciate that Parliament endorsed this schedule at the end of 1997, but what is the point of amending a directive that has not yet even been put into effect in all the Member States?
The Commission first needs to submit a report detailing the state of play on transposition and - most importantly - comparing the measures put in place in individual countries.
Only a universal service is capable of ensuring that each and every European citizen, however remote his or her place of residence, has access to postal facilities.
Thank you, Mr Stenmarck.
Once it has done so, we can see what Parliament has to say.
We can already see competition developing between those postal service providers who operate in a liberalised environment - Deutsche Post AG, for example - and the others who do not.
And if you refrain because you believe that the Commission has not done so badly, after all - then many thanks in advance.
Thank you, Mr Bangemann.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
