The vote on my report took place yesterday afternoon under the direction of your good self.
Over 400 of those present this morning were present for voting yesterday morning.
I prefer Amendment No 1 which was adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
So we have to make up our minds, and I am in favour of Amendment No 1.
After the vote on the amendments Mr President, before the vote on the legislative resolution I should just like to confirm again that the changes which the Commission has made to Amendments Nos 2 and 3 are of an editorial nature rather than a substantive one - insofar as an amendment represents a supplement to the existing legal text - in other words, that these changes are in accordance with what we are voting on here, so that we shall then have a common position from Parliament and the Commission.
Member States would, within certain limits, then retain the right to conclude air transport agreements with third countries.
Article 89 of the Treaty states that the Commission may intervene by arrangement with the relevant Member State if an agreement would have the effect of overly restricting competition.
However, in these two proposals for Council regulations, the Commission wishes to extend its powers to enforce Community competition rules on air transport between the Community and third countries.
Graefe zu Baringdorf report (A4-0128/98) The proposal which the Commission has submitted to us simplifies the procedures for the certification of seed for propagation.
Nevertheless, it will be necessary to ensure that self-monitoring procedures are properly implemented, so as to avoid possible discrimination between seed producers in different Member States.
It will also be necessary to apply serious penalties in case of fraud or rigging of inspections.
As for the stolen cards, they are flown to somewhere in Asia.
The objective of this proposal is to ensure more rapid exchange of information about credit card crime, for example about new modi operandi and such like.
That means that those who accept credit cards in a shop would have to learn 8, 10 or even more different security markings, but no-one does.
This has for a long time been possible with the use of the Carte bleue in France but not in other countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Schmid, very sincerely for submitting this report.
Mr Schmid has completed a very precise analysis of the technical pre-requisites for this type of crime.
In order to provide protection against organized crime, there is not only a security system in the area of credit cards, but also, for example, the Schengen information system or the customs information system.
We have a completely new dimension today, with a world-wide struggle against internationally organized crime which is obstructed by political conditions.
All these initiatives, among which we should also include the entry into force of the Europol agreement which is expected this year, and which will mean that Europol is at last fully able to act, show that the European Union intends to proceed with determination against criminal wheeling and dealing in the area of the European Union. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) g. (SV) We certainly feel that it is important for action to be taken to combat crime within the payment card industry.
Mr President, Commissioner, we are aware that the problem of antibiotic-resistant bacteria is growing.
But it is also due to the fact that we often use antibiotics routinely in order to prevent diseases or to cure "minor' diseases, by mixing antibiotics in feedingstuffs and giving them to animals on a daily basis.
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, antibiotics are a good example of the way in which an invention that was a blessing can turn into a genetic time bomb.
I think that there is an urgent necessity for the Commission to turn to scientific work and in the first instance to take the preventive action that Sweden has already taken, namely banning prophylactic use in animal food, and for us to develop scientific bases in order to hold our own in WTO negotiations.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, approximately 80 % of the antibiotics produced around the world intended for animals are administered in animal feed.
The joint resolution therefore asks the Commission to take advantage of the experience of the Member States which have prohibited some antibiotics in order to check if all antibiotics used in animal nutrition are harmless.
Mr President, I participated fully in the drafting of this joint motion for a resolution on antibiotics in animal feed.
The use of medicated feed for prophylactic or growth-promotion reasons cannot continue to feature in management, as is the case in some feeding systems and in some Member States at present.
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, antibiotics are used in animal husbandry in two forms: by introducing antibiotics into animal feed and by using antibiotics for therapeutic purposes in veterinary medicine.
With regard to EC regulations, we already have a directive which establishes a list of authorized additives for use in animal feed and a regulation which defines a Community procedure establishing the maximum residue limits for veterinary drugs in foods of animal origin.
These maximum residue limits must be established on the basis of the precautionary principle, in order to protect public health.
Consequently, we ask the Commission immediately to demand the enforcement of the maximum residue limits in all Member States.
I repeat that animal production has a very important place in European agriculture, and production conditions must not be imposed on producers which render them no longer competitive with imported products from third countries which do not comply with the same conditions or constraints.
In this matter, we must not restrict ourselves to examining the use of antibiotics in animal food, but rather adopt a more global approach and include in our analysis the antibiotics used in veterinary medicine.
If scientific research shows that the development of antibiotic resistance is due to the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry, we will have to ensure that everyone complies with resistance standards in order to protect the interests of European farmers and European consumers, and that means not just producers in all the Member States of the European Union, but also all imports from third countries.
These analyses demonstrate that the use of antibiotics can be extremely costly in terms of treating human diseases.
Eventually, all these types of antibiotics should ideally be put on the list of banned substances so that we can put a stop to the use of these health hazards.
The European Parliament must help ensure that healthy food will not become a meaningless phrase.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to you for giving me the opportunity to present the position of the Commission in relation to the problems of medicinal residues in animal foods and the use of anti-microbial medicines - I am referring in this context to a larger group of medicines, not only antibiotics - in animal nutrition.
The recent report from the National Consumer Council entitled "Farm policies and our food - the need for change' was mentioned in the questions.
Article 8 of the directive provides that from 1998, in other words from this year onwards, Member States must publish the results of their investigations of residues.
In the coming year, the Commission will present a report to Parliament and the Council on the basis of the results submitted by the Member States.
Before the Standing Committee on Feedingstuffs gives its approval to any use, manufacturers' applications are also examined by the Scientific Committee on Animal Nutrition.
On the basis of the protective clause in Article 11 of the additives directive, Virginiamycin was banned in Denmark in January of this year.
In well-founded cases of doubt the Commission can apply the precautionary principle, as indeed it did in the case of Avoparcin.
In the context of its research programmes, the Commission is encouraging science to develop alternatives which might replace these antibiotics in animal feed in future.
I also expect a great deal from improvements to the conditions in which animals are kept.
This monitoring, which is to begin over the next few days, will look at whether and to what extent there is any increase among economically useful animals in agriculture in bacterial strains that are resistant to medicines which are also partly used in veterinary medicine and some of which are part of the same family as antibiotics which are approved for human medicine.
In particular, the working group will deal with the problem of the increase in resistant strains as a multi-disciplinary task.
In pursuing this initiative, the Steering Committee is following the direction which the World Health Organization suggested for this subject at its conference in October 1997 in Berlin.
The working group's concluding scientific assessment will put the Commission in a position to assess the applications by various Member States relating to a ban on antibiotics in animal feed, on the basis of a solid scientific foundation.
My group was nevertheless prepared to accept the joint resolution in its entirety, including paragraph 5, although not totally happy with that paragraph, in the interest of reaching the widest possible consensus.
However, since the Europe of Nations Group has broken the consensus by putting down a number of amendments, the PSE feels justified in voting against paragraph 5 so that the joint resolution concentrates on the real issue concerning this House - the need to reduce the use of antibiotics in animals in the human food chain to the absolute minimum required to treat specific cases of disease in individual animals and herds whilst further research and exchange of information are carried out.
Mr President, I also would like to thank Mr Fischler.
Antibiotics are drugs which are this century's best discovery in the war against disease.
However, microbes have the property to rapidly develop strains that are resistant to certain antibiotics.
Production is carried out in large units and economic considerations are thus often more important than people's health.
The Nordic countries' line in this is a better one than that in the EU as a whole.
The internal market is not protecting people's health.
I have now also read that the British parliament's agriculture committee has recently presented a report recommending an outright ban on antibiotics in animal feed.
Mr President, the large-scale use of antibiotics in animal husbandry is giving cause for concern.
It is a very worrying development, particularly in cases where only one group of antibiotics will help.
Growth and feed conversion also drop 4 to 8 %.
Research has shown that reducing the use of antibiotics brings a drop in the number of resistant bacteria.
Mr President, we in the Socialist group warmly welcome this resolution, even though we feel that it could have been a little stricter.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to express my sincere gratitude for the fact that the position which I have presented here on behalf of the Commission has generated so many positive reactions.
Thirdly, I would like to remind you that the Scientific Steering Committee has appointed a multi-disciplinary working group which is to deliver scientific results by the end of this year.
We want to be transparent, and that is why there are no problems at all with this.
I would like to know whether this multi-disciplinary working group which is being appointed by the Steering Committee will also deal with the problem that, as a result of genetic manipulation, resistance to antibiotics is being produced willy-nilly, and more or less as a waste product.
The identification of the factors involved in anti-microbial resistance is one of the questions which needs to be clarified.
I shall pass the point on to the relevant units in DG XXIV.
Thank you very much, Mr Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The market situation in the Federal Republic of Germany was serious, especially in the beef and veal sector.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, on 15 May 1998, we are dealing with a historic event that took place over eight years ago: German unification.
It is not always as easy, as in this case, to check whether everything really has changed since then.
I quite understand that the Germans would like more out of the EU for their membership subscription.
I think Mr Garriga Polledo is splitting hairs in his report.
Mr President, we should undoubtedly acknowledge that certain objectives which are listed in this balanced report have been achieved without major additional expenditure being incurred by the Community.
I should like to emphasize the fact that, in this case, the Community has made a welcome contribution to integrating agriculture in the new Länder into the structures of the common agricultural policy.
The Court of Auditors thus complains in its report that farmers could have claimed three different subsidies for the slaughter of one of their animals, which would have made multiple payments possible.
We had to integrate the new federal German Länder into Community law without a transitional period.
I am grateful to Mr Garriga Polledo for his explicit recognition of this fact in his report.
In its report, the Court of Auditors puts forward the view that there was a cumulation of subsidies and irregularities in the application of the programmes because the measures overlapped.
The fact that all three measures benefited some animals does not constitute a contravention of the provisions of Community law.
That is why, in the Commission's view, the Court of Auditors is totally unjustified in its conclusion that there was an inadmissible cumulation of subsidies.
As far as the irregularities are concerned - this also applies to point 5 of the draft resolution - the Commission has provided for a financial correction for Germany in the sum of DM 6.9 million after considering all the available data.
The other half will be deducted in the same way in the second half of 1998 from payments for the eradication plan for 1997.
However, it has set itself ambitious objectives in this area.
The debate is closed.
In previous years, in order to promote these technologies - which, as I say, offer every advantage and hardly any disadvantages - those kilowatt-hours fetched a very high price, an aboveaverage price.
So I want to draw your attention to paragraph 8 of the resolution in my report, where it says two things I think are very important.
Firstly, Mr President, it says that in the liberalized electricity markets, electricity produced in these industrial installations should be given priority but, at the same time, it also says that this should be at market price, not subsidized, because we are already subsidizing national coal, renewable energies and other aspects of the components of electricity prices.
Mr President, my group also very much welcomes the Commission's intention to provide greater assistance to combined heat and power.
Mr President, the Commission's announcement on the promotion of a combined heat and power industry in the EU area is an important step forward for energy policy.
Free access to gas is a key factor in profitability when it comes to constructing private or smallscale power stations.
Mr President, in the EU area we can discern certain mega-trends in the field of energy.
Firstly, the demand for energy is growing by around 1 % per year.
Secondly, the EU's level of self-sufficiency in energy will have gone down from the present figure of 70 % to around 30 % by the year 2020.
Thirdly, electricity accounts for 40 % of all energy produced, and that figure is rising.
Mr President, we have reached the end of a century in which we have squandered more energy resources than in the entire previous history of mankind.
At present Europe is dependent on other countries for 50 % of its energy, a state of affairs which presents a problem not only in ecological and social terms, but also in terms of peace policy.
That is why the development of combined heat and power systems is an essential step in the right direction towards energy self-sufficiency in the European Union.
Global climatic changes present us with new and comprehensive political challenges.
In Kyoto in December 1997, as several speakers have rightly mentioned, agreement was reached on intensifying our commitment in this area by laying down quantified targets for emission reductions.
The European Union committed itself to achieving an 8 % reduction in the emission of greenhouse gases by the period 2008-2012 in relation to the 1990 level.
The European Parliament has made valuable contributions to this.
The definition of these priorities for Objective 1 areas and for the measures to be implemented there is, however, a task for the Member States who have to submit their detailed proposals to the Commission, and not vice versa.
The debate is closed.
