Mr Giansily, I have only mentioned what I witnessed yesterday evening.
It is after all only a question of the words "for 8 years' , and of whether there can be a separate vote on this issue.
Decision on urgency Mr President, the Commission shares the reasons put forward by the Council in asking for these motions raised by the Commission to be included according to the urgent procedure.
They are, in fact, connected with the Fifth Framework Programme to the extent that the rules on participation and dissemination of the results of research are necessary to implement the Programme.
Meetings of the Conciliation Committee were necessary to seek agreement for the other 47 texts.
Now, however, another conciliation procedure has ended in disagreement.
In a letter dated 3 April 1998, the co-presidents of the Conciliation Committee concerning the proposal for a Directive establishing a committee on securities (C4-0228/98-95/0188(COD)) informed Parliament and the Council that the committee had been unable to approve a joint text in the 8-week period available to it.
In deciding not to confirm its common position, the Council has opted not to take up one of the prerogatives it enjoys under the current codecision procedure.
I welcome this decision, which anticipates the application of new procedural rules which will be binding once the Amsterdam Treaty comes into force.
For the first time, Parliament and the Council can establish the lack of agreement within the Conciliation Committee as the final stage in a codecision procedure.
Parliament will certainly aim to do so but without dropping its fundamental requirements concerning a simplification of committee procedures and the need to ensure that implementing measures are monitored by the two branches of the legislature in a balanced and efficient manner.
I would like to thank the members of the delegation very sincerely for having been willing to accept that this institutional aspect should prevail in this case, in spite of the importance of other issues.
As the President clearly said in his announcement, it was a wise decision which we must note positively since it anticipates the application of a new Article 251 in the Amsterdam Treaty which, as we hoped, will remove the much discussed third reading.
We hope that the Commission will show some understanding - I am looking at Commissioner Monti as I speak - and will help us to make the Council realize that implementation measures must also be adopted out of respect for transparency and democracy.
It has never accepted a type 3b committee in conciliation.
The current modus vivendi is, by all accounts, not satisfactory.
I would say that in future we should never start conciliation without a minister present, as a matter of principle, and we should not create a binding precedent.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission shares the positive opinion you have expressed on the functioning of the codecision procedure to date and, in particular, on the fruitful result of the work carried out by the Conciliation Committee in those cases in which it has taken measures to reach an agreement.
On the one hand, we regret that, despite the commitment of the parties involved, it has not been possible to reach an agreement.
This result has enabled the co-legislators and the Commission to note, to see with their own eyes in a specific case, the extent of the basic problems of the decision taken in December 1987 and therefore to calmly confirm the need for a revision.
This situation has actually never arisen before and we have found that it has not been possible to take the essential institutional requirements of the European Parliament into account.
According to conservative estimates, five million young people already use such synthetic drugs in the European Union.
But they have also become a significant part of the business of organized crime, simply because the profits are enormous and the risks extremely low.
The situation for young people in Europe is now a drastic one.
Although the LOGO database of the European drugs unit has examined, classified and catalogued 250 pills, new concoctions are being added every day.
By the time new pills are classified as illegal, they have already disappeared from the market.
Three-quarters of the members of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs accepted this report, and in so doing clearly spoke against legalizing the production, trading and consumption of synthetic drugs.
This is a pragmatic package for the protection of our young people.
We need real and effective cooperation between the different EU authorities in the fight against organized crime.
But I would also like to propose a new approach to prevention, and this must be the focus of all our actions.
This will allow us to reach all young people.
We now have five million young people taking synthetic drugs in Europe.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, on behalf of our young people, to give your broad support to this report.
The consequences increase if we take into account the fact that synthetic drugs are often associated with the use of natural drugs and alcohol: this produces a real phenomenon of refined psychology.
We need to say a decisive "no' to all drugs.
The threat which is posed by synthetic drugs is directed almost exclusively at the health and the lives of young people in our society, and this is where synthetic drugs differ from conventional drugs.
Even the smallest dose of these synthetic substances can be dangerous, and what one person can cope with may cause serious physical harm in another.
I have been advocating this for 20 years, but I have to say that while the schools may be made drug-free, the students will all too often have taken the stuff before they get there.
My group has tried to restore that balance by means of a couple of amendments which we will be able to vote on soon at 12.00 noon.
The enormous popularity of the new synthetic drugs was discussed at a conference which we as Parliament, together with the Commission and the Council, organized some time ago as the fourth in a series of conferences on drugs.
They were very useful and very interesting conferences, I have to say, because we did not engage in political battles with each other but, the Commissioner will acknowledge what I am saying, were able to talk about that difficult subject in a highly rational way.
In combination with other drugs or alcohol, users can become aggressive.
If they had, that might have been a good thing, because then they would be less popular than they are at the moment.
But even that harsh reality has hardly done anything to reduce the popularity of these drugs and so they are coming to be an important source of income for organized crime.
If this balance is restored in the report, our group will be able to vote for it.
I agree with the rapporteur on another aspect of this report: the special set of problems these drugs present due to the ease with which they evade controls.
By offering realistic information about the harmful effects of these substances and the dangers of using them, between us we will be able to achieve our objective, which should be a drugs-free society.
These synthetic drugs, as Mr Pirker's report reminds us, are in effect consumed, not by socially or emotionally disadvantaged young people whose motives you could understand, but by young people who are completely integrated into society, who consider it fashionable, the "in' thing, to take Ecstasy, LSD or amphetamines at a rave or techno evening, and this with no danger to themselves whatsoever, or so those in favour of a "do as you please' lifestyle confirm.
It is easy to hold this sort of opinion when you have no proof, and to gloss over the scientific opinions reported in Mr Burton's excellent opinion on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
As we were told earlier, LSD can have hallucinatory side effects, even several years after having been taken.
The resolution before us is a good resolution.
Just as with the general policy on drugs, the view of the Liberal group is that we also have to have a threefold policy in this area under the slogan: prevent, combat and treat.
The approach to tackling synthetic drugs must be part of the general drugs policy, and not become a separate sector.
This, in fact, relates primarily to traditional drug traffickers, but also includes new methods relating to those who supply the products which enable new drugs to be made.
Much as we support this fight against drug trafficking, however, the Confederal Group of the European United Left and I cannot support this motion for a resolution whilst its punitive nature is maintained, as this will have absolutely no dissuasive effect on young people whatsoever.
We are told that these young people are completely unaware of the risks.
Secondly, my group cannot accept the fact that the preamble states that these people "are not conspicuous in society' .
My group will not support this resolution unless there are certain amendments removing the strictly punitive aspects linked to consumption and, above all, the contemptuous attitude of a society which produces young people who sometimes feel obliged to seek their future in the taking of such risks.
Mr President, in a parliament it is always difficult to enable the truth, and what is right, to come out.
But we have known this for a long time, as we also know that driving after having taken alcohol or LSD is also extremely dangerous, for others as well as for yourself.
The problem here, the problem with this report, is that it is trying to reform a society which does not see things the same way.
Punitive measures, which we find strengthened in this report, are not only an error, they are also counter-productive.
You are not marginalizing young people at the bottom of the social ladder, you are marginalizing the mentality of a whole section of society which rejects the idea that, when there is a problem, the only solution is a repressive one.
This is why, if the report stands as it is, without amendment, we will vote against it because it is mistaken, it says nothing and it goes against the realities of society.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the clear description he gives of this phenomenon in his introduction.
He speaks of the particular social situation of these consumers.
Daniel Cohn-Bendit has just mentioned it.
This seems important to me.
He also mentions the fact that some states have already established, aside from a system of legalization, controls on the quality of these forbidden products.
However, we do not agree with the report's conclusions on the measures to be requested of the Commission, the Council and the Member States.
Let us say it again, is it not because our friends in the Group of the European People's Party or others in Very New Labour , or the Scandinavians have realized they have lost the first war against traditional drugs that they must invent a new war, one which is already lost, moreover, since there are already five million consumers of synthetic drugs?
What rapidly needs to be considered, in terms of prevention and in terms of information, is the creation of a legal system which will restore the Member States' ability to control this phenomenon.
I think we should start to see things from this perspective, to see them rationally, whilst endeavouring to bring back under the control of our Member States a phenomenon which, as five million consumers show, is currently completely out of control.
It therefore seems clear that we must fight them by using all the measures at our disposal, preventive, curative and also punitive, and to assure better cooperation between Member States in this fight.
This is why Mr Pirker's report, by recommending both preventive and punitive measures - which in themselves may have a preventive and pedagogic effect - seems to us balanced and worthy of support as it stands.
Synthetic drugs are being used more and more by very young people, they are the ones that are most in fashion, but they are also the ones whose long-term negative effects on health are not yet fully known.
We need a wider and stronger initiative to provide information and prevention and particularly a commitment on the part of the Member States to suppress the manufacture and trafficking of these new substances.
Consequently, from my point of view, we need to contest the logic of those against prohibitions firmly for, with regard to synthetic drugs as well, they say that legalization would limit the harm, at least by eliminating illegal profits, as if the problem of drug dependency were only a problem of public order.
As pointed out in the report on the 1996-2000 common campaign against drugs, the only way to actually reduce drugs trafficking is to try and remove the causes establishing demand.
The question of the control of synthetic drugs is a vital one for the future of the struggle against the whole drugs problem.
One particular problem is the control of the trafficking of synthetic drugs in its early stages, as such drugs can be manufactured quickly and close to their markets.
Surveillance operations must be quick to react in the same way all over Europe.
While I welcome the debate - I welcome both sides of the debate taking place in this House - I say to the Greens that I am very disappointed at the type of amendments they have put down in the House supporting the regulation and free distribution of drugs.
I recommend to the House Mr Pirker's report without reservation.
Mr President, I, too, would like to congratulate Mr Pirker on his good report and I agree with much, if not all, of it.
Our objective here in Parliament and in the Member States must be a drug-free society.
I hope Parliament will repudiate the amendments which, directly or indirectly, plead for legalization.
Mr President, I have to say that I was very pleasantly surprised by the work of our colleague, Mr Pirker, because this Parliament's reputation in the field of policies to combat drugs is evidently determined more by a minority in this Parliament which shouts the loudest.
I want to point out the essential role of the traditional family in the prevention of drug use.
I remain convinced that a great many of the serious evils of our society today can be ascribed to the decline in the role of the family as the cornerstone of society, as protector, place of learning and example to children.
Finally, of course it is extremely difficult to put in place a healthy form of cooperation between sovereign Member States on combating drugs while a number of Member States, principally the Netherlands and now unfortunately by own Member State, Belgium, has put in place a policy of tolerance of drug use.
Mr President, on the whole I do not have too many problems with the Pirker report.
Having said that, hopefully almost all of us now recognize that a purely punitive approach will not work - indeed is not working - and that we need to do a great deal more in the fields of health care, education and trying to wean young people away from the drug culture.
I have one particular difficulty with the Pirker report: it is far too optimistic, far too ambitious to think that we can, at this stage, harmonize or integrate in any way the drugs legislation in the Member States.
Of course there should be a coordination of activities; of course there should be cooperation.
But I am against Amendments Nos 19 and 22 which do not help very much in this situation.
I wish this report could have been dealt with at the same time as the d'Ancona report, in a broad ranging debate.
The trend is equally clear in all the Member States within the EU.
The two latest reports from the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction in Lisbon have also confirmed our worst fears.
No-one can any longer doubt the fact that synthetic drugs have become one of the gravest threats to young people's lives and health in our Member States.
The EU Heads of State or Government raised the problem at the Dublin Summit in 1996.
The result today is that we have a well functioning information system.
In Mr Pirker's report there is a recommendation to include too the central and eastern European countries in this work, a thought I support wholeheartedly.
It is therefore, without the slightest doubt, in our own interest to include these countries as soon as possible in the fight against drugs.
The idea to associate the applicant countries with the decision on a joint action to combat synthetic drugs will also be discussed at the Council meeting at the end of this month.
Another point that Mr Pirker raises in his report deals with the control of chemical precursors.
This is a question I also mentioned in the 1996 communication on synthetic drugs.
I shall be present myself in New York together with my colleague, Commissioner Marin.
The Commission would welcome the presence of Parliament, too, at this important meeting.
The vote will take place today at 12.00 noon.
Preliminary draft general budget for 1999 (presentation) The next item is the presentation by the Commission of the preliminary draft budget for 1999.
Mr President, on 29 April the Commission adopted the preliminary draft general budget for 1999.
On the basis of its orientations of January and the results of the budgetary Trialogue, the Commission proposal totals 97 billion euros for commitments and 86 billion euros for payments.
The 1999 PDB is the first to be denominated in euros.
Compared to the Community budget for 1998, these totals represent growth rates of 6.5 % for commitments and 3.4 % for payments.
To establish the preliminary draft budget for 1999, the Commission has had to reconcile two contradictory objectives: on the one hand, to respect the commitments of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 1993 and, on the other hand, to maintain a rigorous budgetary orientation.
As a result, the 1999 budget draft proposal is characterized by a high and inevitable growth rate for structural actions which is more than 16 % in commitments and 9 % in payments.
At the same time the Commission proposes a supplementary and amending budget for 1998.
Taken into account in this reimbursement is additional expenditure for the Social Fund to the amount of ECU 450 million, for PHARE ECU 150 million in commitments, and for humanitarian aid ECU 150 million in commitments and ECU 100 million in payments.
The preliminary draft budget for 1999 marks an end and a beginning: it is the final PDB within the framework of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 1993, and it prepares the ground for Agenda 2000 which should permit the historic enlargement of the Union to central and eastern Europe, even in today's more rigorous climate for public expenditure.
In the Interinstitutional Agreement of 1993, the European Parliament, Council and Commission adopted two principal financial priorities for the Community until 1999.
Following the ambitious decisions of the European Council of Cannes, this effort was mainly directed at the central and eastern European countries as well as third Mediterranean countries.
It was also clear that the agricultural reforms decided in 1992 would require a substantial budgetary effort, but should permit stabilization of spending requirements in the medium term.
With the 1999 Community budget these objectives can be achieved.
In 1999 prices, and including the effects of Community enlargement, these will represent 208 billion euros.
In 1999 the share of structural actions in total commitments will, for the first time, be virtually the same as for agriculture, at a level of 40 %.
The final effort for 1999 is certainly considerable.
Taking into account the supplementary budget for PHARE in 1998, the promises made by the Heads of State and Government will be fully financed.
The new orders of magnitude for the financial support of the eastern and the southern neighbours of the Union have required fundamental changes in the management of these programmes and the organization of the Commission.
To mention just a few examples: the new orientation of PHARE; soon, the new regulation for cooperation with the former Yugoslavia; and, on the organizational side, the creation of the resource directorates and the imminent launch of the common structure for external programmes to streamline the administration of the external operational activities.
These measures should improve the conceptual and organizational underpinning of the external cooperation programmes in the future.
While the objectives of 1993 in the Interinstitutional Agreement can thus be achieved, they will require considerably less Community resources than expected in Edinburgh.
Compared to the ceiling of total payments in the Financial Perspectives of 1.24 %, this represents virtual savings of some 11 billion euros for the Member States in 1999 alone.
It is certainly true that the resources from the new Member States from 1995, favourable world market conditions for some agricultural products and a maximum effort to avoid over-budgeting in payment credits have significantly contributed to this result.
The Commission and the budgetary authority have succeeded in bringing the Community budget in line with the budgetary efforts of all Member States in the run-up to Economic and Monetary Union, while respecting the main priorities of the Interinstitutional Agreement.
In 1998 the growth of the Community budget in payments is 1.4 %.
At the same time public expenditure in the Member States grows by 3.2 % which means that Community spending is below the average of the Member States.
For 1999 the currently available projections indicate a growth rate in public expenditure of some 3.6 % in the Member States.
The 3.4 % proposed in the preliminary draft budget is therefore 'roughly in line with the growth of national budgets' , as the European Parliament called for in its resolutions on the guidelines for the 1999 budgetary procedure.
The new proposal for the ACP banana products has also been taken into account.
It is proposed to roll over most external cooperation programmes but an effort has been made to integrate some reconstruction and rehabilitation programmes into the appropriate geographical programmes.
With regard to administrative expenditure, the Commission request is for no more than the final 110 posts connected with the last enlargement.
Finally, I would draw your attention to the fact that in the context of the 1999 preliminary draft budget, the Commission has confirmed its intention to propose an additional 100 million euros for the PEACE Community initiative.
I also want to say that, in broad terms, this Parliament has already expressed its priorities for the 1999 budget and although we agree that it has to be a rigorous budget the Union's commitments should not be compromised just for the sake of the endof-year figures.
There is one point I would like to stress: you know very well, Commissioner, that your supplementary and amending budget does not solve the problem, in this 1999 budget, of the discrepancy between commitments and payments.
Mr President, Mrs Dührkop Dührkop asked whether the discrepancy between commitments and payments remains in 1998.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are today going to give an opinion on the common position of the Council with regard to the proposal for a directive on - and I would like to emphasize the title - the approximation of national legislations relating to the advertising and sponsorship of tobacco products.
Firstly, to cut short any discussion on the subject, I would like to say that this directive has a firm legal basis in Article 100a, since, as its title indicates, its aim is to remove the profound differences which exist between the legislative provisions of Member States, profound differences of a nature which would hinder the freedom to provide services in this domain and cause distortions in competition impeding the functioning of the single market.
I would therefore like to repeat that there is no problem with regard to the legal basis of this report.
This was, moreover, confirmed by Parliament's legal service in an opinion dated 27 March 1998, although even the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights would have had us believe otherwise.
Article 100a was, furthermore, confirmed as the appropriate legal basis by the European Parliament at first reading and has been questioned by none of the institutions participating in the subsequent legislative process.
Secondly, I would also like to stress that Article 100a is absolutely appropriate in this case for, in paragraph 3, it explicitly provides that the European Commission, when proposing measures relating to the operation of the single market and touching upon issues of consumer health and protection, must take as its basis a high level of protection for those consumers.
That is thus the case with this directive which, in order to do so, brings currently divergent national measures into line, through a ban on direct and indirect advertising of tobacco products in order to obtain a high level of consumer protection.
To encourage people to smoke is truly inciting them to murder, all in the name of the financial interests of the tobacco producing firms.
Thirdly and finally, this common position will be satisfactory to Parliament in that it takes on board the majority of amendments proposed at first reading.
The text is clearly not perfect, but it does make considerable progress in this field.
Whilst banning direct and indirect tobacco advertising, it leaves to Member States, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the task of regulating certain areas and provides a deadline of three years hence for national provisions to be imposed.
As you know, this text is the result of very difficult discussions which have lasted nearly ten years.
Yet, in spite of this recommendation, this common position is the subject of a veritable flood of amendments.
In reality, their amendments are merely pretexts to make this directive fail by means of successive procedures.
This attitude on the part of Members is incomprehensible, especially given that they are so demanding when it comes to defending air or water quality, lack of which can certainly be dangerous, but a lot less so than tobacco consumption.
So, ladies and gentlemen, let us not stand guilty of this mass homicide in the face of history but let us adopt this common position as it stands in order to obtain commercial regulation of - and I will emphasize it once more - advertising, which needs to be uniform throughout the European Union, so that incitement to such self-destruction, such absurd self-mutilation, will finally come to an end.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights did not talk about public health.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights asked itself whether a total ban on advertising would further the operation of the single market, yes or no.
In other words, if this directive is accepted, the Court of Justice will reject it because there is no legal basis for it.
Since Maastricht, there has been Article 129 which calls on us to promote public health and the route for those who want to ban tobacco is Article 129 of the Treaty.
If people want to reduce the use of the car on public health grounds by banning advertising which restricts trade and hinders the operation of the internal market, they should do so on the grounds of Article 129.
The Council's legal service has also said no.
Mr President, on Parliament's own initiative, we have spent nearly nine years, during one presidency after another, trying to ban direct and indirect advertising of tobacco products within the Union, together with the sponsorship of sporting events.
Tobacco kills, as Professor Cabrol said.
But there are too many financial interests behind it, as was made patently clear by the scandalous attempt at an agreement on the part of the North American tobacco companies.
Nevertheless, it is still a worthwhile first step in our anti-cancer strategy, and we will vote in its favour.
It is aimed quite simply at young people, because the tobacco industry needs to replenish the number of smokers in the population.
They invoke Article 129, which permits only measures beneficial to public health to be taken.
If the legal basis of Article 100a is not applied, we will end up with a distortion of competition since there are enormous differences in national legislations concerning tobacco advertising and sponsorship within the internal market.
These disparities will create hindrances to the free circulation of goods, especially for advertising agencies.
With regard to health, Article 100a enables a high level of protection to be introduced, and that is what we want.
Furthermore, I reject the argument that we are going to kill the funding of large sporting competitions or the activities of small sports associations.
Such arguments are insulting to all sponsors except the tobacco industry, who make enormous efforts to finance these competitions.
Let me quote, for example, the large sailing competitions and the name of Fleury-Michon.
A large majority of the citizens of Europe, including those in Germany, are in favour of a ban on tobacco advertising.
It is this strategic error that Germany is now trying to repair by whatever means necessary.
Let us all vote as free individuals, voting in the interests of our citizens, the citizens of Europe.
There is an article in "Le Monde' today, which is a serious newspaper as I am sure you all know, which states that according to the WHO, the only cancer which is likely to develop in the future is lung cancer, simply because of an increase in the number of smokers.
The WHO furthermore specifies that tobacco kills 3.5 million people throughout the world every year and that this figure will reach 10 million by the year 2020.
Mr President, Mr Cabrol, ladies and gentlemen, allow me firstly to congratulate Mr Cabrol on his tenacious and sincere commitment to the banning of tobacco advertising and for his report, which clearly recommends approval of the Council's common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions of Member States relating to the advertising and sponsorship of tobacco products.
But it is young people, the life's blood and future of Europe, whom we must protect and inform so that they can consciously and freely make their own choices in life.
In the face of this living reality, the legal arguments being advanced by the tobacco industry through a skilfully orchestrated lobbying campaign seem intended to evade the debate on the substance of the matter by replacing it with a debate on procedure.
As a Liberal, I say that protecting public health permits restrictions on the freedom of expression and the principles of a free market economy.
The Community has a duty to protect the citizen from a product which is directly responsible for the deaths of more than half a million European citizens per year.
And for those who are swayed by the argument about jobs, the economic and social consequences of this directive will be limited by the long introduction period before it comes into force provided in the compromise reached in the Council.
I call upon colleagues to vote for the common position and against all amendments, even those allegedly tabled with the intention of affording even better protection for public health.
And 37 Members in the Committee on the Environment voted in favour of this report's proposal, proving that members of all the groups support the Cabrol report in its present form and the Council's common position.
And it is also very clear that the use of the legal basis is a subterfuge to try to invalidate the Council's common position.
When people say we should use Article 129, they forget that, according to that article, it is not possible to adopt measures to harmonize the Member States' legal and statutory provisions.
Mr President, the Greens are certainly not in favour of prohibitionist or repressive measures with regard to substances such as tobacco, which are consumed for personal pleasure by a large number of people.
We therefore have no problem in voting for the text of the common position.
So instead of bans, let us take a different attitude, a more difficult, more determined, more modest one, too: one of educating the youth in our countries.
But they should all form part of an ongoing educational effort on our part.
We must help our youngsters along the difficult path to knowledge.
The ban on advertising tobacco products is almost a fact, at least provided the ship does not come to ground after all here in Parliament, in the Council, or perhaps even in the Court of Justice.
The concept of subsidiarity has played an important part throughout this debate.
I take the view that this common position is rightly founded on Article 100a and I will vote for it.
Even the amendments tabled on behalf of the I-EDN group should be rejected.
If this directive is adopted, the European Union will be giving a clear signal that the free market economy is important but that it is subject to limiting conditions.
Mr President, six years after these proposals were last debated and overwhelmingly endorsed in this Chamber, today we have both new and old voices arguing again over principles and even more over technical issues.
We are seeking to phase out the advertising of tobacco products, because this is an action which will make a real difference between life and death for some European citizens, particularly those who are most vulnerable.
Similarly, let us not set jobs against health.
Instead let us thank those who have worked to create a modest, serious, legal and practical measure with an important impact, one which will help others to create even more effective measures in future.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the control of smoking in Europe is undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges that we face.
Well, I would like to inform him that, as budget rapporteur, I have tried six times in the last six years to cut ECU 2bn from the tobacco subsidies in this budget, which is an area in which we do have appropriate powers.
I have never been so isolated in this House - not even now - as when I was seeking support for this idea.
Ladies and gentlemen, every day we spend ECU 5m on subsidizing European tobacco which not a single person in Europe wants to smoke!
In the same breath, we are raising tobacco taxes from the citizens of Europe - 20bn alone in my own country, for example!
That is why I think this report is tackling the problem the wrong way.
But, Mr Flynn, you demonstrated the domino effect some while ago, because the next directive on banning car advertising has been lying in your office for quite a while.
If we really want to tackle the problem, this proposal is too simple in its structure.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have read with great care the report by the venerable professor, Mr Cabrol.
Thirdly, I do not accept the claim of those colleagues who said that whoever has reservations concerning the report has no interest in public health, because many of those colleagues have given their support to the free circulation of soft drugs, as if soft drugs did not constitute a danger to public health or to society.
As all the previous speakers have demonstrated, this initiative is based on the risks of tobacco addiction for health and thus this directive should have Article 129 of the Treaty as its legal basis.
This article allows only for measures of encouragement rather than binding measures of harmonization, and so the directive could not have been presented in its current form.
If the market needs to be harmonized, then all the countries must be put on an equal footing and we cannot thus ban the sponsorship of sports and cultural events by the tobacco industry in one country whilst a neighbouring country still permits it.
In reality, this directive is riding the waves of fashion and easy virtue.
It is time that the Commission had the courage to define a reasonable and appropriate policy for fighting addiction in all Member States.
At the same time, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Flynn on the common position taken by Council.
Research undertaken by the International Union Against Cancer has succeeded in showing that banning tobacco advertisements has reduced tobacco consumption in Finland by 37 %.
The Union does have powers in relation to crossborder advertising, and it should make use of them, and in my opinion this should include tobacco advertising as well.
But an outright ban, or a ban on free gifts in the Member States, is not covered by Article 100a.
There is a tremendous amount of interest in this debate and this vote today.
If I could just quote a professor of medicine who said in twenty years she has never taken up any political activity or lobbying but she is moved to write today to plead because she feels very strongly that advertising bans can reduce the number of people taking up and continuing smoking.
Mr President, the text we are currently discussing is the result of nearly ten years of conflict.
As Mr Cabrol highlighted in his report, each year more than 510 000 people die in the European Union because of tobacco addiction.
In France, for example, there is already restrictive legislation with regard to tobacco and alcohol advertising.
I would, however, like to add that this directive is just one step in the fight against tobacco addiction in the European Union.
If we are convinced that cigarettes are dangerous and lethal, we ought to have the courage to ban their production.
If you want to say that a certain risk level is to be associated with a certain type of product, and that this will determine how the product can be marketed - in terms of the type and amount of marketing used - then such a risk hierarchy is possible, and it will get my support.
But then we also have to introduce a similar system for alcohol, Mr Flynn!
Those of you who are saying today that a ban on tobacco advertising will at least stop someone somewhere from taking up smoking should take a look at what is happening in the former Eastern bloc countries or in Greece.
The reality is that very few young people kick the habit of smoking during their lives.
It has become well documented that if people do not start smoking before the age of 18 the chances are that they will not become smokers at all in later life.
European governments and the EU institutions must now focus their attention on promoting health education in schools in the area of making young people aware of the dangers of smoking.
The attention of European legislators must also focus on the need to secure more financial resources for greater medical research into cancer prevention and into the health consequences of passive smoking.
The facts speak for themselves in this regard: over half a million people die in the Union as a direct consequence of smoking each year.
Decreasing the usage of cigarettes in the Union serves only a positive function in terms of protecting the health of all our citizens.
Mr President, I am very grateful to you, but we were upstairs in the Conference of Presidents meeting on the topical and urgent debate and the sun was shining on the screen.
I would have preferred it if we could have made do with a code of conduct, which operates very well in a number of Member States.
The common position, when you read it through, is simply the result of a political compromise.
All I want to do is ask Commissioner Flynn: how do you think people can deal with what is currently on paper in this position in a decent manner?
As regards controlling the contents of cigarettes in respect of toxicity and addictive effect, and restricting sales to young people, the state should intervene and should also try to protect young people.
Mr President, despite the legal guidance underlying the proposal, its actual legal basis is still in question.
No, the matter must be adopted so that it can proceed and be finally determined by the Court of Justice, and I suggest that is where the tobacco industry should present its legal opinion.
There is already legislation banning tobacco advertising on television.
Thus, it stands to reason to ban tobacco advertising in other media.
That is one of the reasons why I have always been against EU financial support of tobacco production.
Mr President, the proper functioning of the internal market requires harmonization of laws on tobacco advertising, and that this harmonization results in far-reaching prohibitions is in line with Article 100a of the Treaty, whether you like it or not.
Since we know that more than half a million people die every year in the European Union as a result of addiction to nicotine, that smoking is a definite danger to public health, and that tobacco advertising and sponsorship are certainly not only about promoting brands but also about encouraging smoking and getting young people to start smoking, as we know, then we have to make a stand against this advertising in a directive on approximation.
The same is true if we disregard our own vote of 2 December 1993 and act as if we have not yet incorporated the Treaty of Maastricht, and as if we want to send a signal to the world that Parliament does not see the resemblance between its own amendments and the common position, nor do we recognize the difference between minimal and radical amendments to the text.
To colleagues who advance as arguments the subsidies to tobacco growers or the right to vote in drugs matters, I say: because people behave stupidly twice, or fail twice, does not mean that you have to behave stupidly a third time, or that you should not continue to fight to get a third chance.
Mr President, ten years ago, I represented Italy at a WHO Conference held in Lisbon, entitled "Tobacco or Health' .
On the last day, a journalist responsible for leading the debate between delegates from different countries on the subject of measures to be taken to reduce the use of tobacco, solemnly began by reading the list of political victims of the fight against smoking, in other words, the ministers who had lost their jobs and never regained them, because in their countries they had promoted laws to ban advertising or to ban smoking in public places.
The objection will be raised that Italians, Spanish and Greeks in general want to continue supporting the European tobacco growers.
We are in favour of health and in favour of life.
And we know perfectly well that in all the Member States of the European Union there is a tendency towards restricting tobacco advertising.
But first and foremost, Mr President, we are in favour of the rules on coexistence established by the Treaty, and of respecting them.
Mr President, obviously it cannot be said that this is a minor technical matter, that we are attempting subterfuge through a question of procedure.
There is indeed a technical question, but it is a different one: it is a problem of venire contra factum propium on the part of Parliament itself, which twice pronounced itself in favour of using Article 100a as the legal basis, even in December 1993 after the Maastricht Treaty.
The approach taken by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has been strictly political rather than juridical - juridical too, but strictly political.
The complications arise because, in the last analysis, we can spend ten years debating this problem, but it is very likely - and this is up to the Court of Justice - that this directive will be repealed within two years, which means we shall have wasted our time.
I think it would be better to tackle it Treaty in hand and adopt, with the correct legal basis, measures appropriate to the objective being sought.
Many of my colleagues have insisted on these points.
But the banning of advertising is an essential step, which is all the easier to take as we have a legal basis for it: it is in the name of the free market that we can ban advertising, even if our objective is first and foremost one of public health protection.
Tobacco, in itself, is not a banned product and no one here would want it banned.
I thus think that the method chosen is the right one.
Mr President, this topic always raises fairly schematic and sometimes radical positions.
I come from an area where the impact of tobacco production and sponsorship is already of great significance on an industrial scale, from an area where tobacco is produced, where there are large companies in the textiles and clothing sector that use marks that refer to cigarette brands, in which F1 and motorcycle Grand Prix are held, for which it is not easy to replace the sponsorship of tobacco brands from one day to the next.
I therefore believe that we need to deal with these problems as well.
By assuming a drastic generalization and extension even where there is no prohibition from direct advertising, but allowing the Member States the possibility, through recommendation, of using even more restrictive criteria in indirect advertising and sponsorship, that take into account the specific impact of this phenomenon on employment and on the social sector, from this point of view.
I am also on the Committee on Fisheries, and I was amazed to discover the other day that the European Union spends more on tobacco production than it does on the fishing industry, and that, even in countries like Portugal, which are largely dependent on it, fishing only gets 40 % of the financial contribution that is provided for tobacco.
This is a serious anomaly, if we also stress what is happening in the field of public health, because it makes no sense to keep on investing in the public health area while at the same time increasing tobacco production subsidies.
There are existing, although limited, examples that show that a 14 to 37 % fall in consumption can be achieved through the use of advertising restrictions.
The reference to subsidiarity is a desperate attempt to condition the opinion of the national authorities, when at the end of the day the Council's position represents the guidelines for those same authorities through their Health Ministers, who want the guidelines to be a way of bringing in laws regulating the tobacco market and demanding a high level of consumer protection.
One of the interesting things to come out of this debate is that the European Union spends three times as much on subsidizing tobacco production as the tobacco companies spend on advertising their products within the European Union.
It would have been possible for Mr Blair to have introduced a ban on tobacco advertising and sponsorship in the United Kingdom but he ran into political trouble.
There is a clear problem with qualified majority voting.
If you want a recommendation, that will not ban tobacco advertising either, because you cannot square a recommendation with the idea of common rules for the internal market.
The answer is two things.
Owing to an advertising ban, Finland has seen a fall in tobacco consumption over twenty years by 37 %.
The ban has been significant, especially for the young: before the ban 35 % of 15 to 24 year olds smoked, a figure that fell to 23 % after the ban.
I do hope that Parliament will show a sense of responsibility and approve Mr Cabrol's report without amendments.
The general opinion envisages not only a total ban on the advertising of tobacco products but also a total ban on indirect advertising, for example for Camel boots or Davidoff cosmetics.
Before legal requirements of this kind are enacted, they must be considered in the light of whether they are really suitable as a means for achieving the declared objective, namely the protection of public health.
Once this first domino falls, the rest will follow.
Because there is no European legislation in the context of health policy for such far-reaching interventions, even under the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Council and the Commission often resort to the harmonization instrument known as competition, despite their own better judgement.
I personally would have gone a lot further and I would in normal circumstances have preferred to have gone to conciliation.
Can I just remind the English language press that what we are considering today is a European Council and a European Parliament directive, and as always in codecision, even at second reading, this Parliament has the final word and so it should.
I would like also to say that in considering my position not only have I consulted industry but I have also consulted the trade unions.
I cannot believe that it is right that the Legal Affairs Committee should come in on this occasion and give a different view and that the Environment Committee, which is the lead committee in these circumstances, should be dissuaded from taking the view that it took on the first reading.
In the view of most people who have dealt with this matter, there is no legal basis in the Treaty for this directive.
It could be based on Article 100a only if it concerned harmonization.
In short, if this directive becomes law, then we as a Parliament will be doing exactly what we are always reproaching the Commission for doing, namely laying claim to powers which are a matter for the Member States.
Nearly 50 % of all deaths from cancer among men aged between 35 and 69 are due to the effects of tobacco, not forgetting the part it plays in aggravating acute and chronic cardio-respiratory disease.
I need no lectures about subsidies to tobacco producers, having consistently opposed them since election to this House.
I also reject pleas from companies advertising other products using the same brand name as major cigarette brands.
It is absurd to claim that the rules of the Community demand that young people should continue to be targeted in this way through sports sponsorship and through trendy designer products.
The Treaty of Rome says the Community exists for the well-being of its citizens.
The health of our citizens must take precedence over the profits of multinational companies.
I would agree with Dagmar Roth-Behrendt and others who have spoken here, that adults have free will to take up smoking or to take up drinking, but it is deplorable that young people are encouraged to take up smoking as the result of billboard advertising and advertising generally.
Our next step must be to convince young people, especially young women, not to go down this road.
Mr President, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this very important debate today.
The discussion on the proposed directive on tobacco advertising is very significant indeed and there is very big public interest in that discussion here in Parliament today.
In the Commission's view the common position represents the most satisfactory arrangements possible to deal with the complex issue of tobacco advertising in the internal market context.
As several Member States have already introduced national restrictions or bans on tobacco advertising, practical problems of application have arisen as the possibility of internal market border checks disappeared.
Therefore, as with many other sectors of economic activity, a common solution needed to be found.
Article 100a of the Treaty obliges the Commission to take a high level of public health protection as its basis when making internal market proposals.
I regard the reference to seeking an alternative legal basis as something of a red herring so far as this proposal is concerned.
I would remind Members of Parliament that this legal basis has already been used in the case of existing directives on tobacco labelling and on tar content.
Some Members made reference to Article 129, but I say that article specifically excludes any harmonization of the laws and regulations of the Member States.
Associated with this principal objective of an internal market nature, the Commission has had to take a high level of public health protection into account.
This is demanded of us by our obligations under the Treaty.
This brings me to the smoking prevention issue which was the subject of a communication in December 1996.
The World Health Organization estimates the yearly death toll from tobacco at more than half a million European Union citizens - so many victims of cancer because of the consumption of tobacco, be it smoking or passive smoking.
The question for this House is: Can this House do something at European level to reverse that trend?
Mr Needle made a very telling point when he said that the House has a rare opportunity.
To act now at the Community level is, I believe, timely, necessary and entirely proportionate to the problem.
This initiative of removing the encouragement to smoke is even more vital if we remember that most smokers take up the addiction before they are 18 years of age and indeed, they take it up much earlier.
We have a responsibility to the future citizens of this Union to seek to take the first step to turn the tide against death from cancer produced by smoking!
There is no need, there is no logic, in amending the Council's text which indeed takes account of the points raised by Parliament at its first reading.
The objective of the common position on indirect advertising is a very practical approach to a complicated issue - how to stop other products being used to promote tobacco, or to stop tobacco being promoted using the name of other products.
The common position also takes into account the special case of existing products.
In all of these cases the position lays down clear objectives.
It is the Commission's responsibility to ensure that these national rules are in conformity with the intention of the directive.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, just before you commence the voting, I would like to draw your attention to the rules of this House and to the avalanche of lobbyists that are in the corridor outside this House.
Harassing and interrogating Members at the doorways coming into this House are against the rules.
I would ask you as a very respected senior Vice-President of this House and present President-in-Office: would you have the security services remove from outside the doorway?
It is not the first time that pamphlets have been handed out at the doors of this Chamber, but I think that the dignity of the House is now in danger.
Mr President, I consider requests of this kind to be unjustified, for on many occasions we have seen the television cameras in this House and those television cameras, when authorized, provide a guarantee for the citizens who have elected us to be able to see what is happening in this House: the guarantee of democracy is a price we should know how to pay!
But I believe the European citizens have a right to know! (Mixed reactions) Mr Tamino, there is always full coverage of the work of Parliament by cameras in the area provided for them and all of us are always in the spotlight.
Mr President, this is a vote in the European Parliament and, if I understand matters correctly, those who are entitled to vote in the European Parliament are the Members of this House.
I cannot allow more than two or three of you to speak.
Mr President, what is extremely annoying here is that while the big banner has been removed, it is true, the little banners are still in this room.
I think the members of the Green group ought to know that there are more people in this House who are concerned about the directive as it stands at the moment.
Mr President, I request that you also have the small banners removed.
Mr President, it is a question of the dignity of this House, as has already been said.
Mr de Vries, I believe that many of us agree with your comments.
On Amendments Nos 6 and 28 Mr President, there was a certain amount of bad temper in yesterday's discussion of these amendments.
Our committee has also written a letter to the Committee on Legal Affairs, expressing the fact that our interests are at stake and I am talking here about the right of farmers to continue breeding animals and plants.
The working people of my country, and I am sure all European countries, can recognize conservative Tories, because they are always wearing the same uniform and it is normally double-breasted pin-striped suits!
That is against the rules of the House.
Paragraph 2 of Article 157 stipulates that Members may not be heard as witnesses or as the accused, without the authorization of the House, the decision to grant such authorization being mandatory, in the second instance, where there are strong indications that a crime has been committed which is punishable by a term of imprisonment of not less than three years.
Rule 6(4) of the latter only anticipates adoption or rejection of a request for immunity, with the possibility of the recommendation being divided up if the request seeks the waiver of immunity on several counts.
By drafting paragraph 2 of our decision in this way, we have not altered the character of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
The Commission, by blatantly transgressing the official legislative process, is overstepping its responsibilities and violating the principle of the separation of powers, thus infringing the rights of Member States.
The second banking directive determines that the banking institution which carries out activities in the territory of another Member State in the context of mutual recognition, that is by means of branches or a system of free service provision, must comply with the provisions relating to the general good which are in force in that state.
Under the conditions of an integrated economy this situation leads de facto to a reduction in consumer protection.
We believe that each Member State must be able to judge which rules it is to impose on all who carry out financial activities within its territory, while in parallel it must be in a position to safeguard the possibility of effective monitoring by the competent supervisory authorities, as a means to ensure the sound operation of its banking system and the protection of the general good.
We disagree with proposals for the flexible implementation of the notification procedure in the case of the provision of services to another Member State and, even more so, with any thought of abolishing it.
Although the agency which provides the service is not located in the state of the purchaser of the service, the place of the "typical provision' of the service is that state and, in addition, it is a clear case of the provision of a service to another Member State.
Rothley recommendation for second reading (A4-0170/98) Mr President, the Green Group was united in voting against the Rothley report.
We consider it to be completely irresponsible from an ethical point of view that the way is being opened up for thousands of genes - whether from human beings, plants or animals - to be put to commercial use.
It is also disgraceful that Parliament has so clearly caved in to the huge lobbying interests of industry.
Only three years ago Parliament had the courage to reject this very same report.
The patents directive will lead to an enormous privatization of nature, and it is a disgrace that it is also leaving the back-door open for the cloning of parts of the human body and the patenting of human embryos for research purposes.
I think that today is a black day for human rights since human beings are clearly being debased by this patents directive and will become nothing more than raw materials for industry.
Mr President, if the patents directive which has now been adopted by Parliament is better than the one we debated and then rejected in Parliament the first time around, it is thanks to those who essentially voted against the directive at that time.
I have checked with many of the patients' groups who are alleged to be opposing this directive, and they have told me absolutely categorically that their names were used without their consent.
Earlier on I approached the Chair to have my name put down for an oral voting declaration not just on the Pirker report but also on the Rothley document.
Mr Posselt, there is no express provision in the articles of the Rules of Procedure.
However there is a parliamentary practice and this was mentioned to you by our colleagues of the President-in-Office.
I have this right since there is no article in the Rules of Procedure which obliges me to do it this way or that.
Mr President, firstly may I write into the proceedings of Parliament today that there was a lot of criticism of my colleagues from the Green Group for dressing up as pirates.
This is the only European patenting directive and today we have opened a Pandora's Box which our children and our children's children will deeply regret.
We do not have an ethical or moral framework which is workable.
Not only does it contain the possibility to coordinate the patent systems of the EU countries into one system, but also moral and ethical risks which, in our opinion, have been treated in too stepmotherly a fashion.
We note that a majority of the amendments suggested by the European Parliament at first reading have been adopted by the Council.
Technical inventions including biotechnological inventions are protected by patent laws in all our Member States.
The purpose of the draft directive before us now is to harmonize these rules in respect of biotechnological inventions.
The directive bans cloning.
The directive reinforces this rule.
We asked for an ethics group to oversee development in the area of biotechnology.
For all these reasons I will vote for the directive.
The current balance sheet of biotechnological inventions is impressive.
The objective of the proposal for a directive is to stimulate research into improvements in health and food for human consumption and to reduce the perverse or careless effects which could threaten human beings, either collectively or individually, as well as both the animal and vegetable worlds.
We therefore have to enable researchers to continue their work and avoid a monopoly coming into conflict with the legitimate interests of different research groups which exchange information, products and strains at a global level according to a code of ethics which they have freely applied to themselves and which has been proven.
Therefore, there is no need for an EU directive granting the right to patents on human genes, cells, plants or animals.
The statement by the Council about its support for Parliament's tougher line on a no to patents for life is thus untrue.
This directive must achieve a balance between the needs of industry and the general population's wider concerns.
Biotechnology has the potential to do much good in the treatment of genetic diseases.
The common position will enable scientists, researchers and those who finance them to obtain a reasonable return on their investment.
However, I am not convinced that the common position has done enough to meet the genuine concerns that have been expressed about developments in this area.
Finally, the common position should have been clearer in stating that any animal suffering must be in proportion to the realistic human benefit.
The market must stop where life, which is sacred, begins!
I am voting against this proposal for many reasons.
The Greens have worked consistently to mitigate the worst defects of this directive, but the common position is unacceptable in its present form.
The refusal of the rapporteur, Willi Rothley, to admit any failings in the text, despite the clear evidence that Parliament's amendments at first reading have been ignored or corrupted beyond recognition, is deeply worrying and the democratic process will be seen to have failed if this position is upheld in plenary.
The industry lobby argues that the directive will increase food production.
Enough food is already being produced, the directive will require farmers to pay royalties on seeds and force more costly monocultural farming methods.
Article 6 will prohibit patents on 'processes for cloning human beings' .
The common position text has qualified this to say that it is only industrial or commercial uses which are nonpatentable, leaving the door open for patents on research models using embryos.
The common position has deleted this provision, substituting only a poorly-worded recital calling for 'an opportunity' to give such consent, citing data protection problems as the reason for rejecting Parliament's text.
The common position reimposes the same restrictions in defiance of the views of farmers.
I share the view of many Members that farmers' needs are not adequately met in the common position.
It is absurd to impose a financial sanction on farmers simply because they wish to continue innovative practice as they have done for centuries.
Discussions on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions have been going on for more than ten years now.
That is why the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations tabled Amendment No 6 and cosigned Amendments Nos 28, 29 and 30.
In fact, from time immemorial, farmers have had the right to use their own seed and have developed a specific system known as "farm-saved seed' .
As a result, a reduction in the area sowed with durum wheat can already be noted in the so-called "non-traditional' production areas, which only benefit from a reduced level of aid to production.
There are at least three major problems with the directive in its present form, now that Parliament has rejected all the amendments: the requirement of proof of invention has not been included in an acceptable form; the "farmer's privilege' has not been safeguarded; and the potential for patenting genes under Article 5 - not only for specific applications - deserves sharp criticism.
I supported most of the amendments to Mr Rothley's report.
By the same token, many opponents of the directive have exaggerated the practical consequences of granting a patent and have made arguments that imply that any patented product is approved for use.
The significance of the directive goes beyond its specific provisions.
That is why it was important to establish a credible ethics committee, as proposed in Amendments Nos 11 and 12; to safeguard the rights of people in developing countries; to safeguard farmers' privileges; and to protect biodiversity.
Given the powerful economic and political forces now looking to make money from biotechnology in the developing world, there is a serious danger of traditional rights being undermined and the poorest people in the world being further exploited.
Today, companies like Bayer, BASF, Hoechst and Bohringer are trying to ensure that they enjoy legal protection for the gene business.
These remedies have often been developed from the traditional pharmaceutical products of indigenous people.
As a rule, the knowledge and biological resources of indigenous people are put to commercial use by multi-national companies without the approval or even against the wishes of those people.
The profit margin is considerable: Bayer, Agr.Evo, BASF, KWS and Hoechst are all in the top-ten list of world companies in agriculture, veterinary medicine and pharmaceuticals.
There have already been several attempts in the past to patent cell sequences of indigenous people against their wishes.
The European Parliament is now engaged in a vote on the compulsory expropriation of genetic resources.
For this reason I am voting against the Rothley report.
Pirker report (A4-0157/98) I abstained on this report for a number of reasons.
Even the d'Ancona report some months ago hyped up some very cynical arguments.
The reason I abstained on this report was because there were some positive things in it but there was also a reluctance to deal with the reality of the situation.
Mr President, I simply wanted to say briefly that I am very pleased to see such a large majority in support of the Pirker report, for this constitutes a turning point in EU drugs policy which first became evident in the debate on the d'Ancona report, which unfortunately was referred back to committee.
The Pirker report has finally made it clear that there is in this House a large majority in favour of a hard and clear line against drugs.
In Germany, for example, the debate has fallen a long way behind the position we reached on this issue in the European Parliament.
Customs posts on our Western seaboard, such as Casteltownbere in Cork, have been abolished just as we need increased vigilance concerning the trafficking of all kinds of illegal drugs.
Cannabis is legal already in Holland and there is a drive to legalize it from some Member States in the European Union which will only increase pressures.
As Hubert Pirker highlighted, the share of so-called synthetic drugs - Ecstasy, LSD and amphetamines - within drug consumption as a whole is continually increasing.
Something thus needs to be urgently done with regard to this phenomenon, which affects young people during their leisure time in particular.
The progressive ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty gives us new legal means and methods of policing to act against this particularly structured and organized from of crime.
Greater cross-border cooperation, in particular, could help greatly in this area and remedy the development of raves.
It is therefore clear that if we are to successfully respond to the threat caused by designer drop then strong coordinated action at a local, national and EU level must occur simultaneously.
The rapid increase in synthetic drug consumption within the European Union - currently estimated at around five million occasional young consumers - is both a new social phenomenon and a new public health issue.
Indeed, we know that the use of synthetic drugs in parallel with other drugs or alcohol causes particular risks: quite serious side effects, dangerous driving, the risk of unprotected sex and so on.
We also know that the synthetic drugs market is a particularly profitable one: they are easily produced, with cheap equipment and many substitutes.
It is good that the European Parliament now, on the recommendation of the Commission, is encouraging the Member States to act in this field.
One part of the report that I cannot support is, for example, paragraph 5, where harmonization of the rules on the consequences of crimes involving synthetic drugs is regarded as desirable.
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of improved control of so-called designer drugs in the EU.
Thus, we do not endorse the approximation of penal legislation in Member States.
It is high time we became aware of the damaging effects of the production and consumption of both the so-called traditional drugs and the so-called synthetic drugs.
Indeed, apart from undesirable side effects such as anxiety attacks, hallucinations and confusion, they can cause liver disease, cramp, apoplectic fits, coma and even death.
These drugs, which are for the most part consumed by the 15 to 25 age group at raves, are dangerous.
Synthetic drugs such as Ecstasy, LSD and amphetamines are becoming more and more common, particularly among the young.
I have voted for these proposals in the report.
The doubly black market in synthetic drugs - which are extremely varied and unidentifiable - is one of the greatest threats to our young people.
The Pirker report is an excellent contribution and a fundamental alarm signal in the fight against this scourge.
This is an idea which I think is a very positive way of encouraging young people to protect themselves against drugs.
Although we have some reservations - especially as regards the creation of special supra-institutional units, a proposal we consider particularly negative, and also as regards the question of harmonizing legislation - we consider the report generally positive, because it faces up to the use of synthetic drugs, which has become a part of the world-wide drugs problem as a whole.
It accepts the principle that users should be penalized - although that never means criminalized - and the need to stop the production and prevent the sale of these drugs, and also highlights the urgent need for further research into questions associated with the use of these kinds of drugs, particularly their social and health aspects.
Because they are "untypical' and consequently cannot be lumped together with popular drugs - heroine, cocaine, etcetera -, they are often alleged to be harmless.
According to one survey, 95 % of the young people who were questioned classified the synthetic products as "drugs' , while 90 % admitted that "Ecstasy' damaged your health and 77 % knew that taking designer drugs led to addiction.
In the European Union, 5 million young people are understood to take synthetic drugs on an occasional or regular basis.
The phenomenon is so acute in Luxembourg that the Centre for the Prevention of Drug Addiction has had a report prepared on the problem of synthetic drugs in Luxembourg.
Synthetic drugs are manufactured in kitchen laboratories using chemicals.
A ban on the production of and trade in designer drugs and amphetamines is absolutely necessary, and this must be introduced equally in all EU Member States.
It is also important to improve research into the effects and side-effects of these relatively new drugs, so that particularly dangerous substances are recognized in good time.
Collins) Mr President, this is the second reading on this subject, having had the first reading one year ago.
We can thus be pleased that no time has been wasted between first and second readings, which is not always the case, as we saw this morning.
Consequently, we can be happy that the Council's common position incorporates the factors which Parliament considered to be of particular importance at first reading of this "drinking water' directive, especially the request for the development of a harmonized method of sampling in order to monitor the lead content of water.
There is also another point on which we are extremely satisfied.
I therefore want to insist on this point in particular, and there are many of us who clearly wish to see this amendment taken up.
With regard to lead, which has also been the subject of a number of discussions, the Member States must provide a statement on the incidence of lead piping, having a period of five years in which to produce a report on how they intend to replace it.
According to the text agreed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Member States have five years to reach an initial level of 25 microgrammes per litre; they must then conform to the standard of 10 microgrammes per litre within ten years, and not fifteen, as agreed by the Council.
In conclusion, Mr President, I would simply like to note that the cost of this measure for some countries which have lead piping in use within their water distribution networks has to be carefully considered.
The directive will enable us to have a Community policy on drinking water and, finally, will enable consumers to be better informed.
Although the WHO has specified that a level of 2 milligrams of copper per litre of drinking water offers a suitable level of safety; although the European Parliament, you will recall, voted in favour at first reading, including copper in the table of indicative parameters; although the use of pipes with a low copper content could enable considerable savings to be made for the Member States; although there is no alternative system as yet... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, I apologise for not being present when the debate opened.
The proposal presented by the Commission in 1995 - which is what we are dealing with now - established parametric values to be met by the Member States, based on the latest research findings and WHO standards.
We want to tighten up derogations, most importantly on lead, where we have reduced the time which Member States have to implement the lead parameter from 15 years to 10 years.
We have also introduced a requirement for Member States to produce a plan within five years, stating how they intend to meet the lead parameter established in the directive.
What we are saying is that Member States should produce a plan telling us how they are going to do it, at some time in the future.
I am following the committee's line and would therefore ask colleagues not to support these amendments: Amendments Nos 31 to 34.
In a civilized Community I believe we should not be depriving our citizens of one of the most basic means of survival - namely, a clean supply of clean drinking water.
Finally, sources of drinking water in this Community are varied.
The drinking water directive has to be able to allow for disinfection of water from all possible sources in order to make water safe for human consumption, while still being flexible and respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
Even today, the majority of countries have to purify their drinking water either by proper technical or straightforward chemical treatment.
The strategy for Europe's drinking water should, therefore, be based on pollution prevention and monitoring water quality.
Therefore, it is very positive indeed that the directive on drinking water sets up monitoring requirements for substances that we suspect may be harmful to humans.
The vote at first reading was already a good one and the common position significantly improves upon the 1980 directive.
The first relates to endocrine-disrupting chemicals.
We are aware of the fact that, according to scientific studies, these substances are likely to have a devastating effect on the hormonal system at extremely low levels.
Furthermore, the second amendment, concerning radioactivity, shows that here too, since 1980, a number of things have changed.
We now know that there is no threshold with regard to the effects of radioactivity.
Scientists are divided on the subject but I believe that, if we are to observe the precautionary principle, it would be wise to adopt the values agreed on by the Committee on the Environment.
Mr President, when we talk of water or water quality, we need to be clear that there is only one body of water in the world.
This report - and here I repeat myself - naturally constitutes the right step in the right direction.
Cases such as those which occurred a few years ago in Cornwall, in the United Kingdom, and in Evora, in Portugal, put water quality on the front page and caused questions to be asked in Parliament, because they were matters of concern to public opinion on environmental problems.
The proposal contained in this report is therefore a good one, just as the proposal that came out of the first reading was positive.
In its introductory memorandum (COM(94)0612), the Commission stated that the use of copper materials in water distribution systems was not in itself harmful to human health, unless there was any difficulty in meeting a parameter value of 2 mg/litre with appropriate controls on the water treatment process; since then, the Commission has so far shown no evidence of change.
Mr President, like others I welcome this directive and the report on it.
The question I have to ask is one which has not really been highlighted so far in this debate - I know the rapporteur is very well aware of it - and that is the question of who pays for this.
The United Kingdom is one of the countries which has a problem with lead piping.
Mr Collins has added something to the directive which was not in it and which asks that the Member States be required to produce a report and forward it to the Commission on the incidence of lead piping in households within their territories and to come forward within five years with a plan to replace the lead piping in these homes.
In other words, it is the Member States, not the Commission, which are to produce the plan.
We have a terrible record on this: for example, the nitrates directive, which has been on the statute book and is being widely ignored because the Member States cannot afford to implement it.
Mr President, this is a positive directive since it finally regulates a very important issue which concerns human health.
It is also positive in that it provides for a five-year period for the replacement of lead piping, which, as is well known, has harmful and dangerous effects on health.
Commissioner, there is a way in which this suspicion will be entertained if, on the one hand, you accept the four amendments of the four groups, which ask for nothing more than the transfer of copper from Annex 1b to Annex 1c, since it is preferred by the public and it is easy and cheap and there is no alternative solution, but not the exclusion of asbestos.
The amended proposal will guarantee greater flexibility with the removal of the limitations of Article 13.
The present proposal also addresses environmental challenges more closely.
As a whole, the directive means the demand for good quality drinking water has been met in its proper proportion in respect of health standards.
Mr President, annexed to the directive on drinking water is a classification of substances that can have an effect on the quality of drinking water according to their degree of danger.
If the Council's proposal goes through and copper becomes classified as a poison, a very misleading message will be going out to the consumer.
In a study undertaken by the World Health Organization in 1997 it was stated that there was no scientific evidence that the use of copper as a material for manufacturing pipes for drinking water would lead to health-related problems caused by drinking water.
Another study done in Stockholm in 1997 showed that copper is not harmful to babies.
If copper comes into contact with a group of noxious substances it is easily replaced by those other materials, the effect of which is unknown.
Mr President, on behalf of the Commission, I would like to thank the Members for their thorough treatment of the Council's common position.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 1-5, 7, 9-11, 14, 16-18, 20-25, 27, 28 and finally 31-34.
Let me briefly comment on the most significant amendments, not least because they have figured in today's debate.
The Commission has accepted the proposals put forward by the House at first reading; these have been incorporated into the proposal.
However, they have subsequently been amended by the Council, since this was one of the most difficult issues in the negotiations.
The rapporteur, Mr Collins, and Mr Lannoye both mentioned parameters for radioactivity, touching on Amendments Nos 23 and 26.
This is the first time such parameters have been incorporated into a directive not covered by the Euratom Treaty, so I must congratulate the House on this amendment.
Naturally, the Commission has made careful note of Parliament's reservations on this point, and I, too, share these reservations.
The same applies to the question the rapporteur asked the Commission.
Reference to Article 4, section 1(a), is acceptable, but at present, it is too early to introduce parameters into Annex 1 part B.
However, it is neither necessary nor appropriate to convert this idea into a directive.
Finally, we come to the provisions regarding lead, that is, Amendments Nos 12 and 28, which Mrs Jackson particularly mentioned.
Amendment No 28, where a period of 10 years is proposed for complying with requirements on lead, cannot be accepted.
The Commission has proposed 15 years, and this has been accepted by the Council.
Let me also state that the reference to Directive 89/106 on building materials is a very useful amendment; it is acceptable in its present form.
In conclusion, allow me to make a few comments on copper.
However, I would like to draw the attention of the House to the fact that this is already covered in Article 11, section 1.
Mr President, I would only like to focus on the fact that in the speeches that related to the subject of copper there was no intention of changing the limit value of copper, but its classification, from B to C.
That, Mrs Matikainen-Kallström, seems to me to be more of a comment than a question.
Mr President, I would like to know whether the Commission believes it is right to include copper among the chemical products, or rather the poisons, such as arsenic, cyanide, mercury and lead, despite the fact that the WHO has declared that a level of 2 milligrams of copper per litre of drinking water provides an adequate level of safety.
By classifying these pipes in the same way as arsenic, you could mislead people into thinking that they are dangerous.
I think this is particularly serious.
And, to finish my question, that same Commission, in document COM(94)612, accepted that the use of materials from copper in the water distribution system was not in itself harmful to the public health.
Mr President, still on the subject of copper, I would like to raise a question I mentioned in my speech, which has not been answered by the Commissioner.
The question is this: if we accept that the Commissioner's information on the hazardous nature of copper is correct, then some other products will have to be substituted for it.
Mr President, I have to say that this lack of discussion really ought to be in the form of questions.
It has amazed me that several speakers today have questioned the health guidelines prepared by the WHO.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, experts suggest that at least 40 000 people across Europe suffer from the effects of air pollution, and those who have respiratory ailments are at risk of early death from the dangerous cocktail of chemicals in the air they breathe.
The draft directive we are discussing today is a radical and far-reaching attempt to put an end to this tale of disaster.
Members should understand that the standards being proposed are the result of unanimous agreement over two years in broadbased working groups and are based on the latest World Health Organization's standards for protection of human health.
They have been subjected to cost benefit analysis and are very stringent.
These four: sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen and particulates and lead were laid down in a framework directive as the first air pollutants to be tackled.
Each pollutant has different limit values and the whole thing is very complex but, briefly, the directive sets limits for emissions to be achieved by 2005 and 2010.
This is very important.
In some cases it provides alert thresholds to inform the public about the air they breathe and it has a built-in review in 2003.
The working group on this did not recommend an hourly limit figure but I believe it is more realistic to try to reduce excedences than to go for the drastically lower limit value that some colleagues want.
There is a slight problem with the Commission's proposal on protecting eco-systems from SO2 .
Amendment No 32 is a compromise text for the siting of measurement stations in small areas of sensitive eco-systems which I believe is a considerable improvement on the Commission text.
The substances are dangerous, and I share their desire to go faster.
But the levels in the text already mean a big reduction in NOx and particulates and, in order to achieve what they suggest, we would practically have to ban cars and shut down industry.
I hope that regional and local authorities will be able to implement the very strict limit values which are laid down.
But what is good can naturally always be made better.
Besides, we need a revision of the directive on large combustion installations.
I believe that the proposal and the strategy the Commission has chosen is the flexibility the countries need in order to formulate the rules best suited to each one to achieve a directive and a goal which at the end of the day will ensure a total stop to acidification.
We should, however, stress that this measure is also important for local air quality.
Parliament is, in all probability, going to approve the proposal by the Committee on the Environment that the EU should start to reduce the sulphur content of maritime fuels.
In fact, I have the impression that the Commission's own calculations suggest that the costs of the whole acid rain operation could be reduced by 15 % if maritime fuels were to be included in this directive.
The committee now supports the position that the threshold currently in force in Austria, which is 0.1 %, is the right one, although it is less than the Commission proposes.
The Committee on the Environment has also decided to propose Article 100 as a legal basis for the directive.
As the rapporteur, I must say I differed on this point, as this could very well serve as a measure to protect the environment, in which case Article 130 could be selected.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing here with an internal market problem and with an environmental protection problem.
No, what we are doing here is setting threshold values for fuels which can be freely traded on the internal market.
On 18 February, we adopted the directive on diesel oil and petrol by a large majority, and here we also want to see a reduction in sulphur levels.
Now we have to do the same for heavy and light fuel oil, because its sulphur content is still very much higher.
In some Member States, more than half of their requirements are met by imports and exports, so we are not talking about small quantities as far as the effect on the internal market is concerned.
It may well be the case that one country permits a 0 % sulphur level for light and heavy fuel oil, while others do not.
The country where 0 % applies may perhaps be worse off than before.
So, ladies and gentlemen, let us get to work, let us turn the fuels of Europe into a sulphur-free zone.
Mr President, the Commission's proposal for a strategy against acidification is important and on the right track.
Because of acidification it is essential that a reduction in emissions plays a priority role in the strategies of countries applying for EU membership.
Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group I would like to welcome the reports of Mrs Hautala, Hulthén and Pollack all of which make an important contribution to improving air quality and protecting human health in the environment within Europe.
By setting down these new standards for air quality in our cities we can oblige industry to start to take the necessary measures to tackle the current sources that are causing the problems of air pollution within our cities.
In particular, problems of sulphur, sometimes SO2 and of course nitrous oxides, NOx, in our atmosphere that originate from the burning of a variety of dirty fuels in factories, motor cars and from other sources such as ships.
This is a price that we cannot continue to pay and therefore these reports are absolutely necessary to avoid further damage, decay and death in Europe.
The proposals to reduce sulphur content to 0.1 % by weight in a variety of fuels are technically realizable and within reasonable cost limits.
Other measures of particular note are the proposals to create an SO2 emission control area in the North Sea.
However, I am prepared to listen to colleagues and accept that there are very real market implications to the proposal which are needed to control sulphur.
Finally, the proposals in this package can only be seen as necessary steps and I would therefore urge the Commission and the Council to accept Parliament's reports and amendments in the sure knowledge that rivers, forests, towns and cities from Middlesborough to Milan will be healthier, cleaner and better places to live in future.
However, I hope that you will permit me to offer three observations from an Austrian point of view.
In Austria, information of this kind can be obtained at any time by teletext, Internet, telephone or fax and, since everyone now has access to one of these information channels, it is proposed that this information should not be actively transmitted but simply made available.
We propose that the one-hour threshold should be set at 250 micrograms in order to achieve the right correlation.
As regards nitrogen oxides, it has to be said that, although an alarm threshold is a wonderful idea, a value of 800 micrograms is really much too high, Madam Commissioner.
We propose that this value should be lowered to 400 micrograms.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a Council Directive on the reduction of sulphur in certain liquid fuels, in particular fuel oil and diesel fuel, should enable us to fight against certain atmospheric pollutants known as "acid rain' .
The effects of this pollution are well known, above all in urban areas.
Besides, I dealt with this issue in my report on the 19992000 Community action programme on pollution-related disease within the framework of sulphur dioxide emissions.
Some are large consumers of heavy fuel oils, others use less.
I thus tabled some amendments in committee, so that Member States could take the necessary measures to guarantee that heavy fuels could not be used on their territory if the sulphur levels exceeded 2.5 % in weight instead of 1 %, as the Commission specifies.
Mr President, when I read Mr Hulthén's report about the strategy to combat acidification, it makes me think of my own country, the Netherlands.
This makes it clear that extra measures are needed to achieve the desired environmental objectives.
Furthermore, agricultural subsidies must be coupled to stronger requirements on ammonia discharge.
On the one hand, they deal with such problems that the EU should pay much more attention to, problems which by their nature cross borders and demand international legislation that is binding.
It is a good thing, therefore, that Parliament wishes to sharpen the fight against air pollution, but it is a bad thing that given the choice between environmental protection.... (The President cut off the speaker.) Mr President, with regard to the directive on the reduction in the sulphur content for certain liquid fuels, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection does not seem to have followed the advice of the rapporteur, who recommended approving the legal basis proposed by the Commission, opting for Article 100a which, if accepted by Council, will make this legislative act dependent on the codecision procedure.
The Committee on the Environment has insisted on the fact that the benefits obtained by a reduction in the sulphur content of fuels would be far greater than the costs borne by the industry to adapt the refinery machinery.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, among the many types of environmental damage to which people are exposed, air pollution is considered the worst by most people, and is classified as the most unpleasant.
That is why I very much welcome the reports which we are discussing this afternoon: a strategy on acidification, directives on thresholds for sulphur dioxides, nitrogen oxides, lead and particulate matter, and a reduction in the sulphur content of various liquid fuels.
I hope too that the amendments to the Hautala report, where the Committee on the Environment voted for one of the Austrian/Finnish/Swedish thresholds for sulphur and fuel oil, will be accepted by the Commission and that a further step will therefore be taken towards an improvement in air standards in the European Union.
Paragraph 4 of Article 100a enables Member States to apply far more stringent national provisions for environmental reasons.
Mr President, the three reports we are now discussing are closely related.
The Pollack report concentrates on air pollution as a threat to citizens' health.
I am convinced that it is quite possible to set higher demands than the Commission has done, at least in some areas.
The Committee on the Environment considers a more ambitious goal to be in place by the year 2015.
In 1993 the use of coal was responsible for 60 % of emissions of sulphur dioxide.
Instead, penalty fees ought to be levied on coal for the emissions of sulphur.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, European and national measures to control air pollution have been in force for almost 20 years.
I call on you to support these amendments and I would also like to ask the Commission if it is prepared to accept them.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sulphur dioxide emissions represent a major problem in Europe.
However, for us all it is a matter of the health of the people of Europe.
One of the most important is undoubtedly a reduction in the sulphur content of vehicle fuels.
Today's debate concerns an important supplement to the Auto Oil Programme and relates to certain fuels which in some respects constitute a considerable proportion of total SO2 emissions.
In my view, the same importance is attached to the question of what the legislative basis of the directive should be, that is to say Article 130s or 100a.
The Commission has put forward certain reasons for choosing Article 130.
Madam Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am worried by the problem we have with environmental legislation.
Oil refineries are going to be subject to the directive which limits emissions from large combustion sources, so I do not think it makes sense to have a double regulation, especially when this stricter one already exists.
In any case, I welcome the whole set of rules on regulating acidification, but bear in mind that if they are not flexible they will not be complied with, and that will cause enormous frustration.
These are complex technical issues, but are nevertheless issues of great importance to environmental protection and safeguarding heath in Europe.
Although we have dealt with the three proposals together, I would like to divide this up into three different sections because for two of the proposals a large number of amendments have been tabled which may require comment, so it is likely to take some time.
Firstly, I will consider the report on the proposal on air quality.
It sets new limit values for sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen, particulate matter and lead.
These limit values are based on WHO guidelines adopted in 1996 in the wake of a programme of collaboration with the Commission.
Specifically, Amendments Nos 5, 18 and 19 intended to fix a threshold value for nitrogen dioxide, constitute a valuable addition to the proposal.
I would now like to elaborate briefly on why the Commission cannot accept the remaining amendments.
Thus, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 7, 20 or 21.
Thus, I cannot accept Amendments Nos 11 or 27.
The proposed values for the quality of ambient air are ambitious, but attainable, and the limit values for the protection of human health should be adhered to in all places where the citizens of Europe are at risk of exposure.
Amendments Nos 8 and 34, which would introduce an exception for industrial plants emitting lead, cannot be accepted.
On the other hand, I cannot accept Amendment No 40 either, which goes a great deal further than WHO guidelines.
The limit values for the protection of health and the environment put forward by the Commission provide for a high level of protection.
The further tightening that is proposed would not, in some cases, contribute significantly to the level of protection, and would be extremely difficult to adhere to in parts of the Community, especially in the southern states.
These limit values will be reviewed when the Commission reports on the implementation of the directive in 2003.
Until then, as regards Article 130s, Member States are perfectly at liberty to set more stringent limit values if they believe this to be necessary on the basis of local conditions.
Some parts of the Community will be in a position to adhere to the Commission's proposed limit values for nitrogen dioxide in 2010 as a result of measures such as the Auto Oil proposal.
The proposal by the Commission establishes extremely stringent limit values for particulate matter.
The Commission regards the challenge to be justified in consideration of the importance to human health of ambient particulate matter.
Amendments Nos 29, 30 and 31 are, however, totally unrealistic, and the Commission cannot accept them.
Amendment No 13 sets out the relevant needs for research clearly and thoroughly.
Amendment No 35 cannot be accepted because cross-border pollution is dealt with separately in Community legislation.
Finally, I cannot accept Amendment No 33 on the IPPC, since there is no connection with the provisions of the proposal.
The strategy sets a provisional goal of 2010, and this goal is based on the concept of reducing the total area receiving more acid rain than the ecosystem can tolerate from almost 9 million hectares to 4.5 million hectares.
The most important catalysts to achieve this are the proposal for a directive on the sulphur content of liquid fuels, which we are, of course, dealing with today, and then a proposal for a directive on the establishment of national emissions ceilings for acid-producing substances, which the Commission will table at the beginning of next year.
The Commission intends to revise the strategy in 2004 and in this connection wishes to keep Parliament's position in mind.
I have observed with great interest the number of arrangements with regard to emissions from ships that Parliament wants the Commission to take up.
With regard to the idea of an action plan involving prospective Member States in the strategy, I would like to point out that the process applicant countries have to undergo in order to fall in line with Community environmental legislation should meet this requirement.
The Commission had hoped that at the conference on countering marine pollution in September 1997, a decision would have been made on a sensible solution to the question of sulphur dioxide emissions from ships.
Therefore, in principle, I can accept Amendment No 6 on heavy fuel oils, provided that an article is inserted urging the Commission to give further consideration to these measures and, if required, to table a proposal to this effect.
Otherwise, the Commission can fully accept Amendments Nos 2, part two of 3, part one of 5, 8, 13, 14, part one of 15, part one of 19 and 28; in part, Amendments Nos 16, 17, 23 and 27; in principle, part two of 5, 6, part one of 9, part two of 15 and 26.
Amendments Nos 10, 12, part two of 19 and part two of 24 require more stringent limit values, but that would make the proposal less cost-effective.
Individual Member States can always introduce more stringent limit values if required, although only if we retain the legal basis.
Amendment No 20 would be a step backwards in terms of the environment, since stricter limit values already apply to average emissions from some refineries.
Part two of Amendment No 9 requires the Commission to table a motion on economic instruments.
The Commission does, of course, intend to review this question in the context of the general review of the directive in 2003.
Then we have Amendments Nos 21 and 25, which in our opinion touch on institutional issues, and which we do not believe actually belong in this proposal for a directive.
It is not possible to introduce new standards for fuel oil before 1999.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
One change has been introduced that will be appreciated by eco-label users: a 50 % reduction in the cost of annual duties for small and medium-sized businesses and for developing countries.
In Article 11, the Commission proposed that national systems should be replaced by the European system within five years of this regulation coming into force, but only for those product groups for which specific Community criteria have been established.
The European Union's eco-labels scheme is a good initiative to protect the environment within the internal market.
As a voluntary scheme aimed at promoting environmentally-friendly processes of production and helping consumers to make an informed choice about their purchases, eco-labelling is a potentially promising instrument.
This graded label will be too confusing, since it is difficult to understand the reasons behind the attribution of two or more flowers to a product.
Our group will therefore vote in favour of an eco-label with one flower which also gives extra information about the environmental criteria used for attributing an eco-label to that specific product.
Our group supports the rapporteur's initiative for a compromise - the establishment of the technical committee for the ecolabel under the responsibility of the Commission.
We also agree with the rapporteur's proposal to bring this in line with Article 100a of the Treaty.
Mr President, Mr Poggiolini's report is, on the whole, an improvement on the Commission's proposal.
Besides, it is by no means certain that the EU flower will have reached the same qualitative level or will include as many products as the existing system, even after five years.
There is an obvious risk here of destroying an eco-labelling system which is working well, providing consumers with good information.
We think that good and successful eco-labels should not be withdrawn in this manner, and I call on the rapporteur to approve our amendment, which is based on the belief that this would be a rash move.
Eco-labelling is practically the only means environmental policy-makers have that provides the consumer with information on the environment when that consumer makes meaningful purchasing decisions.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection voted on whether we would get rid of national eco-labels.
I believe a common European system will also be able to give consumers the guidance they need when making good and correct environmental choices and getting products manufactured in an environmentally friendly way.
I will cover the various components of the report.
However, following various informal discussions with Members of the House, the Member States, the responsible ecolabelling organizations and NGOs, the Commission recognizes that a number of points in the proposal are simply not good enough.
Nonetheless, the Commission's overall attitude is that the Commission must defend its own proposal at first reading before the House.
The Committee on the Environment has proposed some comprehensive changes to the report, and at the present time, the Commission is only able to accept 7 of the 34 amendments approved by the Committee on the Environment.
The original Commission proposal to introduce a graduated eco-label has also been rejected, as was mentioned here today, in Amendments Nos 5, 12, 26 and 28.
The idea of having one flower along with a selection of further information to the consumer disregards the original proposal, because the House does not accept the original idea of having several labels to give consumers the information they need.
This is covered in Amendments Nos 3 and 14, and I regard that as an interesting possible development for the eco-labelling scheme.
Re-establishing the former eco-labelling consultation forum - as in Amendments Nos 16, 17 and 27 - is an original proposal, approved by the Committee on the Environment.
It aims to reintroduce current hearings of special interest groups in the revised scheme.
The Commission endorses the principle of financial contributions to non-state consumer and environmental organizations as mentioned in Amendment No 17.
The Committee on the Environment is asking for the legal basis of 130s, part one, to be extended to include 100a.
The two articles together require the inclusion of 189c and 189b as well, and since these two procedures are inherently contradictory - at least, under current provisions - we cannot accept this amendment.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I wish to speak in connection with Rule 41 of the Rules of Procedure and Annex II.
So I was a bit surprised yesterday, when document PE268.631 was given out in which the questions are listed, to see my question as Question No 77 under other questions, not therefore among those which will be answered by Mr Kinnock, so that there is hardly any chance that my question will be answered.
Mr Wijsenbeek, as a great expert on the Rules of Procedure - I modestly admit you are more of an expert than I am - you know that the admissibility of a question is a matter for Parliament, whereas it is up to the Commission to decide which Commissioner should reply.
Question No 39 by Concepció Ferrer (H-0472/98) Subject: Free movement and transport of goods Over the last few years groups of French farmers have attacked lorries carrying Spanish fruit and vegetables on their way to various EU countries.
Last December the Court of Justice condemned the passivity of the French authorities because they have been unable to prevent these attacks.
This proposal is being examined by the Council and Parliament.
In the reply made on 9 April 1998, the French authorities described the measures they considered appropriate for complying with their obligations.
Now that French farmers have made further threats against the marketing of horticultural products from other Member States in France, the Commission is insisting once again that the French authorities should apply the new measures with the necessary rigour and efficacy to ensure free movement of agricultural products.
So besides thanking you for these actions, I would like to repeat my request that you should continue to make sure that France fulfils its obligations, so that these regulations, these measures that have been adopted, can really be put into practice in order to guarantee free movement once and for all.
My question concerns the proposed legislation put forward by the Commission to the Council of Ministers to guarantee freedom of movement.
In your statement or in the rules which you are preparing, Commissioner, you should refer first and foremost to the fact that national governments have the responsibility of ensuring that traffic can move freely in Europe.
The free movement of goods justifies this proposal for a regulation, and the Internal Market Council has confirmed on several occasions, the last occasion being on 30 March, its political desire to find a satisfactory solution in line with the mandate conferred on it by the European Council.
The final proposal put forward by the Presidency took the form of a regulation, again based on Article 235, and on a resolution.
The Presidency hopes to obtain political agreement on this final proposal during the Internal Market Council on 18 May, that is, next Monday.
We have debated it in this Parliament.
Unfortunately the committee did not accept that and that is why, as you know, we are taking the procedure, the infringement procedure, further, and why we are currently working on the preparation, or engaged in drawing up what are known in English as the statements of objection.
That is roughly how things stand at the moment.
The organization of the 1998 World Cup has been a disgrace: over 60 % of the tickets have been available exclusively to French citizens, despite the intervention of the Commission, the CFO has refused to make even 160 000 tickets available to football fans outside France.
FIFA and the CFO are making a mockery of European Union law.
You know very well what I said: that, indeed, we fundamentally disagree with this kind of system and, therefore, it should be reviewed.
I must say that the organizers of the European Championship in the year 2000, which will take place, as you know, in the Netherlands and Belgium, are already talking to the services of the Commission - to my officials - in order to sort things out now before one ticket is sold.
For the rest, as you know, we continue to pursue the appropriate procedure, but we have to do so according to the rules.
Commissioner Van Miert, can you tell me what the point was of the expensive studies which DG X carried out in 1993?
I was rapporteur on sport at the time and they produced a huge volume about the impact of EU activities on sport.
Thank you, Mrs Larive.
Excuse me, Mr Van Miert, but when you listen to the question in one of the languages you understand, you forget that our interpretation system takes a certain amount of time to convey the information to all the Members and, especially, the President.
They were dealing with general policy in this area but, as you know, DG IV is looking into matters relating to competition.
Things happened in the past, for example where the sale of tickets was tied to the sale of travel facilities for example, or hotel rooms.
If the client wants that, there is no problem, but, for example, a travel agent cannot lay that down as a condition.
I do not think it is a question here of who is most in the right actually.
I can give you the example of a number of travel agents or of a single travel agent that is officially delegated in the country to conduct such sales.
But you know what our intention is and I would like to confirm that here today.
People cannot, for example, refuse to sell a ticket to a German citizen.
On the grounds of Annex II, B(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I am asking you now and I would be very grateful for your reply, to raise Question No 77 since Commissioner Van Miert is still present.
Mr Wijsenbeek, I must inform you that the order has already been established with the agreement of the President of Parliament and the Commission, and it is impossible for the Chair to alter it during the sitting.
What action can and will the Commission take, in view of the international dimension of the problem, to protect cyberconsumers from this unsupervised sale of drugs?
Mr President, the question must contain two answers.
One is very formal and relates to what we have already done together in order to ensure that sales of medicines on the Internet are conducted in a proper manner, and the other deals with the practical implementation of these regulations.
There may also be a contravention of the directive which prohibits public advertising, particularly in the case of medicines requiring a prescription, and there may of course also be a contravention of the directive which specifically allows Member States to prohibit the marketing of medicines in their territory through agreements on distance selling.
However, because of the increasing importance of the Internet as an international organization, it is impossible, both in practice and also in law, to take action against companies or individuals who are proceeding in accordance with the laws of their home country while acting outside of EU laws or national regulations.
In other words, there are only limited possibilities open to us.
We can bring proceedings against our own companies, but not against others.
However, I should emphasize here and now that even if we do have international rules, given the technical character of the Internet it will not be easy to prosecute and punish contraventions of such rules.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his reply.
I would have liked to hear from the Commissioner what he plans to do about these problems within the Union.
You have yourself quoted a case where these legal provisions are not effective.
If, for example, a medicine is permitted in the USA, which no-one could describe as a wild and under-developed country where all sorts of things can be sold, then a manufacturer or someone else who wants to offer this medicine for sale is able to do so via the Internet.
The fact that the Internet extends to every country in the world is due to the technical nature of its infrastructure.
But in the case which you have mentioned the consumer does not make himself liable to prosecution.
There is also a problem in respect of competition, because if the restrictions we are discussing today apply to European companies or pharmacists, we shall see these pharmacists, traders or businesses being put at a competitive disadvantage vis-àvis other countries where such medicines are allowed to circulate freely.
I am convinced that we must review existing laws to do justice to both sides of the argument, namely protecting the consumer while at the same time safeguarding the competitiveness of our industry.
So Questions Nos 42 and 43 will be dealt with in writing.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Fourth Lomé Convention follows on from the Maastricht Treaty in emphasizing the objectives of combating poverty and encouraging respect for human rights and democratic principles.
Nevertheless, within the context of its programme for the reform and rehabilitation of health systems, the Community does support many forms of action, particularly for the benefit of victims of war and, even more specifically, victims of anti-personnel mines and crippling diseases.
This is particularly true in the case of Angola, Mozambique and also certain non-ACP countries such as Cambodia.
These actions in ACP countries are financed not only by the European Development Fund but also from a number of budgetary categories relating to emergency aid and rehabilitation.
The Community also supports numerous non-governmental organizations such as 'Handicap International' , ' Help the Aged' , ' Médecins Sans Frontières' and others.
I ask him to reflect during the course of negotiations on whether or not we should give it a higher priority when one in four poor families in developing countries have a disabled member; when there are only 3 % of the 500 million disabled people worldwide who are literate; when the mortality rate for under-fives in developing countries is well under 20 % - it is between 60 % and 80 % for disabled children.
We have worked in many areas in which, in one way or another, disabled people were the focus of our attention, namely in regard to the anti-mine action in Southern Africa.
Question No 45 by Bernd Posselt (H-0463/98) Subject: Burden-sharing in staffing What progress is being made with the initiative to share the burden of staffing in connection with sudden refugee movements, and also movements of asylum-seekers?
In March 1997 the Commission put forward a proposal for joint action on temporary protection in situations of mass flight.
I am also thinking of the Council's decision of 4 March 1996, and which deals with the way the European Union is to share the responsibility for people in need of temporary protection.
The Commission's proposal has been discussed on many occasions in the Council of Ministers during the past year, particularly during the Luxembourg Presidency.
At the informal Council meeting at Mondorf in October 1997 this question was on the agenda.
Parliament supported the proposal on 23 October 1997.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, thank you for your detailed answer.
However, I still fail to understand whether or not the Commission has in fact now submitted to the Council a concrete proposal for personnel burdensharing.
But none of that will be possible unless we have a very detailed proposal on personnel burden-sharing in the form of a fixed formula between the Member States.
Thirdly, it will establish that protection of the economic interests of the Union be equal in all the Member States.
These changes will strengthen our means to protect taxpayers against fraud and cheating.
It will then be of utmost importance to build up a stable legal framework for the exchange of information and to set up a common database.
Close cooperation and mutual assistance will also have to be established between the Member States, the European Central Bank, Europol and Interpol.
The achievement of this will demand actions within the first as well as the third pillar.
I would like to thank the Commissioner for answering the question and I would like to say that we are of course looking forward to receiving more specific proposals regarding which initiatives are to be put into practice, and I am delighted that this is taking place before the summer recess, because I think it is important to follow up on this matter right now while we are discussing the euro.
With regard to the new Article 280 in the Amsterdam Treaty, I must say I am amazed that the Commission is still unwilling to commit to specifics, because to me, it is a good argument alongside many other good arguments in favour of the Amsterdam Treaty.
Once 1 July is passed, the deadline laid down in the Amsterdam Treaty for ratification in the Member States, there is reason to start discussing whether we should not turn these instruments into first pillar instruments and directives instead.
Mr President, according to the so-called single market scoreboard report adopted by the Commission last November, the rate of non-implementation of single market directives is high in the transport sector, as the Honourable Member indicates in his question.
A partial explanation for that is provided by the fact that much of the single market legislation in the transport sector is relatively recent.
For example, there have been 38 transport directives in the 1990s, compared with just six directives in the insurance sector, the last of which was adopted in 1992, where the transposition record is best.
The main reason for this significant amount of legislation in transport is obviously the evolution of the common transport policy and its application in the changing context provided by the single market.
However, does he agree with me that we could, perhaps, further highlight some of the poorer Member States in terms of transposition by producing a league table of those least effective Member States - maybe a list of shame to try to ensure there is public pressure in the Member States concerned to ensure that Community law is complied with?
So far as naming and shaming is concerned, I am not sure that would be the effect but I am prepared to work on the basis that if a law is worth passing in the Council of Ministers, it must be worth transposing and, indeed, it must be worth applying and enforcing in a Member State.
He has had tremendous battles with the United Kingdom authorities, in particular with the previous administration.
If I can say to the honourable Member I do not honestly know the detail of the particular case mentioned so I would be obliged if he could write to me as he suggests.
Question No 48 by Anne McIntosh (H-0185/98) Subject: Lorry Blockade in France Will the Commission investigate why the French Government has now confirmed that the British hauliers who suffered as a result of last year's lorry blockade in France will receive no compensation despite the disruption to the Single Market?
The honourable Member may already be aware that the United Kingdom Department of Transport has informed the Commission that all cases relating to United Kingdom hauliers in respect of the 1996 strike have been addressed and that procedures are in place to resolve outstanding cases from the 1997 strike without undue delay.
If the honourable Member can provide references to justify the assertion made in her question the Commission will of course investigate the matter further despite the fact that, as the honourable Member knows, compensation arrangements are entirely within national law and procedures and consequently not a matter covered by the legal authority of the Commission.
Mr President, I am very happy to share with the Commissioner the text of a written reply I received from the British Minister on this subject which led me to put the question in this form.
I hope therefore that whatever other action is taken or proves to be necessary in the course of future months, no one, least of all the honourable Member, will try to give a totally distorted and exaggerated view of what the European Commission can do in the event of any extremely unfortunate, highly regrettable and totally counterproductive action that might be contemplated in some quarters at the time of the World Cup in France.
Unlike the previous speaker, whose petty, insular views were apparently preoccupied only with British lorry drivers, I would say, Commissioner, that only 10 % of all the lorry drivers concerned from all over Europe have been compensated by the French authorities.
This means that unless and until the Council endorses a proposal relating to intervention of the kind that he suggests, it would be not only inappropriate but highly offensive to everything we believe in as democrats to award to the Commission power to intervene to impose compensation requirements or in other ways to try to dictate the direction in which affairs should go at the time of, or following, an industrial dispute.
Question No 49 by Felipe Camisón Asensio (H-0394/98) Subject: "Open skies' agreements with the United States What information can the Commission provide on the infringement procedures against those Member States which have concluded "open skies' agreements with the United States in the civil aviation sector?
Mr President, a short question sometimes provokes a lengthy answer so I apologize in advance for what must unavoidably be a fair degree of detail in response to the honourable Member.
In November 1994, the Commission communicated to the Member States its concern that bilateral air transport agreements with the United States of America would affect internal Community legislation.
Assurances on the issue were sought from the relevant Member States in February 1995 and, when they were not forthcoming, the Commission initiated proceedings based on Article 169 of the Treaty in June of that year.
Discussions on aviation relations with the United States meanwhile continued in the Council and in June 1996 the Commission was given a partial mandate for negotiating a common aviation area between the European Community and the USA.
That mandate awarded in 1996 did not, however, include market access issues such as traffic rights and capacity, which are plainly vital for the purposes of any successful comprehensive air services agreement.
The Commission has pursued its efforts to obtain a full mandate for some years and, at all times, has emphasized its total commitment to taking detailed account of the concerns and interests of all Member States so that none would encounter any disadvantage whatsoever.
In addition, as you will also be aware, the Commission is strongly motivated by a practical desire to negotiate conditions in civil aviation that will be fair, balanced and certain to uphold the interests of the Community, of all its Member States, of the civil aviation industry of the European Union and of the citizens of the Union.
I must admit, Commissioner, you are acting splendidly in this matter.
Mr Kinnock, you now realize that you are not alone, although there are not many people in this Hemicycle.
In any case, you have our support on this question, as Mr Camisón Asensio said.
I am, if time permits, willing to sing to the honourable Member 'Do not forsake me, oh my darling' - but I won't.
I am therefore confident that the day will come when the full mandate will be given to the Commission to negotiate on comprehensive issues and gain the best possible deal for our carriers, our citizens and our Member States.
My one concern is that agreement to a mandate may not come early enough for us to be able to deploy our full negotiating strength simply because a multiplicity of bilateral deals could award the Americans nearly all that they want without European carriers being able to get a balanced and equivalent amount of access to the very rich United States market in return.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very sensible that a supplementary question can also be put during Question Time.
As the honourable Member points out in his question, studies into the feasibility of building a tunnel connecting Helsingør in Denmark and Helsingborg in Sweden have received support under the European Union's INTERREG IIa programme.
The Commission, is, however, not aware of any decision to construct such a tunnel link and the Commission has not received any request for Community support for such a project.
I can very easily understand that decisions are required by the Swedish as well as the Danish governments before the Commission will be able to give further financial assistance, but I would like to put the following question: supposing the Swedish and Danish governments were to agree to build such a link, might the EU then assist in the same way as in the matter of the link between Malmö and Copenhagen?
Thank you very much, Mr Kinnock.
Question No 51 by Maj Theorin (H-0430/98) Subject: Rail transport There are several major European firms currently transporting goods by road which would like to transfer heavy road haulage to rail, primarily for environmental reasons.
The common transport policy contributes to increasing the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail transport through various actions including the so-called PACT programme - Project Action for Combined Transport - the removal of technical and regulatory barriers to international freight transport - which is absolutely crucial - the efforts to complete the internal market in rail, which will enhance efficiency and attractiveness, and also other policies like the development of the trans-European networks which, because it is very substantially balanced in favour of rail, can also make its contribution to increasing sustainability of transport.
I will send a full reply in writing to the honourable lady, but I am grateful for her close interest.
Thank you very much, Mr Kinnock.
So once again, thank you very much, Mr Kinnock.
Since the time allocated to questions to the Commission has now expired, Questions Nos 52 to 119 will be dealt with in writing.
It is in that perspective that I shall ask Parliament to reject Amendment No 2 to my report, which seeks a doubling of the funding, if possible.
Two times very little is still very little and budgetary policy is always constrained by what is possible.
Of course, it is not for the European Union to undertake the responsibility for education across Europe but we need to recognize that Europeans must be assisted to get the best out of the opportunities of the single market, which is where the European Union must be involved.
I have drawn attention to the need for a European dimension in ancillary education services, such as vocational guidance.
Possible employment opportunities in other countries of the Union should not be a closed book, and with facilities such as the Internet, there is every possibility for students to be made aware of employment opportunities throughout Europe.
Similarly, we need also to develop educational links with other neighbouring countries and cultures.
I would particularly cite our neighbours in the Islamic world where mutual understanding and respect still need much promotion.
To turn to the amendments, I have already explained that Amendment No 2 is too limiting and too precise about funding.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the communication from the Commission wishes to establish guidelines for future Community initiatives in the area of general vocational training for the period 20002006.
We will discuss these in detail after the Commission has presented its specific proposals on 4 June of this year.
Today, however, I would like, on behalf of my Parliamentary group, to note that increased cooperation in the field of education in Europe is an important prerequisite for the integration process.
The Commission also considered this context itself in its communication; this makes it all the more incomprehensible that on the one hand, the sums of money being made available for language visits for schoolchildren and young employees within these training programmes are completely inadequate, and on the other hand, the Member States, despite their primary responsibility for educational policy, have done much too little in terms of experiences of other cultures, tolerance and mobility to prepare the youth of Europe for easier access to the common European market.
I appeal to the Commission and the Council of Ministers to consider, when reorganizing the Social Action Fund for a more active labour market policy, ways in which in future resources from the Social Action Fund can be used for employmentoriented training measures and of course ways too in which Socrates and Leonardo could be considerably better equipped to complement in an innovative way the European Union's efforts in the field of employment.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in its communication on a Europe of Knowledge the Commission provides guidelines for the next generation of European training programmes.
I think that anyone who is involved in politics, whether at a European level or within the Member States, is aware of the crucial importance which thorough planning of our customary training programmes will have for the European Union in the 21st century.
It also seems important to me, however, to lend continuity to incentive measures in the area of training.
I therefore consider it important that the three programmes be continued separately in their current form.
We should attempt, in doing so, to introduce improvements into the existing system by building on a careful evaluation of programmes to date.
The Commission's communication to Parliament is a little disappointing in that it is not explicit enough.
Mr Perry's excellent report provides a good basis for further discussion.
The reform of the education and youth programmes is not just a technical process but a great opportunity to hold discussions on just those European values we wish to base our future on.
The Amsterdam Treaty stresses how important it is for everyone to have the opportunity to receive a high standard of education and work as a committed citizen of the Union.
I believe that we are all convinced of the great importance of the European education and youth policy and the need for its development.
At a time when society is reflecting upon the issue of transmission of our knowledge and values to future generations, it is particularly reassuring to see the European institutions looking into the concept of knowledge.
Secondly, we know that employment policy is inseparable from education policy and that it is thus necessary to give everyone a chance to be trained.
Furthermore, I think it necessary to implement youth programmes which are distinct from education programmes.
Mr President, the financing issue mentioned again and again here is unfortunately only a part of the solution.
What is still lacking are programmes whose content concentrates not only on learning but also on learning needs.
One example of such a link would be the Dutch report, "Culture 2000' , which for the first time creates a link between education, a training programme and the culture market in a country.
So people no longer say that culture requires more and more money and more and more subsidies but that there is a solution to subsidies in the area of culture if we learn more, experience more, buy more books, go to the cinema more often, visit more museums and thus spend more money on the culture market.
The problem of language diversity in Europe cannot be reduced to a purely practical problem; instead, it must take into account the cultural needs of the individual countries.
Mr President, the Europe of Knowledge and learning in the global information society of today and tomorrow must be the main objective, I believe, of the European Union.
The debate which took place in the European Parliament and the debate which is taking place today, as well as the final decision which I hope we will come to, show that such an ambitious, great and difficult attempt can be enriched and pursued in this direction.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, as the Commission says in its communication, the society of the future will be founded on knowledge; knowledge in terms of quantity, but most of all the quality and the up-to-date validity of that knowledge.
I recently heard it said that nowadays 'we need to share out knowledge in the same way as we once needed to share out bread' .
central and eastern Europe are as much an inseparable part of the common European fund of knowledge as Southern or Northern Europe.
Thirdly, the creation of 'info-points' to be used in common by the Union and other international organizations concerned with education and youth, such as the Council of Europe, UNESCO or the OECD, would be a powerful means of achieving the cooperation that is much discussed but little practised.
I would specify three: a visible increase in financial resources, indexing them at a minimum percentage of the Community budget immediately; rapid general availability of access to the new technologies from primary school age; and a bold language programme - this is very important - consisting of teaching two foreign languages from the elementary stage onwards, a European language which can be used as a common means of communication between all citizens, reinforced by a second language, not forgetting that non-European languages are increasingly being spoken in Europe.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his interesting work, which enables us to alert the Commission once more to the tremendous challenges which education, training and youth represent.
It is vital to the future of the European Union to preserve and expand these proven programmes, despite a low level of funding.
As the rapporteur highlighted, and I quote, "in the context of limited financial resources, European added value can be achieved only by developing the future programmes as real transnational 'European laboratories for innovation'' .
Recently a vast amount of money has gone into Monetary Union and we know that there is some opposition to that but there is massive enthusiasm for the education programmes of Europe and by comparison, I have to say, very little money.
I want to talk particularly about three paragraphs: 26, 30 and 31.
Paragraph 31 is a very important point.
In particular it talks about civic education and this is very important for my own country, the United Kingdom, where there is an appallingly low level of understanding of the democratic process.
That is as important a factor in building a united Europe as anything.
Mr President, I would like to thank our rapporteur for a very comprehensive report which I think has brought together all the feelings and the interests that we have as a committee.
On behalf of the Federal Trust and the Secondary Schools Association of the European Union I would like to thank you, Madam Commissioner, and your Directorate-General for the invaluable support that you have given to a project on citizenship.
I believe it should have disseminated across our secondary schools in the European Union as a matter of urgency before the European elections next year.
Ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to speak before this sitting of Parliament on a Europe of Knowledge and I have listened to all the opinions of the speakers carefully.
It is a fundamental debate for the future of the Union, with immediate consequences, since Parliament and the Council will very soon be considering proposals for legal and operational instruments which will enable the construction of this Europe of Knowledge.
Furthermore, the Commission, which considers that research, education and training are essential intangible investments for our future, proposed within Agenda 2000 to make policies on knowledge one of the four fundamental central themes of the Commission's internal policies.
The implementation of the Community programmes, Socrates, Leonardo da Vinci and Youth for Europe are already well under way.
This is why I thank the European Parliament for having accepted these time constraints.
The building of a European educational space, with new programmes, more appropriate management and adequate financing is my third point.
You will be aware that such exchanges already exist in the area of education and that we have held a number of Councils of Ministers jointly with the Education Ministers of the CEECs.
Furthermore, I willingly support the emphasis that has been placed on the role that the social partners and large sectors of civil society will have to play in the new generation of programmes.
We held a widely attended meeting with representatives of the youth associations from different countries of the Union in Brussels a few months ago.
The next meeting will take place in November of this year and I have the full intention of submitting these texts and issues to the representatives in order to discuss them with them.
I have to say that the meeting we held with the young people was extremely dynamic, very lively and enabled some very interesting exchanges where, for my part, I learned a lot.
The implementation of the forthcoming programmes will be marked by efforts at simplification and concentration, as many of you have requested.
I know how concerned you are to see that a better coordination and a better synergy with the Structural Funds is assured and to develop deeper relations between European programmes on professional training and the European Social Fund and I am fully in agreement with this direction.
I am particularly pleased with the new orientation of the Structural Funds towards a human resource policy.
The Commission's services are currently working on the structure which will be set up between these new programmes, the ESF and the new Structural Funds policy.
My colleague Padraig Flynn and I are genuinely concerned to ensure that Community actions promoting education, training and human resources as a whole are implemented in a complementary and coherent way.
In Agenda 2000, the Commission indicated its intention of giving priority to actions relevant to a policy on knowledge.
Although awaiting final arbitration, I can already indicate to you that I proposed that this priority should be expressed through a substantial increase in the resources made available to education, training and youth programmes, and I hopes that I will be heard.
I hope this cooperation will be extended to cover the proposals for action programmes in the areas of education, training and youth which we will soon be dealing with.
Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, this is the first substantial debate which we have had since the grand arguments over television without frontiers on the costs and benefits of the new information services.
The services that are offered - more or less, point-to-point, on-line, and now in the wonderful random universe of the Internet - we acknowledge can expand horizons: they cross every border, they enter every home, directly or indirectly they influence us all.
This is a debate as old as human society itself: the debate about how that society is enriched.
When I was a student I sat at the feet of Sir Isaiah Berlin in Oxford and heard his lectures on the two concepts of Liberty: positive and negative liberty, freedom to and freedom from.
It is the balance, if you like, between Article 10 and Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
The vulnerable are not always the young and the young are not always the vulnerable.
The recommendation and the action plan invite the Member States to be proactive, to promote research, to involve teachers as well as parents and to facilitate the exchange of information.
The Birmingham assizes under the UK presidency address this issue.
I should like to congratulate my very old friend, Mark Fisher, for his work with our Secretary of State, Chris Smith, to see that this proposal has a fair wind through the Culture Council in May.
We are grateful, also, for the support of your team from DG X who are alongside you tonight, and I am grateful for the work of my colleagues and my two assistants who have worked on this report.
Our recommendations and our amendments are pretty self-evident also.
I pass over the sonorous platitudes which every report has in the recommendations in the preambles and turn only to the more hard-edged recommendations for toughening up the four points at the end of the report.
Commissioner, I hope you can address, in particular, Amendment No 19 which calls for an evaluation report by the Commission to be placed before Parliament and the Council within two years.
Mr President, the report we are now dealing with leads us into a very important discussion of principles.
It is important to emphasize the value of new technology and the Internet from the point of view of information.
The Internet may, however, also be a source of disinformation which can have serious consequences, especially for the weaker members of society.
I also support a regular review of a system of self-regulation and a review of this action plan after two years.
Mr President, when we speak of preserving human dignity and protecting the under-aged in audiovisual services we are in a very sensitive area.
The police and the judicial powers in different Member States are becoming aware of the need for closer cooperation in prohibiting, for example, illegal or in any way harmful, offensive or fraudulent material on the Internet.
In an action plan, governments are urged to promote self-regulation through an extensive network of cooperation.
Self-regulation is certainly to the benefit of all enlightened service providers, but are all service providers so enlightened?
On the one hand he has encouraged creativity and commercial success on the Internet, but he has also defended freedom of expression, respecting privacy and reconciling this with the need to defend human dignity and protect minors.
As Phillip himself has said, in a generally literate climate there will always be those who will want to trade in cruelty and fear in order to debauch society.
Because of fears such as this parents tell me that they may buy their children a PC but not the modem that will give them access to the world-wide web.
He is also right to call for an assessment after two years as to whether regulatory action is needed.
I look forward, thanks to the collaboration between the Commission and Parliament, to an early adoption of this recommendation under the UK Presidency, particularly with the blessing of British Ministers Chris Smith and Mark Fisher.
The only exposure I had as a child to anywhere outside the street where I lived in Cork was when we went down to a neighbour's house and put our ears up to an old steam radio and heard somebody far away singing 'When the red red robbin comes bob bob bobbing along'.
Unfortunately, just as with the television set, it is not always possible to leave your children alone.
The protection of minors and the protection of human dignity in audiovisual services and in information services in general is a very important issue in an age of electronic convergence.
The Commission recommends that the Member States work towards a national framework of self-regulation, encourage the experimental implementation of new methods to protect children and help to make parents aware, and other related measures.
It is necessary to teach young people to navigate sensibly and responsibly with the new information tools at their disposal, just as we teach a child to read or ride a bike alone in a town, in the face of danger, as a free citizen.
We must, at all costs, encourage efforts to educate by example, through better cooperation with parents, schools, cultural centres and associations and social information services, so as to contribute to initiating a clear identification of the content of the information society.
I therefore support the rapporteur's recommendations, which will lead to better European cooperation on the issue of the protection of minors and human dignity.
It is pleasing firstly, because this is an important matter which affects the European model of society; secondly, because it achieved unanimity in committee; and thirdly, because it is practically identical to the Commission's earlier proposal.
We would like to go further, because self-regulation might not be enough, but this is all we can do at the moment.
I also think there has been excellent collaboration between Parliament and the Commission right from the outset.
However, together with this and other events, such as the internal market, there is something we cannot forget: a final political project based on ethical limitations.
We must stick up for and protect that European model of society, and this recommendation and this report address precisely that idea and that model of society.
I think the European Union has managed to provide itself quickly with a legal instrument for audiovisual and information services, as well as for the new on-line services such as those available on the Internet.
The question is how to facilitate the application of the laws so that the new agents can work in an orderly fashion to produce codes of practice, which is something that was mentioned in all the contributions.
And the keyword is selfregulation, a word which, although delimited by the legal framework, always turns out to be indispensable.
It invites the Commission to present Parliament and the Council with an evaluation report on the implementation and effectiveness of the recommendation.
Several of the speakers have mentioned this, particularly Miss Tongue.
In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, while the United States, for example, has to some extent failed to get over the Supreme Court's invalidation of the provisions for the protection of minors contained in the Communication Decency Act, I think the European Union has managed to provide itself quickly with a coherent instrument for audiovisual and information services, which can only help to guarantee a high level of protection for minors and human dignity on our continent.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, the first comment I want to make is that today the United Mexican States make up a nation which, since the start of this decade, has been turning itself into a forceful and promising economy.
And as was demonstrated in the most recent elections, the Mexican people have made their choice without being tied by limitations based in the past, thereby becoming the real protagonists of modernity and change in a nation which is now the thirteenth economic power in the world.
Almost 80 % of its exports are directed at the US market.
Nor should it be forgotten that in recent years Mexico has joined organizations such as the OECD or APEC.
I will repeat two of them: Mexico's links with NAFTA, which have significantly reduced our bilateral trade; and, secondly, the fact that Mexico's export pattern has changed so much that today only 9 % of exports to the EU come from the agricultural sector.
If Parliament ratifies this agreement, the negotiations to open up the markets will be able to start in 30 days' time.
So we have several months ahead of us, and during that time Parliament will have the chance to follow the negotiations and their progress closely, and make a statement on the final result once negotiations have been completed.
The process announced in 1994 is still not finished but there has been obvious progress.
The EU-Mexico agreement will contain progressive elements and compromises which can help with modernization, regional development, the fight to overcome inequalities and an improvement in the human rights situation.
Mr President, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur on her work on this report.
Trade between the United States and Canada on one hand and Mexico on the other has been given a very considerable boost by its inclusion in NAFTA, following the Mexican economic crisis.
However, the globalization of our economies is an inevitable development and we in this Parliament must surely support an agreement which will help to stimulate trade between Mexico and Europe to our mutual benefit and help tilt the balance against Mexico becoming even more dependent on the United States.
In the European Parliament we have quite rightly adopted a strong stand on human rights issues.
With this clause, the signatories commit themselves to fulfilling their obligations in human rights, as well as social and environmental matters, which are very important in these countries of the American continent.
That is what we really want for Mexico, a country which is so important for the European Union and greatly loved, especially by all Spanish speakers.
The Union must insist very strongly that the Mexican government find a peaceful solution to the conflicts in Chiapas.
In addition, extensive cooperation between NGOs must put an end to human rights violations.
I invite the Commission to report on an annual basis on the human rights situation.
Also, one of the paragraphs in Mrs Miranda de Lage's report clearly specifies that this agreement opens the way for cooperation in relation to financial aid for social programmes, programmes for the indigenous communities and programmes in favour of human rights.
Nevertheless, as I said at the beginning of my speech, there are also reasons for a "no' vote.
The report is dedicated to José Tila López and Trinidad Cruz, who were murdered after providing information about what was happening.
If we also think back to the massacre at Acteal and the circumstances surrounding it, we can conclude that there are also reasons for a "no' vote.
The clause must not remain an insignificant piece of rhetoric and the agreement must not be a general absolution for the government.
For instance, Mexico has become a member of NAFTA.
There are, therefore, economic reasons enough for the European Union to revise the 1991 framework agreement by means of the interim agreement proposed now.
It is good that the agreement addresses cooperation on social affairs and poverty as well as questions relating to refugees.
Let us follow this closely and maintain contact on these issues, not only with the Mexican government, but also with social organizations which have to face reality on a daily basis.
That brings me, finally, to the question of human rights.
There is the situation in Chiapas, where death squads have murdered thousands of Indians.
Mr President, in March I took part in a UK delegation studying human rights violations in Chiapas in southern Mexico and tonight, as we consider the EU-Mexico Agreement with its human rights clause, I want to describe the situation there.
To the European Parliament and the Commission I ask that we establish a permanent mechanism to monitor and report back on the human rights situation in Chiapas and the rest of Mexico - one which incorporates NGOs involved in the defence of human rights and which offers them increased direct European support.
Our political concern, as expressed later in Article 1, should serve to dispel the reservations expressed by some in the light of the difficulties experienced by the country's authorities.
That is how Parliament saw things back in 1995, when Mrs Miranda de Lage presented her report, which in the last analysis is what allowed us to provide the necessary political impetus to progress towards more ambitious objectives.
I would even say to those people who have reservations and propose active or positive abstention that by choosing dialogue and accepting cooperation we can, through negotiation, resolve certain problems in this new framework of political cooperation.
CONAI is in favour of this agreement.
In other words, the organization which protects the interests of the indigenous people of Chiapas is in favour of this agreement, because it sees this political dialogue as a useful mechanism.
Finally, I want to remind you that the Troika, in the Rio group, has already had a very intense session in Panama, in which Mexicans and Europeans exchanged opinions about the Chiapas problem.
I have inherited the 1991 agreement, and the Mexico of the Salinas administration was not the same as the Mexico of the Zedillo administration.
Knowing the history of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, the fact that the President sacked the Interior Minister and the State Governor represents a qualitative change in policy which deserves recognition.
So, with the "yes' with abstention, the "yes' for reasons of political vision and the "yes' because of problems of economic balance, the Commission thinks this is an extremely useful instrument for organizing a political dialogue on the delicate subject of human rights and the problems of indigenism in Mexico, and that if used properly - with respect and a sense of its usefulness - it can be extremely useful for resolving this problem.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, the immediate reason which led to the revision of the Community customs code was the report by the committee of enquiry of the European Parliament into fraud in customs transit.
The Commission proposes a number of measures to clarify and simplify the laws.
The measures which the Commission wants to take can be divided up into three groups: revision of the legislation; better cooperation between the customs services in the Member States; and computerization of the communications between customs services, the new computerized transit system.
The revised legislation lies before us.
The most important point from the Commission's proposals is that they want to trim down the customs code and they want to transfer the formulation of the regulations to the procedure of the customs code committee.
Still I have opted to continue to include essential points in the code and only to leave implementation provisions to the committee.
It became clear during the discussions with the Commission and the Council that the Commission cannot accept Articles 92 and 97.
Article 97 is more difficult, I think, and Article 97 above all things is a crucial point for Parliament.
It is about where the lines are to be drawn for the area of competence of this Parliament.
The Commission's proposal aims at simplifying customs procedures.
The rapporteur is somewhat sceptical about this.
Mr President, first I would like to thank the rapporteur for the very useful suggestions put forward in detail in this report.
The first involves Amendment No 3, relating to release from the transit system.
The Commission recognizes the need to ensure flexibility at Member State level, but considers that the fundamental principles of the transit procedure should always be observed, particularly the guarantees it offers.
In other words, goods could be moved under the transit system, for example from Hamburg to Munich, without observing the Community transit guarantee system, or without any guarantee at all come to that.
But in a market without internal frontiers, how can we ensure that these goods do not end up in Vienna or Paris instead?
I will not stop to comment on all the other amendments which, as I have said, the Commission finds acceptable, but I am prepared to answer any questions.
The Commission and participating countries have agreed a new system implementation strategy.
We did not want to set a time period, but if the Commissioner wants to have a period, I would suggest three months: after three months the documents must be back.
As regards the Commissioner's last comment on Article 97, I am a bit surprised.
What I tried to do was precisely to restrict the flexibility of Member States, as far as difficult cases of security are concerned.
Mr President, I have only one question: how much of a saving does the new system represent for the economy of Europe?
Finally, on the point relating to the simplified procedure proposed in one of the amendments, I have to say that the amendment would have been more acceptable to the Commission if it had found - perhaps it still can - a way of offering the same guarantee, a satisfactory guarantee.
As I emphasized in my speech, it is the lack of guarantees that concerns us, particularly in an environment that is no longer able to distinguish clearly between transit within a Member State and transit between Member States.
The debate is closed.
