The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights of the European Parliament welcomes this amendment package in its entirety.
For the sake of uniformity of treatment, the Legal Affairs Committee is in favour of amending the Commission proposal (Article 12 of the First Banking Directive) to give the relevant Member States the opportunity in future, in addition to the exchanges of information in which banking supervisory authorities may already engage with their counterparts in their own country, in other Member States and in third countries, to conclude cooperation agreements on the exchanging of information with non-banking supervisory authorities in third countries too.
The European Investment Fund, in fact, allows financial institutions to subscribe to 30 % of its capital.
The situation is somewhat different in the case of Amendments 1, 3 and 4.
Mr President, I concentrate on the three amendments by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
The banking regulators will also have considerable experience and expertise in these activities.
Therefore, banking regulators will tend to be more conservative in their approach to setting capital charges for commodities.
With the solvency directive there is a proposal to put churches and religious communities in the same position as public authorities.
In addition, there are several proposals to reduce the weighting on specific subjects from 100 % to 20 % or 50 % or other figures depending on the issue at stake.
All this illustrates the importance of Parliament's work.
The Katiforis report of September 1995 on financial derivatives was a landmark in progress towards combining our efforts.
The Commission proposal before you responds to the approach put forward in this report.
Such a capital regime would be in contradiction to the basic principle of equality in the treatment of credit institutions and investment firms.
The Katiforis report highlighted the importance of this principle.
The debate is closed.
Now that is the most extraordinary statement in itself, but I want to know if that is the position of the Commission before we embark on this debate.
Mr President, the position of the Commission has not changed.
Cod only reach maturity at the age of four and at present exploitation rates only 4 % of cod survive to that age.
The report refers to the Commission's draft regulation to modify existing technical measures to reduce the mortality rate of immature fish.
A common figure for discard is 40 % of all fish caught.
The Fisheries Committee accepts the need to reduce the mortality of immature fish and the number of discards.
Success also requires a greater involvement of fishermen's representatives in the decision-making process.
In the first place we need to get the message clearly across that fisheries resources are not limitless; just recently the FAO even pointed out that over 60 % of fisheries resources were being over exploited.
Admittedly, the proposed compromises are not yet perfect.
The oceans are a magical world but also a vulnerable world.
A certain number of rules should therefore be adopted.
The increase in basic mesh size is too great.
As far as the Bay of Biscay in particular is concerned, the combination of the measures affecting fishing tackle - added to the restrictions - would be perceived as discriminatory since it would close down a major part of the fleets concerned.
These problems are all the more acute when these vessels operate far from base, which also makes this measure discriminatory by giving an advantage to other fleets the home ports of which are closer to the fishing areas.
In conclusion, most of the intended measures have been proposed without prior experiment.
The absence of evaluation of their effects on businesses and stocks, as well as their cumulative nature can only lead to their wholesale rejection by the fishermen.
One of my fellow MEPs, Sir James Goldsmith, was in my constituency in the UK earlier this week putting forward various views about the fishing industry.
I am interested to see that he has maintained today his 100 % record of turning up and defending the interests of the British fishing industry...
Moreover, it is one which the public cannot understand, and which the industry does not like - although I would say the industry is not completely innocent itself in that area.
I see this particular proposal as an interim measure towards a European policy that actually bans discarding altogether.
What really comes out of this is that we really need greater enforcement and greater political will to enforce amongst all Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Commissioner, the introduction of new technical measures for the conservation of fisheries resources is, naturally a complex question.
Mr President, this report is on the Commission's proposal to change the technical measures governing fishing.
As such, it deals with one of the three most important pillars of fishing in the EU, along with control measures and the capacity of fleets.
Technical measures assume an even greater importance in the likely event that the Council will not adopt a rigorous programme to reduce fleet capacity.
These documents, the first of which is actually a legally-binding treaty which has been signed by the EU and all Member States, calls for measures which are more progressive than those which the Commission is requesting.
In 1991 the Council banned the use of driftnets longer than 2.5 kilometres in all regions except the Baltic Sea.
In recent years the presence of both national and EU patrol vessels has more or less succeeded in enforcing the 2.5 kilometre length limit, except in the Mediterranean.
Mr President, on the substance of this report, I fully support the objectives of conservation and so do fishermen right across Europe.
That is vitally important because one of the big problems in the industry is a lack of confidence.
Our group will therefore persist in a critical approach with regard to them.
The Commission's proposal does not take account of the actual rate of selectivity of fishing gear.
No legislation can bring this natural state of affairs into question.
The proposals made by the Commission, insufficiently revised by the Committee on Fisheries, run the risk of achieving the opposite objective, in increasing the loads which already weigh down small-scale fishing and intensifying industrialisation of the fishing sector, to the detriment of economic activity and employment in our coastal areas which are already suffering the handicaps of being on the periphery.
Mr President, if our amendments are not accepted our group will vote against the proposal for legislation.
As our colleagues have said, we are obviously all in agreement about overcoming this problem of fishing stocks and their management, all the more so since the 100 million tonnes fished each year cause disquiet with all the experts, - and Maurice Aubert of the CERBOM in Nice in particular.
From this it is understandable that the Commission is proposing legislation to guarantee biological security, by providing for an increase in mesh, or even a possible reduction in the number of nets, the banning of fishing in certain areas, restrictions or certain periods.
All this is understandable.
Therefore would having a POP No. 4 from 1997 to 2003, not create inequalities to the detriment of our own fishermen?
Secondly, to have the fishing industry evolve from one of gathering fish to one of farming - and there is the crux of the problem of aquaculture, limited to 12 million tons per hour currently in the world.
Finally and above all, to envisage a world solution to the problem, within the framework of a convention similar to that of Montego Bay, but specific to fishing and not simply a general Montego Bay convention.
Innovative conservation measures such as square-mesh netting, single nets and other rules to ensure greater selectivity as regards fishing gear have been understood and respected, while transitional periods and flexibility criteria have been introduced to ensure the gradual adaptation of fishing boats, fleets and even Member States which rejected them flatly in the original Commission text.
The consensus reached is perhaps not perfect, but it will result in a rule that is much more acceptable for those who have to apply it, which is the only realistic way of ensuring that a rule is complied with.
Therefore I think that the work of Parliament has been very important in taking the step that will bring the Community fishery closer to a management model that will guarantee the conservation of resources and the survival of a healthy fishing sector in the long term.
Remember that all these measures will require additional funds from the fishermen.
I know he worked long and hard to try to find a solution to many of these grave problems.
They are the people who have a good idea of the situation and they must have a future in the industry.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the present motion for a Commission regulation covers a very wide and heterogeneous field by dint of the varying nature of the fisheries resources.
Therefore, faced with such a situation, this regulation could succeed only if it followed three fundamental principles: first taking sound scientific proof as its basis, secondly being realistic in application, which presupposes that is has been appropriately negotiated with the Member States and economic operators in that sector and thirdly that implementation should be on a decentralized basis.
Finally, I should like to stress that these methods are inalienable from the multi-annual fisheries guidance programme, the famous FGP-IV, the parameters of which need to be set with care and consistency in all Member States.
I hope that in this matter the next Council of Ministers will finally shoulder its responsibility.
The Commission justifies its new technical measures by the wish to prevent the capture of juvenile fish - something we all agree with - but these measures are, essentially, of two types: to improve the selectivity of fishing gears and to restrict the activity of these.
Particularly in the UK and Ireland we have this hysterical criticism of every effort that is made and the national politicians fail to give moral support to the Community effort to resolve the problem.
They recognize, or say they do, the need for control but they oppose every single measure that comes forward.
If you talk to the people involved in the fishing industry for three minutes, privately and quietly, you will find they all recognize the danger that exists and they all accept the need for measures to improve the situation.
These measures have been amended 19 times but the basic problems are still the same.
In 1995 taking into account this background and the international context of an increasing awareness of the need to improve the management of fish stocks, the Commission presented a communication on the implementation of technical measures in the common fisheries policy in which the Commission concluded that the status quo is not satisfactory and suggested a number of improvements in the technical measures to improve the exploitation pattern of Community stocks.
Member States have basically agreed with the main conclusions of this report.
The European Parliament reacted quite positively too.
The Commission undertook to present by June 1999 a new proposal on technical measures.
The Commission accepts the following amendments: No 1 as a recital and Nos. 10, 11, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 23, 68, 69, 70, 71 and 73.
From Amendment No 11 it is clear that basically Parliament supports the Commission's proposal as regards the one-net and two-net rule.
The Commission largely agrees with the spirit of the following amendments but finds them factually flawed or out of context and therefore cannot accept them: Nos 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 15, 22, 47, 59 and 66.
The contents of Amendments Nos 24-30, 49, 50 and 75 form part of the on-going negotiation process with the Council on the technical details of the annexes to the Commission's proposal.
Again the Commission thanks Parliament for its constructive contribution to the ongoing debate on the technical measures proposal.
Diversification for Italian fishermen The next item is the report (A4-0095/97) by Mr Baldarelli, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council Decision (COM(96)0682 - C4-0037/97-96/0308(CNS)) on a specific measure to encourage Italian fishermen to diversify out of certain fishing activities.
The Commission would like Parliament to give its opinion today.
I call the Commissioner.
To allow for an immediate halt to the activity in question, it is crucial that decision is approved by the Council meeting of 14 and 15 April.
It is possible only if Parliament gives its opinion today.
My understanding is that there are some technical difficulties on compensation to the Italian fishing fleet which is a separate issue between the Italian Government and the European Commission.
If we do not take a decision today, this Parliament will be acting as a eunuch because the Council can move forward and take the decision without the opinion of Parliament.
Under Rule 129 of our Rules of Procedure, a vote is to be taken right now. (Parliament decided to refer the report back to committee.) Mr Imaz San Miguel on a point of order.
Madam President, I would like you to check whether, under the Rules of Procedure, a quorum is necessary for this vote.
Madam President, it wasn't just a question of making a statement on the matter in hand but also, possibly, asking for the quorum to be checked.
The aim of the proposed Regulation is to introduce such a Community arrangement for the Baltic area as a first stage in the gradual inclusion of Sweden and Finland in the common fisheries policy.
The arrangements are to apply to fishing vessels of more than 15 metres' length between perpendiculars.
Our only concern in this context is to have fishery records subdivided by target species.
The Commission proposal does not seem terribly practicable in this respect.
In general terms, I should like to stress that with the accession of Sweden and Finland the Union has two new littoral States of the Baltic Sea among its members.
I may be wrong but perhaps it is a good thing that it is not the Commissioner with responsibility for Fisheries who is here today to listen to our points of view but Commissioner Liikanen instead.
The debate is closed.
The first part of both amendments is identical, and we each actually wanted to withdraw the second part of our respective amendments.
If the PPE Group withdraws the second part of its amendment, I shall also withdraw the second part of ours on behalf of my group, and we should only need to vote once on the identical first part.
Madam President, it is sometimes tragic when the two large groups in the House agree to delete an important part of an amendment.
Your group is continuing on its own with this second part of the amendment.
I will therefore put the first part of Amendment No. 2 and of Amendment No. 1 which is identical to the vote by roll call. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Madam President, excuse me, I had already asked to speak before the vote, but since the problem is likely to recur, my intervention is not without purpose.
I would be surprised if the request for a roll call is directed to Article 3, part 3, first paragraph of the directive.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, indeed, it would have been possible to proceed either way, but it appears to me that the vote was quite clear to everybody.
In order that matters be quite clear, the oral amendment woud state: ' the summer period extends from 1st April to 30th September of each year, but in arctic climates etc.' (The President noted that there was no opposition to the tabling of this oral amendment) - Regarding Amendment No 64 Madame President, I should merely like to make the same oral amendment to this amendment as I made to Amendment 63.
Mrs Green, to my knowledge, it is indeed what the agenda for the week stipulates, in any case, since it is what I have seen in it.
Dankert report (A4-125/97) We think that this report ought to take up the issue of the money wasted in this Parliament moving between Brussels and Strasbourg.
Mamère report (A4-96/97) One cannot but approve these two proposals from the European Commission, which are part of an overall 'Auto/Oil' strategy based on a cost-effectiveness analysis in concert with the sectors concerned.
They are directed at reconciling legitimate environmental concerns, in order to guarantee better air quality in our cities and the constraints of industry in the Community.
However, it appears that certain improvements aimed at re-establishing the balance of the initial proposal were necessary at this stage of the proceedings.
In particular, the average life of a road vehicle in the European Union being twelve years and pending the renewal of existing vehicles in Europe to meet the new demands, it is necessary to improve the quality of fuels more rapidly to avoid penalising consumers.
I remain nevertheless convinced that the setting up as of today of mandatory standards for 2005 does not constitute the best solution.
In my opinion, it would be more reasonable to proceed by stages and thus to benefit from the evaluation of the standards already in force.
Just before Finland's accession to the EU, the former President of Finland, Mauno Koivisto, pointed out in this room, that when the cherry trees are blossoming in Strasbourg people are still cross-country skiing in Finland.
That is the case today, 10 April, although, according to the Commission proposal, summer has already started in Finland!
Lange report (A4-116/97) The report takes an overall view of the issue of reducing emissions from motor vehicles.
But we would point out that we think that amendment proposals Nos. 25 and 39 are too strict in format.
But I believe that this effort is necessary and that it can bear fruit quite rapidly.
On the other hand, I have adopted a more qualified stance on the Lange report relative to motor vehicles and I remained content to support the proposals negotiated with the manufacturers, who are already making significant progress.
The European automobile industry - the largest in the world - is working in a market currently subject to many tensions and which is even in recession in certain countries due to the uncertainties of our compatriots with regard to the future.
In less than three years, at the end of 1999, Japanese sales in Europe will be entirely unrestricted.
The current standards must therefore be made more stringent taking care not condemn the European car industry.
It is clear that these requirements have a price.
We want these improvements for the sake of our health and the environment in the EU.
It is therefore necessary to have more rigorous limits.
The automobile sector is responsible for over 25 % of petrol emissions.
The air in our cities is impossible to breathe, cars are flooding our streets and lorries are paralysing our motorways.
The prevention of contaminating emissions, the internalisation of external costs in the transport sector and the protection of public health and of the environment are fundamental requirements of our citizens.
In the specific case we are dealing with today of measures to reduce atmospheric pollution, it must be firmly asserted that the position defended by the European parliament is aimed at protecting the health of our citizens and preventing the continuing increase in the really harmful effects of acid rain, the deterioration of historic monuments and the widespread pollution in our entire ecosystem.
Improving the quality of petrol and diesel is an essential factor in the technological improvement of vehicles.
The European Parliament's proposals are not simply good intentions.
They are objectives which can be achieved and are being put forward in order to protect the health of citizens and the environment and to ensure the competitiveness of the European car industry in the global market.
González Álvarez report (A4-117/97) We support these two reports as they form an important part of the work in Europe towards a better environment.
But we cannot support the European Parliament demand for average fuel use of 0.5 ltrs/10 km for the year 2005 and 0.3 ltrs/10kms for the year 2010.
It is imperative that the European Union charts an overall strategy to reduce CO2 emissions from cars in order to save greater amounts of fuel and thus help lower atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases (of which the EU accounts for 12 % in world terms) and hence limit the climate change now occurring.
In conclusion, although resolute action needs to be taken at a world level, it is up to the European Union to set the example both internationally and at a Community level in protecting against CO2 emissions.
Europe's energy dependency has increased from 44 % to 52 % and we still have to tap into our renewable energy resources.
This in turn would boost rural renewal with the creation of employment for our rural communities.
Ghilardotti report (A4-115/97) Madam President, I am in favour of a reasonable and practicable accommodation of the burden of proof in the cases of discrimination, direct or indirect, based on gender.
I have not, however, been able to vote either in favour of certain amendments or in favour of the report, because it goes well beyond that which is necessary or wise to contribute to a more correct application of Community legislation in the area of equality of treatment and equality of opportunity of men and women.
We also think that amendment proposal No. 18 in the report, which concerns Article 7.2 (new) could be interpreted and used by certain Member States to exclude people of a certain gender de facto from a number of occupations.
We think therefore that the effect of amendment proposal No 18 could be that the report would include a proposal which opposes one of its basic aims, namely to provide a good foundation for a real step forward for equality between men and women and a modern labour market.
According to the European Parliament's own legal experts, its effect will be to reduce the protection of women in the 14 countries who have signed up to the Social Chapter.
Already in 1957, Article 119 of the treaty instituting the European Community stipulated: ' Each Member State provides.....
Four years before the beginning of the XXIst century, women's salaries are still significantly lower than those of men, and this in countries where they are in a majority of 52 %, where they represent nearly 40 % of the active population and where more than 90 % of them are salaried.
This, also in countries which advocate democracy and equality.
It is true that since 1975, six directives for equality of remuneration and treatment between women and men have allowed a solid legal base to be established which has been generously interpreted by the Court of Justice of the European Communities.
It is therefore high time, in 1997, for a directive to be adopted, which finally obliges the employer and no longer the plaintiff, to prove that the difference in salary between men and women does not arise from a difference of gender.
The advantages which this directive offers are manifold: it defines indirect discrimination which does not lie in considerations linked directly to gender, but in matters of fact, neutral in appearance.
By the very nature of the directive, Member States are required to transpose and therefore to introduce the measures necessary for its implementation into their internal legal system.
The directive must be applied in matters of recruitment, promotion, remuneration and social security.
However, the 'reversal of the burden of proof' is not total; the plaintiff must first establish the points of fact which allow the existence of discrimination to be presumed.
It is for this reason that she defended the employer's views in Committee on Women's Rights and she introduced amendments directed at emptying the directive of its purpose.
Indeed it requires a lot of courage even today to become involved in the question of equality between men and women.
Nevertheless the European Union has had the concern for equality of treatment between men and women close to its heart from its inception.
Article 119 of the EEC Treaty stipulates it and has given rise a series of acts directed at improving the lot of women so that inequalities no longer exist between the sexes.
The European Commission has made this matter one of its priorities for more than twenty years.
The Council itself does not stop the flow of texts directed at assuring equality of treatment between men and women.
Only it is known that the Council cannot go far in the event that one or other Member State considers its interests are at stake.
This is why since 1988 no decision has been taken to resolve the question of the burden of proof, while a text had been submitted to the Council, and the European Parliament had stated its opinion.
Nearly ten years of obstruction, and the necessity to resort to other procedures more limited in scope.
The subject on which we have just legislated, as so many others, shows the extent to which institutional reform is necessary.
If we really want an effective and just Europe, it is time to implement majority rule for all legislation.
The ARE has voted for this text, in order to contribute to the introduction of clear and precise regulations in this essential field, a real equality between men and women and we profoundly regret that this report can only include 14 Member States.
It ought to be equally obvious that every country may draw up their own regulations in this area.
I have voted for the report on the premise that the regulations in the Directive are the minimum standards which give every country the right to draw up or keep their own regulations.
Resolution on Albania Madam President, anything but a multinational force to protect humanitarian aid!
This military intervention - because it is a military intervention, in the absence of any food or health emergency - marks the culmination of what the Herald Tribune today calls a sequence of tragic errors by the Italians.
We are voting against the joint resolution tabled by the six political groups.
We utterly reject military intervention in any form, particularly in the Balkans where the presence of foreign forces in all, or at least most, of the countries is increasing the risk of wider destabilization in an area commonly known as 'the powder keg of Europe' .
But a military operation in Albania is a difficult task and could cost many lives, something which cannot be measured in terms of money.
Resolution on Hong Kong My concern about the current developments in Hong Kong is the same as my concern about the internal stability of China as a whole.
We see no reason for the EU and its Member States to co-ordinate its action on this matter with the USA.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Commission, we all hoped that another urgent debate on the political situation in Belarus would not be necessary.
The aim of our European policy is not isolation but rather the fulfilment of our responsibility to use financial and economic aid measures in support of our ideas.
The attempt to foster closer regional cooperation between two friendly States such as Russia and Belarus is legitimate.
The way in which this treaty has come about is typical of the authoritarian behaviour and attitude of the Belarus Government.
The free press is in a no-win situation.
That is why it is essential that those measures in the TACIS democratization programme which are still possible should be implemented very quickly indeed and that access to them should be granted to all sections of the population.
It is important to conduct a dialogue, but the prerequisite of dialogue is the creation of conditions in which it can take place.
And however much Boris Yeltsin, to whom I might still ascribe a degree of goodwill, might squirm in this situation, we must not forget that in today's Duma exactly the same combination of forces exists as in the German Reichstag of that time.
It is therefore imperative that everything possible be done to overcome this situation.
There is not very much we can do, but we should certainly make our point most emphatically, and we should devote the utmost energy to persuading other bodies, including our esteemed Council, to take immediate action on this issue.
We should therefore signal very emphatically our solidarity with these parliamentarians, with the opposition in Belarus.
Mr President, like the other speakers, I fully appreciate the gravity of the situation both in the Federation and in Belarus, but I fail to see why we cannot discuss this in the context of our bilateral relations with those countries, or why we have to discuss it now, just because they have signed a treaty.
I was in Geneva, the Council accepted our resolution on notification, and it pursued the debate on the ideas of the individual Member States.
It appears that the government of Belarus is currently quite prepared to take account of the recommendations of the European Union.
By adopting this resolution today, we would be making a mistake detrimental to the responsible image which our parliament must show.
Secondly, the draft treaty between Belarus and Russia can only be analysed within the much wider scope of the re-structuring of the CIS, a problem which cannot be put to one side, but which is nevertheless completely forgotten in the common resolution.
This treaty creates a union open to other states; it proposes a level of cooperation greater than that of the CIS and also, at the more involved level of the four way cooperation between Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
It is necessary, therefore to put things back into context.
Finally, it is ridiculous to speak of a government which consulted the people by referendum on 27 November 1996.
The situation is really in the process of improving thanks to diplomatic discussions and I believe that hysterical or unilateral speeches coming from this chamber cannot but create a climate of mistrust between East and West, which will really do nobody any good.
Mr President, I can entirely endorse the views expressed by my colleagues Mrs Mann and Mrs Schroedter.
That is why one of the purposes and concerns of this resolution is to assess the effects that the union of Belarus and Russia would have on our relations with Russia.
The interim agreement with Belarus, of course, has been shelved, and rightly so, because a dictatorial regime is certainly in power there.
Mr President, the political and economic evolution of Belarus is certainly a cause for concern - particularly since the last referendum on the new constitution was held in November.
In response to the conclusions of the mission, which were endorsed by the Council of Ministers on 24 February, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Belarus sent a letter to the Presidency the day before yesterday, the content of which will be discussed with the Member States.
The text of the letter sent by the Belarus Government contains two undertakings: one, to discuss with all the deputies in the 13th Supreme Council the constitutional changes necessary to establish a greater separation of powers.
The Belarus Minister of Foreign Affairs is travel to The Hague today to present Belarus' official response to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers.
Also today, the Political Committee of the Council of Ministers of the European Union will discuss the political situation in Belarus.
Although the current text of the treaty is more of a declaration of intent than a basis for application, the Commission is naturally going to examine in detail the Treaty of Union signed recently between Belarus and the Russian Federation to see whether this is compatible with the contractual relations established with the European Union.
The answer is in the text sent by the Belarus Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
In any case, as usually happens in all negotiations, the fact that the Belarus Government has handed in a letter and the Minister of Foreign Affairs has come here to negotiate with the Presidency of the Council can be understood as a will to negotiate.
The voting will take place at 5.30 p.m.
The second is to underline the basic function which the Court of Arusha must undertake in the process of stabilization in the Great Lakes region, where the severe punishment of those responsible for the massacres of 1994 is essential in order to prevent fresh massacres from occurring.
If it had been, we might have been able to map out a better future for Zaire in Africa.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, how many resolutions have already been adopted, not just in this House but in other international institutions too, and how many more will be needed before we see the distant prospect of an end to the crisis in Zaire?
The Lomé Summit, held under the auspices of the OAU on 26 and 27 March, seemed to give grounds for hope, in view of the undertakings given by the official Zairean delegation and by the representative of the rebel forces, who accepted in principle the idea of a cease-fire and the opening of negotiations.
We therefore call upon the parties concerned to honour the undertakings openly entered into before the international community, and we demand that the necessary arrangements be agreed and adopted as soon as possible for free and democratic elections to be held under international supervision.
The situation of the refugees in Eastern Zaire is absolutely terrible, and a solution can only be found if a genuine political will exists, especially on the part of the rebel forces.
Mr President, fellow Members, we have not associated ourselves with the signing of the motion for a resolution, but we will vote for it, since I am at least as despairing as the fellow Members that I have just heard.
We have Mr Ajello, the representative of the European Union, and he has no real say on the subject for the time being, in the negotiations.
Meanwhile there is in this resolution, even a Section No. 5 which condemns outside intervention!
I had understood it to refer to Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, but we ourselves asked for 'interference' and I use the word in its positive sense.
Mr President, the news reaching us from Zaire is becoming more and more tragic, and really compels us to step up the humanitarian operation and, above all, to embark upon a strong political initiative directed towards Zaire and the entire Great Lakes region.
Of course, the end of Mobutu is not in itself a solution to the Zairean crisis.
Finally, on the political aspect, I believe that the only solution to the crisis in Zaire lies through dialogue and direct negotiation between the government in Kinshasa and the democratic alliance for the liberation of Congo-Zaire.
We must, moreover, do everything, if he shows this good will, in order that a future be given to the Zairean people, because this is about these people, who have suffered much from the turmoil, who have suffered violence, who have suffered authoritarianism and to whom, maybe, hope can now be given.
But it is also us who have to build this hope, with the Zairean people.
Mr President, the negotiation of the agreements aimed at establishing global peace in the Zaire region must be conducted in the context of an international conference.
The declaration by the Presidency of the European Union of 17 February and resolution 1097 of the Security Council of 18 February are the most recent reference documents on this issue.
The European Union has always worked to achieve the success of this process and we are willing to continue backing it, if the situation permits.
This is the general - and well-known - view of the European Union on the crisis in Zaire.
As for your speeches in this House, the Commission acknowledges, like you, that the military and political situation in Zaire is very volatile, very changeable and that, naturally, we will have to wait and see what happens.
But in any case we still think that, once the crisis has been quelled, the internal political dialogue within Zaire and the regional dialogue must become key elements so that a new Zaire can finally emerge in the next century, perhaps seeing its future in a different way.
Thank you very much, Mr Commissioner Marín.
The voting will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
In the Vienna III agreement of 1975, certain stipulations were made in respect of the enclaves.
In the 1996 reports by the UN Secretary-General and in his most recent report of 7 February of this year, it was again established that the Turkish Cypriot administration was grossly violating that Convention.
We emphatically demand that a delegation from the European Parliament, particularly under the aegis of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, be given the opportunity to form its own judgement on the spot and to produce a report.
We call on all bodies of the European Union and of the United Nations to play their part in ensuring that conditions for people in the enclaves are improved, but our overriding concern is that every possible step be taken to ensure that human rights are guaranteed throughout Cyprus, in other words that the occupation is ended and the island reunited.
Twenty years have gone by since then, and in an official report the Secretary-General of the United Nations notes that the living conditions of persons living in the enclave are grossly unacceptable.
In addition to all of that, the Denktash regime has on two occasions effectively refused - once last year and once this year when the Joint Committee visited Cyprus - to allow Members of the European Parliament to take stock of the situation at first hand, because it was impossible for the Joint Committee to accept the conditions that Denktash sought to impose on it.
Mr President, I think that the time has come for us to take action - all of us, the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission and, also, the United Nations - to see what can be done with a view to resolving this issue.
For 23 years there has been no progress on the issue and we have actually moved backwards.
The situation is scandalous.
The European Union has set itself up as a champion of human rights all over the world, from India to the Argentine, from Brazil to Burma, but it is not capable of preventing serious and repeated violations of those rights perpetrated by a country which is a candidate for joining the European Union, three and a half hours away from Brussels by aeroplane.
Mr President, I wish that this resolution, on which all groups will certainly vote favourably, should not be a simple scrap of paper, but that it should become the prelude to concrete and decisive action on the part of the European authorities.
Mr President, this lack of credibility, which is also evident in other respects, makes the approach of the European Union to Turkey itself and the involvement of Turkish Cypriots in the negotiations on Cyprus's accession, which we support, extremely problematical.
In any case, I ask him humbly and modeslty to forgive me.
The report by the Secretary-General of the United Nations to the Commission on Human Rights confirms that the situation of these people is in stalemate.
For the last 22 years, the authorities in Northern Cyprus have been denying even the most basic human rights to Greek Cypriots there.
For the last 22 years, the Vienna III agreement which President Denktash of Northern Cyprus also signed has been violated.
Respect for the Vienna III agreement is the least that the Greek Cypriots can expect of their neighbours, fellow islanders and fellow nationals.
The Member States need to present a united front in opposing China's attempts to have this issue taken off the agenda.
Madam President, I should like to begin by saying how delighted I am that the European Parliament is dealing with human rights in eastern Turkestan and hence also with human rights in China.
In this context I should also like to speak out quite clearly against the representatives of those countries which made it impossible to adopt this sort of position at the UN Human Rights Conference.
Madam President, I think it concerns an important resolution and our friends in the Communist Group will not be able to say that we have been influenced by the American Congress, in so far as this is the first time that a parliament has taken a stand on the Eastern Turkestan Question, that is to say, the Chinese region of Xinjiang.
It matters that the European Union should take a stand on this subject.
One can imagine the temptations which this new French offensive in China will give rise to in other member states.
We have already received a written complaint from the People's Republic of China's representative to the European Union.
I hope that the worthy representatives for China have read today's agenda and realises that we interfere in internal affairs all over the world where human rights are concerned, we are not conducting a campaign against China, we are fighting a campaign for human rights.
The recent history of Eastern Turkestan is sadly a very typical example of this.
More than 100 Koran schools have been shut down, and many Islamic priests have been arrested.
According to a report by the American human rights organization Human Rights Watch/Asia, the Chinese Government regards anyone with religious beliefs as a potential security risk.
In view of these serious human rights violations, it is absolutely deplorable that the countries of the European Union cannot manage to table a joint resolution at the United Nations condemning China.
On this occasion we are concerned with the serious abuses of freedom of religion that have taken place in eastern Turkestan during the last year, which have resulted in the closure of more than 100 Koranic schools and the arrest of more than 180 Muslim clerics, teachers and students.
The Russian Federation is one of the signatories of the UN Convention against Torture and of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
The Russian Federation became a member of the Council of Europe in 1996.
Detainees sleep in shifts, because there are no beds for them.
In the negotiations on economic aid, the Commission must address these specific grievances and demand that they be remedied.
Within the action programme and the TACIS democracy programme developed in conjunction with the Council of Europe, it must devote a considerable share of resources to improving prison conditions and to ensuring that prison wardens are trained in the humane treatment of prisoners.
Even now, we in the European Union are helping with programmes in other countries.
Laos: Madam President, I am grateful to the colleagues who have found time this afternoon to debate the plight of these three men, Thongsouk Saysangkhi, Latsami Khamphoui and Feng Sakchittaphong.
They have been in jail in a remote region of Laos since 1990 and were sentenced at their trial in 1992 to 14 years further imprisonment.
Amnesty International recently obtained a transcript of the 1992 trial which demonstrates very clearly that no sabotage or acts of violence were involved.
Feng Sakchittaphong actually said in court: ' I want the democratic change to occur in a peaceful way without street demonstrations, without confrontation and without overthrow' .
Madam President, fellow Members, my address will be naturally short.
It is therefore important that the government of Laos should understand that there cannot be negotiations or agreements with the European Union if it treats unjustly and in - it must be said - as miserable a manner in this case, people who only ask for justice.
It is therefore my desire that what is said here is heard in that prison.
There are signs of hope, and one of these hopeful signs is that Pope John Paul II is expected in Sarajevo next weekend - not for a Catholic ceremony, but as a sign of dialogue between cultures and religions.
The grenade attempt in Phnom Pen, against a peaceful demonstration by activists of the Khmer Nation party, which left 19 dead and more than 100 wounded, is part of this new build up of tension and violence before which the security forces show a provocative and reprehensible passivity.
The international community must not tolerate violations of human rights any more in Cambodia, particularly as it is contributing financially to the emergence of an economy which favours a political stability which requires the reinforcement of a still excessively faltering democracy.
Free and equitable elections, involving all political groups able to take a stand against terrorism are the only way to guarantee lasting internal peace.
I therefore wish the European Union to support the holding of these elections.
Madam President, I should like to say very briefly on behalf of my group that we support the joint motion for a resolution stressing the condemnation of the attack on 30 March and noting appropriately the public condemnation of the attack by those responsible for the government plot.
Madam President, the opposition leader Sam Rainsy has long been trying to promote democracy and fight corruption in Cambodia.
The attack on 30 March was not the first time that opposition party meetings have been brutally broken up.
Madam President, we are appalled by the grenade attack on a peaceful demonstration of Khmer National Party activists in Phnom Penh on 30 March 1997.
The purpose of the attack was probably to kill Sam Rainsy, leader of the KNP in Cambodia, and other prominent opposition leaders.
Madam President, fellow Members, a régime is judged by the way it treats its opposition, and it is of no use for this régime to sign a cooperation agreement with us, with the European Union, if it deals with its opposition with grenades and machine guns.
We therefore call on the European Parliament to include in all its future demands a stipulation that the Khmer Rouge must be prevented from either direct or indirect involvement in this political process and completely excluded from democratic developments in Cambodia.
Madam President, I will start by answering in chronological order the questions on human rights as put by the Members.
I would like to point out that, during the mission by the Council of Europe in February 1996, the late Lord Finsberg had called attention to the many problems affecting the Greco-Cypriot community in the northern part of the island.
In fact, last December the Secretary General of the United Nations and the Security Council deplored this situation once again.
The Commission shares the European Parliament's concern about these enclaves and considers that it should be possible to visit them without any prior conditions.
These problems are similar to the ones the Commission is encountering in the activities it is attempting to conduct in the north of the island, activities which are being impeded by the kind of conditions demanded by the de facto authorities in the region.
The Commission took advantage of all the opportunities that arose to raise the question of human rights with the Chinese authorities both in the context of the specific dialogue on human rights and of the more general political dialogue.
The European Union believes in a positive approach which would lay the foundations for a constructive relationship.
This was the tenet of its statement in favour of cooperation activities to promote the human dimension in China which could be used as a principle for effective dialogue with this country.
With regard to the events in Turkestan, the Commission thinks that direct talks between the Chinese authorities and the representatives of the Uigur community could undoubtedly contribute to finding a solution to the problems currently facing that region.
As for the situation in Russian prisons, the Commission is aware of the worrying situation in Russian prisons and shares the European Parliament's concern.
Through its aid programmes and the TACIS Democracy programme, and in particular the LIEN programme, the Commission is financing various projects to improve the humanitarian situation in Russia.
Jointly with the Council of Europe the Commission is funding a series of projects destined to provide assistance to Russia so that it can fulfil the undertakings it made when it became a member of the Council of Europe.
In relation to Laos, it is clear that the Commission is informed of the Amnesty International report on the three prisoners of conscience and that it has carefully noted its contents.
To this end it has asked the EEC Delegation accredited to the Laos People's Democratic Republic to investigate the situation, in consultation with the ambassadors of the Member States represented in Vientiane.
Bosnia-Herzegovina: the Commission agrees that the Pope's visit to Sarajevo is an important opportunity to unite all the inhabitants of Bosnia-Herzegovina.
It consequently deplores the fact that the authorities of the Republic of Sprska have suggested introducing a charge for crossing the border between this Republic and the rest of Bosnia in order to get to Sarajevo, precisely to see the Pope.
As for Cambodia, on behalf of the European Commission I want to reiterate firmly the same feelings you yourselves expressed - and which were also expressed by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - for the criminal attack on 30 March which killed and injured several members of the opposition who were taking part in an authorized, peaceful demonstration.
Following the signing of the peace agreements in Paris in October 1991, the Commission committed itself, to a significant extent, to the plans to redevelop and reconstruct the country, involving numerous initiatives to consolidate the process of democracy and improve the living conditions of the population.
In this context the Commission is contributing to underpinning the democratic process with a specific programme to establish a transparent electoral register for the 1998 elections.
We are interested in signing the agreement in April because - as you know - there is a set of clauses in the agreement concerning the respect of human rights, freedom and democracy and the development of civil society.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Madam President, prior to the unification of Yemen in May 1990, human rights and democratic freedom were accorded little respect in either North or South Yemen.
After unification, there was a considerable improvement until the vicious war of April-July 1994, in which the former leadership of the South was ousted.
The recent report of Amnesty International of 27 March 1997 details 'disappearances' , illegal arrests, ill-treatment, beatings and torture of those detained and death sentences imposed on the basis of evidence open to challenge.
In addition, there is a cruel criminal code which provides for flogging, amputation and death for adultery and acts against the Republic and Islam.
Yemen, however, has agreed to many human rights treaties and has adapted many of their provisions to its own laws.
It is very important that the European Union should provide aid.
Now parliamentary elections are scheduled for 27 April, and I am very much in favour of sending election observers from the European Parliament.
Madame President, the protection of human rights in Yemen and, in particular, the organization of transparent, free elections, are questions of special interest to which the Commission is paying due attention.
The Union and other international partners have pointed out repeatedly in the course of contacts with the Yemeni Government that the elections on 27 April next will be a test for its political system.
At the same time we must admit that the development of political structures in Yemen is being carried out in a particularly difficult domestic situation and in a situation of particularly difficult foreign relations.
The Commission and other donors, which include most Member States, preferred therefore to put forward a series of positive measures to help Yemen reinforce its democratic structures.
The European Commission has thus set aside ECU 700 000 to provide technical aid to the organisation of elections, local control and the promotion of the women's involvement in the elections, as well as a whole series of technical assistance measures to help with this entire process.
Of course, Mr Newens, Mr Friedrich and Mrs van Dijk, we know that four opposition parties have in effect decided not to contest the elections.
But remember that, due to the lack of democratic practices, there are still 4 000 candidates in this country representing a half-dozen parties, in addition to a large number of independent candidates.
We should not be surprised either that this phenomenon is occurring because it is the first time that this country is taking steps towards democratic normalisation.
A sui generis solution because this is a country which does not have relations with its neighbours since the Gulf States will not let it enter their club, while its relations with the African political environment are also very limited.
Once we have signed this cooperation agreement, the Commission will have the legal and international capacity and legitimacy to implement programmes in this country which are aimed at developing democracy.
We hope, therefore, that 40 observers from the European Union will be present during the election process.
That would be an excellent idea, Mr Newens.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
The interim government has received a positive response from the international community.
I think that the resolution expresses our solidarity with the Bulgarian people on this point.
Madam President, Bulgaria, an ancient country of Europe with a wealth of human and material resources, a country linked in association with the European Union and with prospects of accession, is in a very difficult situation.
In its defence, the legacy of the past can be invoked, which include the crushing weight of the national debt as well as the embargo against Serbia.
Bulgaria, with its problems of an exceptional magnitude, raises the question as to whether the cooperation mechanisms with the European Union are up to the challenge.
This country needs to be helped less on a humanitarian level than in its desire to see in-depth reforms through.
Karelia: Madam President, I should like to deal with the resolution on Karelia and the area around Murmansk.
The Republic of Karelia and the Murmansk area are part of the northern economic area of the Russian Federation and are therefore somewhat remote, to put it mildly, in terms of the transport network.
During the present century, this area, because of its geographical, linguistic and even cultural closeness to Finland, as well as its strong urge to achieve self-determination, has repeatedly resisted Russian occupation, so it is, understandably enough, not a major recipient of Russian aid today.
It is quite simply our duty to urge the Commission to make full use of every conceivable programme, such as TACIS, INTERREG or other cross-border programmes and to do everything possible to remedy this catalogue of human suffering in our immediate vicinity.
Madam President, this resolution on Karelia is extremely important.
Peace and freedom in Europe requires a further commitment to the future of Karelia which is also part of Europe's own future as well.
Karelia is part of our history.
It is obvious that the European Union has a very great responsibility here both because, indirectly, we are, in many ways, partially responsible for the situation being as it is and also because Karelia, as I have already said, is of course a part of Europe.
There is therefore every good reason to accompany our emergency aid with calls for rapid measures to establish the right to freedom of religion and the right to practise a religion freely.
Madam President, Bulgaria is caught up in a serious financial and social crisis.
High inflation, unemployment and rocketing food prices have put many people into an almost hopeless situation in recent months.
The crisis-management programme of the present Government has been adopted, and I hope that the new Bulgarian Government will continue the programme after the elections.
I hope that after the elections the new Government, together with Parliament and above all with the Bulgarian people, and also with our support, will be able to overcome this crisis.
In Karelia and other parts of Russia bordering on the Union, the situation of children and the elderly in particular has been extremely difficult throughout the winter.
However, wherever possible local resources and administrative organizations should be involved in the delivery of the aid.
A programme to develop social and health administration in Karelia is currently been financed via the EU's TACIS programme.
Madame President, as regards the problem of humanitarian aid for Bulgaria, I would like to confirm that in the past 6 months the Commission has spent ECU 73.6 million on aid for Bulgaria.
This includes an emergency social assistance programme under PHARE amounting to ECU 20 million, a contribution of 1.1 million from ECHO for emergency medical and food aid, as well as ECU 12.5 under PHARE for energy imports.
The Commission's objective is still, first and foremost, to lend support to the process of economic reform and, second, to maintain social aid in order to cushion the social cost of the reforms and reinforce popular acceptance of these.
The terms are: first, a new macro-financial loan from the Union for an amount of ECU 250 million.
Moreover, ECU 20 million under the PHARE programme for technical assistance in applying the Government's reform programme.
And lastly additional social assistance in the context of PHARE for the most needy groups in Bulgaria, amounting to a total of ECU 20 million which will be spent on the existing programme.
Moreover the Commission yesterday took part in a high-level G24 meeting in Bulgaria.
Undertakings to provide humanitarian aid were also made and in November a further meeting of the G24 will take place to review the progress made in reforms in this country and to collect funds for the balance of payments in 1998.
Lastly, in our relations with this country we must not lose sight of the long-term objective of membership of the Union.
In return Bulgaria, after many years of underdevelopment, will have to assume the challenges of reform, and the clear political will of the provisional Government to implement such reforms is heartening.
As for Karelia, the Commission is aware of the political and economic situation in the north-western regions of Russia, a situation which is indeed serious, not only in Karelia but also, unfortunately, in many regions of the Russian Federation.
The Commission's humanitarian aid department, ECHO, will carefully examine any practical requests that arise.
The debate is closed.
Ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the votes on topical and urgent subjects, I would draw your attention to the fact that the front pages of all the newspapers in Mexico are carrying reports that the European Commission's official representative in Mexico, under pressure from the government there, has withdrawn the subsidy which had been approved for the Human Rights Academy in Mexico until after the elections.
Votes Mr President, according to my list we now come to the votes on the Adam and Baldarelli reports.
If that is still correct, would it be possible for you to invite the groups which have requested all these roll call votes on all the amendments to reconsider, because it seems that we can make the political points by having one roll call vote at the end?
Mr President, I am deeply touched by the sudden interest of the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations in the subject of fishing, especially as its esteemed leader was actually in Newlyn in England yesterday talking about his concern for the fishing industry.
Although we had our reasons from the outset for abstaining on the Adam report on the proposal to introduce technical measures for the conservation of fisheries resources - which we explained in detail during the debate - then we are doubly convinced following the discussion, in view of the Commission's answers and comments and above we see doubly clearly the real proposals and intentions of the European 'Executive' in this matter.
In fact the Commission was quite clear in its statement that it would not accept the amendment to the report proposing that there should be a transitional period for the implementation of the new regulation - a realistic amendment which we tabled in the Committee on Fisheries which had had the support of the rapporteur.
This should mean that fishermen operating in the rich grounds between 55º and 56ºN do not miss out on their catches of dab, lemon sole, large sole and so on by having to fish with a minimum mesh size of 110 mm.
The amendments on selective fishing gear are very much in line with what the sector can achieve in practical terms.
The report which I have the honour of presenting to this Chamber refers to the first result from the implementation of the recognition of diplomas within the framework of the very innovative approach which the Commission proposed to us in 1989.
The two objectives sought have been achieved.
The commission is presenting an inventory to us which provides us with very useful information, although I would have liked to have more precise statistics, in particular on the numbers of requests and on the responses - refusals or acceptances - which were given to those requests.
I must say that our Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizen's Rights has greatly appreciated being able to meet the national co-ordinators who, in each of our Member States, are charged with the actual implementation of this directive.
All this is excellent.
The obstacles in question are the result of several weaknesses.
It is a formidable problem, not just in this connection, as well we know.
But it appears in this case that if the migrants are now aware of their right to recognition of diplomas, the are very largely ignorant of the mechanisms of the system as well as the mechanisms of appeal.
Indeed, no legislation has been envisaged until now to take account of the numerus clausus which Member States have instituted for certain professions and which limit access to those professions of a number of candidates fixed in advance.
Our Committee of Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights wishes, on its part, to initiate changes, in cooperation with the Commission, which will be required for this important aspect of the real Europe to become fact for the greatest number of our fellow citizens.
It is wise to wait until 1999 before revising Directive 48/89.
The system was then supplemented by a second directive for professional and vocational qualifications and a directive updating the directives that previously applied only to individual sectors.
Freedom of movement is based on Articles 52 and 59 of the EEC Treaty, which have the status of direct applicability and validity, meaning that they give citizens' rights that can be directly protected by the national courts.
There is a European directive on this, but the way it is interpreted in France means that for practising their profession there - quite correctly under the terms of the directive - people are still being thrown into prison.
It is true that the Commission's report represents, as our rapporteur has indicated, certain progress in the implementation of a general system for the recognition of diplomas of higher education within the European Union.
Also as a member of the Saint-Benoît brotherhood, I earnestly wish to see the transnational community of universities which already existed in XIIth and XIIIth century Europe re-established in future, thanks in particular to this new legislation, community which was inspired by belonging to a single civilisation, based not only on both the Latin language and Roman law, but also on the Graeco-Christian values which are still ours today.
Inter-university cooperation already exists on an important scale, particularly between the universities of Baden-Württemberg and Alsace, without forgetting, moreover, Basle, in Switzerland, but this cooperation cannot but be reinforced by the development of a general system of reciprocal recognition of diplomas which is being implemented, but which is still inadequate.
I spoke earlier this week in the debate on driving licences and argued then, as I do now, that part of free movement within the European Union is to recognize that there are diverse legal systems within that Union but that it is nevertheless possible to have a recognition of qualifications and laws.
But I think it should be fundamental that Europe should be concerned to see some approximation in teaching quality at all levels and not show concern merely in monetary convergence.
The degree to which the directive we are discussing today has been applied tells us of 11, 000 citizens interested in the success or otherwise of the system, which encounters its major obstacles with the recognition of academic qualifications.
We believe, furthermore, that this figure refers only to those who have had the courage to complain of a problem they have encountered, and that, sadly, the real situation is much more serious.
We too endorse the call for a closer dialogue between the national authorities and the Commission's services with a specific view to setting up an appropriate system for providing information, a system that must be as transparent as possible.
The oft-repeated argument that every university and every country should have the right to develop its own curricula is only justified if graduates emerge from their courses of study with comparable qualitative levels of training.
Mr President, general and vocational education is an instrument of employment policy, adapting professional qualifications to the needs of the internal market and playing an important part in the fight against unemployment.
That purpose is to realize free movement of persons, in other words the right to enjoy citizenship of the Union, to live and work in other Member States, in conjunction with the eradication of unemployment.
In the Committee on Petitions, a considerable number of petitions submitted in recent years have shown us time and again that freedom of movement in this particular domain of recognition and equivalence of diplomas is not working properly.
We are satisfied that the Committee on Legal Affairs considers it advisable to accept in principle the main conclusions in the Commission report - for instance that the 'General System' Directive 89/94 is meeting the expectations created when it was decided to adopt a new horizontal approach to the question of the recognition of diplomas.
It is useful to note that, at the joint meeting between these coordinators and the Committee on Legal Affairs, the important role which the national coordinators, who have to apply the directive, must play when it comes to encouraging mutual trust was highlighted; this mutual trust is absolutely essential for the success of the general system.
On the other hand, there are other problems such as the definition of the concept of higher education and the balance between article 3 - recognition of diplomas per se - and article 4 which, in certain circumstances, enables the Member States to introduce additional requirements.
I cannot conceal from you the fact that there is a considerable difference of opinion, as you well know, between the European Commission and several Member States as regards the interpretation of these directives.
This has inevitably led us into a rather unfortunate situation: the initiation of an infringement procedure pursuant to Treaty Article 169 against several Member States, which will certainly result in a ruling by the Court of Justice.
Given the importance of the relationship of trust, it is preferable that the system progress by means of relations of trust between the Member States rather than the Commission having to systematically solve problems of interpretation of the directive by means of infringement procedures and resort to the Court of Justice.
I am convinced that the Commission's point of view will prevail, but we all know that proceedings pursuant to article 169 at the Court of Justice in Luxembourg will mean a lot of lost time, regardless of what can be won in the end.
Let us hope that understanding of the system will increase as and when the directive is applied, and I think that in general today we are in a relatively better situation than at the beginning.
You will certainly be proven right, Mr Wijsenbeek, but a Commissioner cannot allow himself to be simply a poet of Europe.
And in my view your vision is too poetic, at least at the moment.
The debate is closed.
