Mr President, my name is not on yesterday's attendance list.
I refer to page 30 of the Minutes, which makes reference to the fact that I made an outrageous personal attack on a Member of this House yesterday.
In December 1988 a general system was adopted for the mutual recognition of certificates of higher education approving professional training for a minimum of three years' study in higher education.
The Commission has always encouraged the States to gain an understanding of the education systems of their neighbours: national academic recognition information centres (NARICs) in particular have been set up.
In view of the 1999 complete study of the 1992 directive on a second system for the recognition of professional training, the Commission is wanting to propose some amendments and, for example, to include a provision that account must be taken of experience gained subsequent to obtaining the diploma.
We have unemployment figures of more than 10 percent.
Mr President, there are 37 million disabled people in the European Union.
It is therefore essential for a non-discrimination clause to be included as part of the revision of the Treaty.
Until the beginning of this year, we had the HELIOS II programme, which provided disabled people with opportunities for exchanges of information and experience.
The German Government does not accept Article 235 as the legal basis for social programmes.
We welcome this communication on equality of opportunity, especially the new approach emerging from it, which reveals a human rights based concept of disability and moves away from the principle of paternalism.
The policy on disabled people is now starting to be geared towards integration and equality of opportunity, in other words mainstreaming.
The HELIOS programme was the only one which directly financed the work of NGOs with the disabled and acted as a link for disabled people across the European Union.
It is quite right: there are 37 million disabled people living in the EU.
A new action programme designed on these lines for the benefit of disabled people and their associations, provided they have a 50 % representation on the management board, is therefore necessary to ensure that the structures which have been created do not collapse.
However, rights which exist in theory on paper are not enough.
Otherwise, the same thing will happen to disabled people as to small and medium-sized enterprises: their rights may well be written into many programmes, but they are frequently not translated into practice.
To my mind, it is essential that the problems of disabled people should be examined by a high-level group of experts which must be set up in the near future.
But who thinks of the fact that deaf people should also have a right to be able to take part in political events?
The rest of us are exceptions to this norm.
Mr President, there are 37 million disabled people living in the EU.
Mr President, I very much welcome the Commission's communication and the report which Barbara Schmidbauer has produced on behalf of Parliament in response to that communication.
It really is a shame in my view that the Commission has decided that the first programme it will abandon in the face of the difficulties over Article 235 is the programme in favour of disabled people.
Johanna Boogerd-Quaak has referred to the importance of information and communication technologies as a way of improving the lives of people with disabilities.
Mr President, there are approximately 37 million disabled people in the European Union, about 10 % of the total EU population.
Yet these 37 million people feel excluded and irrelevant to the European Union.
The Commission announced its intention of drawing up a suitable proposal taking into account the recommendations of the United Nations concerning the disabled.
As you know, the 1997 budget makes such measures possible.
The debate is closed.
The European Union, which has 37 million disabled persons, must evolve still further to reach a state of equality for all.
Even though the Commission communication does to its credit, break from the paternalistic approach adopted for far too long, it cannot overcome the problem posed by Article 235 of the Treaty.
In fact the Commission communication does not indicate whether there will be other programmes once HELIOS II is developed - the current programme for the disabled.
A legal basis must therefore be decided at the intergovernmental conference in order to enable the Council to vote by qualified majority, no longer unanimously, within the social sphere.
By doing that the Commissioners made a desirable first attempt to analyze these important movements and, in our considered response, Parliament is offering a cautious amber light for the Commission not only to move forward in its negotiations with the developing world, but also to clarify its own perspective on its role as one of the most significant global economic powers.
If regional integration is a stepping stone towards better integration into the world economy, if it is compatible with the general process of gobalization, then it is the most vulnerable groups of countries that need our closest attention, for there is no general scenario and no simple schedule that would comfortably fit all regional integration efforts.
Mr President, the Committee on External Economic Relations welcomes the excellent report by Mr Needle.
Refugee flows can be controlled on a regional basis, as was done in an exemplary way in Thailand at the time of the war in Cambodia, or in Pakistan during the war in Afghanistan, when millions of people were assembled near their homeland - with our support, but on the spot - and from there could be more easily reintegrated into the structures of their native country.
When it comes to integration among developing countries, the role of international donors - and in particular, as far as we are concerned, the European Union - is of fundamental importance in helping to shape a system that matches up to international standards, providing for access to resources and transfer of know-how, without which many projects are bound to fail.
That is why development cooperation and regional integration must go hand in hand.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his report and stress three points based on the fact that, in terms of development aid, Denmark is among the main contributors, but at the same time has decided, as a matter of principle, that 50 % should go to multilateral assistance.
Firstly, the absolute need for greater coordination, not only between the EU and Member States, but also between the EU and multilateral organizations.
Secondly - and I am pleased that the rapporteur also addressed this issue - the need to pay far greater attention to sustainable environmental development, in actions and not only in words.
Mr President, as regards regional economic integration, the Commission's objectives are to ensure that there are sustainable development prospects on the one hand and that developing countries are better integrated into the world economy on the other.
The situation in Zaire reminds us that this social stability is never durable.
Not all regional areas are of course in a position to embark upon a process of integration, but it is in all their interests to enhance their relations as regards cooperation for various reasons.
The European Union in general and the Commission in particular would be well advised to pay special attention to the role of the outermost regions and specifically the overseas departments thereof the better to structure its economic and development policies and of course the better to implement the funds such as the ERDF and the EDF.
As regards the second objective - better integration of developing countries in the world economy - I am much more sceptical.
That means first applying development aid at the level of the people, since while major projects are good in terms of bringing areas together, it is the smaller projects which actually bring development.
Moreover, development aid above all means developing people, and in this respect it is still doing very badly.
In particular, I would like to refer to the obvious but important fact that support for regional economic integration amongst developing countries needs to be based on the realities facing developing countries in the individual regions in question.
Against this background, regional economic integration per se should be seen as only one component of a process of building up a regional community of interest on which closer regional cooperation and, subsequently, regional integration can be developed.
This means that equal attention should be paid to the provision of support to other forms of regional cooperation which serve to foster and develop a community of interest, such as cooperation in transport, communications, energy etc.
I would like to stress here that this will require the Commission services to pay far greater attention to the management of programmes of support for functional cooperation in those regions of the developing world where major obstacles exist to the effective initiation of regional economic integration.
It is also an appropriate moment to revisit our recommendations in the light of recent experiences, in particular in the context of our ongoing operational work.
The financial and technical support provided is meant to contribute to ensuring that economic integration is beneficial to all the countries concerned.
The Commission is ready to continue its lead role on the subject in collaboration with the Member States and other interested development agencies, taking into account the concerns and recommendation of the European Parliament.
The debate is closed.
We are holding today's debate on rice because there is a most serious situation in that sector which has only worsened in recent months and which is affecting both producer countries and countries where rice is processed.
As if the situation was not already disastrous enough, Mr President, the European Commission proceeded in January this year, against the opinion of producers and processors to grant a 25 % reduction in customs duties on a quota of 32 000 tonnes of rice originating in Egypt - that in addition to the 25 % reduction already granted to that country.
And I have to say in this respect, Mr Commissioner, that I have heard that at the last meeting of the Commission's Cereals Management Committee a draft regulation was approved intended to set up a system for the refunding of import duty in the rice sector provided the Americans withdrew the action brought on 13 February before the World Trade Organization against the Community system for the importation of rice and cereals.
Mr President, the oral question raised by the honourable Members is indeed a topical one and has already been the subject of a number of discussions over the last few months.
The problem is due, on the one hand, to a very large harvest following the end of the drought in Spain and to very good climatic conditions in the other producer Member States and, on the other, to the increase in imports, based on preferential arrangements and the cut in protection at the frontier, resulting from the Uruguay Round agreements.
Although imports had increased by 21 %, on 18 March exports were 88 % up on the corresponding level last year and 28 % more rice had been supplied as food aid.
The reduction will reach 15 % in the 1999-2000 marketing year and that will make Community rice better able to compete with imported rice.
Given what is happening in the rice sector, perhaps the Intergovernmental Conference currently under way could reword as follows Article 39 of the Treaty, which relates to the objectives of the CAP: the Community undertakes to comply with every diktat of the US foreign trade department.
I take note of that, but when will this whole business be settled once and for all by means of a sensible amendment of the Council decision on the association of the OCTs with the European Union?
I read in Agence Europe on 1 April that the Council of Agriculture Ministers appears to have detected this schizophrenia and is drawing up measures to improve the coordination of the Union's trade and policy actions.
Mr President, four speakers have taken the floor so far: one from Spain and three from Italy.
There are also a number of points in the resolution that I feel are a little too sweeping.
I do not think it is right to offer them development aid while at the same time offloading as much as we can of our surpluses there.
Ladies and gentlemen, either rice imports must in fact be controlled and measures must be taken to this end with a view to future rice marketing years or this sector will probably not have any future in the European Union.
One further question closely bound up with this problem concerns the approximately 12 % drop in the monthly growth figures for rice, a proposal which appears in the new package of agricultural prices.
Mr Novo, let me remind you that it is not the Presidency which decides upon speaking time but the Members themselves.
Mr President, the drought a few years ago led to greatly reduced rice harvests in a number of countries in Europe, which were offset by increasing imports from abroad.
There are countries which do not have the shell of the tortoise.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, rice production in the European Union has over recent years been subject to intense competition.
It also needs to be pointed out on the other hand that the excessive freedom of access granted since 1991 to rice produced in the overseas countries and the overseas territories, which has caused imports to the European Union from these countries to multiply five-fold since then, rising from 58 000 tonnes in 1991 to 300 000 tonnes in 1996.
It is as well to remember that not everything which is legal is moral because the law often protects morally reprehensible activities, as unfortunately in our present situation.
The agreements must be improved, but the Netherlands Antilles has 500 people employed in processing rice.
Mr Commissioner, I live in the Bajo Ebro district which is home to the delta of the River Ebro and where the inhabitants, directly or indirectly, all depend for their living on rice.
Lands colonized and cultivated for the past 150 years, lands which will once again be condemned to desertification and depopulation, unless you remedy the situation.
