That question fell because of lack of time to ask it, as was the case with 105 out of 120 questions tabled by Members so far this month.
Those 120 questions often represent the genuine concerns of the public, rather than the politicians, such as my shrimp fishing communities in Norfolk.
There are other mechanisms for obtaining lengthy answers on complex policy issues from Commissioners.
Mr President, I just want to place on record my thanks to my colleague for defending my honour and also thank the Commission.
Meeting of 5 October 1996 in Dublin The next item is the report by the European Council and the statement by the Commission following the meeting of 5 October 1996 in Dublin.
Mr President, it is certainly an honour for me to have this opportunity to report to this House on the special meeting of the European Council held in Dublin on 5 October.
The decision to hold a special meeting was taken at the Florence European Council last June.
The European Council decided that a special meeting would be useful in order to discuss a range of issues facing the Union in the period and in order to keep up the momentum in the Intergovernmental Conference negotiations.
The Dublin meeting on 5 October allowed the members of the European Council to have a general exchange of views on a range of issues.
They did this without being required to focus on specific texts or conclusions - that task will be for the second European Council in Dublin on 13 and 14 December.
I am happy to be able to report that on 5 October we reaffirmed the timetable set by the Florence European Council for completion of the Intergovernmental Conference.
The Conference shall complete its work by the middle of next year - that is by the Amsterdam European Council in June 1997.
We also confirmed the need to maintain the level of ambition of the Conference.
External relations issues were also discussed at the Dublin meeting.
I propose to report to you in some detail today on the two main issues discussed in Dublin: the Intergovernmental Conference and the Middle East peace process.
In short, we are progressing steadily towards our aim of producing, as requested by the Florence European Council, a general outline for a draft revision of the Treaties for the second Dublin meeting in December.
As I mentioned, there were no written conclusions and no decisions were taken on the specific substantive issues under consideration at the IGC - that was not the purpose of the Dublin meeting.
Despite the informal nature of the meeting, the presidency was determined to ensure that Parliament continued to make valuable input to the process under way at ministerial and at preparatory level through your own contributions and those of Elisabeth Guigou and Elmar Brok.
Your remarks to us, when we discussed the Intergovernmental Conference in Dublin, were against the background which the Taoiseach had set out in his letter to colleagues in advance of the meeting.
Dublin I gave the European Council the opportunity to engage in a useful and open exchange of views on the main issues, which will, of course, have to be taken further at the European Council meeting in December and into the Dutch presidency.
It enabled me, as chairman of the Intergovernmental Conference, to make an oral report on progress at the Conference.
In confirming that the timetable is on track and that the political will exists among all Member States to meet the deadline of concluding the IGC by the time of the European Council in Amsterdam in June next year, the European Council responded to the growing sense of urgency felt by all the institutions that the process must not be delayed.
In particular, in this context it sends a clear message to the applicant countries waiting for the Conference to end so that they can start the accession negotiating process.
I would take this opportunity to underline the priority which the Irish presidency attaches to enlargement.
It is my firm belief that one of the major contributions which we can make to the accession process is to ensure that substantial progress is made in the Intergovernmental Conference by the end of this year.
Dublin I also reaffirmed a general willingness of Member States to pursue ambitious objectives in terms of the content of the Treaty.
From the perspective of the Irish presidency the meeting was helpful in advancing the substantial work of the IGC.
There was a wide measure of agreement among Heads of State or Government that a primary objective of the reform of the Union under consideration at the Conference is to provide concrete responses to direct concerns and expectations of our citizens.
There was strong emphasis, for example, on the part of many of the participants on the need to demonstrate that we can strengthen the Treaty provisions on employment at the level of the Union.
Furthermore, there was wide agreement on the need to demonstrate that we can, at the level of the Union, play an important role in combating the problems of international crime and drug-trafficking more effectively.
There is growing recognition that the IGC should make the necessary changes to ensure that the Union is able to ensure greater coherence of its international action in the political and economic fields and to exercise a constructive international political influence especially in terms of helping to resolve conflict and promote peaceful resolution of disputes.
Clearly, following the pattern of all intergovernmental conferences in the past, some of the more sensitive institutional issues are likely to be settled at the end of the negotiations.
The issue of flexibility will be a major concern.
As a result the European Council devoted a large part of its deliberations to examining the means by which the Union can contribute to the revitalization of the Middle East peace process.
On 1 and 2 October the General Affairs Council adopted a declaration on the Middle East peace process which set out the position of the Union at this critical juncture.
In particular it stressed the importance of early and full implementation of existing agreements and the need for negotiations to proceed on the basis of the principles of the 1991 Madrid Conference establishing the Middle East peace process and the terms of the 1993 declaration of principles on Palestinian self rule.
A special meeting of the European Council decided that I should visit the region immediately to convey a message to Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Arafat, to outline the Union's position and to discuss how progress might be made in restoring the climate of confidence that is needed to get the peace process back on track.
The message from the European Council welcomed the resumption of negotiations on 6 October following the Washington Summit, reiterated the Union's conviction that only full implementation of the terms of existing agreements can ensure the security of both Israelis and Palestinians and offered the full support of the Union for efforts to revitalize the peace process.
In my meetings with leaders in the region I stressed the importance attached by the European Union to the urgent revitalization of the peace process.
I also emphasized the EU's intention to make an enhanced commitment to the search for progress in the Middle East commensurate with the Union's economic contribution and involvement in the peace process so far.
I met President Arafat in Gaza on 6 October, our second meeting within a week.
We held a wide-ranging discussion on the situation in the region and on the key issues under discussion in the current Israeli/Palestinian negotiations.
At the request of the Egyptian Government I travelled to Cairo on 7 October for meetings with President Mubarak and Foreign Minister Amr Moussa.
Both of them stressed that the Union is well placed to play a positive role in influencing both sides and supporting the peace process.
These meetings emphasize the shared concern of both Egypt and the Union at recent events in the region as well as our shared commitment to the advancement of the peace process through the implementation of existing agreements.
The meetings were held in a very friendly atmosphere, reflecting the continued excellent quality of the Union's relations with Egypt.
Following this meeting the Union has continued to maintain its existing close contact and cooperation with the United States in support of the ongoing peace negotiations.
Following my visit to the region, I remain convinced that the Union has an important and positive role to play in support of the Middle East peace process.
The special European Council also requested the General Affairs Council to consider a mandate for the position of a European Union envoy to the Middle East.
The idea of appointing an EU envoy to the Middle East reflects a strong willingness on the Union's part to become more actively involved in efforts to assist in the revitalization of the Middle East peace process on the basis of its major contribution to the process so far and its already wide engagement with the region.
Preparatory work on the mandate for the post of envoy is under way and the matter will be considered by the Council at our next meeting on 28 and 29 October.
At our meeting in Dublin on 5 October Foreign Ministers also discussed the situation in former Yugoslavia against the background of the recent elections in Bosnia.
The Union focus is now on contributing to the efforts of the international community to support the peace consolidation process.
In this context we heard a preliminary presentation from Commissioner van den Broek on the Commission's proposals for the EU's regional approach to the countries of the area.
The Heads of State and Government had an exchange of views on developments in EU/Russia relations.
This was the first opportunity they had had to discuss the matters since the successful conclusion in July of the Russian presidential election which was a historic milestone in the consolidation of democracy in Russia and a clear signal from the Russian people themselves that they wish Russia to continue on the path of reform.
The need for the EU to deepen its relations with Russia was stressed, as was the need for continued support for the reform process.
The importance of early completion by all Member States of the ratification procedures for the partnership and cooperation agreement was emphasized.
The European Council also discussed ways of strengthening the EU's relationship with the Ukraine and of assisting the reform process in that country.
Ministers for Foreign Affairs discussed the current situation in Belarus with regard to the proposed referendum on constitutional change and expressed concern at the divisions between President Lukashenko and the parliament.
There are many issues on the agenda of the European Union and progress in these issues is a central requirement of any presidency.
This special meeting afforded us a very useful opportunity to move forward the Union's agenda and to prepare the ground for an ambitious but realistic European Council in Dublin in December.
Firstly, there was a very clear confirmation of the envisaged timetable.
The Intergovernmental Conference must complete its work by the time of the Amsterdam European Council in June 1997.
This is extremely important with enlargement in prospect.
As I said yesterday before this Parliament, 1997 will thus be a turning point, with the conclusion of the work on the reform of the Treaty and the launching of discussions on the Agenda for 2000.
If the Union wishes to control rather than merely accept the commitments made for the year 2000, it must stick to a coherent and logical timetable.
On these two crucial themes, I must say that I am more optimistic today than I was a few weeks ago.
I took advantage of the Dublin meeting to emphasize once more the need both to strengthen the instruments at our disposal, whether Community or Intergovernmental, and to integrate them into a global and coherent vision of external relations.
The third message is related to the second.
To end this brief intervention, I may say that I came back from Dublin rather reassured.
The chosen formula for open exchanges without conclusions was a good one even though, I know, it may be frustrating in many respects because no specific decisions were taken.
The fact that members of the European Council were involved immediately confers on the work a more political character.
We have excellent technicians in Europe whose role is of course vital but this role must be exercised within the context of a clear political vision and this vision should be defined at the highest level.
The Irish presidency is fortunate in having outstanding experts under the direction of Noel Dorr and in having politicians like John Bruton and Dick Spring who provide enlightened leadership.
With such a happy mixture, it will fulfil the mandate conferred on it with distinction and, with the help of its partners and of the European Parliament and the Commission, it will advance our common cause.
My group is ambitious for Europe.
Mr President-in-Office, the people of the Union want peace in Europe.
The people of the Union also want to see a real political priority being given to securing their future.
Please ensure, Mr President-in-Office, that the leaders of our countries make real progress on generating jobs inside the Union.
We need a clear signal that Europe understands that it is the role of national governments to lead the fight against poverty and exclusion in each of our Member States but that the European Union can add value to that fight by its own legitimate and concerted action.
My group restates its belief in the closer integration of Europe and we want to see the IGC move rapidly to prepare for enlargement in an environment of calm, peace, prosperity and hope for the future.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, first and foremost I should like to congratulate the Irish presidency.
Speaking in the House on behalf of the PPE Group in September I called for the IGC to finally rouse itself.
The first was whether the timetable would be respected.
My second question was whether the Council had reconciled itself to limiting its objectives to a minimum and postponing fundamental reforms.
The Irish presidency will be submitting a draft Treaty text to the December summit in Dublin.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that we must now conclude that the European Union is facing what the President of the Commission yesterday described as three major deadlines: on Union enlargement, on resolving a number of societal questions in the European Union about which our citizens are very concerned, namely regarding their future and security, and on the common foreign policy.
But this internal market and Union enlargement from 15 to 20 or 25 Member States raises major questions for society.
Mr President, ba mhaith liomsa i dtosac céad míle fáilte a chuir roimh Aire Gnóthai Eachtracha na hEireann chuig Parlaimint na hEorpa i maidin.
Mr President, I very much welcome the President-in-Office of the Council and Ireland's Foreign Minister to the European Parliament this morning and I thank him very much indeed for his report on the recent summit held in Dublin.
While the summit did not result in any significant decisions, it certainly provided a valuable opportunity for the heads of state or government to discuss the state of progress of the negotiations in the Intergovernmental Conference.
In my view the draft Treaty, which is to be presented to the December summit in Dublin, must give priority to issues of widespread concern, such as employment policy and the fight against crime.
I was disappointed to note that certain Member States continue to oppose the inclusion of a chapter on employment policy in the new Treaty.
Over the last decade national governments in many Member States have devoted much of their energy to creating new job opportunities, in most cases without any significant degree of success.
The fight against crime also demands strong cooperation between Member States if the activities of drug smugglers, money launderers and organized crime syndicates - all of whom operate on the international stage - can be effectively and comprehensively tackled by the forces of law and order in our individual countries.
I welcome the ongoing efforts to reform the institutional structures of the Union, which I hope will simplify the decision-making and administrative systems of the Union before enlargement to the East.
However, it is my strong belief that it is more important to assess the impact of enlargement on existing European policies and, if necessary, to reform the actual policies rather than concentrate on administrative and institutional reform.
The addition of ten or more net beneficiary countries will have a major impact on the budget.
The future of the common agricultural policy and structural funds, together with the obvious need for a bigger budget in an enlarged Union, are all difficult political issues which should be tackled in parallel with the Intergovernmental Conference.
Agreement on the final contents of a new revised Treaty must be accompanied by an agreement on the future direction of the major common policies and on the framework for enlargement negotiations.
All these issues are closely interlinked, particularly in the case of existing net beneficiary countries, such as Spain, Portugal, Greece and Ireland, and those countries with significant agricultural sectors, such as France.
Following the Dublin Summit there seems to be a consensus in favour of agreeing on a revised Treaty at the Amsterdam meeting of June next year.
Mr President, as far as our group is concerned, unemployment in Western Europe is the most important problem to be solved.
Principally the Economic Unionʼs current policy gives rise to high unemployment, reduced economic demand and to a dramatic deterioration in social welfare levels in Member States.
We believe that this is irrelevant in the current political situation in Western Europe.
The Union must also acknowledge the fact that some Member States are non aligned.
I would like to point out that the neutral policy in these Member States has significant popular support.
The way in which the summit was handled, too, followed a well-beaten path: if a summit seems likely to fail, or if nothing - absolutely nothing at all - emerges from it, there are two ways of glossing over this failure.
But can the grimly determined confirmation of the timetable for Maastricht II really, seriously, be a success in view of all the speculation about Maastricht III?
On this same question of adapting the institutions to enlargement, President Santer gave a hint yesterday by emphasizing that keeping unanimity did not appear to him to be possible with 27 members.
Mr President, I would today remind the House that 40 years ago the Hungarian people rebelled against the Soviet communist regime - an uprising prompted by a longing for freedom that claimed more than 200, 000 victims.
Meeting in Dublin, on 5 October last, the heads of state and government confirmed that, in compliance with the time-limits decided on in Florence, they will be presenting a complete draft revision of the Maastricht Treaty at the December summit.
A recent study in 1995 revealed that, for the countries of the European Union as a whole, the global cost of currency fluctuations was a two per cent fall in growth and the loss of 1.5 million jobs.
The European Parliament is, however, seriously concerned because we can see that there is a stalemate: the Intergovernmental Conference seems in fact to be paralysed by conflicting views.
Thereafter, perhaps, we shall have a third Intergovernmental Conference on the institutions, as some have already hinted.
Some people have already talked in terms of a European Parliament with variable geometry; others have called into question the role of the Commission as an initiator.
All of this will clearly be a crisis point in the construction of Europe.
I would alert the House of the need identify the risk and counter it with a policy.
Unless we are on our guard at this Intergovernmental Conference, this will happen to the detriment of the European Parliament and to the detriment of the national Parliaments.
Nor do the proposals regarding the introduction of a new pillar 1a in the area of the third pillar make the Treaty any clearer or more comprehensible for the citizen.
This, I think, might be a middle road to lead us all further forward.
I was very pleased to hear the upbeat assessment of the informal summit by both the President of the Commission and the President-in-Office of the Council.
That is a great tragedy potentially for the future of our continent.
We have at the moment a situation unparalleled perhaps in our continent over the past 200 years where we can stabilize the security and democracy of Central and Eastern Europe.
If a French President is treated like this, we can imagine the kind of treatment reserved by the Netanyahu government for the average Palestinian.
In Israel, I met the 'Peace Now' movement and representatives of all the left-wing parliamentary groups and of Likud.
In Palestine, I was able to have a long meeting with President Arafat, after a fascinating visit to the Orient House in East Jerusalem.
What I saw and heard on these occasions leaves no doubt in my mind.
The European Union can do so.
It is rejected from the negotiating table by Tel Aviv and by Washington, but nobody can prevent it taking strong political action by suspending the application of the interim Europe-Israel trade agreement as long as the Netanyahu government does not respect signed agreements and does not open up genuine negotiations with the Palestinian authority.
Three weeks ago, it issued a very clear statement with particular emphasis on the link between the Europe-Israel agreement and the peace process.
The same call may be made to Member States' national parliaments: do not ratify this agreement until the peace process is put back on the rails.
Until now, the EU has played quite a positive role both through support for the Palestinians and through tough statements.
In addition, we in the Green Party have continuously emphasised that, while we justifiably criticise the Israeli government fiercely, we must also remind our Palestinian friends that maintaining democracy and freedom of speech in the Palestinian areas is a fundamental requirement of a successful peace process.
It is as well always to remember that international or transnational crime, whatever form it takes - terrorism, drugs - is in reality a direct consequence of the abolition of internal border controls in the Union and the inability of States or the unwillingness of some of them like the Netherlands to provide proper controls at the external frontiers.
Many Member States will undoubtedly meet the Maastricht criteria in 1998, the year during which the elect who will take part in the third phase will be chosen.
Mr President-in-Office, President Santer, in recent years the European Union has done a great deal in the Middle East: there has been huge economic aid to the Palestinians, bilateral agreements with the countries of the region, vital assistance for the elections in Palestine, the Barcelona Conference and support for the peace process.
The European Union has adopted a stance that we welcome, the position of the Council which seems to us to be sufficiently clear, and I have to say that I also appreciate the work done by the President-in-Office in the region during recent weeks.
The issue that has not been resolved concerns the political role of the Union.
This is a fundamental political issue for the Union at this time, and we need to know whether the Council is devising a strategy to achieve that outcome.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard that the Dublin summit has created the political impetus the Intergovernmental Conference so badly needs.
The timetable is important, the content much more so.
First, the Union must be given the instruments and procedures necessary for this area without frontiers to be an area for work, business, tourism and culture, but not an area for terrorism, drug-trafficking, slave trade and abuse of women and children, immigration and clandestine labour mafias, and all the other forms of organized crime.
You yourself, and the President of the Commission, have already said all there is to say on the matter, and I do not think I need insist further.
Mr President, none of this will be achieved without reforming our institutions to give them greater transparency, greater efficiency and greater democracy, which means strengthening Parliament's triple legislative, budgetary and control role.
For two centuries they have been inseparable on our continent.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, the Irish presidency and the Dublin Council have been dealing with Union issues at a crucial moment in the life of the Community.
I think the Irish presidency has shown a capacity for meaningful action on the issue of the Middle East and I want to state, like the colleague who preceded me, that the frontier of European dignity does not run just through Bosnia, but also through the relaunch of the peace process in the Middle East.
In addition to vision in foreign policy, I believe the Irish presidency has been successful in stressing the essential theme of the European model of society and prioritizing employment.
A society without employment - a society which 'kills' employment, a society which has no hope of employment - is a weak society and at this moment our material comfort may really be under great threat.
What is preventing any progress in the combating of organized crime in Europe is not the British elections but the lack of will to find a joint solution to such problems - a lack of will not just in the United Kingdom but in other countries, too.
Organized crime, the control of immigration and population increase in Europe - these are problems which, today, can only be solved by a joint approach.
Mr President, I did not personally expect much from this special Dublin Summit.
However, despite its low profile, the first European Council in Dublin will not have been pointless.
Heads of State and Government themselves in the end became involved in the Intergovernmental Conference.
They declared their intention to make concrete progress at Dublin II.
Let us hope that that will come to pass.
However, keeping to the timetable must not be achieved to the detriment of the contents of the Treaty.
I should like here to pay tribute to the Irish presidency, which spared no effort in trying to maintain the level of the conference.
I urge it to preserve this spirit in preparing the text which will serve as the basis for discussions at Dublin II, since the ambitions of this conference must be reaffirmed.
Beyond the question of the institutions, of the reform of the second and third pillars, which are very important, it is the model of European society which is at stake.
Can we in fact claim to be close to a Europe of citizens if we fail to deal with this problem and if we also fail to deal with the tragic question of social exclusion?
On the other hand, failure or a limited outcome from this conference would lead Europe to rush in the wrong direction, with the single currency being introduced under the worst psychological conditions and completely at odds with the expectations of its citizens.
I therefore believe that it must be a very ambitious conference and that only ambitious reform could be accepted by this Parliament, even if it means that the conclusion is postponed until after the Amsterdam Summit.
The Maastricht ratification process was made more difficult because European citizens were not convinced that the European Union had the capacity or the will to resolve their problems.
This is best demonstrated by the fact that, this week, we discussed the 1997 budget of the European Union which allocates a pathetic ECU 25 million to tackling this problem on all fronts at European level.
However, inadequate resources are only one part of the problem.
Regrettably, Member States have differing and often conflicting views about how to tackle the drugs problem, whether in the fields of legalization, sentencing, prevention or rehabilitation.
If we are serious we must learn to speak with one voice and act as one.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the Irish presidency, all the more so since, along with Belgium, it has shown that it is not necessary to be a big country, either in population or in area, to play an important role at European level.
As for the problem of jobs, it was Helmut Kohl himself who said that employment was not a European question and that it should be the individual countries that created jobs!
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, may I briefly present the position of the Group of the European People's Party on the situation in the Middle East.
At the same time, we must also point out that there was a certain ambivalence in that visit, because it was made in his capacity of French Head of State, with all the weight that carries, but certainly not as the united voice of the European Community.
Peace must return to the region on the basis of the various agreements we have signed - the Madrid Conference, the Oslo agreements, the agreement between the European Union and Israel.
Mr President, I should first like to congratulate the Irish presidency on its approach to the IGC.
It also means that the Netherlands can start on real negotiations and make a real attempt to conclude matters by June and that we will not have to start from the beginning again.
Action must also be taken in the area of internal security, the fight against international crime and in the area of foreign policy.
I have received two motions for resolutions on the European Council meeting in Dublin and four motions for resolutions on the peace process in the Middle East, pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, I thank the Members of the European Parliament for the remarks which they have made here and for the welcome they have given me and for the general tenor of their remarks.
I have had the opportunity of listening very carefully to 25 contributions from various parties and their leaders and from the various groups.
This is a very important exercise, because we want to strengthen the working and institutional relationship between Parliament and the Council.
Let me say, as Irish Foreign Minister, that I also welcome the reiteration of support from the European Parliament for the Northern Ireland peace process.
The one message I want to get across to Parliament today in relation to the IGC is that we will be ambitious and we will complete the work on time in accordance with the mandate we received from Florence.
The meeting in Dublin was a special meeting of the European Union, it was not an informal summit.
The meeting in Dublin was a European Council, all the members of the European Council were present and, as is the practice at meetings of the European Council, the President of the European Parliament addressed the members of the European Council on matters of concern to the European Parliament.
We are doing everything we can in that respect.
The question of the enlargement of the European Union comes in whether it is in terms of political stability or questions of security.
Six months after the conclusions of the Intergovernmental Conference negotiations are going to open and, as one Member said, there is a great deal of preparation to be done.
In relation to economic and monetary union, work is going ahead at technical level and a full report on the various issues will be presented to the Dublin summit in December.
In external relations many questions were raised here this morning and, for the foreseeable future, the priorities will remain the Middle East peace process, former Yugoslavia, our relations with Russia and EU/US relations.
In relation to the Middle East peace process, which many Members have commented on here this morning, I, in my report on the special European Council, made a detailed statement on our approach and the activity in support of the Middle East peace process.
We set out very clearly the measures in the European Council that we believe are necessary to restore momentum to the peace process.
We will continue actively to use our influence with the regional parties with a view to promoting progress on the basis of the existing agreements.
The Union will continue to monitor the talks between Israel and the Palestinians, which are at a very complex and delicate stage, as we have seen over the last 24 to 48 hours.
France and Germany have made a contribution to the debate, but the outcome will have to be acceptable to all Member States given the nature of the Intergovernmental Conference, and I do not see that process as aiming to isolate any one Member State.
That, I believe, is in the interest of all Member States and certainly is in the interest of Europe for what we want to do for the future.
I welcome the opportunity of having this exchange with you.
I will certainly benefit from this discussion as we have our General Affairs Council meeting on 28 and 29 October.
The vote will be taken at midday.
Globally there are various definitions of poverty and varying estimates of the number of people living in extreme poverty.
It also set us a second important objective: the substantial reduction of overall poverty and inequalities within countries.
In my capacity as Social Welfare Minister in Ireland and as president of the Social Affairs Council in Europe, it is in regard to this area of relative poverty and inequalities within the Union that I wish to address the main body of my speech today.
The very clear message I took from Copenhagen was that the onus for action in countries such as Ireland rested with ourselves and so I came home resolved to launch a serious assault on poverty.
Over the last two years we, in Ireland, have accordingly increased the universal child benefit by almost 50 %.
But beyond immediately practical measures to tackle poverty I felt that we needed something more: a substantial change in mind-sets and in administrative practices, a change in the process of decision-making.
The key policy areas identified for action are: educational disadvantage, unemployment - particularly long-term unemployment - income adequacy, regenerating disadvantaged areas with concentrations of poverty and tackling poverty in rural areas.
The next stage of the proposals for action in each of the five key policy areas will be brought to government for decision.
Research suggests that a country increases its GDP by 9 % for every extra year of primary education it gives its people.
The World Bank says that just a 1 % rise in the proportion of the labour force which receives secondary education increases the share of income received by the poorest half of the population by between 6 and 15 %.
It adds that countries that give priority to basic human capabilities in schooling, health and nutrition not only directly enhance wellbeing but are also more likely to see improving income distributions and higher average incomes over the long-term.
Thus an expansion of basic education provision can be both a targeted anti-poverty measure and an investment for general economic growth.
As the resolution before you today states, it is estimated that more than 52 million people live in poverty in the European Union.
These figures include 17 million people unemployed and three million who are homeless.
The role of the European Union has been to encourage Member States to adopt minimum standards of social protection to ensure that social entitlements gained in one state may be transferred to another, to monitor progress towards higher standards of social protection and to fund a number of initiatives and programmes against poverty.
We are busy with the big projects, such as EMU, and at the same time we are worried that Europe is failing to address the real needs of so many of our citizens.
Let us consider the social dimension.
The inter-governmental conference which opened in Turin last March and which continues under the Irish presidency, offers us an opportunity to redress the shortcomings of Maastricht and to begin to establish a framework in which social policy considerations and the market are in balance.
A major aim of the Irish presidency is to advance the work of the IGC in this direction.
The Florence European Council set a challenging mandate for the IGC in providing that the Irish presidency should aim to bring forward to the Dublin Council in December a general outline for a draft revision of the Treaties with a view to the IGC being able to complete work as envisaged by mid-1997.
The overriding objective of the Irish presidency is that the IGC should contribute to the development of the European Union in a way that corresponds to the aspirations of the people of Europe, is relevant to their everyday concerns and responsive to their needs.
This means that we must confront squarely the current situation whereby in the European Union there is a serious lack of balance between the strong legal and financial instruments available for economic policy and those dealing with poverty, inequality, unemployment and the labour market.
In purely economic terms the integrated market of 350 million people will be highly inefficient if 52 million people are too poor to consume the goods and services offered in that market.
Again, if we can develop strategies which will lessen the burden on welfare systems and equip those 52 million people to contribute and to consume on a par with the rest of society, then everybody wins.
I have sought to use my time as chairman of the Social Affairs Council to encourage a reflection on how social protection systems might contribute to such a spiral of positive social gain.
The starting-point must be a recognition that the economic and labour market context in which these systems operate has changed dramatically within our lifetime.
Imbalances between the supply and demand for labour have given rise to an unprecedented, persistent and high level of unemployment.
In the past the main aim of European social protection was to provide an adequate replacement income to people experiencing unemployment or illness.
However, it is necessary for us to re-examine critically whether these original objectives are sufficient in the current climate and to review whether there may not be aspects of our social protection policies which of themselves can impact on the incidence of unemployment and therefore on poverty and inequality.
To that end I hosted an informal Council in Dublin last July.
In essence the Council agreed there that the challenge facing social protection systems is to take on new objectives concerning the prevention of unemployment and the reintegration of the unemployed.
In view of our discussions in July I would propose a resolution for agreement at the Social Affairs Council in December which sets out how the Union and individual Member States might implement this role in a complementary way.
It is, however, a matter of personal regret that we are unlikely to be able to record any progress on such simple, limited but valuable proposals as the fourth exclusion programme commonly known as Poverty IV and Actions in favour of the Elderly.
Look again at how the Commission's three earlier programmes against poverty worked.
Paradoxically, the supposedly remote and undemocratic bureaucracy of Brussels taught Ireland, for instance, some lessons on how to reach out to, and involve, some of our most marginalized citizens.
My primary aim in relation to Union action against social exclusion is practical.
Thirdly - and perhaps most importantly - we would keep the idea that Europe has responsibilities in the fight against poverty squarely on the agenda.
Ireland already supports incorporation of the social chapter into the Treaty.
Our IGC proposal is also consistent with the view of the Commission in its IGC opinion which urged clear Treaty provisions for cooperation between states on matters of social policy such as the fight against marginalization and poverty.
The Commission has since expanded on that earlier opinion in its contribution to the IGC of 23 September where it proposes an updated and fully integrated social chapter.
In my view this proposal would complement my government's proposal.
More broadly, I want to see the aim of fighting exclusion and one of its principal causes, unemployment, become more central to the activities of the Union.
I repeat: the current IGC offers us the opportunity to improve on Maastricht, to reconcile the claims both of competitiveness and social protection within the Union and to eliminate the potential for social dumping between Member States.
I welcome this opportunity to reflect on the potential of social policy and in particular on the potential to develop social protection and social exclusion policies in a European context.
Despite the many positive changes that have taken place in the last decade, poverty is still the greatest problem facing the world.
As the President-in-Office said, some 1.2bn people live in abject poverty and more than half of them go hungry every single day.
The fight against poverty in developing countries is, of course, enshrined in the Maastricht Treaty and is one of the key objectives of the European Union's development cooperation policy.
In December 1993 the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on this very subject, which forms the basis for our current activities.
This resolution clearly states that the fight against poverty should be integral to the preparation and the implementation of all development policies and programmes.
It also emphasizes that the yardstick for development measures by the Community and by the Member States must be the improvement of the living conditions of the poor and investment in human resources.
The next EDF period from 1995 to the year 2000, will in total provide some ECU 13bn of assistance and all of this will be, of course, by way of grant terms.
The motion for a resolution, which you will debate later, underlines Parliament's commitment to developing an appropriate strategy in the European Union and in the Member States to combat poverty and social exclusion.
The Commission is committed to a citizens' Europe and the people who live below the defined poverty threshold in the Member States - reckoned to be in the order of some 52m people - risk becoming the forgotten people of Europe.
And if we do not maintain social cohesion within the Member States, then we will not deliver the full potential of the European Union.
I recently told Parliament's Committee on Social Affairs and Employment that we live in a very disquieting time insofar as social action is concerned here at European Union level and we must insist on the insertion into the Treaty of a proper legal base with qualified majority voting for the adoption of programmes in the social sphere.
If that outcome is not secured, the future of programmes and actions of any consequence in the social policy area at European level is in serious danger.
The active involvement of this Parliament and its individual Members and the help of all the relevant NGOs is essential.
Indeed, the whole concept of a people's Europe geared towards improving the quality of life for all its people is at stake too.
I also wish to thank the Commissioner for making his stand on this vital issue so clear today and two weeks ago when he came before the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment.
The resolution we have tabled here today is not just concerned with poverty inside the borders of the European Union but also globally - and I agree with what both the Minister and the Commissioner have said on that front.
Article 2 of the Treaty - it is worth re-reading - promises sustainable growth, a high level of employment and social protection and the raising of the standard of living and the quality of life.
For too many millions of our fellow citizens those words are no more than empty rhetoric.
But I wonder where the balance is when, to my shame, my own government has been instrumental in securing in the Court of Justice the suspension of payment of ECU 12m to the elderly, the poor - those pushed to the very margins of our society.
Firstly, an employment chapter to give us the tools to begin to tackle unemployment and particularly long-term unemployment in a coordinated way across the Union.
Secondly, a solid basis in the Treaty for programmes of action to assist those excluded and most in need.
Only with the action to give reality to those promises in Article 2 will this become a Union worthy of the name.
I sincerely wish to thank Minister De Rossa personally for his commitment to the battle in this field.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, how can we hope to succeed internationally in the fight against poverty if we cannot even agree on a common basis in Europe?
The action before the European Court has succeeded, for the moment.
Under Commissioner Flynn's proposal, Council decisions would in future have to be taken by a qualified majority.
Some countries also have reservations, considerable reservations in some cases, about the so-called alternatives or the second labour market.
Assessing the results of this programme is certainly very difficult.
The homeless - of whom there are, after all, 3 to 5 million in Europe - are to be put to work building their own future homes.
It is irrelevant here whether the main focus is at national or European level, or whether Europe provides the framework and the Member States coordinate the individual initiatives.
In his speech the President-in-Office mentioned the national anti-poverty programme strategy which he put in place in the Irish government.
That is something that could be used as a blueprint for a European model.
According to the last report on human development from the United Nations, 1, 300 million people are poorer than 15 years ago and 89 countries are poorer than 10 years ago.
Thirteen million children die every year from preventable disease and 200 million children are undernourished.
The Commission has set out a grand definition of what constitutes poverty: people lacking in social, economic and cultural rights and who are excluded from the normal life of the community.
The truth is there are 52 million poor people, three million homeless people and 17 million unemployed people in Europe.
In my own country - I refer to my country and Portugal, perhaps because they are very close together - there are seven million poor people and a third of the Portuguese population is at the poverty level.
And the levels of unemployment, insecure employment, poverty affecting women and the situation of older people, increasingly numerous, are going to spread poverty in Europe, a privileged continent compared to the rest of the world but a continent with enormous problems.
The revision of the Treaty needs to include a legal framework making it possible to advance in that direction and, of course, to take decisions by a majority to prevent the continued blocking of important programmes in this area.
There are currently more people dying of poverty and starvation than as a result of war.
The resolution raises many important aspects, particularly the focus on the 52 million poor in Europe.
Of course we have a particular responsibility to fight social rejection and poverty within Europe and the EU but we must not forget the world outside.
According to the UNDPʼs "Human Development Index' only four countries in Europe, those such as Azerbaijan and Armenia, fall into the lower half of the table of 174 countries.
Against this background, Madam President, it is shocking and sad that the EU is reducing its development aid to the poorest countries and to Non Governmental Organisations.
Dear colleagues, let us not only show solidarity when we vote for the resolution but also when we vote for the budget here tomorrow.
I listened to you, Mr President-in-Office, with considerable hope and I believe that education and the fight against unemployment are equally effective elements in this difficult struggle against exclusion.
However, the European Union will only be really effective if it can renounce the economic ultra-liberalism at its heart, if it can focus its action on the construction of a social Europe that cares for the dignity and well-being of its citizens.
In structural terms, poverty in the European Union countries is a problem which principally threatens to affect families with children.
Combatting poverty in our own countries must therefore principally take the form of offering material and moral support to families and above all families which often have to survive on one income - and very often a very modest one at that - by ensuring an in-built priority for our own people when it comes to employment and social welfare.
Madam President, President-in-Office, Commissioner, colleagues, in recommending this resolution to you I want to draw your attention to the views of the people of Europe.
The most recent 1994 Eurobarometer survey on the perception of poverty and social exclusion in Europe indicates that most Europeans believe that the levels of poverty and social exclusion have increased in the last ten years and that the gap between rich and poor is growing.
Our citizens believe that there should be a concerted, integrated approach by the public authorities to combat poverty and social exclusion, 89 % believing that the European Union should be intervening.
We have to understand that the principle of subsidiarity does not provide adequate responses to ensure that this Europe of ours is appreciated for what it is, that is to say a supreme body which, in order to be united and to unite, needs first and foremost to secure the primary good, namely the health, dignity, development and protection of its children, Europe's citizens.
Madam President, last Friday I went to a neighbourhood in my constituency where up to 80 % of the households are in receipt of some form of welfare payment.
It arises because of the mean-spirited Eurosceptically-driven case brought by the UK government against the Commission on the question of legal competence in the domain of social exclusion.
Madam President, I too wish to thank the President-in-Office and the Commissioner for their statements.
One of them immediately: succeed in persuading all of the Member States that we have to reach agreement on the issue of the legal bases and provide for resources in the Community budget.
The second issue concerns the Intergovernmental Conference.
Even if this is not to their personal taste, politicians have to promote a much more balanced urban network as this is the only way of fighting effectively against this scourge which puts us all to shame - it is the only way of really helping people suffering from poverty.
Madam President, only chance dictates that we have now moved on from the debate on the reform conference to the subject of poverty, but it is highly appropriate!
All of us here are joining together to agitate for action against poverty, while at the same time the Council of Ministers is binding our hands.
The main cause of poverty is unemployment, and it is certainly no matter of chance that it is precisely the United Kingdom and Germany, who filed the suit against the poverty programme, that have also opposed the employment chapter in the new Treaty.
Those two national governments are responsible for the fact that ECU 12 million are now frozen, and many projects are likely to have to wait 20 months before a decision can be taken.
To combat poverty and to integrate the poor into our society, we need a long-term strategy which effectively and continuously coordinates national and European concepts.
It is not just that the number of poor people correspond, in terms of population, to one of Europe's large countries or to about half of the fifteen that we call small countries.
Mr De Rossa, I enjoyed your speech.
Madam President, in order to make up for my forgetfulness, I should like to introduce gender mainstreaming into my two amendments to the resolution on poverty.
They suffer discrimination of all kinds.
I therefore stress that our committees must institute gender mainstreaming so that all the EU authorities and the governments of Member States include women in action programmes for the elimination of poverty, on a par with men in taking political, economic, social and cultural decisions.
I insist that the IGC officially recognize equality between men and women as a fundamental right.
Madam President, I appreciate being given the opportunity to respond to the debate here this morning.
It is clear from the contributions made that the view of this Parliament is similar to my own, namely that the future of Europe must be rooted in a vision of society where market values are framed in the context of human values and where market forces are marshalled in the interests of society as a whole.
At the core of this vision is the concept of social solidarity which embraces the right of the individual to benefit from the support not only of the family but also the community and the concomitant responsibility of the individual to contribute to providing those social supports.
We must also find a way of changing the Treaty establishing qualified majority voting to enable these programmes to be put in place, not only the programmes which are currently blocked but other ones which may also be necessary in the future.
I appreciate the Commissioner's contribution and that of the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, Stephen Hughes, and indeed all the contributors who have been so supportive this morning.
But you know very well that I cannot take the vote again.
It is very difficult to follow this vote.
Ladies and gentlemen, even if a moment's daydreaming distracts your attention from our voting sheet, you still have, fortunately, our Group leaders to guide you.
The Danish social democrats have voted in favour of the proposal to amend the list of extraction solvents, since the change does not affect the level of protection in Denmark.
Lehne, Ford and Linzer reportsBonde (EDN), Gahrton (V), Holm (V), Lis Jensen (EDN), Krarup (EDN), Lindqvist (ELDR), Sandbæk (EDN), Schörling (V), Sjöstedt (GUE/NGL) and Svensson (GUE/NGL), in writing. (DA) The three reports on freedom of movement of persons in an EU without internal frontiers are an important sign of the shift from cooperation towards the formation of a state, and even though there are some attractive proposals in the reports, the Scandinavian opponents of such a union cannot support the dismantling of the internal frontiers and the establishment of a common external wall.
Only effective controls on persons at the internal frontiers give us a reasonable chance of stamping out this form of crime, and therefore we cannot do without them until these problems have been solved.
Ford report Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament which will be supporting my report on free movement.
But Parliament wants progress now and the Socialist Group wants progress now so that we get free movement of Europe's 12 to 14 million legal third-country nationals living in the European Union; free movement for the 4 million black Europeans we have in our midst; free movement of blind people without the nonsense of the current quarantine regulations for guide dogs which, as we know, do not work.
The Commission recently responded to a question of mine by saying that in the last five years not one single case of rabies had been detected while dogs were held in quarantine, costing us tens of millions of pounds.
We have had a similar system in Scandinavia for a long time and it works extremely well.
The removal of internal border controls must be linked to additional, compensatory measures.
If, for example, Sweden is to maintain its current regulations concerning the import of alcohol, we must have the opportunity to check people crossing our borders.
Linzer report Madam President, the Commission has presented us today with three proposals for Directives seeking to remove all controls from persons at all internal frontiers of the Union.
This line of thought seems to us insane.
The Council seems to have reacted well by proposing common action which would have reinforced controls on nationals of third countries travelling inside the Union, but which was broadly at variance with the three draft Directives of the Commission.
In fact, not only is the principle behind three draft proposals for a Directive a bad one, but the methods give nothing in return.
Moreover, the three proposals make absolutely no reference, not even in visas, to the permanent right of Member States to preserve the security of the public in their own territory, a right they have under Articles 36, 48, 100a and others in the Treaty.
But this involves just the same increased risk of movement of unlawful substances such as narcotics across the borders as free movement for Union citizens does.
Of course citizens from other countries who have residence and work permits for one of the EU countries should be able to move freely within the European Union in just the same way as citizens from EU countries do.
But, in our opinion, this reports places exactly the same incorrect demands as Fordʼs report on the removal of personal controls at internal borders.
First, we must be clear what we mean by compensatory controls, because there is a risk of increased drug trafficking between Member States and because criminals will have greater opportunities to use the lack of controls to escape being brought to justice.
Each Member State should be free to decide for themselves what form and level of internal border controls to implement between EU Member States.
Oomen-Ruijten recommendation Information and education have always been the cornerstones of consumer policy.
With comparative advertising authorized in some Member States and prohibited in others, the current situation works to the disadvantage of consumers.
It is therefore important for European citizens that set limits should be defined with regard to advertising so as to increase their right to the protection of their economic interests and their right to correct information as the basis for proper choice.
The aim of this directive is to harmonize the conditions for comparative advertising with a view to completing the internal market and thus facilitating the free movement of publicity services within the Union.
Poggiolini recommendation The Community health monitoring programme, based on Article 129 of the Treaty on European Union, is designed to protect the health of the citizens and prevent disease.
Correct operation of the Community health monitoring system will allow all the countries of the Union to set priorities in health policy based on reliable comparative data on health, and improve the viability and effectiveness of health management.
It is clearly stated in Article 129 of the Maastricht Treaty that the Community - and thus the 15 Member States - shall contribute towards ensuring a high level of health protection by encouraging cooperation between the Member States and, if necessary, lending support to their action.
Carrageenan, for instance, is approved for use in breast milk substitutes, despite the fact that various studies have indicated problems with stomach pains and, in some cases, gastric ulcers in infants.
It should therefore be called PES - processed Euchema seaweed - and given the E number E 408, instead of E 407a.
In accordance with the report adopted by the House at first reading, the Committee on the Environment is recommending that the two products - PES and carrageenan - should be marketed under different E numbers.
The rapporteur and the committee should be complimented on the consistency they have shown in dealing with the proposal to amend Directive 95/2/EC, and Parliament should vote massively in favour of this recommendation, both for the sake of consumers and on grounds of principle.
Water is one of the key factors in the life of human beings, so the Union needs a clear and consistent policy on this resource.
The rapporteur ably points out that water quality standards and their achievement in the Union cannot be dispersed across more than 50 directives, sometimes actually contradictory, and urges that a framework directive be submitted to Parliament, as indicated in the fifth action programme, for integrated and sustainable management of the water resources of the Union.
It is important that the EU puts forward a progressive policy in this area, but implementation shall take place at National and regional or local level.
The Commissions's communication on water policy sets out a strategy for a coherent water policy which is intended to lay down the basic principles for managing water in the Community.
Dublin European Council Madam President, the conflict in the Middle East is extremely urgent.
The development of events in the Middle East cannot wait for the internal Parliamentary decision making process.
This can only be interpreted as a lack of interest on the part of the European Parliament or that party political deliberation must take precedence over serious action for peace.
Madam President, to close our debate on the Dublin Summit, the Europe of Nations Group, faced with the consensus motion from the socialists and centrists, tabled a motion for a resolution demanding a radical reorientation of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Of course, our proposal was rejected by the majority of this Assembly, but we were anxious to set a date.
Sadly, we see it devoting its precious time to secondary problems, like details of decision-making procedures in the European Parliament, to low priority questions, like the list of citizens' rights to be included in the Treaty, rights which are already well protected at national level, or to palpable absurdities, like the extension of majority voting in the Council.
On all these matters, it seems to us that the Council is a little too much a victim of the intellectual terrorism of the federalists.
But peace in the Middle East can only be based on respect for the rights of all peoples to live freely on their land.
The Palestinians have a right to Palestinian land and to a Palestinian state.
For, whereas the French President, Jacques Chirac, proposed common action in the Middle East in order to prevent the Palestinians being left on their own to face the Israelis and the American arbitrator, whose sympathy was clearly one-sided, this wish for a common European approach came up against a blank refusal, particularly from the British and the Germans whose diplomacies are in fact aligned with that of America and Israel.
Moreover, the timidity of the European Parliament over Middle East affairs is also explained by the pressure exerted on Members of this Parliament by American and Israeli diplomacy.
The Intergovernmental conference must be viewed from this perspective.
First, the resolution as finally adopted made it abundantly clear that it would be a dangerous illusion to believe that poverty in Europe can be defeated at the expense of poor nations and peoples elsewhere in the world.
I trust that this attempt to divide the employed workforce and divert attention from the serious problems of distribution between capital and labour will fail.
Protection and improvement of the incomes of working people is the most important element of a policy of social justice.
The interim decision by the Court of Justice on 24 September will in effect prevent the Commission from supporting the 800 or so applications from anti-poverty organizations all over Europe.
As Commissioner Flynn said recently: ' These cases prove once again the absolute need for a clear legal basis in the Treaty, allowing the adoption of programmes in the social area by majority vote ' .
Not only must we try to repair the damage caused by poverty - long-term unemployment, urban degeneration etc, - we must also find ways of preventing exclusion.
This would appear to be a suitable approach, not only for the national level but also possibly for the EU.
Minimum social rights must be established across the EU, on the right to work and on social protection for example.
Combatting all forms of exclusion and poverty must be made a goal of all EU programmes and policies.
However, it was only signed in June 1996.
The question was what the timetable for this should be and how the relevant legislation should be reformed.
However, on 11 April 1996, after laborious negotiations, the Slovenian Parliament gave the government a mandate to sign the agreement on the basis of the compromise proposed during the Spanish presidency.
Under this, Slovenia pledges to guarantee all citizens of the Union the right to acquire property from the beginning of the fourth year after the entry into force of the agreement.
The war in the former Yugoslavia is the most tragic instance of this.
Now it is important to take care together to ensure that there is no backsliding into the injustices of the past but that we set out to build the future.
The European Parliament, for its part, expedited the approval of the Europe Agreement with Slovenia in its resolution of 30 November 1995.
I hope that Parliament can now take a positive decision, to enable Slovenia to catch up with the other associated countries which have stolen a march on it in their relations with the European Union.
Mr President, elections to the European Parliament were held in Finland on Sunday.
Accordingly, I should like to thank all the colleagues with whom I have enjoyed good working relations in the European Parliament and wish you all success in building a common, peaceful Europe.
Thank you very much Mrs Iivari.
Mr President, the economic figures for Slovenia are excellent.
On 26 June 1991, I had the pleasure of being the only European Union citizen to participate in Slovenia's independence celebrations.
Years before the events of 1991, a Slovenian civil rights campaigner by the name of France Bucar referred here to the human rights situation in Yugoslavia.
Subsequently, he became the first President of the first freely elected Parliament in Slovenia.
But I also remember how, at that time, when the Slovenian capital was encircled by troops, an Italian Member of this House, Marco Pannella, was the first to break through and make contact with the democratic forces of Slovenia.
I sincerely appeal, then, to all Members also to remember that this House was calling for the recognition of Slovenia at a time when no Member State was yet ready to do so.
I emphatically welcome the fact that, on 10 June, Slovenia was finally able to make its application for accession to the European Union on the same day that the association agreement was signed.
On that last point, the laborious annex to the agreement is not the product of a bilateral dispute with Italy, as some wrongly assume, a dispute that was, moreover, resolved during the Italian presidency.
The great prospects it holds for the future warrant voting for the agreement.
In addition, the European Parliament's delegation for relations with Slovenia has endeavoured - most recently, just two weeks ago in Slovenia - to play its part in helping to solve the differences of opinion.
There are problems in the bilateral area, but there have been favourable developments.
I think it should also be stressed that, after initially avoiding the issue, the Dini government and the Prodi government and, in particular, Secretary of State Fassino in the new government have made massive efforts to achieve closer relations, détente and an improvement in the situation.
Discussions are in progress regarding its participation in the Western European Union and its membership of NATO.
There are still unresolved questions connected with reprivatization and the moratorium, but I have no doubt they will be solved after the elections of 10 November.
Mr President, in exercising co-decision when voting for an agreement associating a third country with the European Union, this House is at the same time taking on the responsibility of the right and duty to ensure that the agreement applies, beyond all reasonable doubt, to human and minority rights also.
That duty becomes absolute where, as in the case of Slovenia today, the agreement represents a necessary step on the path to accession.
I have to point out to this House, whose responsibilities extend beyond assiduously rubber-stamping the Realpolitik of governments, that the agreement we are about to vote on is not based on the conviction that Slovenia wishes to resolve its political dispute with the Italian minority and the exiles in accordance with the agreements with the European Commission, but in fact marks a generous opening of political credit for that country on the part of the European Union and Italy.
It follows that, since the European Parliament cannot be sure, before the vote, that Slovenia has the will to resolve these disputes, it is at the same time undertaking the moral and political commitment to ensure that Slovenia meets its obligations promptly after the agreement.
We should bear in mind today in the House the circumstances which resulted in these disputes, that is to say the enormous suffering, inflicted for ethnic rather than political reasons and well after the end of the Second World War, on a minority with roots going back centuries and a highly developed culture.
In the wake of the Solana compromise agreement but above all after this vote, those three issues in the dispute between Italy and Slovenia will become an integral part of the dispute with the European Union.
The Europe Agreement is a good first step.
This Europe Agreement is the first step in doing so.
Mr President, I wish to confirm the view of the Green Group which has already in the past lent its support to the agreement associating Slovenia with the European Union and, with an eye to the future, to Slovenia's accession to Europe.
I believe that, even if it needs further definition and clarification, the agreement proposed during its time in office by the Spanish presidency of the European Union is helpful to good relations between Italy and Slovenia and could act as an example for future relations between the European Union and other countries which have emerged from the ashes of the former Yugoslavia.
I say this as the son of a family which had to abandon its own property in the former Yugoslavia, in what is now the Republic of Croatia.
The formal issues raised to justify excluding the Dieta may be correct in legislative terms but they are not, in my view, politically convincing.
Economic cooperation between Italy and Slovenia can be further developed.
There is also the problem of the Krsko nuclear power station.
While it is true that the trans-European Transport Networks provide for an option concerning the Eastern European countries, it is also the case that there is currently an excess of road traffic travelling towards Slovenia, notwithstanding Austria's decision to reduce TIR levels through its own territory.
Mr President, despite the horrors of the civil war in the former Yugoslavia, Slovenia has developed into a stable democracy which guarantees the fundamental rights and freedoms of minorities.
A rigorous monetary policy and strict fiscal discipline were the other conditions for a favourable economic development.
To briefly summarize, with the signing of the Europe Agreement Slovenia is included in the pre-accession strategy with a view to Union membership.
We express the hope that the Slovenian Parliament will be able to promptly ratify this Agreement following the elections on 10 November.
There is no doubt that here we have a country following a line of development which may ultimately bring it into the circle of Member States of the European Union.
It is certainly very significant that, despite all the problems and delays that have occurred, it was under the Italian presidency that this agreement was concluded.
Krsko and the dumping policy of the duty-free shops have been mentioned, but the critical factor is the spirit of teamwork in a region which needs a new economic beginning and a new humanity.
As far as the Osimo agreements and the subsequent bilateral agreements with Italy are concerned, they must be complied with in full, and, in approving the association agreement, the European Parliament must act as guarantor.
As far as transport and infrastructure of European significance is concerned, we consider that Ljubljana should be linked via high-speed train with the European Networks along the East-West axis - Budapest, Ljubljana, Trieste, Venice - while on the North-South axis there is an interest in completing both the route from Maribor to Capodistria and the intermodal transport system which follows the current Italy-Slovenia frontier.
Turning to the problem of employment, it has to be pointed out that the Italian regions on the frontier with Slovenia are economically at the margins, and this is reflected in the unemployment rate in the region of 15 % compared with an average in North-East Italy of 6.4 %.
Gorizia, finally, is the last city in Europe stilled divided by a frontier resulting from the Second World War.
Finally, I wish to make a technical comment on Mr Posselt's report.
Mr President, I have to ask this Union how and with whom it wishes to become great.
Slovenia should explain what it intends to do in response to Italy's demands for the return of property taken away from hundreds of thousands of Italian refugees who fled from the former Yugoslavia in the 1950s and whether it intends according Italian citizens in Slovenia the fundamental rights of freedom and democracy, language and culture enjoyed by the Slovene minorities in Italy.
I support the initiatives designed to promote the integration of that state into the European Union, but I call upon the authorities themselves to encourage political initiatives to secure for all of the population and ethnic groups resident in Slovenia the basic guarantee of freedom, democracy, language and culture before it becomes part of this Union.
I would stress the great effort made and the substantial progress achieved by Slovenia towards the great democratic change as of 25 June 1991, the date on which it invoked the right of peoples to self-determination.
Mr President, Members from the Alleanza Nazionale seize this opportunity of reiterating their belief that before it enlarges to take in other countries the European Union should consolidate its current base and establish also the political unity to which we attach greater importance than mere economic unity.
Slovenia should in particular bear in mind that membership of the European Union involves taking on the acquis communautaire in full, with no exceptions beyond temporary derogations.
I want to pick up one particular issue and address my remarks to Commissioner van den Broek.
The European architecture now consists of a series of agreements - the European Economic Area, for example, the association agreements with Central and Eastern Europe, the CEFTA, the free trade agreements with EFTA countries.
I recognize the work that has been done by the Commission in this, and particularly welcome the decision taken in July by the Budget Council to introduce diagonal communication between the EEA, Switzerland and the Central and Eastern European countries.
Mr President, I have heard a strange equation being made in this House: an incorrect report is said to mean an incorrect agreement.
Currently, the agreements are in fact as they should be, not easy certainly but as they should be, seeking to define not so much co-existence but something more important in the circumstances of a shared continent.
We have therefore strongly to confirm that the Europe which is today opening up to Slovenia and will in future be opening up to other countries of Central and Eastern Europe, is a democratic Europe in which respect for the rights of minorities and for all human rights is law, that same law which gives entitlement to citizenship.
The scope of the agreement is different: it is European and within it even the complicated 'gardening' issues can be given a national solution that respects the rights of all.
Mr President, I have listened to the debate so far with close attention, and in doing so I have been sorry to note a very short-sighted view of things by some speakers.
This agreement is not just about buildings or about Italy - it is about the closer integration of Slovenia into the Europe we all share.
One important issue here is to provide that information so that our citizens, too, can approve this agreement.
What has been missing from this debate so far is any reference to the fact that, for the first time, this agreement includes far more in the way of provisions on nuclear security than any previous agreement of the same kind.
For us, and therefore for Slovenia as a future Member State, European Union means human rights, the rule of law and the safeguarding of minority rights.
As the various honourable Members pointed out, ratification of this Europe Agreement by the European Parliament is an extremely important step for Slovenia with a view to membership of the European Union.
Slovenia has had its sights set on joining the European Union ever since it first declared independence in June 1991.
I remind you of the agreement signed in Brioni in July 1991, sponsored by the European troika.
I believe that his speech to the Slovenian Parliament played a major role in preparing both the Union and Slovenia for the signing of the Europe Agreement on 10 June of this year.
It was also confirmed by Prime Minister Donovtsjek to the delegation from the European Parliament during their recent visit to Ljubljana.
After the Europe Agreement had been signed the interim agreement with Slovenia was also initialled, and we would like to see this enter into force on 1 January next.
Yesterday the Commission approved the proposal on this and according to the timetable it will be possible to sign the interim agreement on 5 November.
I understand that the timetable for this decision and the consultation with Parliament is very tight.
I would draw particular attention to the great efforts made by the Slovenian Government to provide answers to the Commission's questionnaire within the deadline which expired on 25 July last.
When the Europe Agreement has been ratified and is in force, Slovenia will be able to participate in the pre-accession policy on the same footing as the other associated Central and Eastern European countries.
I hope that the new government will continue in this same spirit and I foresee a further widening of the bilateral relations, the ultimate aim of which is to welcome Slovenia as a new member of the European Union.
Finally, I would like to state that I have every confidence that both the Commission and the European Parliament will guide Slovenia on the path towards the European Union with constructive support wherever possible, but also critical support where necessary.
I am sorry, but there was no personal allusion, rather a political debate in which a Member expressed his disagreement with your report.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Council adopted the action plan for Russia on 13 May 1996.
Because of its size, its geostrategic position, its history, both ancient and more recent, and its political and military strength, Russia is bound to play an important role both for us and with us.
Nevertheless, the country has immense problems.
We shall have occasion to talk about these matters again when I present my report on relations between the European Union and Russia.
There can be no democracy and no rule of law without a minimum of tax income.
In spite of everything, however, we must never neglect this social dimension in our programmes.
Of course, it does mention cooperation in the fields of justice and internal affairs or questions relating to security in Europe.
But all that is really very inadequate, since nothing is said about the practical means of combating the various kinds of trafficking carried out by the Mafia which are corrupting Russia and the EU countries.
In Parliament itself, we shall be speaking about them in more detail when we debate relations between the Union and Russia.
But, apart from the fact that any such action plan for the Russian Federation supports the dominant role of the Russians within the CIS, and apart from the danger that this may be misunderstood as supporting their claims for hegemony, this action plan really is nothing more than hot air.
To this extent, the action plan is a very welcome project, but there are still unanswered questions, one of which is what representations the Commission has made to the Russian government regarding Alexander Nikitin.
The Commission is already taking advantage of the excellent results of the Bellona report to prepare urgently needed TACIS programmes.
I know from my visit to Murmansk that the aid programmes are producing results there.
In this respect, I and other liberals would like to see the following from the European Union: 1.That the Union opens its doors to increased trade, in other words increased imports from Russia of both goods and services.2.That the Union financially supports the creation of Russian institutions which promote diversity, respect for the individual, the environment and economic development.3.That the Union increases exchanges with Russia of students and researchers.4.That the Union facilitates increased cooperation between Russia and its neighbours in Central and Eastern Europe through better coordination of the Phare and Tacis programmes.5.That the Union makes it absolutely clear to Russian leaders that disintegration of Russia is not in the interests of the Union but that we expect that Russian Statesmen shall always respect the rights of minority groups and individuals.6.That the Union, together with Russia and other States involved, works towards a new European order, an order which guarantees freedom and peace for Russia as well.7.That the Union, as a long term goal, keeps an open view on Russian membership of the European Union.What, Commissioner van den Broek, is the Commissions answer to our requests?
In recent weeks it has once again been made clear that this partnership is of great importance in ensuring security and stability throughout the continent of Europe.
The power struggles within the Kremlin, focusing in particular on the position of security adviser to the Russian President, in recent days have created uncertainty throughout the European Union, and especially in the States associated with it.
But the internal stability of Russia is important to us not just because Russia is our immediate neighbour: it is also important because it offers the only hope of solving the serious economic problems of that country.
The war in Chechnya is a heavy burden in itself, and especially on the Russian budget.
We hope that the peace negotiated by General Lebed will be preserved in the future and that a new start can be made on reconstruction in that region.
The action programme before us today can help to ensure that the European Union helps Russia to overcome its problems and further the process of reform.
In my view, the partnership agreement remains the central element in the West's strategy for partnership with Russia.
I hope that we in the European Union will be able to make our contribution to those efforts.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to open my remarks by emphatically stressing the importance of Russia as a partner in Europe.
Our activities in connection with TACIS, and especially with the TACIS democracy programme, are a very clear signal of the importance that we attach to this policy as a whole.
I also regard the political action programme, which has now once again been adopted, as a further helpful step in supporting the positive trend of events in Russia.
There is one other aspect I should like to mention: on the many visits we have made to Russia in recent years to observe elections, I have formed the impression that people conduct those elections - go to the ballot boxes, cast their votes - in a very serious spirit, wanting genuinely to construct a democracy in Russia.
This in no way changes the fact that we must naturally be alert to many developments and also draw attention to errors, as a reliable partner and friend does.
The Florence European Council welcomed the steady improvement in relations between the European Union and Russia, an improvement marked notably by the entry into force of the interim agreement in February 1996 and the adoption of the action plan by the Council on 13 May 1996.
The partnership and cooperation agreement provides the essential framework for the development of the Union's relations with Russia.
The Council regards the action plan as an important element in the intensification of relations between the EU and Russia.
The plan covers a wide range of spheres of action identified by the Council on 20 November 1995 and concentrates on a number of priorities.
The action plan will clearly require close and ongoing coordination between the actions of the European Community, whose principal support instrument remains the TACIS programme, the actions of the Member States and, where appropriate, the other main donors in order to ensure maximum efficiency in terms of synergy and complementarity.
It is for the Union to ensure that implementation of the plan is the product of joint effort with Russia and of close cooperation between the Union and its Member States.
In the first pillar areas, progress has been made in the area of contractual relations towards the ratification of the PCA with Russia.
The interim agreement, which provides for the entry into force of the trade provisions of the PCA, is being implemented, while negotiations have taken place on the new agenda, as provided for in the PCA.
The actions set out under nuclear energy, nuclear safety and the environment and efforts to modernize the production system are, of course, of very great importance, given the damage done to the environment in Russia in the past.
In the area of cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs, action to combat organized crime is to be addressed at a seminar in Finland in early December, which will be attended by experts from Russia and the Member States.
A number of the specific actions contemplated under the action plan are covered by procedures which already exist, such as the TACIS programme.
The Commission, of course, is best placed to explain how TACIS can help with the implementation of the action plan.
In the context of the development of the Union's overall relations with Russia, the Council greatly appreciates the valuable contribution of the European Parliament.
The present debate provides a useful opportunity for an exchange of views on these important issues and we look forward to similar opportunities in the future.
To address the further areas to which the honourable Members refer, I would point out that where research is concerned, Russia may, under certain conditions, already participate in several projects under the fourth framework programme.
Within the framework of available budgetary resources, cooperation programmes in the research and development sphere should undoubtedly be encouraged in the parties' reciprocal interest, subject to effective and adequate protection being given to intellectual, industrial and commercial property rights.
Cooperation in the sphere of justice and home affairs I have referred to already but in relation to asylum and readmission matters this is one of the plan's five major priorities.
On the combating of organized trafficking and crime, the plan provides that such cooperation could take the form of regular exchanges of information, having due regard to national and international legislation on data protection, the setting-up of a network of contact points and participation in seminars.
As far as the EIB's participation is concerned, it should be remembered that the European Investment Bank's role is to finance the development of the Member States of the European Union.
In the case of Russia, it should be stressed that the EBRD, the World Bank and TACIS already finance operations and the contributions of the Member States supplement that funding.
As a result the financial commitment of the Member States and the international organizations towards the Russian Federation is already quite substantial.
On the question of cooperation on nuclear energy, the Council would point out that it has authorized the Commission to conclude on the basis of the Euratom Treaty two cooperation agreements in the fields of controlled nuclear fusion and nuclear safety, the purpose of the latter being to help improve nuclear safety and, in particular, to find and implement scientifically and internationally agreed nuclear safety guidelines.
In this context the Member has mentioned the case of Alexander Nikitin.
In addition to the TACIS programme for the approximation of laws in the context of the energy charter, action under TACIS will continue to aim to increase both the diversity and security of supply of hydrocarbons in Europe.
On 5 July 1996, following the elections in Russia, the presidency made a declaration on behalf of the European Union voicing inter alia the Union's determination to press on with the establishment of close relations within a substantive and constructive partnership with the Russian Federation on the basis of democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
It has welcomed as a positive development the recent accords between the Russian authorities and the separatists which were concluded with the help of the OSCE assistant group in Chechnya.
Both in public declarations and in contacts with the Russian authorities, the EU has consistently stressed the importance and usefulness of the assistance group both in helping to bring about a ceasefire and in the search for a wider negotiated political solution of the problem.
In conclusion, the Council can only stress the great importance it attaches to the entry into force of the partnership and cooperation agreement at the earliest possible opportunity.
Pending that entry into force the action plan constitutes clear evidence of the Union's resolve to strengthen its relations with Russia and to concentrate on specific practical issues and objectives.
Madam President, I will try to be brief as Minister Mitchell has already provided extensive information on the approach to Russia.
A great deal has also been said today about how we can possibly support the strengthening of democracy in Russia.
I am in any event grateful for the interest shown by Parliament in providing new impetuses for cooperation with a country which finds itself in an exceptionally difficult situation.
Madam President, Russia has already made a degree of successful progress along the road to democracy in recent years, though much still remains to be done.
Madam President, this is a massive workload that the European Union is taking on, as expressed in this action plan.
Unfortunately, this falls far short of proving that the EU has sufficient resources to take on a leading role in Russia.
Apart from providing support through the TACIS programme, the European Union must also evolve other programmes for Russia and take appropriate action if the problems existing there are to be solved.
In brief, the European Union is only one small player in the massive Russian social scene, with limited influence.
Recent weeks have shown that political stability in Russia is still not fully established.
The very outcome of the presidential elections, in which General Lebed came third in the first round of voting, with the support of 11 million Russian electors, thus making Yeltsin's victory possible, is an indication of a very difficult period of development, during which nationalism, in Russia as elsewhere, is gaining more ground than previously.
Madam President, by adopting the action plan for Russia, the European Council has clearly declared its wish to support the reforms now in hand.
Russia is at present in a paradoxical situation.
There was the terrible war in Chechnya but today the weapons are silent and negotiations are taking place.
The democratic reforms have had undeniable effects.
But democracy cannot survive in chaotic social conditions.
What is most urgently required of the European Union is help for Russia in setting up the tax system it currently lacks, together with the means to make that system work and a legal system to make it really effective.
It will be accomplished only if a well-defined, comprehensive and coherent project, accompanied by the necessary resources and mobilizing all the European institutions - financial institutions, various programmes like TACIS - is implemented in a common effort to resolve all the problems I have listed.
Madam President, while there has been some progress along the road to democracy in Russia, much remains to be done.
Certainly the EU will have to target support from the TACIS programme better and consider opening other EU programmes up to Russia if it is to have an impact on the problems facing that country.
There will also have to be closer institutional links in place of the ad hoc arrangements which exist today.
The support provided by the TACIS programme pales beside the financial support provided by international institutions like the IMF which supplied Russia with a £10.9bn standby loan.
Even individual Member States, such as Germany, have greater influence in Russia than the EU as an institution.
So, to be taken seriously the EU needs to raise its profile and support for economic and democratic reform in Russia.
The success of Alexander Lebed, which has already been referred to, in the presidential elections last summer where he came third, with 11 million votes, was an indication of this political trend.
It is easy to scaremonger about the situation in Russia, but the fact remains that over one-third of the population live below the breadline, while the social infrastructure in the country has disintegrated.
The EU and the West need to support the social as well as the economic recovery of the country.
The alternative is an inward-looking Russia, developing its own authoritarian style of democracy which has more in common with the Romanovs and Tsarist Russia than a modern constitution.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow morning.
Madam President, with its proposal to set up an employment and labour market policy committee, the European Commission is doing something about the lack of a permanent structure in the sector of employment, a move comparable to the creation of the Committee on Economic Policy, which was founded in 1974 and aims to promote the coordination of the economic policies of Member States in both the short and the long term.
Since March 1995 the attempt has been made to fill that gap by an ad hoc group of personal representatives of the Ministers for Labour, convened by a decision of the Council for Social Affairs.
The need to set up a committee with a stable and permanent structure was asserted in the joint report by the Council and the Commission submitted to the Madrid Summit, while the European Parliament too, with the resolutions it approved in November 1995 and June 1996, called for better coordination between macroeconomic policy and structural measures in the labour market sector, and for the upgrading of the ad hoc group on employment, to enable it to cooperate better with the Committee on Economic Policy in preparing the joint report on employment policy submitted to the European Council.
Madam President, your rapporteur does not believe that the constitution of this committee can on its own solve the most explosive problem of our times, namely unemployment, nor that it can promote employment in Europe decisively.
That is the task of the more general policies of the European Union and the Member States, though these do not seem to be contributing much towards it.
It can also make important contributions to the better information of working people, their representatives, the social agencies, and the European Parliament and the European Union's other institutions, by presenting useful statistics on employment, comparative tables of relevant data for each Member State, information about new forms of employment, data concerning the deterioration of social conditions in the Member States, and information about any negative or other consequences of the policy of promoting more flexible labour relations and reducing regulatory interventions in the labour market.
Those are precisely the functions which the three amendments tabled on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment are intended to strengthen, which concern further clarification of the committee's role - Amendment No 1 - enlargement of its competences - Amendment No 2 - and the obligation to forward the reports and recommendations it draws up to the European Parliament - Amendment No 3.
In conclusion, the proposal for a decision submitted by the Commission is largely inspired by the orders relating to the constitution and operation of the Committee on Economic Policy and rests on the same legal base, namely Article 145 of the Treaty.
Besides, to the extent that the committee in question will fully replace the ad hoc group of Ministers for Labour, its effect on the European Union's budget will be marginal.
Madam President, may I begin by thanking the speaker for an excellent report and for the good cooperation when the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment formulated this report which has just been presented.
The reduction of unemployment and the creation of new jobs is one of the most important tasks in the European Union.
Previously, it has been possible for individual countries to reduce unemployment through their own labour market and economic policies.
It is not sufficient in a world where capital now flows freely across borders.
The Council has been aware of this and has mentioned it at many Council meetings in Essen, Cannes, Madrid and Florence.
In addition to actions at National level and at Community level, macroeconomic initiatives and labour market policies are required; they must complement each other.
An economic policy is required which prioritises not only the fight against inflation and budget deficits but also the fight against unemployment.
They also need the same resources to be able to follow up on the long term programmes which the Member States have taken upon themselves to implement to create employment.
There is currently a committee on economic policy which gives support to Council Finance Ministers in the form of analysis, proposals and evaluation.
Labour Market Ministers require the same support.
The proposal which the Commission has prepared is good.
The fight against unemployment will be given the same place and status in the report as the fight against inflation and budget deficit.
For this, an employment committee which has the same status as the monetary committee is required.
Todayʼs proposal to establish a committee on employment and labour market policy is one step on the road to the creation of a better structure within the Union to be able to conduct a more active labour market policy.
Madam President, the number one problem of economic and social policy facing the Member States of the European Union and the Community is unemployment.
That leaves the employment policy options which were also recommended at the Essen Council in 1994: joint focal points with employment policy activities and appropriate multiannual programmes by the EU States.
The present document finds that an informal group is actually insufficient to deal with the matter efficiently.
A comparable committee for the Council of Labour and Social Ministers is needed, because although unemployment is an economic problem it is also a major social one.
I remained rather quiet in the committee on this subject, although I did support the rapporteur in the final vote.
I would therefore also like to ask the Commissioner how he believes the committee's opinions should be dealt with and how Parliament is to be involved in implementing the committee's opinions.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this week is actually the third or fourth occasion to date on which we have discussed employment.
Other speakers have already pointed out how many questions are still unanswered here.
Strengthening the Social Affairs Council relative to the almost omnipotent Ecofin Council can only be a first step towards getting an effective, independent employment policy up and running in this Union, a policy free from the illusion that employment is something that happens automatically once growth, monetary union, competitiveness and the profitability of capital are in place.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal put to us is for the setting up of a new committee called the employment and labour market policy committee.
But I doubt whether this proposal will in fact put the Social Affairs Council on an equal footing, and for two reasons.
The European Commission disappoints me by not making this provision in Article 103(2), for example, as both the Swedish and Belgian proposal submitted to the IGC did lay these necessary bridges.
If the Council and Commission really take the priority actions for employment seriously, then we must have indicators in order to measure the efforts of Member States, in the area of training for example.
Finally, Madam President, I should like to say that this committee marks just a small new step towards a cohesive European employment strategy.
This committee is an answer to the request by the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment in the IGC report on social policy for which I was rapporteur.
Madam President, the current level of unemployment that we have in EU Member States at 20 million people is perhaps our greatest challenge.
But I would like to say that this is no solution.
Those who believe that the committee will solve the problem of unemployment in the EU are wrong.
Each country must take its own responsibility for unemployment; responsibility shall remain with the Member States.
At least this will be a good step towards the solution of our greatest problem.
Madam President, the hopes expressed in the White Paper on Growth, Competitiveness and Employment of creating 15 million jobs by the end of the millennium and the hard facts of today are worlds apart.
There will soon be 20 million men and women out of work in the European Union, and they deserve better than declarations of intent and expressions of concern.
So it was an important signal for Europe when the Council Meeting in Essen decided to evolve a comprehensive strategy of cooperation between the Member States to deal with employment.
The expected reports on progress made and on omissions will pave the way for public debate, including debate in the European Parliament.
Madam President, Parliament, the Council and the Commission are at one in supporting the fundamental objective of combating unemployment in the EU.
However, while Parliament and the Commission are able to reach agreement on specific action, the Council is withholding its consent in important areas.
The stop-gap arrangement of an ad hoc group which does work for the Social Affairs Council but is inadequately resourced cannot meet the actual requirements.
The Commission proposal to the effect that a regular committee on employment and labour market policy should be set up, working both for the Social Affairs Council and for the general Council, conforms to Parliament's intentions.
The Commission should have no problem accepting the amendments suggested by the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment.
I should like to take this opportunity to call upon the Commission, and especially on the Commissioner who is with us here today, to lose no time in presenting the long-awaited proposals to increase the efficiency of the Standing Committee on Employment, which has existed since 1970 and includes representatives of both employers and employees.
The European Council requested the setting up of the structure in Madrid last December.
The Commission adopted the proposal in March this year and the Irish presidency has been very active in seeking progress at Council level.
They really want to see this matter adopted by way of decision at the Social Affairs Council on 2 December.
Secondly, the Social Affairs Council must benefit from a strong analysis and proposal capacity in order to fulfil the mandate it was given in Essen jointly with Ecofin and the Commission to keep a close track of employment trends in the Union, monitor the relevant policies of the Member States and to report annually to the European Council on further progress on the employment market.
The Commission proposal responds faithfully to all of those requests.
The committee that we have proposed has the following characteristics and they are very important: stability, that is thanks to an elected chairman; a solid capacity for analysis and proposal, thanks in particular to the Commission's close involvement; a status permitting a fruitful cooperation with the economic policy committee, the body which supports Ecofin Council; and provision for effective collaboration between the Council and the Commission.
Here on the other hand the purpose of this employment and labour market policy committee is to propose policy debates and policy recommendations for the Council and for the European Council in the field of employment.
However, I have to say that at this stage the trend emerging from the discussions at Council level is towards a certain lowering of the status of the committee, compared with the original proposal.
For that reason I attach great importance to the message which is given by Parliament in its opinion on this proposal.
I welcome the generally supportive approach here this evening for the draft resolution and I welcome several of the proposed amendments which better define and even strengthen the role of the committee.
Amendment No 2: the introductory sentence.
As in the case of the recitals, I am happy to support an amendment in Article 1(2), establishing in general terms the contribution of the committee to the European employment strategy before the detailed description of tasks.
In the third indent, I hope that the committee will contribute to a better coordination of the Member States' employment policies as proposed under the amendment.
As you know, the Commission has proposed in the context of the IGC to include provisions organizing such coordination in the Treaty.
However, in advance of the Treaty revision I find it somewhat premature to introduce such a provision as part of the committee's mandate.
The fifth indent: this particular amendment aims at mentioning the role of the committee in the preparation of two specific reports; the employment in Europe report and the joint employment report from the Commission and the Council.
The 1996 report has been adopted by the Commission and I believe it will be discussed in Parliament very soon.
As far as the joint report on employment is concerned, we believe that the mention made in the recitals should be sufficient for us here.
As you know - and this has been mentioned by several of the contributors - the Standing Committee on Employment has been set up specifically to ensure a dialogue between public authorities and the social partners in the field of employment policy.
With our recent communication on the future of the dialogue we have proposed options to make the standing committee more efficient and a reform will probably take place.
This being said, I would like to stress that the decision contains a provision on coordination between the two committees and this is important to make sure that the contribution of the social partners is heard and taken into account.
Finally, Amendment No 3: it says that the reports and recommendations drawn up by the committee should be forwarded to Parliament.
However, my impression is that this amendment, as formulated, will not be accepted by the Council because strictly speaking it would be for the Council itself and not for the committee to decide that a given report or a recommendation should be forwarded to Parliament.
I would therefore favour, as an alternative to this amendment, a general provision providing and establishing that Parliament will be kept informed about the activities of the committee.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow morning.
It was submitted on 19 September, which should have made it sixth on our paper.
As pointed out by the honourable Member in his question, the Schengen Agreement is an international agreement, concluded by certain Member States within a context quite different from that covering the Treaty on European Union.
The honourable Member will understand therefore that the Council, as an institution of the Union, is not in a position to reply to the question as to whether the Schengen Agreement should be incorporated into the European Union.
The overall question is being examined by the Intergovernmental Conference, which is responsible for the revision of the Treaties.
We have had a common passport union in Scandinavia for many years.
I would very much like an answer as to whether this is the aim.
Personally I feel that if we defended our external borders in the Union as carefully as we sometimes watch the internal Member State borders, we would do more service to the Union.
I hope the day will come when passports will not be used anywhere within the European Union.
It is something I feel strongly about but I cannot say there is one view within the Council on this matter.
It is perfectly possible.
There is no passport control between Ireland and Britain and there never has been since the foundation of the state.
But I would hope that in the long-term all Member States would have the good sense to sign up for Schengen.
I can tell you that objectively it is something which my state wishes to do.
I repeat that as far as I am concerned we will not be a Union until the day the passport goes.
Today I would like to underline that the Council shares the concerns of the honourable Members of the European Parliament in relation to child sexual exploitation and is determined to ensure that no effort is spared in tackling the most appalling criminal behaviour which is involved in the sexual exploitation of children.
The EU demonstrated this concern when, following the tragic events in Belgium, it issued on 6 September a declaration welcoming the outcome of the world congress in Stockholm and stating that it would work towards the implementation of the Stockholm recommendations.
By the time Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs held their informal meeting in Dublin on 26 and 27 September, they were in a position to focus the meeting largely on the issue of sexual exploitation of children and trafficking in human beings.
The first of these was an Irish presidency proposal tabled in the wake of the revelations of events in Belgium to extend the mandate of the European Drugs Unit to cover trafficking in human beings.
This instrument will cover the activities of paedophiles and those who supply children to them as well as trafficking in children for the purposes of sexual exploitation.
The second measure was a Belgian proposal to establish a programme for the exchange and training of persons responsible for dealing with sexual exploitation of children and trafficking in human beings.
The implementation of these proposals will contribute significantly to international cooperation between operational police forces.
Ministers also discussed a range of other measures proposed by Belgium to strengthen the instruments with a view to responding further in a concrete and practical way to the concerns of the people of Europe.
The work which I have outlined represents concrete steps already taken by the Council to deal with this problem.
I should like to thank the President-in-Office for a very full reply.
There were one or two omissions, however.
That is an area where we can usefully insist on action being taken at European level.
I welcome what the President-in-Office said but I think we need to take action further than has been suggested.
This is not an easy situation to deal with because it requires certain voluntary assistance as things stand.
The Council of Ministers will do everything in their power to assist in this regard.
I had asked about the development of the single European market, in which three of the four freedoms are a danger, in my belief, to children.
But I am also talking about the freedom of movement of services, like TV broadcasting, with implications for children in respect of advertising or programmes with adult content.
I cannot say whether the advent of the single market has contributed to lack of control in these particular areas, but I can say that, with the benefit of hindsight, we need to look at how we can strengthen controls in this particular area.
It seems to me, for example, that the problem exists, not just within the European Union, but with citizens of the European Union plying this terrible trade outside the Union where a single market does not exist.
It is not therefore entirely correct perhaps to attribute to the free movement of people the extent of the problem which exists.
But I can assure the Member that, in relation to the working of the single market and the free movement of people, the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers will consider the point raised.
I would like to ask him about the last part of his first answer to us when he told us that there was some thinking going on in respect of children and the IGC.
As indicated in my reply, I cannot speak for the Council on this matter.
The Irish presidency has tabled a paper on this question which envisages the possibility of a general provision on non-discrimination as well as a suitable legal basis to adopt legislative measures to prevent such discrimination.
Discrimination on the grounds of age is one of the aspects covered in this regard in the Irish presidency paper.
The possibility of strengthening the justice and home affairs provisions of the Treaty in order to assist in the fight against international crime is also being considered.
In relation to the other Treaty provisions, the suggestion has been put forward very strongly that we should incorporate in the Treaty specific references to children and their rights as citizens.
The political and legal status of the three states in question does not undermine in any way the policies of the European Union.
Andorra and San Marino have concluded agreements with the Community making them part of its customs area and of the regulation of issues of mutual interest.
If it were to arise that future developments going beyond the framework of the abovementioned agreements were to risk undermining the functions of the single market or other Union policies, the Council considers that the Commission and Member States, acting on issues pertaining to Titles V and VI of the Treaty on European Union, will take all necessary measures both at Community and Union levels.
However, I should also like to know whether there is a structured dialogue with these States, or whether such a structured dialogue might not serve a purpose, for example, in connection with questions of internal security, because there are wide aspects of internal security which concern these States in particular.
Structured dialogue only takes place with the associated states.
But I can say that there is regular dialogue with these states and the European Union.
I do not have a legal definition of all arrangements with the Union.
Question No 5 by Michl Ebner (H-0749/96) Subject: Action programme for minority languages In early 1994, the Commission submitted a communication on minority languages in the EU in the form of an activity report for 1989-1993.
The Council is fully aware of the importance of preserving linguistic diversity within the Union.
The Council must be careful to ensure that any action at Union level adds real value to actions at national level.
Regarding culture, action by the Union is dictated by Article 128 of the Treaty.
The recent meeting of Culture Ministers in Galway served as a useful opportunity for an exchange of views on the Union's cultural policies.
In addition to Council action under Article 128, under the prerogatives conferred by the Treaties, the Commission conducts its own activities regarding minority languages and has its own budget conferred on it for this purpose.
There are also a number of other initiatives that have had to be restricted for the same reason.
On the occasion of the Commission's last invitation to tender, there were more than 1000 applications in this area, but far too little financing available.
I think that with enlargement we have an opportunity to look again at the whole question of minority languages.
Coming from a country which has its own minority language, Irish, a language which, incidentally, is very much on the increase in Dublin where there has been an explosion of all-Irish primary schools, I certainly would like to give encouragement to the line taken by the honourable Member.
I include in that adequate acknowledgement for minority languages.
The advent of enlargement, however, gives us a fresh opportunity to re-examine this matter.
We can inform the House that the White Paper on foreign policy which was published by the Irish Government earlier this year stated that, if a suitable opportunity arose in the course of the Intergovernmental Conference, the Irish Government would seek an improvement in the status of Irish in the Union.
The question is whether increasing use could be made of cross-border programmes such as INTERREG and others for this kind of cultural cooperation, which furthers the cause of peace, and for the nurturing of minority languages.
This is a whole area which will become much more centre-stage in the context of enlargement because there will be, in the context of the Union, that much more pressure from Member States to accommodate minority languages.
In April 1994 there were seven major proposals sent from this Parliament, one of the last pieces of legislation passed in this Parliament concerning the lesser-used languages, which were sent both to the Commission and the Council.
Finally, I am glad, President-in-Office, that you corrected yourself about Irish being a lesser-used language.
Secondly, I have made it very clear that the White Paper on Foreign Policy, published by the Irish Government earlier this year, said that if a suitable opportunity arose in the course of the IGC the Irish Government would seek an improvement in the status of Irish in the Union and that Members could therefore take it that we would also take a similar attitude to other languages.
However, as the honourable parliamentarian is no doubt aware, under Community legislation, EU veterinary medicinal products legislation requires that all veterinary medicinal products must meet certain objective scientific criteria before being placed on the market of Member States.
I thank the President-in-Office for his reply.
So this is very important for the future of industries in very vulnerable and peripheral areas.
I thank the Member for his comments and, just in case there is any mistake, I will also check the matter.
In my capacity as President-in-Office of the Council, I am unable to adopt a position on the assessments and the proposals contained in the first part of the honourable Member's question.
The only institution and power to interpret Community legislation in general and the provisions of the Treaty is the Court of Justice.
In reply to the second part of the honourable Member's question relating to the Intergovernmental Conference I have to point out to him that the Council as such has no part in the conference to amend the Treaties.
Under Article N of the Treaty on European Union the government of any Member State or the Commission may submit to the Council proposals for the amendment of the Treaties on which the Union is founded.
Speaking as President-in-Office of the Council, I am not in a position to refer to the discussions at the Intergovernmental Conference relevant to the honourable Member's question.
Mr President, the Council refuses to draw conclusions from the opinion of the Court of Justice of 28 March 1996 which nevertheless is perfectly clear since it says that Article 235 cannot serve as a basis for widening the powers that the Treaty confers on the Community or for revising the Treaty.
The name ecu is properly provided for in the Treaty.
The Council wishes to use Article 235 to carry out this disguised revision of the Treaty.
I do not share the Member's general views as expressed on Article 235.
As a result the Group favours maintaining Article 235 as an instrument capable of responding to the inherent, evolutionary character to interpret the objectives of the Union.' That is a quotation directly from the Reflection Group report of the fifteen Member States, the Commission, and European Parliament.
Question No 8 by Per Gahrton (H-0758/96) Subject: Transformation of the EU into a State as a result of EMU Sweden's prime minister, Göran Persson, said some time ago that EMU could lead to the emergence of an EU State.
In reply to the honourable Member I must stress that in accordance with the duty of reserve which attaches to the function of President-in-Office of the Council, I am obliged to abstain from giving an assessment or commentary on statements made outside formal Council meetings.
I would like, nevertheless, to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that the provisions for economic and monetary union are set out in a very precise manner in Title IV of the Treaty on European Union.
Preparations for economic and monetary union must be, and are being made, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Treaty.
It is interesting that the Council representative has not denied the conclusions drawn by the Swedish prime minister, that EMU could mean that the EU would develop into a State.
If, in addition to this, either directly or indirectly the fears expressed by the Swedish prime minister that we, in this way, by the back door, without explaining to people what is happening, create a European super power which as a next stage would require, as Jacques Delors said, a government, then these are unheard of matters in hand.
This whole enterprise can only come about by agreement.
As pointed out in Mr Andersson's question, combating Europe's drugs problem is indeed one of the major priorities of the Irish presidency.
The Irish presidency's task is to prepare a programme of activities which will take into account the guidelines laid down at the Madrid European Council in December of last year.
Substantial progress has been made by the Commission in concluding precursor agreements with third countries and enhancing the central database and during exchanges of information at seminars and workshops on this matter.
The Council is considering practical law enforcement responses to the control of precursors.
But this is only part of it.
We must therefore ensure that we conduct a policy in Member States which makes young people and others say no to narcotics.
I commend to the honourable Member and to Members of the House an examination of the local development programme currently under way in Ireland.
We are holding a conference in November for Europe on this particular subject.
I certainly share the concerns expressed by the honourable Member.
Mr President, I do not know who prepared the written reply made to me in connection with Rohypnol, but really!
The American authorities have asked the multinational Hoffman-Laroche to withdraw this product, which is a medicine and has disastrous effects when taken with other products.
I am asking you the question because near where I live in Brussels, I have seen Rohypnol being passed between young people: you would only need to see the state these young folk were in to realize, quite clearly, that there is really a drug problem here.
This is a very serious matter and one which the presidency takes very seriously.
I will ask for a report on the effects of Rohypnol in the United States.
Question No 11 by Winifred Ewing (H-0812/96) Subject: Single currency and the issuing of banknotes Article 105a of the Treaty on European Union clearly states that, in the event of a single currency and the introduction of 'euro' notes and coins, only those banknotes issued by the ECB and national central banks will have the status of legal tender.
Protocol No 11 of the Treaty on European Union states that the United Kingdom shall not be obliged or committed to move on to the third stage of economic and monetary union without a separate decision to do so by its government and parliament.
The Government of the United Kingdom has indicated that it will not decide whether the United Kingdom will participate in the third stage beginning on 1 January 1999 until closer to that date.
The article further provides that the European Central Bank and national central banks may issue such notes and that the notes issued by the European Central Bank and national central banks will be the only such notes to have the status of legal tender within the Community.
If the United Kingdom participates in economic and monetary union, it will be a matter for the European Central Bank, after its establishment, to decide whether Scottish banks should be authorized to continue to issue banknotes without legal tender status.
I just wish to say that, of course, as the Scottish banks have been issuing for over 200 years these notes that are not legal tender, we do not come under the Maastricht rules and, therefore, we are not posing a problem to anyone.
The problem is as always - not just for the people of Scotland but for everybody - one of public acceptability.
The support of the public in participating countries will be a vital ingredient of a successful launch of the single currency.
The reference scenario agreed by the European Council in Madrid in December 1995 states that notes and coins in the single currency, the euro, will become available by 1 January 2002 at the latest.
The Commission has presented proposals for a Council regulation setting out the provisions for the use of the euro.
Finally, in accordance with Article 105(1) of the Treaty on European Union, the primary objective of the European system of central banks, that is the European Central Bank and the national central banks will be to maintain price stability.
I have no doubt that in the implementation of this objective the ESCB will bear in mind the point mentioned by the honourable Member.
I thank the President-in-Office for his comprehensive reply.
The Council remains concerned about the unsatisfactory human rights situation in Turkey and this naturally includes the incidents in Diyarbakir.
The Council has made it clear repeatedly - and continue to do so - that observance of the rule of law and fundamental freedoms is an essential element for closer relations between Turkey and the European Union.
It insists that the fight against terrorism must be conducted with full respect for the fundamental values of democracy and human rights.
The honourable Member may be assured that the need for progress in the areas of democratic reform and respect for human rights will continue to underlie the Council's approach to relations between the European Union and Turkey.
I have only three comments: Unfortunately, Mr President-in-Office, neither our resolutions nor your good intentions, as the Council, have improved the dramatic situation of the Kurds in Diyarbakir.
I do not know what measures you could take to prevent the death of thousands of children from hunger in Diyarbakir.
The European Union recognizes the need for further improvements and progress in the whole area of implementation of human rights and democratic freedoms in Turkey.
We have continued to make it clear to the Turkish authorities that observance of the rule of law and basic liberties is the basis of continued rapprochement between the European Union and Turkey.
The Commission will continue to cooperate and grant aid for various projects aimed at promoting human rights in Turkey.
This can be taken as an indication of the ongoing concern of the Union about the matters which the Member has raised.
It has been one of the major priorities of the Irish presidency to secure more coordinated and effective action at European Union level against drug trafficking and drug abuse.
These proposals are aimed at achieving a more effective level of cooperation against drugs smuggling and will fulfil one of the action points of the list adopted by the Madrid European Council meeting in December 1995 with regard to drugs.
The Council will also give priority to the review of the Naples Convention on mutual assistance between customs administrations, on the Customs 2000 strategy programme for the Third Pillar, and on EU participation in the strategic plan of the World Customs Organization for implementing an operative measure on the Balkan drug smuggling route.
It will also seek to encourage cooperation between Member State customs authorities and private trade and shipping interests in the fight against drug trafficking.
He was always very committed to dealing with the problem of drug abuse, particularly in his own native city.
I should like to remind you, President-in-Office of the recent drug finds in Ireland in Moneypoint (Co Clare) and Cork, also the large seizures in, for example, ports like Rotterdam and Amsterdam where 450 tonnes of drugs were seized last year.
The EU must allocate more resources particularly for the naval services in those countries in the short-term.
However, in the long term, let us plan for a European Union coastguard.
I have to say - and there is no point in not calling a spade a spade - that I think the amount of resources we have committed to the European fight against drugs as distinct from the fight Member States engage in individually that the European Union budget is feeble in relation to the extent of the problem.
It intends to propose a joint action to serve as a legal base for the allocation of funds from the budget for the European Community.
There is a lot of concern expressed about this matter in this House, at Council of Ministers meetings, at European Council meetings, by Commissioners.
As I have said, the presidency and the Council's concern will be to ensure that the external frontiers of the European Union are adequately protected against drug smuggling.
No one action or approach, including enhanced naval protection, is likely to be effective on its own.
It will be important to ensure that the various possible approaches to the question, before they are applied, are likely to make an effective contribution to the security of the external frontier against drug trafficking and that they are then applied in a coordinated way.
Already in Ireland, for example, there is cooperation between the Irish Air Corps and the RAF on search and rescue.
Secondly, as the President-in-Office is so much in favour of the idea of concerted effort and concerted action at European level, could we have a commitment from the President-in-Office that the monies which are presently in a bank account in Brussels and are to be allocated to the Irish naval service for the upgrading of equipment and for the provision of extra ships be released as soon as possible to enable the Irish naval service, which in effect is the western wing of any European coastguard service, to protect that large area against the illegal importation of drugs.
A lot of the tackling of the problem of drugs is a matter for Member States individually, but there is a role for the Union.
There are about five regions of Asia from where something like 80 % of the heroin coming into Western Europe derives.
That has horrendous implications because here there are already established routes throughout the world.
Question No 15 by María Izquierdo Rojo (H-0777/96) Subject: Andalusia and the COM in olive oil In Andalusia, one of the most prominent regions of the EU, olives are the most important crop, not only in economic but also in social and environmental terms.
The Council shares the opinion of the honourable Member as to the necessity of maintaining conditions suitable for the economic, social and environmental circumstances for the pursuit of a production as important as that of olive oil, notably in the regions of the Community characterized traditionally and predominantly by this type of farming.
In any case, it is evident that in the context of the examination of any future proposition, each Member State will be able to highlight the interest of its producing regions.
The subject of my report on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control on on-the-spot checks and inspections goes back to March 1994.
A first step in the right direction was Regulation 2988/95 which entered into force in December 1995.
In our resolution of May 1996 we assessed the proposal as generally satisfactory; nevertheless we tabled 13 amendments, which the Commission largely incorporated.
According to the Commission's report, more than ECU 1.1 billion of the Community budget went missing last year as a result of dishonest wheeling and dealing.
That is precisely what we are doing with the first reading of the 1997 budget this week.
Let me take up a few points in the proposal submitted by the Council.
Articles 1, 7 and 8 make this clear.
Thirdly, of the original 13 amendments, 7 are satisfactorily incorporated in the new text, 2 others in the recitals.
But we can live with the present version, provided the Community and the national administrations are willing to cooperate in such a way as to produce practical and satisfactory results.
It is now up to the Commission to state whether or not it is prepared to submit the appropriate proposal in order to remedy what we regard as a very serious weakness.
We hope it can bring the question of on-the-spot checks to a conclusion before the end of the year.
Mr President, after presenting this report on what is called the second protocol to the Convention on the protection of financial interests, but could be better defined as the protocol on the liability of legal persons, not excluding involved firms, I have to express the sense of contradiction I feel at the moment and which I think I can communicate to honourable Members.
On the one hand I certainly value and therefore feel satisfaction about the acceleration there has been in recent months - during the Spanish, Italian and Irish Presidencies - in the fight against fraud and hence also the fight against crime, thanks to the adoption or the proposal of new instruments.
I would also mention the convention on corruption which should have replaced the first protocol.
The conventions emanating from the Council of Europe have rarely been converted into reality for lack of ratification, much as we consider the convention on recycling positive, even though it has only been ratified by five countries of the European Union since 1990, the date it was approved.
In this respect I found the Council's text balanced, and we have tried to achieve the same balance in our opinion.
But Parliament's request must be followed by government action.
It is well-known that in some cases direct links between judges is impossible, and often things have to go through chancelleries which means months if not years are lost.
I end by remarking that this is precisely the basis of our proposals to move to the first pillar, which are also contained in numerous documents on the struggle against fraud.
I believe that if fraud is to be better and more effectively controlled, it is absolutely necessary to make a political effort and also an effort of imagination to return the matter to its natural area, which is one of Community competence and guaranteed and effective democratic measures.
As I said earlier, the Commission, Parliament and especially the Member States are treading a very long road, at times coming to a standstill, in their attempt to crate a legal framework for the criminal protection of the Community budget.
Parliament has always emphasized that it would have preferred rules in the form of a directive because it is difficult to achieve equivalent protection with agreements and additional protocols.
But since the convention procedure was adopted, we will help ensure it is implemented quickly.
Unfortunately, it is still impossible to tell when the overall package will be ratified in all the Member States.
We must at least call for the legal protection of exchanges of information with the national judicial authorities and the creation of a register of fraud prosecutions as a minimum objective for the Commission.
If a consolidated text of this kind is adopted before the end of the year, that would be another small step forward in the fight against fraud.
It is not one of the great moments in Parliament for us to come and discuss the second supplementary protocol; but the actual issue which has forced us to talk about it should in fact make all the alarm bells ring in every political camp of this House and also in the national parliaments and governments!
Then we have to ask why the largest Member State of the European Union did not bolt the door a long time ago, for since we do not have a harmonized criminal law we can go on having discussions in this House as long as we want.
We will not be able to combat it in my country!
Since we have just been talking about legal persons, let me draw your attention to a particular point: the fight against corruption, the fight against fraud also has something to do with public awareness and individual moral perceptions.
At the last session in Strasbourg we already criticized this irritating ambiguity and we were supported in our stance by Commissioner Gradin.
These differences bring a number of problems, especially when it is a matter of the same damaging practices in respect to the financial interests of the European Community, because what is a criminal offence in one country will not be an offence in another, thus presenting the Euro fraudsters with an interesting choice.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every day the news brings us examples of the spread of fraud in Europe.
The first necessity is to attack fraud through the penal system in the same way in every country of the Union.
In fact the Council, which has rejected the most important amendment from the European Parliament on the key question of sanctions, certainly recognizes a power of intervention to the Commission, as long as that power is purely administrative and strictly bound by the principle of subsidiarity.
The Council in fact refuses to grant any power of sanction, because otherwise it would give the Commission a power of control, but by doing so it actually reduces any effectiveness that control might have.
For our part, we do not intend to bring the application of the principle of subsidiarity into the debate provided it is not conceived of and interpreted as a right of veto on the part of the Member States.
Mr President, Parliament is right to make a major stand on the combat against fraud.
I believe that the subjects we are debating this evening - and I should like to thank the rapporteurs for the work they have done - represent a further step in the right direction.
Unfortunately there is nobody from the Council here this evening to say how we are to remedy this shortcoming.
Mr President, it goes without saying that I congratulate both rapporteurs on two reports that have support across the House.
What we see tonight - and that is all I want to take my two minutes to say - is the contempt with which the Council holds the views of this House.
The truth is that the Bontempi and Theato reports show two people who are deeply interested in finding a convincing solution to combating organized crime.
Mr President, it will already be apparent to you that we have before us two excellent reports, both of which address the vital subject of how to protect tax-payers' interests.
The text on which agreement in principle was reached in the Council in June, as the House will know, is the result of considerable effort by the Commission, the Council and particularly the Italian presidency to bring this matter to a successful conclusion.
I believe that it responds in great part to the major concerns expressed by Parliament in May of this year, reference to which has been made in the course of this debate.
That provision for equivalent protection of the budget is a new element in the Union's anti-fraud strategy and over time it will clearly vastly improve controls.
The reports will be assimilated for the purpose of admissibility as evidence in courts with reports produced by national inspectors.
I might add, Mr President, that UCLAF is now in the process of checking the efficiency of all instruments and procedures available at national level to protect the financial interests of the Community.
The result of this work will become available next year.
Now to the Bontempi report on the draft second Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of the Community's Financial Interests.
The fact that we support the various amendments does not, unfortunately, carry the same weight in the third pillar as in the first pillar, as the House will know.
We welcome Amendment No 2 which calls for a separate instrument on judicial cooperation.
However, I cannot exclude the possibility that a separate instrument aimed at fraud against the Community budget will still be needed, in particular when it comes to defining a particular role for the Commission in judicial cooperation.
Amendment No 3 rightly draws attention to the adoption of the protocol on corruption as the relevant date.
Amendment No 4 meets our concerns relating to the need to cover all forms of legal persons involved in fraud.
Amendment No 5 defines the scope in the title and we can agree with Mr Bontempi on that and on Amendments Nos 6 and 7.
Amendment No 8 does not pose any problem to us and we can also accept Amendment No 9 in part.
We can accept Amendments Nos 10 and 11 which delete those articles of the proposal that are taken up elsewhere in the text.
Most of the problem is, however, already solved in the text that is being negotiated by the Council.
Amendment No 14 deals with whitewashing of criminal proceeds and money laundering.
The Commission still believes that all corruption cases are serious and should be liable to sanctions.
We agree of course that legal persons should be held liable for money laundering but the text proposed is still under scrutiny by our legal service and might pose some problems.
Amendment No 15 introduces the notion of mutual assistance in enforcing penalties.
It means that Member States must provide for comparable deterrents and that, in our view, should provide a safety net.
Amendment Nos 16 and 17 widened the scope of fraud to include corruption and we readily accept that.
Amendments Nos 18 and 19 come back to the request for judicial cooperation under the issue of competent authorities.
Member States are increasingly creating their own national specialized bodies to deal with fraud against the Community budget.
Those units like the Guardia di Finanzia, the OECD, the DEFO in Belgium and the recently created ICLAF in France would need a privileged interlocutor at the level of the Commission.
In practice work is carried out smoothly and efficiently on an informal basis but a formal framework might be called for.
The Commission really needs support in this most difficult and complex area of judicial and penal cooperation.
If I understood you correctly you made it very clear that the Commission will be dealing with this very soon in the framework of SEM and incorporate penal measures.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
However, there were three points in the final text which our committee, the Committee on Transport, refused to accept because they infringe, or if you will, they go against firm principles held by Parliament.
I refer, of course, to the test earlier this year in Dover on the ro-ro vessel Stena Invicta , carried out by the UK maritime authorities.
So many right and good things have been said that it would be wrong to repeat them all over again.
That is the decisive point if we want to protect the people, to protect the environment and also - and I believe my Danish colleague agrees with me - to create equal conditions of competition in every part of the Community.
I am also pleased to be able to give my support to Amendment No 1 because it is the words that are put forward in the amendment and not necessarily the justification that the law has to take account of.
I regret to say, however, that the other two amendments are not acceptable largely for procedural reasons which I do not think the House, on reflection, will find objectionable.
Amendment No 2 merely repeats that call and it is, in our view, an unnecessary duplication of the provisions already laid down in Annex C.
I therefore invite the House to look again at Amendment No 2 and Annex C and see for itself that its concerns have been fully taken into account.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
The first was in 1977, the others amended the original text to make road travel safer for persons and vehicles, understood in the broad sense.
The logic of this report may seem rather stringent, but that is not the case, Mr Kinnock.
I am retabling Amendment No 5 on extending roadworthiness tests to two- and three-wheeled vehicles.
I thank the rapporteur for his hard work on this directive but, I have to say, that on closer examination my group has some reservations regarding the amendments submitted by the rapporteur and subsequently voted on by the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
However, my group believes that in some instances the rapporteur has overcompensated for this and extended the scope of the directive far beyond what was intended or, indeed, desired.
To illustrate the point, I turn to recital 26 in Amendment No 3 which would delete the possibility for Member States to exclude from the directive motor vehicles of an historic nature - veteran vehicles, if you like.
Other areas where my group has problems are Article 11 and Amendment No 7, which seeks to shorten the delay for implementation to six months.
Amendment No 5 asks for a feasibility study on extending the scope of the directive to two and three-wheeled vehicles.
Amendments Nos 1 and 10 seek to amend the ways of testing the carbon monoxide content of exhaust from a cold start.
The crucial one is of course Amendment No 8, the reduction of the frequency of tests to three years after the date of first use, and thereafter every year for the listed categories of vehicle, which now also include vehicles for the public transport of passengers.
Here we have something which is already being tested in the United States, for example, and is included in the measurement cycle.
We will still have much to do in this area of electronics in future in relation to the regular tests.
Mr President, the proposal for a Council Directive on roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles and their trailers was submitted for two principal reasons.
In the common position the Council adopted a number of amendments tabled by the European Parliament, but at this second reading the Committee on Transport and Tourism proposes a number of further amendments to the common position.
Mr President, in the second reading, Parliament is asked to give an opinion on a proposal for a Common Council directive relating to roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles and their trailers.
I am very pleased that from now on each Member State will recognize the evidence provided by another Member State that a motor vehicle registered in the latter, together with its trailer or semi-trailer, has successfully passed a roadworthiness test that fully complies with the provisions of the present Directive.
From this point of view, checking is essential.
The common position seems to me a step in the right direction.
Despite my concern to see legislative provisions come into force as quickly as possible, we believe that the six month deadline suggested by the rapporteur is too short for Member States to be capable of complying with the new provisions.
As for the frequency of tests, it seems to me that Amendment No 8 of the rapporteur, providing for testing three years after the date of first use and then annually, is the most reasonable.
It goes without saying that vehicles that do not pass will be taken out of circulation, as provided for by Amendment No 9 of the rapporteur.
I would crave the support of the rapporteur in an otherwise very good report in asking him to consider withdrawing Amendments Nos 3 and 6.
I hope also that the Commission will actually, when the directive has been adopted, ensure that its provisions are implemented in each and every Member State.
Consequently the cooperation procedure is fully applicable, illustrated by the fact that we are having this second reading debate.
Amendment No 5 asks the Commission to submit a report on the feasibility of extending road worthiness tests to two- and three-wheeled vehicles.
I intend to submit such a proposal for action to the Commission before the end of this year.
The third amendment, which falls into the repetitive category - Amendment No 10 - calls for a cold start test in relation to the carbon dioxide content of exhaust gases.
Indeed the Commission's original proposal many years ago was itself based on three years for the first test, two years for the second and then annual tests.
Amendments Nos 3 and 6 seek to remove the possibility for a Member State to exempt from tests fire appliances and certain vehicles of historic interest.
Parliament's amendment, however, would have the effect of imposing unnecessary tests on a relatively small number of vehicles which are generally maintained to very high standards already.
The sixmonth deadline for the implementation of this directive, as suggested in Amendment No 7, is clearly inadequate.
I am certain that my disagreement with them on this occasion will not prevent the pursuit of our joint objectives on many other occasions.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, only two and a half years have gone by since the European Parliament and the Council completed the conciliation procedure on the fourth framework programme in April 1994.
That occasion, as we know, marked the first true application of the conciliation procedure introduced by the Treaty of Maastricht.
In that act of co-decision of 26 April 1994, the parties decided to review the financing of the framework programme, leaving open the possibility of a funding increase of ECU 700 million in view of the development of European financial perspectives.
This possibility of financing should have been adopted not later than 30 June of this year.
While Parliament completed first reading in June, the Council wanted to take its decision in the light of the outcome of the Ecofin Council of 14 October.
In fact the Research Council of 7 November asked the Commission to find additional financial resources in the area of the third budget line in the current financial perspectives.
To be successful, the co-decision procedure cannot be initiated only after the Council has adopted its common position.
The basic problem is whether the Council of Ministers really wants to respect the commitment taken in April 1994.
Without that financial commitment there can be no progress in important areas like aeronautics and space research, multimedia education and research into water and renewable sources of energy, and that is bound to have major repercussions on competitiveness, employment and environmental protection in the European Union.
In the debate on the 1997 budget - and the vote will be taken tomorrow - the European Parliament is considering the possibility of putting ECU 100 million into the reserves for research and technological development.
To this end a formal decision is needed on the revision of the fourth framework programme.
It is also planned to include another ECU 100 million in the 1998 and 1999 budgets if the programme is extended to 1999, which the European Parliament already voted for at first reading.
These considerations should be interpreted as a clear political signal from the European Parliament to the Research Council and the Commission, because they make it explicit that the supplementary funding for the fourth framework programme no longer depends on the revision of the financial forecasts.
We hope the Council can react to this signal and adopt its common position on the fourth framework programme in December.
Only through cooperation between our institutions will it be possible to achieve the common objective of European research, thus contributing to the creation of new jobs and encouraging investment.
The Council re-examined the question of the Commission's proposal for a financial supplement to the fourth research framework programme during its last session on 7 October 1996 but was unable to reach a common position.
You will recall that when submitting its proposal for a supplement to the research framework programme the Commission indicated in its explanatory memorandum that a substantial increase in the present ceiling of category 3 of the Financial Perspective would be necessary.
On 7 October last the Council attempted to identify a limited number of themes which might be implemented on a trial and experimental basis but in the absence of any indication from the Commission as to availability of funds within the existing financial ceiling, it was not possible to make progress on this basis.
In view of the above, the Council decided to await a possible identification by the Commission of additional resources within the ceiling of category 3 of the current Financial Perspective and to re-examine this question at its next session in December so as to finalize then its position in the light of the budgetary situation.
Following the outcome of the Ecofin Council on 14 October 1996 it is now clear that there will be no revision of the Financial Perspective.
Therefore the original Commission proposal for a financial supplement of ECU 700m is no longer a realistic working hypothesis.
The Council is now awaiting a clear position from the Commission in order to proceed further with this dossier.
On 7 October I had the Research Council meeting in Luxembourg followed by my presidency address as chairman of the Consumer Council to answer to the European Parliament, to the Consumer Committee on 8 October.
Despite that schedule, I offered to see the Energy, Research and Technology Committee again on the evening of 8 October but that was not suitable and I fully understand that.
At official level my colleagues and the Irish representation in Brussels have been in regular contact with your secretariat since December of last year and, as you know, my officials also met with MEPs of the Energy, Research and Technology Committee on 16 July here in Strasbourg and several times in Ireland.
You yourself recalled the codecision of April 1994 in which I played a very active part, providing for a decision on your part before 30 June 1996.
The European Parliament itself got on with things quite quickly, as did the Commission, by making a proposal according to a timetable enabling the Council to come to a decision before 30 June.
On 7 October, there was still the same deficient report from the Council, which did not even manage, independently of the financial package, to reach agreement over some of the priorities.
Today we are concerned with the budgetary procedure and a proposal will be voted on tomorrow morning by the European Parliament with a view to setting up a reserve of ECU 100 million for 1997, with the intention of reaching ECU 300 million for refinancing the framework programme over the next three financial years.
For it is in the codecision with the European Parliament, Mr President, that things have to be decided, not in the upper levels of the 'Ecofin' Council, not in the Council of Finance Ministers.
That is the Treaty, the whole Treaty and nothing but the Treaty.
And I say to you straight away that if, in December, the Council does not assume its responsibilities, we in the European Parliament will consider using any legal method of denouncing the shortcomings of the Council.
Barely two and a half years have passed since then, and although the refinancing should have occurred before 30 June, we find ourselves in a desert.
In the light of our responsibility for the difficult financial situation in the Member States - even my own country, Germany, is not doing particularly well financially - we as Parliament are proposing a reserve of ECU 100 million with the prospect, as you have just heard, of maintaining this increase over the next two years too.
You can all see how difficult that is from the efforts the Member States are making at national level and from the fairly meagre results.
Here again I do not exclude my own country.
For the rest, I have to say this: as far as I remember, you were not there on 8 October, Mr President!
It is a question of important research which is needed for the European Union and for the Member States.
But we also have a problem with the Commission.
For strictly speaking the Commission will have to revise its proposal, internally at least, in view of the presumably realistic background of about ECU 100 million for next year.
The European Parliament has also given its views on a number of task forces.
If we now only have 100 million available for the next year, that will have to be distributed.
So strictly speaking this is a problem we all three have and that could certainly be resolved in the appropriate trialogue, not through spontaneous action but in a proper, organized trialogue.
Can I also say, Mr President, that following the failure of the Ecofin Council to agree on a revision of the Financial Perspective, it is clear that the Council considers the Commission proposal for the financial complement of ECU 700 m to be obsolete and that it is up to the Commission to identify additional financial resources within the ceiling of category 3 of the current Financial Perspective.
Even if the revision of the Financial Perspective is not pursued any further the Commission would not wish to change its position on the need for and the possibility of a financial supplement to the Fourth Framework Programme.
It is only the scale and not the principle of supplementary funding that is dependent on the revision of the Financial Perspective.
Consequently, the Commission reserves the right to modify the present proposal when it presents it proposals for the revision of the 1997 and 1998 Financial Perspectives and to modify the proposal according to the decisions of the budgetary authority on the subject.
The Commission is therefore considering ways and means of how to break the present deadlock in Council and is determined to produce a workable answer in time for the next research Council which is scheduled for 5 December under the very able presidency of the minister who I am very glad to see is with us this evening.
Mr President, I agree, firstly, that the question is an important one.
That should not overshadow the importance of discussions getting under way on the fifth framework programme.
Therefore, it is important that it is brought to finality.
I would point to the conclusions of the last Council meeting of 7 October when it was agreed that the matter would be brought to a conclusion at the December Council.
I have also heard what Members have said about Parliament's proposal for a reserve of ECU 100m.
One can begin to see a possible consensus taking shape, because it is not possible to ignore the budgetary process.
In answer to the other question: there are certain priorities that probably have brought consensus within the Council on what the priority areas are.
A the same time one can certainly see a chink of light at this stage.
The issues involved are important ones and it is important that we resolve them so that we can deal with the major issue which is the shape and content of the fifth framework programme.
Mr President, I should like perhaps to clear up an ambiguity, because I understand the President-in-Office of the Council to be saying on the one hand that the Council could take a decision on 5 December but on the other that we must wait for the end of the budgetary procedure.
The budgetary procedure will not of course be completed on 5 December since we shall at that time be between the first and second reading.
Mr President, two very short final questions.
And finally, one specific question to the Council in the light of the statement by the Minister: is the Council prepared to resume the informal meetings with the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy as soon as possible, and really make the dialogue work?
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 10.00 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.25 p.m.)
