Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 30 April 1998.
I ask that it be corrected and that my vote on Amendment No 2 of the Desama report be changed from 'Against' to 'In favour' .
The single currency Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, today we are taking part in an event which is unprecedented in history.
Today this House must debate the proposal from the Economic and Financial Affairs Council and ratify or rectify our opinion in keeping with the fact that it is a decision which will change the future of our people.
Monetary union is another step along the road we have all embarked on towards an ever closer union between the people of Europe, as the Treaty recalls.
The common currency is a way of achieving that objective.
Mr President, at the beginning of this debate, I would like to move a procedural motion which aims to have this matter refused due to its inadmissibility, pursuant to Rule 128 of our Rules of Procedure.
This is an assent procedure and not an opinion procedure as provided for in the Treaty.
I would add, Mr President, that as regards substance...
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, Rule 128 states that this motion shall be put to the vote immediately.
Mr President, Members of the European Parliament, at the start of this day of historic significance for Europe, let me begin by giving, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, our warm thanks to Parliament for their contribution to the conduct of the procedures which lead up to today's decisions.
It is wholly in accord with the democratic conditions and traditions of our continent for this Parliament to play an important role in the historic decisions we are making.
Right from the beginning those founders began to set out the path which has led us to the historic decisions on monetary union which we will take today.
For in the resolution passed at the Messina Conference almost 43 years ago they called for the coordination of monetary policies permitting the creation and development of a common market.
So now, after half a century, in which, building from the ruins of war, Europe has moved closer together, Europe today enters a new era.
Our ambition, by creating a single currency of the countries of Europe today, is to create greater employment and prosperity for the peoples of Europe tomorrow.
When the euro is introduced there will be over 290 million people in Europe using it, 5 % of the world's population.
So that Economic and Monetary Union is sustainable and durable, the decisions we recommend are based on a consideration of whether the Member States have fulfilled the conditions of both legal and economic convergence set down in the Maastricht Treaty.
We have agreed that these Member States have all taken the necessary steps to ensure their national legislation is compatible with the Treaty and the Statute of the European system of central banks.
To lock in our commitment to fiscal discipline and economic reform the new declaration sets out how we should implement immediately and in the period ahead, the commitments already entered into in the Stability and Growth Pact and do so in the most effective and timely way.
It is by locking in our commitment to monetary and fiscal discipline that monetary union can become the platform for long-term stability on which growth and employment can be built.
The declaration reflects the importance we attach to addressing the needs of 18 million unemployed if we are to make monetary union work more successfully.
The declaration emphasizes just how important it is to tackle unemployment by welfare, tax and social security reform as well as by measures for training and education and ending social exclusion if we are to have both a successful single currency and a successful economy. (Applause) Monetary union is not only an achievement, it also sets a challenge to make the economic reforms essential for the high levels of growth and employment we all want to see.
Fellow parliamentarians, Economic and Monetary Union is born out of our shared objectives for growth and employment.
It is now driven forward by our mutual interest in fiscal discipline and economic reform to secure a society that is both enterprising and fair.
Let me say finally here from this Parliament today that our great achievement, the test of our success, will not be in declarations or in documents or even in new institutions or procedures.
The euro is happening today, because today eleven of our countries are preparing together to change the destiny of our Union.
Today, Europeans are turning a vision into a reality, and for this thanks also go to you, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the European Parliament, you who have been involved since the beginning.
So that is why the scenario envisaged in Madrid has become a reality.
Economic conditions have never been so good.
The efforts aimed at convergence have created a foundation for growth, investment and employment.
That is why we must continue our struggle against unemployment and exclusion, on the basis of the decisions taken at the Luxembourg employment summit and within the framework of the sound macroeconomic conditions created by the Economic and Monetary Union convergence process.
Finally, the euro will also become the most tangible sign of integration that our citizens have had.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decisions being taken this weekend are of historic significance for the future of the European Union.
For this reason, the three institutions involved, namely the Ecofin Council, the European Parliament and the European Council, have gathered together in Brussels this weekend in order to prepare and take the necessary decisions.
We are today required to give our opinion on which Member States fulfil the criteria of the Maastricht Treaty.
The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Brown, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, has this morning informed the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy that the Council accepts the recommendation of the European Commission.
In this resolution the European Parliament made the following declaration on the basis of my report: Since the signing of the Maastricht Treaty each Member State of the European Union has made substantial progress towards convergence.
This is reflected in the low inflation rates, low long-term interest rates, minimal exchange-rate fluctuations and in a perceptible consolidation of budgetary positions.
The Maastricht Treaty sets down that only those countries which have achieved a stable currency will be admitted to monetary union.
The central banks work on the assumption that in practice inflation rates of less than 2 % produce price stability.
In 1997, the reference year, four participating countries had an inflation rate of 1.9 % - namely Italy, The Netherlands, Portugal and Spain.
Two countries had an inflation rate of 1.5 %, namely Belgium and Germany.
Three countries even achieved inflation rates of 1.2 %, namely Finland, Ireland and Austria.
The average inflation rate of the eleven participating countries in the reference year was 1.5 %.
This shows a growing awareness of the need for price stability throughout the whole European Union with a view to the introduction of monetary union.
The budgetary policies of the Member States must also play a part in securing long-term currency stability.
The budget deficits of all participating countries were below 3 % of GDP and the budgetary plans and forecasts point to a further decline in deficit levels.
With regard to the debt situation in the Member States, we established in Thursday's resolution that the overall government debt in some countries continues to give cause for concern.
In addition, we have, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, held talks with the Finance Ministers of the countries in question.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy acknowledged these achievements.
At the sitting of 2 May 1998, the recommendation of the Economic and Financial Affairs Council of 1 May 1998 was submitted to the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in accordance with Article 109j(2) of the Treaty.
In this closed session the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Brown, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, presented the text of these recommendations to the Committee.
The members of the Committee determined that the proposal adopted by the Council was in keeping with the Commission's recommendation of 25 March 1998, on the basis of which Parliament gave its assenting opinion on 30 April 1998.
I therefore submit a proposal to this House, under the oral procedure, that the recommendations of the Council of Ministers be approved.
Pierre Werner, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing and Helmut Schmidt, Jacques Delors, François Mitterrand and Helmut Kohl, these are the eminent statesmen who have stamped their mark on, and who will continue to shape, the great achievement that is European Economic and Monetary Union.
If you now accept my proposal, then we shall be advocating the adoption of a single currency by eleven Member States on 1 January 1999.
Let us say "yes' , because the history of a European currency since the signing of the Maastricht Treaty has already been a success in terms of financial stability.
Let us say "yes' in the realization that this will be the most momentous decision in Europe's history since the founding fathers of the European Community signed the original Treaty of Rome at the Capitol in 1957.
At this point my group pays tribute to the work of the Commission in bringing this to fruition but also to the inspirational work of former Commission President Jacques Delors who has made such a remarkable contribution to Europe and the euro. (Applause) The Socialist Group welcomes the fact that today 11 countries will be given the go-ahead to move forward to EMU.
We do not agree that a euro of the 11 equals a weak euro.
The scale of the project is unprecedented and shows what the European Union is capable of when the political will is there and when we decide to work together.
The EMU project has been immensely successful to date.
Some of our citizens fear the coming of the euro and its economic consequences.
We should accept that, to some extent, we have not given a clear picture of the global context in which the single currency becomes not just a tool for European integration but far more.
Perhaps we do not often enough say that single currency or no, the economy of the world is changing dramatically and working life as we know it is already different and will be even more so in five or ten years' time.
But at least we have the courage and vision to imagine, plan, organize and create a new currency for Europe, a new chance for Europe.
We all know that if the euro is to succeed in dealing with unemployment and falling living standards, it must be accompanied by policies for growth, job creation and investment.
Finally, I want to make two points that are important to my group.
Firstly, this Parliament has been deadly serious about our role in the introduction of the euro.
So, we now expect the Council to be just as serious in the next 24 hours in carrying out its side of the bargain and carrying out its obligation under the Treaty.
We expect the Council to nominate the governor and the board of the Central Bank tomorrow in line with the Treaty - one governor for eight years.
We here endorse the independence of the Central Bank as laid down in the Treaty.
It does not mean our work is over but it certainly means that an enormous task has been successfully completed. (Applause) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that an event without precedent is taking place here today.
The Council's proposal which we are to approve is the outcome of a very rigorous procedure and extremely strict timing imposed by the Maastricht Treaty.
Eleven Members of the Union have met the criteria which are to guarantee that the single currency will be strong and stable and will serve the interests of Europe and its citizens.
Due to the resolute will of the governments, it has been possible for this exemplary reform, unique in the history of our continent, to be undertaken.
We, the Group of the European People's Party, have always defended monetary union as one of the most important objectives of European integration.
We can strengthen our fellow citizens' confidence in the Central Bank, without impinging upon its independence.
Europe can now justify itself in the world as a partner with a forceful instrument of international sovereignty.
I would also like to express the hope, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that all Member States, including - under your influence - your own country, will within a reasonable period join the dynamic, integration-promoting euro area which we are creating today .
Helmut Kohl who reunited Germany and anchored it in Europe.
The European Central Bank will have full independence to guarantee monetary stability, but the governments, with their economic and budgetary policies, will have to ensure the optimum conditions for a stable and strong euro in time.
Finally, our thoughts go to everything that has been done, from the foundation of the European Union to date, for Europe to reach this historic stage, the founding fathers and the other architects that have developed "Project Europe' with conviction and tenacity.
It is thanks and in homage to them that I have to say that the famous saying "c'est l'argent qui fait la guerre ' becomes for us, today, "c'est l'argent, l'euro, qui fait la paix ' .
The model of peace through cooperation, based on common interests, créant d'abord une solidarité de fait.
The model of the paradox of sovereignty, which means that economically interdependent states regain power where they share sovereignty.
I would especially like to pay tribute today to a man who will go down in history as the greatest post-war statesman of his country, Helmut Kohl.
With the euro Germany is inextricably binding its fate with those of its neighbours and making a vital contribution to the stability of our continent.
A decision to appoint two candidates, each for four years, would be in breach of the Treaty.
I have my doubts about the sustainability of the budget reforms in the majority of Member States.
As soon as economic growth falls off, the deficits will run up again, certainly in countries with a high level of public debt like Belgium.
Most countries in Europe fund pensions on a 'pay as you go' basis.
When I say Europe, I mean the Member States, because they have the three most important instruments at their disposal.
With the introduction of the euro, Europe will become a tangible reality for millions of Europeans for the first time.
If they develop confidence in their new currency, this could significantly strengthen support for European integration.
These political decisions are too important to be taken without serious democratic control.
The adjective "historic' is not an exaggeration today and befits the importance of the decision and the consequences for the future.
The Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, with its diversity of experiences and concerns according to the various countries and parties - a diversity which will be reflected in the vote - is taking part in this Parliamentary sitting with conflicting feelings of hope and concern as regards the balance of advantages and risks of this single currency.
We are also very concerned about the simultaneous establishment of a European Central Bank independent of political guidelines and without any real democratic control, and which by its very nature will sacrifice economic growth and employment if there is the slightest hint of inflation.
We believe that the construction of Europe is a project which is desirable, democratic and progressive, and one which must strive for solidarity and common prosperity.
However, we also believe that the current monetarist model is capable of becoming an instrument to be used in the service of ultra-liberal policies and could increase the threat which already exists for the welfare state and the European social dimension.
As President Mitterrand said in this Parliament, Europe cannot be built against the interests of workers.
From our position as left-wing parties grouped together in the European United Left, we are calling for a new direction for the construction of Europe: this should be based on solidarity, on joint responsibility and on fully democratic institutions.
When the Europe of the euro is born it is essential to have a European political union in which citizens can participate.
The overall plan had got lost.
They want to feel and experience that this Europe is their Europe, a Europe which gives them jobs, inner peace, bread, fresh water, good wine, in other words a future.
Significant efforts have been made by the eleven countries which were finally chosen.
Some of them have made up for lost time and I would like to express my admiration for our friends from the South.
Nor am I forgetting the efforts made by the successive governments of my country.
Our group is equally aware of the fact that the euro also represents a political victory on the financial markets.
Finally, if we know how to use this instrument, the euro should accelerate political integration within the European Union.
In particular, the role of the European Parliament should be strengthened, for it is Parliament, and only Parliament, which has the democratic legitimacy to supervise the political approach adopted in the work of the Central Bank.
Consequently, we hope that with this stage of the creation of the euro having - thankfully - been reached, the European Council and the Council of Ministers will be able to resolve those issues which are still outstanding.
Indeed, it would not be very wise to split into two the term of the first President of the Central Bank by appointing two successive presidents; that would be an infringement of the Treaty, and would no doubt create a regrettable precedent at a time, Mr President, when nothing should tarnish this great day.
We can only hope that the countries who today could not or did not want to adopt the single currency will join us soon so that our family can be reunited. (Applause) Mr President, reports have been published in newspapers and professional journals in recent months advancing strong arguments that the European Union is not well prepared for EMU.
This is despite the unmistakeable pronouncements of government leaders in December last year that economic policy and wages policy remain national responsibilities.
On behalf of the Alleanza Nazionale delegation, I am delighted at the successful outcome of one of the most controversial objectives of the Maastricht Treaty, but on this solemn day of celebration our real thanks go out to the people of Europe who have made great economic sacrifices to achieve an ideal that cannot and should not be just an economic one.
The Alleanza Nazionale reminds each of us that the founding fathers were committed to political union, social and cultural integration, and the aim of a lasting peace that only mutual reciprocal respect can guarantee.
The approval we are giving to the Council's recommendation should not reduce the House's commitment to achieving political union, without which the gap between the two Europes, the Europe of the single currency and the Europe of national currencies, would widen.
The degree of convergence will transform monetary union into a community based on stability.
Price stability is essential for social and political stability.
The Maastricht Treaty rightly obliges the European Central Bank to support the economic policy of the European Union.
We therefore need greater progress in the areas of common employment and social policy.
That is why the euro belongs to all of us. (Applause) Mr President, given that the principal objective of Economic and Monetary Union should be to present Europe with a strong common voice and given that, during the last few months, everything has gone unexpectedly well, it would be a great political mistake for us to create problems which may undermine the credibility of EMU.
This must come about so that the people of Greece can share this day of hope and not feel disappointed at a time when the other peoples of Europe look forward with optimism to the announcement of their official participation in the euro.
Mr Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the date of 2 May 1998 will mark an important turning point in the history of the construction of Europe by definitively, and without doubt irreversibly, paving the way for the introduction of the euro, the single currency, for 11 of the 15 countries of the European Union.
The introduction of the euro represents a successful outcome in itself, but also, and more particularly, a point of departure for a new future which we must build together from now on.
A successful outcome, firstly, marking the completion of the internal market, which has often been marred by past monetary upsets but which is also the result of the diligent efforts aimed at economic convergence that have been so resolutely made by the governments of the Member States since 1992.
The credibility and the international role of the euro, particularly in relation to the dollar and the yen, will depend on this.
With the introduction of the euro, there can be no easy policies.
With respect to the euro, we would have liked to form a rugby team with 15 players along with our British friends.
A majority in this House demanded strict observance of the Stability Pact last Thursday.
Some say that it is precisely monetary union that will enforce unity in the social, environmental and fiscal domains.
The market and currency Europe must also become the people's Europe and environmental Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in giving their definitive consent to the changeover to the single currency, maybe there are some of you who will believe that they are voting in favour of the European Union?
Then we will be able to begin to realize our ideal, that of a Europe of liberties and of national democracies, known as the "Europe of Nations' .
I say that they are being excluded now, because here in the European Parliament, which represents the citizens of Europe, your vote has no more political significance than a conversation in learned society.
But the exclusion of our fellow citizens, who are in fact sovereign, will also be permanent.
The first thing to be destroyed will be the solidarity that exists within nations.
In a Europe without frontiers, indeed, where there is free movement of goods and people, a single currency will be a bonus for the cheapest product, that is the one manufactured with the lowest social costs.
That is why Europe means less basic social requirements, less social protection, less solidarity.
The Europe of the euro is based on capital, run by capital and run for capital.
I hope so, otherwise it will stay with you as a shameful mark of the blood of the 11 nations you have made disappear, and history will say of you: "Ruont in servitudinem' . (Loud applause from the extreme right) Mr President, I thank the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Ecofin Council for their recommendation which this European Parliament warmly endorses.
I also say to the whole House that this is an important lesson to the rest of the world of what can be achieved in Europe when the political will exists.
It is a marvellous example to our own citizens and to the rest of the world.
It is for that very reason that the people on the far right of this Parliament are so frightened when the political will of Europe speaks as it has done today.
The President-in-Office of the Ecofin Council referred to our citizens, to the need to create jobs, to the need to deal with social exclusion and poverty.
We want to see the detailed work that is being conducted on monetary union followed up with detailed work dealing with social exclusion and dealing with unemployment.
It is on that basis that the citizens of the European Union will judge this process, not only on whether or not the Central Bank can maintain price stability but whether or not it can deliver investment-led growth and new jobs for our citizens.
I looked at the declaration today and for me it confirms that the Ecofin Council is the body responsible for economic coordination in the European Union.
That is very important.
It is the responsibility of the official institutions of European Union.
The euro will become a strong currency, despite the negative noises coming from the chancellorship candidate from Hanover, who believes that the euro is premature and will be a sickly infant.
Properly equipped, the euro will now be in a position to win the confidence of our citizens.
The consumer has a right to transparency - and above all transparency in the relationship between the national currency and the euro.
On this day, 2 May, we are giving the green light to the euro.
Mr President, the European Parliament seems all set to vote by a large majority for a premature birth.
During the period of almost 14 years when Spain had a socialist government headed by Felipe González, not only did our country join the European Union but it also cooperated exhaustively in the construction of Europe.
In particular, the name of Spain's capital, Madrid, has been linked to the euro on at least two important occasions: the Madrid European Council of July 1989 adopted the Delors plan on Economic and Monetary Union; and the Madrid European Council of 15 December 1995 saw the establishment of this new European currency.
Accordingly, the Spanish socialist government strove to fulfil the convergence criteria and in 1994 the then Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Pedro Solbes, submitted the convergence plan for the Spanish economy.
This obvious abuse of the right of veto, this blackmail, which still exists today, should no longer be tolerated when it comes to appointing those holding important posts.
Another task awaits the Council, that is, the coordination of economic policies, which will remain national, and monetary policy, which is federal.
The governments' omnipotence has brought forth the euro, but there is no corresponding will on their part to build the Europe of the people, the Europe of the regions, the federal Europe, the Europe of the nations.
Today the European Union has taken a decisive political step for the future of our continent and is showing the way for the other great regions of the world, a way of drawing together, of overcoming the nationalist tendencies that bring conflict and war.
Now, after an eclipse that has lasted for many decades, Italy can contribute towards the future of the Union with an appropriate role.
The introduction of the euro is a symbol for the removal of barriers between countries, it is a symbol of our will to work together, the first sign of unity which our citizens will have in their hands every day.
I reject postponing the choice because it is of the utmost importance that the European Central Bank should go ahead straightaway to ensure that its own establishment is properly organised by 1 July and the Bank is at full strength and able to take the onerous task of European monetary policy in hand.
Without calling into question their independence, they must be the object of a clearly identified system of democratic control, in which our Parliament must have a central role to play.
But the euro will only be a success if we also manage to coordinate our economic policies better.
It will do so without erasing our specific national and regional characteristics, which also form part of our wealth.
The establishment of a common currency is a decisive step towards the strengthening of European integration.
The cooperation of the Member States at the political level and the single currency do not in themselves solve the economic problems which weigh down on the European worker.
Money has often been the reason for conflict between states and peoples.
The process has been long and difficult.
To guarantee that, on this historic day which opens a new stage in the construction of Europe, this Parliament must renew a three-fold commitment to our citizens: firstly, it must ensure that the European Central Bank is independent and efficient; secondly, it must ensure the coordination of economic policies which generate employment; and finally, it must promote solidarity and cohesion among all the citizens and regions of the Union.
If we do this, we will leave behind for our children not only a common currency but also the guarantee of a peaceful future, a true raison d'être for the construction of Europe.
For the first time this century, thanks to a democracy which is not much more than twenty years old and a deep desire to be a genuine part of Europe, Portugal is in the vanguard, side by side with the most forward-looking countries and nations of our continent.
Mr President, you will all understand why at this point I would like to pay tribute to Jacques Delors and François Mitterrand whose European plan made such an important contribution to the phase the Union is preparing to enter.
But, today, the fact that the euro is possible for Europe is due to the fact that the peoples of Europe have accepted those efforts needed to ensure that their countries can find a shared sovereignty, a new freedom.
The next reform of our institutions must not ignore that.
The same determination will be needed in future to create a political union, a social Europe and a Europe of solidarity.
The euro is giving Europe the opportunity of a fresh start.
It is now up to those who hold the political reins to use this newly acquired sovereignty.
Mr President, today we are handing over to the post-war generations, who have experienced the divisions of the continent, the result of a utopia that has become a reality, and to the new generations a reason for commitment and hope for the future, a concrete myth, as Alcide De Gasperi said.
A currency has come into being that is changing the world scene, which is now directed towards monetary bipolarity; the foundations of a new European federalism are being built in the relationship between the European Central Bank and national banks; a moral fabric is being reconstructed in European society, around the strong values of responsibility and civil virtues, required by the obligations of the new currency, and the signs of a further path ahead of us: after monetary union, there will be economic union.
Discussing the options of economic policy means making politics together, every year.
Let us make a start today on that new economic and social project.
As we watch the irreversible and desirable process of opening up to an outside world in which the Portuguese-speaking countries to which we are so closely bound are becoming more and more relevant, we are also delighted to be among the first participants in a currency which is not obviously hostile to anyone, but on the contrary, one which will be an important factor for stability and progress both inside and outside Europe.
Mr President, seldom has a birth been awaited with such mixed emotions as that of the euro.
We are also relieved that Italy is with us, a country whose currency fluctuations have brought us real losses in recent years.
A European currency commits us to adopt a mentality of European stability, not least in the interest of social security and employment in Europe.
Speaking as an Austrian, I am proud that my country is to join monetary union in the first wave and I am glad that our main trading partners, particularly Germany and Italy, are to do likewise.
We have to demonstrate that a figure of 20 million unemployed is absolutely unacceptable.
A common currency does not only mean a new dimension in economic cooperation, but it also has a bearing on political matters and security.
Mr President, colleagues, this weekend is an historic moment for European integration.
The crucial point now is to provide strong support for the introduction of the euro, not only by coordinating the economic policies of the Member States, but also with a voluntary Europe-wide economic policy.
Employment really has to become the main objective for Europe.
This is necessary to guarantee that the added value of the euro makes a maximum contribution to a Europe which is a better place for all its inhabitants to live in.
The European Union has taken a great stride towards political as well as economic integration today.
I want to recognize the efforts of Karl von Wogau, his committee and, indeed, this Parliament for their dedication to this project over the years.
When Ireland joined the European Union it had 59 % of the Community average.
The European framework has been good for Ireland.
Mr President, Denmark has demonstrated that it is possible to combine efforts to secure a sound economy with efforts to reduce unemployment.
On a day such as today, we must remind one another that Economic and Monetary Union is intended to be a citizens' project.
On this historic day, when Europeans are consolidating their common destiny, only the introduction of the euro should interest us.
For us, the single currency represents good economic sense, an effective way of strengthening Europe's position in a world of globalization and, above all, an instrument which makes the Union irreversible, with a view to consolidating peace for our future generations.
As a further strengthening of European integration, monetary union is thus an additional guarantee against the aggressive nationalism which has led to so much misfortune in my country, as in all of Europe, during this century, and which is threatening to resurface.
Being a citizen of a small country, I am convinced that the euro will enable us to participate in a common monetary sovereignty which will be stronger than it would have been if we had each remained in our own corner.
As other speakers have said, this is probably the most historic moment in Europe in the last 40 years.
Perhaps the President-in-Office could reassure us on this point.
Today we are seeing the creation of a Europe of ever closer cooperation, a Europe of real peace and stability and a Europe of greater economic prosperity.
I am proud of the fact that this decision has been taken under the British presidency.
I am equally proud that the British Labour Government is the first British Government to have a principled commitment to the United Kingdom's membership of the single currency.
I am sure that the euro will be a strong and successful currency and I am confident that the British and the European economies will increasingly work together, thereby opening the door for Britain's participation in this great European venture.
I want first of all to acknowledge the eloquence, the passion, the commitment and the sense of history that has been brought to bear in these debates this morning.
I want to give an assurance that the rights and responsibilities of Parliament will not only be recognized today but in everything that we do in the future.
I want to join with all those who have thanked the Commission, the European Monetary Institute and thank Parliament's staff for the expeditious and orderly way we have brought ourselves to the point of making this historic decision today.
I also want to thank all those who in these last 50 years, as a customs union became a common market, as a common market became a single market and now as a single market becomes a single currency, have contributed their vision to what is now an achievement which is acknowledged throughout the world. (Applause) In answer to the points which have been made in this discussion, I can tell Parliament that not only was the decision of the Finance Ministers which we are recommending today unanimous, but we have also followed as we will continue to follow in spirit and in letter our Treaty obligations.
Finally, we are conscious of our mutual interests and our linked destinies.
We are determined together to further the shared objectives through discipline and reform.
Before proceeding to the vote, I would like to thank all the officials of our Parliament and other Community institutions whose work during this holiday period has made it possible for us to take this decision properly.
We have seen in today's document the product of the work carried out over all these years by Parliament and by all the European institutions.
Madam President, the vast majority of the Green group voted for eleven countries embarking on the creation of the euro region at the start of next year.
The euro must be used to create a social Europe and the Union should dissociate itself from neo-liberal thinking that would harm the structure of a social Europe.
The truly perilous voyage begins in the year 2002, when the life belts are to be cast away.
When currency union was adopted, there were 12 million unemployed.
We now have more than 18 million out of work, so if currency union is to be called a success, there must be something wrong with the yardstick.
Madam President, the Dutch people within the Union for Europe Group are in favour of the euro but have voted against.
None of the traditional political parties in the Netherlands have made the euro an important issue in their campaigns for the coming elections next Wednesday.
But the lessons of history tell us that it has always been political bodies that have determined the currency, and not the other way round.
Monetarist integration has been demonstrating its limitations for some time: high unemployment among young people, the absence of a common economic policy, widespread crises in the social state, stagnation of environmental policies, increased poverty and marginalization of the weakest.
Madam President, like most colleagues in this House, I would like to join in the general rejoicing at this great historic day.
But my joy is tinged with sadness because my own country, Scotland, will not be part of this historic move forward for Europe.
As a Scot, I would like to put on record that I believe that most people in Scotland would have supported a move towards a single European currency had they had the chance in a referendum.
Madam President, today a vision has become a reality.
The euro will be a new symbol of the unity of Europe.
The Commission has now informed us, the European Parliament, of its recommendation for the eleven countries which are to comprise the euro area.
Madam President, we should therefore give the praise it deserves to this joint, paradoxical and posthumous victory of General de Gaulle and Raymond Poincaré.
So let us set aside any neo-governmental egoism, not just in the interests of a new currency but also of a new policy, and particularly of a new European society.
Alongside the criteria for EMU there must be equally strong criteria based on the employment objectives that EU Member States committed themselves to at the Luxembourg Summit.
The EMU project must promote the welfare and employment of citizens.
It is important that welfare and employment are shared fairly among all our citizens.
I do not intend to cast doubt on the intentions of all our colleagues today, but despite the communist experience, I see sadly that Marxism is triumphant in Europe.
For what good is monetary stability when social stability does not exist, when we are faced with a real disintegration of our societies?
It will not reduce by even one person the 25 million unemployed, nor the 50 million people who are starving.
Secondly, we voted against the single currency because of a double challenge to democracy.
Madam President, the Members of the Portuguese Communist Party declare, with the solemnity which the occasion demands, but which the euphoric desire to impress public opinion does not permit, that: their vote is a consistent expression of their opposition to this project, the way it has been conducted and the interests it serves.
Surrendering the power to take decisions on monetary policy to a centralized ECB means that an important means of economic policy action is taken away from national parliaments.
Another key reason for our voting stance is that there are considerable misgivings with regard to EMU in most of the EU Member States.
It is our country, Italy, as a whole, that is joining the euro today, free from the dangerous divisions and open hostilities that thrive in other Member States of the Union.
France is, in fact, almost split in two, with the extreme left and the extreme right united in rejecting the single currency, and the centre-right showing signs of uncertainty.
In Germany, the Communist party and the extreme right are rejecting the euro, and the Social Democrats are also critical.
We have voted against the EMU proposal presented by the Ministers of Finance to the European Parliament.
In accordance with the position of the Finnish Central Party, we oppose the creation of EMU in its present form and Finland's entry into the single currency in the first wave.
Joining is a risk that Finland, in her present state of mass unemployment and with her debt-burdened economy, should not be taking.
The risks could accordingly be greater than the benefits.4.People's welfare and employment should play a more important role in the philosophy of EMU.
The euro will come into force on 1 January 1999.
All this has been achieved because the great majority of the Portuguese people have identified with this great project, because workers and companies have succeeded in turning favourable economic conditions to the best advantage, and because, and this has to be said, the Socialist Government has skilfully combined expansion in internal demand with public investment and has backed private enterprise, which has been energised by low interest rates.
We, who have always fought for and dreamed of this moment, sometimes silently fearing that we would never know the joy of actually getting there, know how to thank those who have shown us the way and made it possible for us.
We are living through a unique moment in the history of Europe, a beginning and not an end, and we are conscious that, at this new stage of the European project, this institution will have a major role to play in the destiny of Europe.
The single currency will have profound economic consequences some of which will undoubtedly be difficult - but above all it will have profound symbolic significance for all the people of Europe, both those who are part of the process and those outside.
We must ensure that these young people continue to value the great vision and achievements of the past leaders in Europe.
At this point, for the sake of political openness and responsibility, I propose to make an express statement of the reasons for the position I have taken on the creation of the single currency.
It also demands a European taxation policy and an EU budget designed to ensure economic and social cohesion.
The President of the European Parliament, José María Gil-Robles, stated for his part that the euro was starting us off "on a one-way road towards integration' .
Also today, all the pro-euro speakers - that is, the majority - have been vying with each other to make new demands, along the following lines: "in order to take complete advantage of monetary union, it is necessary to go much further in the convergence of decisions' .
A Member of the European Parliament, Karl von Wogau, chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, has just confirmed in particular that with the euro we will have to move from the "single market' to the "home market' , in other words, to the transformation of the member countries into simple regions of a European state.
Eleven Member States have been allowed to participate in the euro.
The Council based itself on very formal convergence criteria, that were also rigged, and deliberately neglected divergence criteria, which are themselves very serious and represent the economic, social and psychological reality of the nations.
The Commission, that hybrid institution without real political responsibility, will exercise, in the name of the Stability Pact, a kind of haughty supervision over the economic policies of the countries participating in the euro, and can even impose fines on them.
Finally, according to the Council and the European Parliament themselves, the European Central Bank will enjoy monetary sovereignty, without supervision or responsibility.
The sovereign Bank with absolute power: that really is an extraordinary innovation in the history of government of the people!
These facts put a worrying stamp on the launch of the euro and our governments, as well as our colleagues, should undoubtedly show a less complacent form of optimism.
We must therefore look towards the future.
Tomorrow's battle will be for democratic control of the European Union.
The Council must take upon itself the initiative for European texts and exercise executive power.
We are endeavouring to bring about a greater understanding in Sweden of the great significance EMU will have for the future of Europe.
It is our hope that Sweden will soon be a member of EMU.
In voting against the proposition that eleven countries fulfil the necessary conditions for the third stage of Economic and Monetary Union and that it should begin on 1 January 1999, I do not oppose the right of the eleven countries to proceed.
In particular I refer to the paragraphs of the report deleted and therefore suppressed by a majority vote of the Parliament.
Those of its citizens who want to use the euro, will be able to.
The City of London, especially the Banks and its futures and options traders will deal profitably in euros as they deal now in ECUs.
Having been a European federalist since my innocent childhood days, I am voting without any reservations or hesitation for this essential federalist instrument a single currency represents, our single currency: the euro.
Very soon, following the single currency, we will have to build a political Europe, a social Europe, a citizens' Europe, and a Europe against unemployment.
This day will be the start of a new beginning in which we will see greater economic stability, further economic growth, and a brighter horizon for future generations.
This is especially important as we export over 70 % of everything we manufacture and produce.
This activity will in the future take place against a background of economic, financial and currency stability.
I am proud that my country met the criteria and is in the first wave of entrants to the single currency.
A British opt-out regrettably establishes an increasing economic border on our island.
I sincerely hope that the courage shown by the current British government on both the issue of Europe and, indeed, Northern Ireland will culminate in a decision to join the single currency and that they will take this decisions sooner rather than later.
I voted "yes' to the euro because I believe that this is an historic moment in the construction of Europe and, as things have taken shape, "yes' to the euro means yes to Europe.
Unfair competition, in the form of competitive devaluations, the relocation of firms in search of regions with lower taxation, or lower salaries and employment-related costs, and high unemployment have shaken our citizens' confidence in the construction of Europe.
We must tirelessly continue the work of creating a balance in Europe, with a view to restoring Europe's popular legitimacy.
There is no doubt that with this vote the European Union is entering into a single monetary policy, and this is of great importance.
The introduction of the single currency in 11 Member States marks an historic milestone, overshadowed, however, by the high level of long-term, structural unemployment in certain Member States and also by the high level of public debt in others.
Today is a day which brings us down to earth, from the European dream to the citizens' reality, and while we may congratulate ourselves on this enormous step, we must also call today for better definition and completion of other policies: social, environmental, political, fiscal, etcetera, so that the single currency can truly be a factor of stability, growth and peace.
Without being afraid of finding myself isolated among the performers in this so-called historic day that this meeting is supposed to represent, I have voted against the Ecofin Council's recommendations to the European Council to the effect that the latter should decide to launch the single currency with the participation of 11 of the 15 Member States.
I have done so without any hesitation because I still believe that the single currency presents grave dangers for the construction of Europe and that it does not address the economic and social conditions of the Member States.
This brutal attack is taking place without any democratic consultation, in accordance with an approach that can only be described as totalitarian: no debate on the advantages and disadvantages of the single currency has ever really taken place, and the people of the Member States of the European Union have not really been consulted, even though their right to give their opinion on the majority of the policies which directly concern them will be abolished in future.
Moreover, the single currency is being introduced in a context where there is still high unemployment, which would require mobilization on the part of all the economic operators, when they will find themselves penalized by the practical consequences of the rapid changeover to the euro.
Ladies and gentlemen, the major stages in the construction of Europe have been achieved with caution and by democratically respecting the will of the peoples of our great and ancient nations.
We should, in fact, have followed the path of the European Monetary System by introducing a common currency, which would not replace national currencies, and would which allow us - since such a choice would not have been irreversible - to take stock of the situation after several years before contemplating, if need be, and with the approval of our citizens, progress to a further stage.
The choice made today is first and foremost an ideological one: it is the choice, imposed in silence, of the federal state, free from any democratic and political constraints.
In the light of all this, I therefore cannot give it my approval.
I welcome the fact that Ireland is going to join up to a new single currency beginning on January 1st, 1999.
The introduction of a Single European Currency is a real challenge.
Saturday, 2 May 1998.
We voted on the losing side against the Maastricht Treaty in the Assembly of the Republic.
It is now proposed that the European Parliament should give its opinion on a decision which has already been taken, and not by Parliament: the list of countries entitled to join the third stage of EMU.
Since we do not believe it possible to say 'no' to something that is a matter of record, we Portuguese Members now prefer to emphasize the fact that we belong to a country whose people have managed, through a great deal of self-denial, to overcome the greatest difficulties in order to see the reward of some of its efforts here in the EP today.
Some of us in our group, including the Members from the Nueva Izquierda and the Iniciativa per Catalunya , are going to vote in favour of the proposal concerning those countries which are going to enter into the single currency.
In order to be able to progress with a minimum of stability, economic policy needs fiscal harmonization to go hand in hand with the single currency.
I do not doubt the sincerity of those who vote in favour; some are more certain than others, all are aware that there is a risk, but have put off prudent financial and economic forethought in the belief that through an act of political will a desired European integration can be achieved by forcing economic convergence by means of monetary discipline.
Those really in charge of the project, and they are not to be found in this Chamber, have the false confidence of the ship's captain now irretrievably committed to put to sea despite the prudent warnings that this vessel has design and structural faults, and believing that a good heart and a fair wind will carry the project off.
Let me say categorically that I am not against single currency; there is an inevitability about it, if the single market works.
At the very best this Single Currency will lock us into the exchange rate rigidities which has seen the western European economies be characterised by low growth and high unemployment.
At worst, this single currency will lock us on a course of collision with the speculators who will be eager to test the real strength of the link between the fictitious European economy and a tradable European currency.
There are still several European economies and keeping several European currencies is prudent for the time being.
Ireland has demonstrated what can be achieved through planned economic goals and commitment to their implementation.
The strict fiscal policy of EMU provides the long term economic base for continuing growth and will prevent the short term political temptation to base decisions on grounds of political popularity.
Long term today's Parliament decisions will be a major factor in dealing with unemployment and consolidates the economic base of the EU to meet the challenge of world trade.
The exercise of monetary power in Europe requires better coordination of economic policies and implies an acceleration of European integration.
Furthermore, this process of integration weakens the role of the states and presents an historic opportunity to enable people and nations, such as the Basques, to directly participate in a united Europe which respects the diversity of the people it is made up of.
And today, 2 May, just one day after "Labour Day' , the European Council, unfortunately with the blessing of the European Parliament, laid to rest the Europe of our visions and delivered up its peoples into the hands of bankers.
No-one has explained to us under what criteria countries like Italy and Belgium are to join the first wave of EMU.
No-one has explained to us when there will be "a light at the end of the tunnel' of unemployment and poverty, which have turned Europe into a "society of the two thirds' .
It is an irrevocable fact that the euro will be adopted on 1 January 1999 by eleven countries in the European Union.
The adoption of the euro by only 6 or 7 core countries of the Union, as is the wish of Bavaria's Minister-President Edmund Stoiber, Member of the European Parliament Ingo Friedrich and Theo Waigel, the German Finance Minister - all of whom are members of the CSU Party - is something which I could not have voted for.
Such an arrangement would inevitably cause a split in the European Union and would drive a wedge between the peoples and the countries of the EU.
The EU needs a coordinated economic and employment policy to deal with the extremely high unemployment rate in the Member States, which experts have put at as much as 34 million.
We must reject the proposal put forward by Finance Minister Waigel, that the rules be changed during the game and that special arrangements be applied to some countries, such as Italy and Belgium.
This was one of the reasons why I have voted against the Wogau report, which aims to subordinate the well-being of the citizens of the EU purely and simply to a monetarist neo-liberal policy.
Together with France and other EU countries, and a change in German policy after the Bundestag elections of 27 September, which will again focus on the more than legitimate concerns of ordinary people, the euro can serve as an instrument for the advancement and opening up of the European Union.
The success and stability of the euro, and not least its acceptance by the citizens of Europe, will depend on a social and ecologically-oriented economic policy.
I would have liked to be able to vote in favour at this historic moment because I support the single currency.
But the framework currently proposed carries too many risks for our democracy and for our social model to allow me to approve of this step.
The euro could be a fantastic asset for our people if it allowed for the acceleration of political union and the democratic strengthening of Europe, if it provided economic leeway which enabled unemployment to be eliminated and a new era of social progress to begin, and if it allowed our continent to assert a different concept of our planet's future in the face of American hegemony.
With the Dublin Stability Pact, they have also lost control over macroeconomic options, which are nevertheless of great importance for their life and their future.
Some see the euro as a stage leading to strengthened political integration in Europe.
So, the promises of Maastricht, particularly those on the democratic and political strengthening of Europe and on employment, have not been kept.
More seriously, the Stability Pact only leaves countries one form of leeway - fiscal and social dumping - in order to face up to increased competition.
I hope that the leap, which was unable to take place before the changeover to the euro, to establish a political Europe and a social Europe worthy of their names can take place in future.
Lindqvist (ELDR), Gahrton, Holm, Lindholm and Schörling (V), in writing. (SV) EMU is a centralizing, high-risk project which lacks popular backing.
EMU will bring about a high degree of centralization and a loss of democracy in economic, monetary and exchange rate policy which, by extension, may come to include fiscal and financial policy as well.
The Swedish Riksdag has decided not to participate in the third stage of EMU from 1 January 1999.
I have voted in favour of the decision of the Council appointing the founders of the Europe of the Eleven, including my own country.
For Europe this has created a magnificent symbol of identity, a lever to give us power in the world and a means of economic development, intra-European cohesion and solidarity between citizens.
Our responsibility is therefore greater today, but we shall be fully involved in this revolution in European history, the most important since the building of the Community began and the firmest guarantee of its irreversibility.
As a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which has devoted a great deal of time and energy during recent years to the introduction of the single currency, but which has not been allocated speaking time during the debate, I am anxious to clarify that I voted in favour despite the fact that in its recommendation, and particularly in section 1, the Council quite simply skirts round the criterion relating to long-term debt, which should not exceed 60 % of GDP.
Just as for 130 years, more than half of which were without democracy, the work and intellect of Veneto have contributed to the strength of the Italian currency, from now on, now that the artificial and stifling barriers erected by the Savoy dynasty and by nationalism have finally fallen, the Veneto will once again be able to be a decisive factor in the stability, success and power of a currency in which it can finally, once again, as in the millennia of independence, fully identify itself.
Equally instructive is the Veneto monetary experience preceding the building of the first great European Empire: while the neighbouring Celtic, Greek or Hellenised and Italic populations produced a myriad of currencies, one per tribe or clan or settlement, circulating within a small radius, the people of Veneto for centuries created, throughout different types of cities or federal communities, a single silver currency with a constant, stable value circulating well beyond Venetia et Histria , throughout the European continent: an eloquent sign of the calling and ability of the people of Veneto to a supranational economic and monetary system, potentially continental and supracontinental.
This trade never stopped completely, not even in the times of the Huns and Goths, but gradually increased in intensity, volume and quality thanks to their new capital, Venice, where the Veneto republican and federal institutions were concentrated.
The modern Veneto Republic, which extends from Switzerland to the Black Sea, is seen in our eyes not just as a multiethnic and multicultural federal State, the homeland of civil and religious freedoms and good government for more than a thousand years, but also as the most stable or stabilizing economic and financial system of the whole of Europe - the duration, both in space and time, of the values of the Veneto currency is still unsurpassed - from the Atlantic of the Zen brothers to the Mediterranean, to the countries and markets thriving along the silk routes followed by Marco Polo, as far as Persia and beyond.
Now that many of the better characteristics of the Veneto institutions are thriving in the EU, I have the great honour of contributing, as a native of Veneto and Europe, with my vote, to the actual achievement of the single currency with which we can all democratically identify, as it is not just a mere economic tool but that a true source of tolerance, dialogue, nonrhetorical solidarity and civilization.
The United Left has sufficiently demonstrated its criticism of the current social economic model that has been developing over recent years in the EU under the monetarist discipline of the Maastricht criteria.
By 467 votes to 65, the sect of the Euro-monetary temple has just decided the suicide of eleven nations.
We have just witnessed the elimination of the lira of Italy of the cities, the peseta of Spain, whose empire reached as far as here, Brussels, the pound of Ireland of the wild ponies, the escudo of the great Portugal of Vasco da Gama, all these currencies which are the summary, the symbol, the identity of the nations.
The Preussen Gloria.
This is why you cannot do it.
I am voting against this proposal in order to register a protest against this ill-conceived, undemocratic and economically disastrous plan for a single currency.
The case of the Titanic, however, demonstrates that there are some boats which it is best not to be on.
Most of the people who have pushed this scheme through, with no real reflection or opportunity for genuine democratic debate, will be safely in the lifeboats when the euro ship goes down.
The vote that this House has just expressed involves the future of our countries.
The introduction of the euro will in fact mark a new stage in the ultra-liberal Europe, which already includes - to its detriment - almost 18 million unemployed and 57 million poor people.
The unique nature of the exchange rate will lead to enormous pressure on salaries and to overexploitation of workers, along with deregulation and flexibility.
We want to contribute to the reorientation of the joint development of equal and sovereign nations, to a Europe which shares costs and knowledge, and to a Europe which is open to the world and which bases its relations on solidarity and mutual interests.
In this connection, we have decided to bring many people together in order to, for example: challenge the Stability Pact and replace it with a growth and employment pact; ensure too that the Central Bank's status and mission are reviewed; achieve real monetary cooperation, with a common rather than a single currency, based on the national currencies, which would allow appropriations to be increased to favour employment; and guarantee that the public services, which contribute to social cohesion, have the necessary resources to fulfil their duties in the common good.
In order to exist, that Europe needs the intervention of the people.
We intend to devote all our efforts to this, and our "no' vote today represents our support for the construction of a different Europe.
As a German Member of this House I of course regret that such a revolutionary move as the adoption of the euro has only been decided on by an intergovernmental conference and that we in Germany were not able to back this decision up by a referendum.
In this context keeping a balance does not just mean a one-sided emphasis on price stability, but also means fighting for social stability with the same degree of commitment.
As the Maastricht criteria have been disregarded in the case of some of the eleven countries, particularly Belgium and Italy, the euro project itself begins on very insecure foundations.
The introduction of the euro will have as much effect on those countries which remain outside the project as those which go in the first wave.
I am pleased that the UK Government has adopted the responsible position of not participating in the first wave.
A single currency should end the possibility for speculators to target national currencies and make huge profits at the expense of ordinary citizens, as has occurred in the past.
We can see how unemployment has soared in Germany, particularly in less competitive areas since reunification and the achievement of a single German currency.
The decision now being taken on the adoption of a single currency and the establishment of Economic and Monetary Union is one of the greatest and most important stages in this process.
Hence EMU is an important contribution to the cause of peace and will strengthen the European Union in its efforts to extend its borders to Central and Eastern Europe.
The decision marks out Europe as a single, coherent and powerful actor in the world economy.
During the debate on EMU in Sweden and in my party, I persistently affirmed the view that Sweden should share in the responsibility for and advantages of this cooperation.
It is also my conviction that Sweden, after a period of reflection, will come to participate in this historic project.
For these reasons in particular, I think it vital to vote 'yes' and thereby demonstrate my conviction regarding European cooperation.
The euro obviously has its advantages and disadvantages as well: that is often the case for things that subsequently end up badly, but it also applies to things that end up well, as a result of ambitious projects.
Two positive notes: the unexpected participation of Portugal, Spain, Italy and France provides a consistent and specific follow-up to the requirement to build one Europe: both central European and Mediterranean.
For a long time, I have chosen Europe, a Europe of employment, of social progress, a democratic Europe, close to the people and respectful of national cultures, a Europe capable of standing up to America's hegemonic business.
I have opposed the Maastricht Treaty, with the single currency as its centrepiece, because I thought that it could not respond to this idea of Europe.
The single currency represents both a result and a new point of departure for a European Union which penalises the weak and favours the strong.
I will quote the words of Mr Tietmayer, President of the German Bundesbank, one of the main architects of the euro: "the challenge today is to create conditions which promote sustainable growth and confidence among investors; we must therefore control public budgets, lower taxes and duties to reach a level which can be maintained in the long term, reform social protection systems, and get rid of the inflexibilities of the labour markets so that a new phase of growth will be achieved once again, but only when we make an effort at achieving flexibility in the labour markets' .
The euro will put the economic and social policies of the Member States in a straitjacket - one that Germany wanted to tighten still further with the so-called Waigel declaration at yesterday's Ecofin Council - without any real democratic supervision, either by national parliaments, or by the European Parliament.
I have voted against the euro for all of these reasons.
As the sociologist Pierre Bourdieu recently pointed out: "We must choose between the confidence of the markets and the confidence of the people.
The increase in contradictions linked to the introduction of the euro could lead the people to impose other demands and other guidelines on the construction of Europe.
I intend to continue with the work of providing information and explanations with a view to contributing to the development and coordination of the struggles at European level, in the hope of putting employment, culture, social progress and democracy at the heart of the construction of Europe.
It opens up extremely important opportunities for Europe to play a distinctive and decisive role in the world, not only in the world economy and in the markets.
I hope that political will of this kind will also be evident in the fight against unemployment and social exclusion, in promoting continuous growth and, of course, in the march towards the institutional and political integration of the European Union at a federal level.
When a market expands, we witness industrial specializations in every region and every town.
I must firstly remind you, as I have already said and as I wrote in my report on agricultural prices, which will be presented to the plenary in June, agricultural prices and compensation are paid in green ECUs.
There is still no response from the Commission, apart from the fact that this will cost the Community budget ECU 400 million for each percentage point of discrepancy between the green ECU and the euro.
During the last European Agriculture Council of 20 and 21 April 1998, a qualified majority adopted an amendment to Regulation No 724/97 establishing measures and compensation relating to appreciable revaluations that would affect farm incomes; this of course includes the Member States which would not participate in the euro.
The ECU was a basket of currencies which did not all react in the same way to the fluctuations of the dollar.
The euro itself will fluctuate much more noticeably.
Some see in these difficulties the possibility of eventually doing away with even the principle of refunds and levies.
The fourth false argument in favour of the euro concerns limiting the distortion of competition between Member States.
In fact, Commissioner de Silguy forgets that labour productivity, in macroeconomic terms, does not have the same value as the analysis of the productivity of sectoral labour.
The Europe of monetary union must also be the citizens' Europe.
Little Luxembourg has always advocated a common currency.
As early as 1969 the then head of the Luxembourg government, Pierre Werner, set out the fundamental concepts for a single currency - in the so-called "Werner Report' - which today form the basis for monetary union.
The Council, the Commission and the European Parliament have agreed to apply strange criteria in a peculiar way, by obscuring some of them.
Inevitable institutional reforms will follow on from EMU (loss of Member States' right of veto and increased decision-taking by a qualified majority), as well as a common foreign and defence policy, which will perhaps lead to non-aligned countries being coerced into NATO membership.
Most of the countries opting for membership do not really meet the convergence criteria of the Maastricht Treaty.
Under the Maastricht Treaty, monetary policy will pass into the hands of the Community, but the Stability Pact, the regulatory agreement entered into in Dublin is also an essential part of the EMU process.
It restricts the economic independence of individual states and deprives them of their own mechanisms for financial policy-making.
EU economic policy will be controlled by the cyclical problems of the larger Member States.
The EMU will be under the control of the European Central Bank, which will be run undemocratically and in a nonparliamentary fashion.
My vote, which is in accordance with the views of the Nueva Izquierda party, is in favour of the proposal being made as to the countries to participate in the single currency.
I believe that the introduction of the single currency opens up a new perspective in the construction of Europe through the consolidation of the single market, but which needs, in turn, economic practices involving employment and fiscal harmonization policies, without forgetting that the objective is a Europe of solidarity and diversity.
Faced with the forced euphoria and the streams of propaganda surrounding the 'euro-rush' , some of us, a minority, do not want to allow something we believe and our people feel to be a major political offence against our nations and against Europe to be completed in an atmosphere of general self-satisfaction.
The mechanism of the single currency had been directly established by the Delors report, before the fall of the Berlin Wall, in a context where the blocs still existed.
Far from being the symbol of a new post-Soviet Europe, the euro is, on the contrary, the supreme symbol of a construction of Europe which was conceived during and out of the Cold War, and which has not been able to reconsider its foundations and objectives in the light of the new geopolitical situation.
Europe's strength resides in the synergy of the enterprising nations it is made up of, not in the elimination of their sovereignty in favour of central power.
The inventors of the single currency have found in it a pure instrument of supranationality, without any further trace of an intergovernmental element; this vital instrument will successively eliminate the decision-making national authorities which still remain.
The adoption of the single currency has established a process which could in fact lead the people one day to reject the whole idea of the construction of Europe.
The eleven chosen countries clearly want to move to a single currency from 1 January 1999, and it was necessary that the Presidency did all it could to facilitate their wishes.
Nevertheless, I regret the whole project of Economic and Monetary Union, which has already resulted in great economic hardship and will inevitably cause further upheaval in the future.
The single currency, as most of its supporters acknowledge, is a political project.
Unfortunately, this has not been made clear to the citizens of Europe.
The single currency project has been driven by faith, not reason.
I am aware of the importance of the decision we have just taken.
The idea of a single currency is perhaps attractive, but I have always expressed strong reservations about its introduction by a limited number of Member States.
The premature nature of the introduction of the euro will have destabilizing economic, political and social effects, and today we still cannot measure the extent of these effects.
That is why I will not be able to reconsider my position on the euro until the day when all 15 Member States participate in Economic and Monetary Union.
The euro will impede this struggle and place yet another foundation stone in a society of exploitation and social injustice.
The so-called independence of the European Central Bank, which is now being set up, will effectively marginalize people and allow the money markets to make decisions not only without the irksome interventions of popular movements but also without the intervention of governments themselves.
It has been a colossal task, but extremely rewarding.
The euro will lead to far greater integration of economic, fiscal and employment policies and to a clear increase in support for education, scientific and technological development and professional training for Europeans.
That is why I have voted in favour of the decision on the eleven countries to be included in the third stage of EMU as from 1 January 1999.
This I have done in the conviction that this decision is in the interests of the citizens who elected me to this House.
The democratic deficit of the European Union has in turn resulted in a serious information deficit.
No arrangement was ever made with the citizens of the European Union that the new currency area was to be a political area which would in future compel their governments to speak with one voice in monetary and economic negotiations conducted at international level.
The strange thing is that seldom has such a radical decision been taken in such a careless way.
Council, Commission and Parliament have stretched the admission criteria to such an extent that EMU is starting up with a group of countries which is too large and too heterogeneous.
In this context it is irresponsible of Member States to let very important policy instruments slip from their hands to be left to the whims of occasional coalitions in Ecofin and the Euro 11 Council.
I am against the formation of EMU and the introduction of the euro for political reasons.
But the amazingly superficial lack of care is yet one more reason for voting against.
We oppose the decision to take Economic and Monetary Union into the third stage as well as Finland's presence in the process for both political and economic reasons.
All this aside, when monetary union comes about, there will be a growing need to bring in measures to redress increasing discrepancies in regional development and to support Member States when they suffer particular hardship for economic or structural reasons.
We also oppose the draft resolution prepared for Parliament, particularly because Finland should, in our opinion, have aligned herself with Britain, Denmark and Sweden in opting out of the third stage of monetary union.
The countries participating will lose their own currency, which means serious restrictions on the independence of their economic policy.
The economic policies and development of other countries will, instead, have a decisive effect on our own economy and society.
The structure of our society and economy differs greatly from that prevailing in core Europe.
A single currency in the European Union constitutes a huge step towards European integration.
It makes the union of Europe a perceptible reality for all its citizens and creates a new sense of mutual responsibility for all the countries and companies of the EU.
A single currency can therefore represent a significant step towards overcoming nationalism.
These mistakes make it all the more difficult for the citizens of Europe to accept the integration project and have created serious social problems.
However, I do not wish to ignore the fact that positive developments have been achieved in recent months and that these have clearly helped to reduce many of the risks.
The development of a political union, which has so far eluded us, the setting up of a European democracy and the creation of a social union are all indispensable and these will remain the crucial challenge for European integration over the next four years.
