Mr President, as this is a first report it is also important to make a few comments on the form, with a view to putting the Commission on the right track in the future.
The first, and in my view, most important section concerns mainstreaming or the integration of the equal opportunities policy into other policy areas.
The Committee on Women's Rights is completely behind these new approaches.
The second section deals with the UN Beijing Conference on Women.
Thirdly, the problem of under-representation of women in decision-making.
The last section deals with women's rights.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Women's rights supported my report unanimously.
We hope, Mr Commissioner, that all Parliament's proposals and comments will be taken into account when the next and subsequent annual reports are drawn up.
I would like to thank the secretariat of the Committee on Women's Rights, and all those who have contributed, for their sterling work in producing this report.
What is needed is for all of us to unite our forces in this endeavour to change today's society and create a society where sex does not decide who is first to become unemployed, a society whose members are not be excluded from decision-making positions because of their sex, or do not have equal access to information or education and training programmes because of their sex.
The European Union has the tendency to clothe its policies with names which are not readily understood or cannot be rendered exactly in all the languages of the European Union, and the result is confusion amongst those involved and, in this particular case, confusion about the extremely important notion of equal opportunities and objectives.
So, clearly, positive action must continue to be carried out in concert with the implementation of this policy.
The structural funds are an area where action to incorporate equality may find fertile ground for development, which means that equal opportunities and equal rights must be included in the objectives of the funds in question.
Mr Commissioner, as you well know, however positive the will, however resounding the declarations, regardless of whether you, as Commissioner, and we, as a Parliament, agree, if the appropriate funding measures and the necessary administrative structures to bring about coordination and enable evaluation of whether an action promotes equal opportunities are not guaranteed, I am afraid action to incorporate equality will remain an idea in the files of those responsible.
The policy of action to incorporate equality must be the subject of an information campaign, our own campaign, which we all promote in our national parliaments, in our governments and in our social organizations, and this must be a process with the constant aim of full equality.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin by expressing my satisfaction with the set of reports on women before this House, and especially that this is happening on the Tuesday rather than the Friday as is normally the case.
In its first annual report on equal opportunities, the Commission has presented a very full and well-researched document which really gives us a broad picture of the situation throughout the Member States.
If the Commission delegates the responsibility to the Member States and they have other priorities, then there will be no real change in equality policies.
So it is vital that the aid given to the various countries should contain clauses about the principle of equality, which should be binding.
The incorporation of equality should be something for everybody to aim at, in all areas of internal policy, but also in development cooperation agreements and - why not?- in negotiations about enlargement.
Mr Commissioner, we look forward - I certainly look forward - to the Commission's proposals on this, in order to progress more rapidly towards achieving equality for all women within the European Union, and we hope to be able to export this model as well.
Despite the fact that the principle of mainstreaming was contained in the structural funds regulation four years ago, its implementation still poses major problems.
As regards the new draft Treaty of Amsterdam it should be noted that, in contrast to other areas where the new treaty hardly makes any advances, but rather marks time or even loses ground, in the field of women's rights it must be acknowledged that it represents significant progress on both recognition of discrimination against women and defence of women's equality.
In the employment and social policies of this new treaty, we will be able to find an effective method.
And I congratulate all the rapporteurs and draftsmen of opinions taking part in this debate.
It was high time the Commission drafted and presented to the European Parliament a report on equality of opportunity between men and women in the European Union.
For example, this year, for the first time, the Portuguese government presented a programme for incorporating equality between men and women into all policy areas.
In addition, in June 1998, in the context of the fourth action programme for equality, the Portuguese Parliament will be organizing the second interparliamentary conference of the committees responsible for women's rights in the parliaments of the fifteen countries of the European Union and in the European Parliament.
The objective is precisely to analyse the way the policies drawn up, both by the European Parliament and by each country, to promote equality between men and women are being applied and what results have been obtained.
Commissioner Flynn, I hope that, with the help of the European Parliament and the parliaments of the European Union, the Commission will be in a position to incorporate into its next report on equality policy the numerous suggestions we are proposing to you here today.
As regards mainstreaming policy, or incorporation of equality between men and women into all policy sectors, I consider it a decisive step for achieving normality in society, that is, women and men having not only the same rights and obligations, but also the capacity to become really able to exercise them.
It is absolutely necessary to continue expanding specific actions and programmes to support women.
If we want equality, specific measures will still be needed for a considerable time to close the gap that exists today.
If we want women to be financially independent, managers of companies, creators of employment, promoters of more human and environmentally sustainable development, mainstreaming is not enough, although this policy is very important.
And it is essential to apply the new technologies that exist in society today more effectively.
I would like to compliment Commissioner Flynn on that initiative.
That action in 1981 has achieved a great deal.
In fact, it is inconceivable that 25 years after the third wave of emancipation and 15 years after the European Parliament's committee of inquiry, our children, our daughters - I apologize for speaking about our generation - still experience the same problems purely and simply because they are female.
Fifteen years ago the figure was only 20 % in the Netherlands.
A recent survey in the Netherlands showed that half of young mothers who initially tried to keep working nevertheless gave up after a few months, with all the consequences that involves for their position in the job market.
The same applies to the top positions in the civil service, in business, in the trade unions and in social organizations.
I should like to ask Commissioner Flynn whether he will consider the position of women in the institutions in his future annual reports.
I would particularly like to mention Mrs Kokkola's report, which urges the Commission and the Member States to act on two fronts, simultaneously promoting a policy of equal opportunities for men and women and measures of positive discrimination on behalf of women in sectors where women are still in a minority.
In any case, we women should realise that power is never given up voluntarily and that we shall never have true equality unless we women also give up some of our power.
Mr President, we are taking part once again in a debate on equal opportunities because it is always our intention to contribute to making equality a reality and also to add a male voice to the voices of the women Members who are calling for it and demanding it.
This could include the idea of imposing temporary quotas to ensure better representation of women or of the under-represented gender.
Furthermore, training plays an essential part in improving equality in companies and public institutions.
Finally, I wish to remind everyone that the Council of Europe drafted a proposal in 1992 for Member States to organize daycare places, and progress must be made on that to enable women to go out to work.
The content of the report and the efforts of the Commission are reassuring.
Our rapporteur seems to be aware of this in asking for the introduction of measures along these lines in fields where women are still disadvantaged.
In the fifteen Member States, women do not even occupy one position of responsibility in five, and we can just about take heart at the fact that 25 % of decision-making posts are occupied by women in the Commission.
I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the principle of mainstreaming should be a priority as far as women are concerned.
The current situation requires the introduction of compensatory inequality, the only principle likely to lead to real equality between men and women!
They expressed horror at the demand for, and I quote, ' the women's dimension' - that pathetic and vulgar expression of a debate which, according to them, was about equality of barbarity rather than anything else - to be taken into account in everywhere.
They burst out laughing when they read the denunciation of the drop in women's participation in decision-making procedures except in the Nordic countries.
As if the balance and beauty of human nature were not achieved in the splendour and harmony of the two complementary principles that are femininity and masculinity, as God intended.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the concept of mainstreaming in the Committee on Women's Rights and in my parliamentary group because, I believe, we have a massive task ahead of us.
I want to talk about the budgetary procedure because it is very interesting.
There is an interesting model in Sweden.
The implementation of the principle of equal treatment in all sectors of society is quite obviously necessary, but in practice it does not occur in the least.
It provides the basis for the necessary legislation to integrate equal opportunities for men and women in all areas of policy.
I think the structural funds should be used where they are needed, not just as a matter of principle.
Point 14 calls for assessment.
Commissioner Flynn, perhaps you could establish some benchmarking criteria for assessing the results of mainstreaming?
Agenda 2000 says nothing about mainstreaming in central and eastern Europe.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, the commission's first annual report on equal opportunities for women and men is, in itself, a positive step forward.
I hope that the excellent measures outlined in the report will also be implemented.
The participation of women in the decision-making process at all levels must be promoted.
I believe that interim quotas are an effective tool for achieving this goal, and when there is natural equality of representation in the decision-making process the system of quotas can be ended.
I really must bemoan the fact that, despite Community legislation and national laws in many countries, the implementation of equal pay is still a long way off.
This means that what the Committee on Women's Rights and Parliament has been saying is not only beginning to be taken into account, but is also becoming one of the central issues for the European Union, alongside others.
The annual report is divided into six chapters and substantially follows the approach of the fourth action programme.
In addition, despite national and Union legislation, there is still a gap averaging around 20 per cent between women's pay and men's pay.
Another example is the need for balanced participation of men and women in decision-making processes.
Here too, while forward steps have been taken - the Beijing Conference, the Commission communication - there has been little progress for women in the European Union on average, though of course the level varies depending on the Member State, despite the significant development in the contribution of women and their role, again varying considerably between the different countries.
But there is no follow up of all the information we have on these various issues in terms of precise analysis and, in particular, careful assessment of impact on policy.
Mainstreaming should be applied in all policies, so responsibility lies both with the Commission and the Member States.
The Commission should be able to play a more compelling role in terms of Member States' training programmes, as it has its own responsibility for the training of staff who apply equal opportunities.
Compulsory elements must be incorporated during the debate on the revision of the structural funds, so that Member States respect this principle or face financial penalties.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, like so many other speakers, I would first like to express my satisfaction.
Indeed, contrary to the highly unacceptable custom in this Parliament, the reports from the Committee on Women's Rights for once appear on the agenda for Tuesday rather than Friday, when most Members have adopted the disgraceful habit of leaving Strasbourg early.
The invention of mainstreaming is very laudable, but the word is difficult to translate into the language of Voltaire.
Furthermore, the question arises of including the concept of gender awareness in mainstreaming.
I hope not, because sexual discrimination exists, and it will not be eliminated by finding new terminology for a policy which must remain firmly based on a determination to treat the two sexes - which, thank goodness, are different - equally in terms of the rights and opportunities of both men and women.
I warmly welcome my two colleagues' reports.
This annual report can be an instrument to clarify and explain equality policy to the European Union's public, especially women, who have long called for a recognizable structure through which they can make sense of its progress, timetable and decision-making.
The Commission's annual report is a serious and significant contribution to the European Union's equality debate at the end of the Twentieth Century.
Mainstreaming is a very serious attempt by the European Union's institutions to bring about a cultural shift in attitudes across policy areas.
Mr President, the Commissioner has deservedly received a number of eulogies today, eulogies which must also be extended to the two rapporteurs, and I add my own.
It is a valid instrument because of what it already represents today and, in my opinion, because of what it can mean, especially in terms of the visibility of the problem - given that only 20 % of women are aware of the existence of the equality policies either of the Community or of the Member States.
We believe a simplification of the objectives could allow systematic inclusion of equal opportunities and, at last, an impact assessment of the parity dimension in all policies.
It is clear to me, Mr Commissioner, that the main point to be grasped at the Luxembourg Summit is that the battle against unemployment is also a battle for equal opportunities.
Secondly, the structural funds, which have already been mentioned here several times.
This has been mentioned at various times in this debate.
Unfortunately, Amsterdam did not give us a new instrument for this purpose.
There are still considerable shortcomings, both at community and national levels.
On the job market women continue to be a reserve available as required.
The numerous ways in which women's participation in the structural funds can be increased, from pilot projects to raising the proportion of women, are also on our common list of requirements.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking all those who have contributed for their very strong support for our new instrument - the annual report.
It has been very well received and I am very pleased with that.
I am certainly very pleased to note that they warmly welcomed this first annual report of the Commission on equal opportunities for women and men.
Since its publication the report has been very well received by the press and also by the European Advisory Committee on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men, by the Economic and Social Committee and by many of the other equal opportunities organizations as well.
The first report aims to respond to three main goals: visibility, strategy and convergence.
The rapporteur considers that the aim of strategy is not yet fully developed.
I welcome the suggestions on subjects to be included in the next annual reports, and we will take them forward as very useful proposals.
As far as the chapter on implementation of the Beijing Platform by the Member States is concerned, this was written on the basis of information gathered from the Member States and it covers the period up to June 1996.
Further information on the implementation at national level of the platform will be included in the 1997 report, which is already in preparation.
As requested, that year's report will include more information on developments at national level.
Her report highlights a series of important issues, which the Commission has already included in its fourth action programme, such as the need to change structures and attitudes and to develop policies if progress is to be made towards equality between women and men.
The Commission has already taken concrete steps towards mainstreaming equality in all policies and, in particular, in labour market and vocational training policies, as highlighted in the report.
In this context, a strategy document has recently been adopted outlining measures for future action.
I note with satisfaction that the rapporteur stresses the link between mainstreaming and the participation of women in the decision-making process.
Commission personnel policy on equality between women and men is designed in such a way as to achieve real change in this particular direction.
I wish to welcome in particular the emphasis placed on the importance of adopting a dual approach incorporating both positive action and mainstreaming activities, the need to increase women's participation in the formulation and implementation of the structural funds and to improve statistical data on the use of structural funds by women and men and, finally, the need to make mainstreaming policy an important element of our enlargement negotiations.
The Commission will take into account Parliament's concerns and try to intensify its effort towards the objectives prioritized in its report.
Mrs Crawley summarized it very well when she said that we need a culture shift here.
The wider definition can be summarized as follows: a more active and encompassing strategy to promote equal opportunity by mobilizing, not only positive action in its own right, but also mobilizing all general policies and measures to this end.
It was mentioned that perhaps it might be useful for our next report to have a glossary of terms commonly used in discussions on equality matters.
The Commission, Mrs Maij-Weggen, has made some good progress here that I would like to tell you about.
Between 1 January 1994 and 1997, the number of women at A1 and A2 level, the highest levels we have in the Commission services, more than tripled from 5 to 18.
Mrs Van Lancker made a particular point about the job summit and what we can do there.
The Commission is sincere in its commitment to implement the mainstreaming strategy.
We are committed also to a long-term strategy of mobilizing all the policies and measures to achieve equality between women and men.
Gender mainstreaming should, from now on, be pursued as a principle which forms part of the new draft Treaty and we certainly have some positive movement there as well.
Your contribution in this respect is very important.
Over the years it has been quite substantial but the issues raised require our constant attention and we have to raise the level of awareness and the profile of this equality issue everywhere.
Having the meeting here today, on the Tuesday, gives a significant boost to what the Commission and Parliament would like to do in this regard.
Our annual reports and our programme implementation will be our constant concern and will continue to be the top priority of my term as Commissioner.
The joint debate is closed.
Even we women perceive ourselves as inferior to men.
The ultimate consequence of these social structures is the physical violence which is carried out against women.
Since we have Commissioner Gradin here, I am naturally curious to know how this report was received by the Commission and, as usual, what the position is in terms of financial opportunities and resources for making 1999 European Year Against Violence Against Women.
I would like to give you five reasons why we need a Europe-wide campaign against violence to women.
For example, ten studies quoted by the Council of Europe this year found a remarkable consistency in that 25 % of women have experienced domestic violence and between 6 % and 10 % of women suffer violence in any one year.
Secondly, it is vitally important that all Member States should be invited to review the legal, economic and social support systems for the victims of violence and the protection that is provided against further attacks.
Women who have suffered violence - and a majority suffer in silence - and their children need to have the confidence to report attacks, secure in the knowledge that they will be provided with effective support.
Public authorities should make a commitment to zero tolerance and public education campaigns should be undertaken to shift the view which is still held in many quarters that violence against women in the family, for example, is a private and minimal matter.
Fifthly, more research is needed into the causes of violence and how we can prevent it; how we can educate our children, boys and girls, to solve disputes without violence; how we can address bullying; how we can develop mutual respect for the human rights of men and women and how the attitudes and behaviour of violent men can be changed.
I hope that this House and the Commission will support the call of the Committee on Women's Rights for a Europewide campaign against violence to women.
I hope that 1999 will be a year that we will remember, when Europe as a whole began to combat violence against women and show respect for human rights.
The victims are mainly women and children in the family - the hidden location where most of these attacks take place.
Most Member States have taken steps to address sexual violence within marriage, and have classed it as an offence.
There have been improvements in the legal status of women, and advances in the labour market too, but there is still a vast imbalance in terms of power.
The rapporteur denounces the taboo which discourages women from talking about violence and reporting the sexual harassment or unwanted attentions that many women, especially the youngest, suffer in the workplace.
Because of the lack of national statistics on these matters, it is very difficult to know whether the perceived increase in violence against women and children reflects a real rise, or whether more cases are being reported due to increased information about and awareness of the problem.
What is certainly true is that violence against women, which was originally thought of as a question of human rights, has also been recognized as a serious public health problem.
The European Women's Health Network which was created in Vienna in 1994 included violence against women among its six basic health concerns, and although such violence has no sociocultural, religious or racial boundaries, the most vulnerable are young, migrant, poor women, and children.
There have been very few studies on the physical and psychological effects of this violence, but there is a constant increase in the need for psychiatric treatment and in the suicidal feelings of many battered women.
There are reports which indicate that in some European countries one out of every three girls under the age of 16 has suffered harassment or rape.
The rapporteur demands, as do I on behalf of my Group, a coordinated interministerial approach and specific, obligatory training for all lawyers, judges, police and health-service personnel, both male and female, about violence, prostitution, traffic and pornography.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, who could dispute the benefits of a European campaign for zero tolerance of violence against women?
Reliable statistics in this field would give an idea of the scope of the problem and would help women who have suffered violence to speak out.
The report proposes setting up many more refuges for such women.
The institutional response I can make, offering them accommodation in a refuge which is often some distance from their home, is not a solution that these women accept.
At least ECU 5 million in the next budget, and let us not forget to involve eastern Europe closely.
Mr President, increasing violence against women is one of the serious problems of contemporary society.
Some even die there as a result of illtreatment, or are murdered in front of their own children - 54 women in Spain last year.
Some women's lives could have been saved if their appeals for help had been heeded, and this shows that the problem of violence against women is related not only to domestic situations made difficult by marginalization or poverty (there is violence against women in all social classes), but also to deep-rooted social values which make allowances for the attacker.
The proposals presented in this report, such as those on refuges and protection of women's rights, which should constitute a condition for reaching agreements with third countries, are ways forward, as is the designation of 1999 as European Year Against Violence Against Women, and our Group supports them.
These governments bear a considerable responsibility, especially as all European countries have signed the UN Convention on the elimination of discrimination against women.
Mr President, our intention in this debate today is to encourage governments to make violence against women a higher priority, and for this topic to be raised to the level of a major political problem.
A recent UNICEF report gives an idea of the extent of the problem.
It is estimated that one woman is beaten every ten seconds in western countries.
However, there are some countries in the world which have not legislated to make it a crime to commit violence against women, particularly when that violence takes place in the home.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women and children is surely one of the most despicable crimes in our society.
Violence against women is unfortunately a part of the welfare state and can affect all of us regardless of age, environment and social class.
This battle must be fought on all levels.
Violence against women would not exist without the connivance of each individual man and without society's tolerance for each individual act of violence.
Research has shown that in the west, as in the east, few women reach adulthood without having undergone some form of violence, indecent assault, rape, incest, sexual harassment, beatings or even torture.
Of course violence against women is a wall of shame in our male-dominated society and action must be taken at an individual, collective and institutional level to eradicate it.
The ECU 3 million that were made available during 1997 on the occasion of the events in Belgium are obviously not enough to tackle the phenomenon.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, oppression and discrimination against women have been the order of the day for far too long.
In that world a woman is still a stay-at-home housewife or a sex object.
The world is getting smaller and smaller these days.
Cross-border media such as satellite TV and the Internet are increasing in importance.
Violence against women is the most extreme expression of the lack of equality which exists between women and men.
For a long time violence against women was looked on as something private.
The Vienna Conference on Human Rights in 1993 established that human rights are also women's rights.
In 1993 the UN General Assembly adopted a declaration on the abolition of violence against women.
In the resolution, the General Assembly stresses that violence against women means that women are being forced into a subordinate position relative to men.
As early as 1986 Parliament took up the question of women and violence in a special report.
Mrs Eriksson, I sincerely hope that the Committee on Women's Rights takes the initiative for a special budget item next time so that we also get the resources to be able to finance and jointly implement that year.
The modern slave trade in women is one form of violence I have done a lot of work on in recent years.
We are making efforts under the third pillar, but also in other areas.
The slave trade in women, like all violence against women, is a problem we must tackle from several directions at once.
We will soon be able to start projects to support women and children who have become victims of violence.
Men's groups are also included in the latter project.
Many of the recommendations in Mrs Eriksson's report are directed at the Member States.
As I said earlier, I think that the proposal for a European Year Against Violence Against Women is an idea which deserves full support.
It would focus attention on the issue of violence against women and also provide real support for all those within authorities and voluntary organizations who work against violence.
The debate is closed.
The European Parliament's Committee on Women's' Rights has opened the bottle labelled 'Discrimination against Women in Advertising' .
Actually, this has always happened, even when we presented a report about women and the media ten years ago and it contained a section called 'Women and Advertising' .
Over the years, advertising has become both more strident and more earthy.
The majority of protests to advertising standards bodies concern pictures of women, and the fact that only few official reprimands have been issued is not significant: 90 % of the pictures criticized were previously withdrawn.
National advertising laws and advertising control organizations in individual Member States are very different.
The report calls for greater clarity and recommends closing gaps in national advertising control, convergence in advertising controls across the European Union, and long term evolution of the existing amalgamation of European advertising control bodies into a genuine European control organization.
The report also recommends the creation of an advisory European Media Council consisting of representatives from the European Commission and the European advertising industry, which could draft a code against discrimination in advertising.
But we in Parliament also have considerable responsibility.
The non-discrimination clause in the Amsterdam Treaty will present us with a further need to act.
We must also extend our activities into other areas of the new media.
It is not just advertising that must observe the basic law against discrimination, but the other areas as well.
But that cannot absolve us from finding common European rules, even if our efforts are denounced as prudish, unenlightened or perhaps outmoded.
It would be an exciting task for advertising to prepare this reality in an interesting way, and it would underline the message more convincingly.
We tried to give a positive impression, design product concepts and communication content appropriate to the target audience, achieve identification with and acceptance of the products, clarify, and initiate a buying response, but without using clichés, without causing embarrassment or offence, and without being defamatory.
But I am also against any escalation of the problem and it seems to me that this report runs that risk: in the title itself, for example, by mentioning discrimination, but especially in the tone and in some of the arguments.
But at the same time this action discriminates against men as passive subjects, stupid subjects, of this discrimination against women.
So, Mr President, if I may close with a hint of irony on an issue which, I recognize, is actually very serious, I call for a report on discrimination against men as involuntary victims of discrimination against women in advertising.
I do not think we need a European Media Council dealing specifically with discrimination, or ethics committees, so my group is voting against paragraphs 15, 20 and 23 and we have submitted amendments to them.
Most European countries are bad and some are appalling.
The current legislation and self-regulation are inadequate.
Mr President, this report affects freedom of expression.
Today, even in Belgium, Crédit Lyonnais has advertisements showing the naked body of a man in the newspapers.
It may be irritating for women, all women, not to be Botticelli's Venus, but it is just as irritating for men not to be Michelangelo's David, or the Apollo of Praxiteles.
Fortunately this report will not change the face of things.
Mr President, I would also like to add to the appreciation already expressed by other Members of the President's decision to debate all four reports from the Committee on Women's Rights together on Tuesday morning, thus giving the issues dealt with a very high profile.
So this report is a magnificent initiative by the European Parliament to set up a policy which should be active, non-discriminatory and in favour of equal treatment.
The Commission is fully aware of the importance of protecting women against discrimination in advertising and of the need to strike the right balance between respect for the fundamental right of freedom of expression and respect for human dignity.
Parliament, along with the Commission, insisted on the need for a non-discrimination clause to be inserted in the new treaty and called in particular for discrimination against women to be included in the categories of discrimination.
I should also like to remind the House of Council and Parliament Directive 97/31 adopted in June on coordination of television broadcasting activities, which represents the most important European instrument for television advertising.
The integration of a gender perspective in media policy is one of the Commission's priorities within its gender mainstreaming policy.
The Commission encourages the exchange of information and experience between the Member States and between relevant national bodies.
It also encourages a balanced participation by women and men at decision-taking levels of the advertising industry and the media, in order to strengthen the influence of women in this field.
A meeting has been planned for later on this year, bringing together major participants, experts and NGOs in the media sector in order to build on good experience.
The Commission supports an overview study of the image of women in advertising and the media and the encouragement of cooperation between professional associations, women's organizations and project leaders active at Community level.
We all know that equality in practice will not become reality until there has been profound change in many areas, not least those of ideas, attitudes and images in the media.
I thank all those who have contributed to the debate.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, there was detailed discussion within the Committee on Women's Rights, and I do not feel that we can accept any oral amendment in the part-session.
If Parliament has no objection, I will put the rapporteur's oral amendment to paragraph 14 to a vote. (The President established that more than 13 members opposed the oral amendment which was therefore not put to the vote, under Rule 124(6) ) Paragraph 17 With my proposed amendment, paragraph 17 would therefore read as follows: ' welcomes initiatives in some Member States to develop, in addition to effective sanctions, programmes for perpetrators which result in men taking responsibility for their actions, and calls for greater commitment from all Member States to adopt such initiatives' , and then my addition, ' for example, criminalization of the customers of prostitutes ' .
If Parliament has no objection, I will put the rapporteur's oral amendment to paragraph 17 to a vote. (The President established that more than 13 members opposed the oral amendment which was therefore not put to the vote, under Rule 124(6) ) (Parliament adopted the resolution) This proposal to modify the directive on to misleading advertising so as to include comparative advertising, satisfies me in more than one respect.
This proposal for codecision is the result of fruitful work between the Commission and Parliament.
The text aims at a necessary harmonization in the field of advertising, and the final result of this decision appears to me to be balanced.
Our group has submitted two amendments to the Commission's proposal.
At the time this was first discussed, the Commission replied to the Council that it was awaiting the opinion of the European Parliament before amending its proposal.
The European Parliament as a whole has been vigilant and has rejected this proposal from the Commission.
The Europe of Nations Group can only rejoice at the outcome, and we thank the Members of the European Parliament for supporting these amendments.
Simpson recommendation (Á4-0271/97) The European Parliament has come out in favour of a key text on the future of public services in Europe.
The development of the European Union makes it inevitable that the major commercial public services in the fields of telecommunications, postal services, and air or rail transport will be opened up.
Postal traffic in the Union totals some 80 billion items annually, of which 3 billion represents traffic between Member States, generating revenues amounting to 1.3 % of Community GDP, and 1.5 million jobs.
By this is meant an economically high-performance public service, which is both a key factor in land-use planning, and provides a minimum level of service quality to our citizens.
It provides 17, 000 public access points, and a counter for every 800 inhabitants in rural areas.
I believe that today we have the opportunity to make a strong statement on the future of postal services in Europe.
The draft recommendation for second reading by Brian Simpson takes up and reinforces the compromise position unanimously adopted by the Council last April, after long negotiations.
The existence of a sector not subject to competition is, in effect, indispensable to the economic viability of the universal service.
The common position we are preparing to adopt is acceptable for the public service.
Indeed, the majority of the post office ministers have been more favourable to the public service than the Commission.
In many cases the postman is still out there, whereas most public services have been withdrawn for reasons of cost and productivity.
Scapagnini report (A4-0268/97) Nuclear energy is a non-renewable source of energy.
Following a referendum, Sweden has decided to phase out nuclear power.
In our opinion, the EU should not subsidize the construction of other reactors as compensation for this.
We therefore oppose EU aid for the Khmelnitsky 2 and Rovno 4 reactors in the Ukraine and that is why we have voted against the resolution.
On the other hand we support efforts at national and EU level which improve the safety of existing reactors.
Azzolini report (A4-0252/97) I should like to express our group's support for the Azzolini report, since the cultural field encourages direct and indirect employment, promoting the survival and creation of small and medium-sized enterprises connected with the cultural sector, and offering prospects for the creation of employment.
Regrettably, the cultural projects financed by Community structural policy only represent 3 %, which is too low if you consider the influence of culture on regional development and the achievement of economic and social cohesion.
So the new Treaty on European Union should include a section to promote explicit support for cultural projects, and increase the number of Community regional development initiatives which have cultural aspects, with the aim of strengthening the link between the structural funds and cultural action itself.
Finally, I should like to stress that local and regional bodies should continue to play an important role, to ensure good results from the European Union's development strategy, based on culture and the creation of employment.
When, for example, I hear several speakers in the debate this morning complaining about the fact that there are still far fewer girls than boys in technical education - and that something must be done about it - then I do wonder whether we actually know the difference between 'equal opportunities' and 'equal treatment' .
Essentially, I regret that the very important section on work and family life has got bogged down in political correctness.
Kokkola report (A4-0251/97) On the Kokkola report (A4-0251/97) on the Commission communication on incorporating equal opportunities for women and men into all Community policies and activities and on the KestelijnSierens report on the Commission's annual report on equal opportunities for women and men in the EU 1996 (A40257/97).
I and many British Conservative Members of the European Parliament wholeheartedly support the principle of equal opportunities for women and men and agree that mainstreaming is a valuable tool in helping to put that principle into practice.
We are not convinced, however, that the best way to achieve an equal representation of women in decision-making, for example, is through artificial discrimination of the sort proposed in both the Kokkola and Kestelijn-Sierens reports.
The proposal in the Kestelijn-Sierens report that the Commission should include a gender-impact assessment in its proposals for legislation is equally impractical.
Improvements are needed in many areas, not least with regard to the difficult task of combining work outside the home with family responsibilities.
The Kokkola and Kestelijn-Sierens reports rightly highlight the difficulties involved in achieving equal opportunities for men and women today and contain some very salient points.
I and my colleagues will vote for these reports because their ultimate aim and motivation is to the benefit of women in Europe.
Eriksson report (A4-0201/97) Mr President, I speak from local experience of the zero-tolerance campaign run in Thurrock in my constituency.
This local project fully supports the extension of zerotolerance campaigns to other European countries, backed up by rape crisis telephone helplines, also absent in many of our countries.
I helped them recently to open their new 'dove' project - an open drop-in counselling centre for women who are victims of domestic violence.
We would also like to stress how important it is that society gives vulnerable women and children help in the form of national legislation, and also in the form of help to take on a new identity, a new area to live in and a new job, and thereby the opportunity to escape their tormentor.
In spite of this, violence against women takes place all over the world and in all social classes.
Making 1999 an EU campaign year against violence against women should focus attention on the problem and help make the issue a topical one in the Member States.
In my local paper, the Birmingham Mail, I am told that an advertisement is going to be unveiled in Birmingham this week in the form of an electronic, 20-foot-high billboard showing a woman taking off her clothes continuously.
The European Union institutions must use their combined forces and recognize this as a growing problem in the 1990s.
Mrs Crawley, I happily allowed you to exceed your time because your previous experience over a number of years as chairman of the Committee on Women's Rights and your activity in this Parliament give you the right to justify exceeding your speaking time, when the Chair can allow it, and I was very pleased that you were able to complete your remarks.
Mr President, I would like to emphasize that, from the start, this budget procedure has - and I am delighted about that - been marked by excellent and open cooperation between the three institutions.
The budgetary procedure laid down by the treaty is a highly significant moment in the collaboration between the three institutions.
The 1993 interinstitutional agreement established the framework.
The launch of the budgetary procedure in 1998 has been, in our view, exemplary in this respect.
Hence, the trialogue on the likely priorities for the forthcoming financial year gave rise on 21 April to in-depth exchanges of views between the Presidency of the Council, the Parliament and the Commission with, as a corollary, the introduction of milestones leading to a number of points of convergence of views.
Subsequently, the trialogue of 26 June last ensured that the Council was in a position to understand Parliament's principal wishes better.
This further exchange was extremely valuable for the concertation meeting of 24 July, the very day of the Budget Council.
On behalf of the Council, I had the opportunity to emphasize that the institution which I represent was preparing, in the 1998 draft budget, to adhere to the same principles of budgetary rigour as those imposed on themselves and their citizens by the Member States in pursuit of the effort already broadly undertaken in 1997.
Finally, a very rigorous approach towards administrative expenditure.
Mr President, in the Council's opinion, all these measures add up to an indissociable whole.
In this context, the Council noted with satisfaction that, in its orientations regarding budget procedures for 1998, Parliament recognized and underwrote the need for budget headings to be made in a spirit of maximum realism.
In this field, the Council made major changes to the Commission's preliminary draft.
First, under the overall strategy of making savings which I have just outlined, the Council has decided to maintain the spending envelope planned for the 1998 budget, at the level proposed by the Commission in its preliminary draft budget, that is, ECU 40, 987 million, an amount which is some ECU 2, 276 million below the guideline, including the monetary reserve.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this decision implies a certain number of deeply incisive measures.
To take into account the agricultural regulations in force, the chapter relating to arable crops has been increased by ECU 1, 353 million, the increase of ECU 55 million arising from the decisions on the price package for the 1997-1998 financial year.
In order to comply with the overall spending envelope, the Council then decided on an across-theboard reduction of some ECU 1, 408 million on all lines of agricultural expenditure.
It was also decided to place ECU 329 million in the B 040 reserve for additional savings identified by the Commission within the framework of a first updating of forecast expenditure for 1998.
The Council has thus implemented the provisions discussed at the meeting of 24 July.
I now come to the field of structural actions.
The Council has recorded all the commitment appropriations proposed by the Commission under the structural funds, that is, ECU 3, 482 million, in line with the final decisions of the Edinburgh Council.
On the other hand, this is a point which has been widely discussed and debated with representatives of your Committee on Budgets during the ad hoc concertation.
The payment appropriations for this Category have been reduced by ECU 1 billion, a Council decision introducing the second part of its overall savings strategy.
This is the reason why the Council decided not to entertain the slightest reduction in regard to objectives 1 and 6 of the structural funds and the disadvantaged regions.
The countries which have joined the European Union most recently will therefore not be affected.
The funding decision represents growth of 2.95 % compared to 1997.
Indeed, the Council accepted all provisions in the preliminary draft budget for the cohesion fund, that is, ECU 2, 871 million in commitment appropriations, and ECU 2, 649 million in payment appropriations, hence an increase, as compared with 1997, of 4.40 % in commitment appropriations, and 13.88 % in payment appropriations.
As regards Community initiatives, the Council decided that the additional allocation of ECU 100 million in commitment appropriations, proposed under the Peace initiative, that is, for the Northern Ireland peace process, would be covered by the envelope of commitment appropriations intended for Community initiatives.
This issue, whose political impact requires no further emphasis, was also the subject of a considerable degree of mutual understanding at our meeting on 24 July.
As regards payment appropriations, the Council decided, in the light of budget constraints, to reduce the proposed amount from ECU 3, 216 million to ECU 3, 066 million, an overall reduction of ECU 150 million distributed between the Common Research Centre, in an amount of ECU 5.6 million, and the fourth framework program, in an amount of ECU 144 million.
As regards the transeuropean networks, within the framework of chapter B5-7, the Council accepted the preliminary draft budget allocations of commitment appropriations for the financial support of transport networks, in an amount of ECU 475 million, a considerable increase over 1997 of ECU 123 million or 35 % for recorded payment appropriations.
Although ECU 27 million below the amount proposed in the preliminary draft budget, the appropriations increased by 56 %.
For amounts under this Category as a whole, the Council has recorded substantial amounts, ECU 560 million in commitments, and ECU 413 million in payments, a rise of ECU 95 million in commitment appropriations or more than 20 %, and of ECU 86 million in payment appropriations, or 26 %.
In so doing, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Council very clearly expressed its determination to give preference to these two major policies, and to these two major lines of Community action directly influencing growth and hence employment.
Hence emphasis has been placed on only those policies which are truly important, such as education, vocational training, and youth, which have been granted ECU 325 million in commitment appropriations, and other social actions, which have been allocated ECU 118 million in commitment appropriations.
The margin, and this will certainly be of interest to you - as the Parliament from the outset made a tight connection between the margin under Category 15, for agricultural expenditure, and the expenditures under headings 3 and 4 - the margin left by the Council under this financial prospects Category amounts to a substantial ECU 619 million.
For the whole of sub-section B7, the Council, aside from its reserve for emergency assistance, has allocated ECU 5, 476 million in commitment appropriations, and ECU 4 billion 207 million in payment appropriations, a reduction of ECU 145 million in commitment appropriations and of ECU 341 million in payment appropriations.
In effect, in this field, the Council believes that the budget authority cannot escape its responsibility for restricting the use of the Union's financial resources strictly to genuine priorities.
In relation to international fisheries agreements, and in the light of the further information supplied by the Commission in the course of the concertation procedure on obligatory expenditure, the Council accepted a reduction in the amount planned for commitment appropriations of ECU 5 million, the justification for which was exclusively an overestimate in the forecast.
For fisheries and for obligatory payments, the amounts agreed are ECU 292 and ECU 297 million, a payment appropriations increase of 5.7 % and 20.6 %.
Spending in the field of cooperation with Latin America, Asia, and Southern Africa, including South Africa itself, amounted to ECU 730 million in commitments, and ECU 334 million in payment appropriations.
As another essential arm of the policy of cooperation with the independent states of the CIS, these countries were granted ECU 510 million in commitment appropriations, in line with the preliminary draft budget, and ECU 460 million in payment appropriations.
The share for Tacis amounts to ECU 480 million in commitment appropriations, as provided for in the preliminary draft budget, and ECU 445 million in payment appropriations.
Cooperation with former Yugoslavia has been allocated ECU 259 million in commitment appropriations, in accordance with the preliminary draft budget, and ECU 180 million in payment appropriations.
Furthermore, and once again, the draft budget largely accords with the request of the Commission regarding other cooperation actions, ECU 315 million being allocated to commitment appropriations, particularly for actions for the defence of democracy and human rights, both in central and eastern Europe, and more particularly in Yugoslavia, or in the newly independent states, as well as in Mongolia, Latin America, and the Meda zone.
As regards foreign and security policy, the Council has adopted a new nomenclature, using six headings in chapter B 8.O1, following the interinstitutional agreement between the European Parliament, the Council, and the European Commission, relating to provisions for the finance of the common foreign and security policy, signed on 16 July.
The Council has accepted the funds proposed in the preliminary draft budget, namely ECU 30 million in commitment appropriations, and ECU 20.25 million in payment appropriations, which were the subject of an exchange of views on 24 July last.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, finally I come to Category 5 of the financial perspectives, that is, expenditure relating to the administrative operation of the Union institutions.
The Council's decisions in this field are based on the following principles.
Firstly, zero growth for all expenditure relating to Category 5 of the financial perspectives, although this does not necessarily exclude quite unavoidable exceptions to the principle; there is also a refusal in principle to create new jobs, except when required for enlarging the Union, while functional requirements must be met by the redeployment of existing resources.
The Council has set total administrative appropriations for all institutions, European Parliament and mediators included, at ECU 4, 301 million, an increase of ECU 18 million, or 0.42 % above the funding agreed in 1997.
Excluding Parliament's budget, the overall amount is ECU 3, 386 million, a reduction of ECU 9.7 million, or 0.29 % compared to the 1997 budget.
Mr President, the Council has held an exchange of views on the impact of funding relating to pensions within the Commission's operating funds.
Here I would like to recall the Council's wish, already expressed at the time of the budget meeting of 24 July last, to see Parliament become broadly convinced of the need for the rigour which has guided the Council, and to see the administrative expenditures adopted, if possible, at a single reading.
So, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those are the main elements of the draft budget drawn up by the Council for 1998.
In conclusion, let me thank all those who have worked in this direction and who will continue to do so in the months to come.
By this, I mean those in the ranks of the Parliament, Mr President, and in particular members of the Committee on Budgets, notably the chairman, Mr Detlev Samland and the two rapporteurs, Mr Tillich and Mr Tomlinson.
So, Mr President, that is the summary of the key points of the draft budget for 1998.
For my part, Mr President, I thank you for giving me the floor, and for your attention.
In general, the Dutch and Luxembourg Presidencies have been, and will certainly continue to be, serious in their efforts to contribute to a rigorous and solid Community budget for 1998.
The most important sector - agriculture - looks rigorous but relies on changes in estimates.
In other parts the provisions are not sufficient given the commitments of the Union.
I can only repeat my regret that the Council has been unable to agree on this or any equivalent real saving measure.
Of course, the Council did not receive much encouragement from Parliament either.
With regard to payment appropriations for structural funds, the most recent information available to the Commission confirms the amount entered in the preliminary draft budget.
The implementation of the 1997 budget is very high and the available information from Member States indicates ambitious spending targets for 1998.
With regard to categories 3 and 4, Parliament will obviously express its own priorities.
So that the ladies and gentlemen present do not get lost in the Council's maze of budgetary items and gain the impression that we in the Community will be spending more money in 1998 than in 1997, I should like to make a few facts clear: the Commission's budget proposal is about 1.15 % of Community GNP!
For 1992, six budget years ago, this figure was about 1.20 % as a maximum spending limit.
Let me now come to the point I actually meant to start with.
We made you a fair offer which did not come easily to us.
Throughout the whole debate, whether in my homeland or in the other Member States, whether in relation to monetary union or regardless of monetary union - because we would still have to make savings if there were no monetary union - throughout this whole debate, discussion has only been about saving.
The individual specialist committees must state their views, hence the reason for this appeal to colleagues in the House.
There is still a lot needing negotiation here, including the resources you have placed in the general reserve.
As long ago as April this year the Commission proved that the outflow of funds had long overtaken the arrears from previous years, and that we were now almost within the budget figures.
In the tripartite talks on 6 October we expect from you, Mr Council President, and above all from the Commission, a binding proposal on how we should proceed with the peace initiative for Northern Ireland.
In the meantime the Commission has also adopted this view and is ready to issue a proposal whereby, regardless of existing initiatives and other programmes, that is, without offsetting against them, appropriations which have not been spent may be made available.
I would remind you of a decision you yourselves made in Amsterdam: the European Council emphasizes the paramount importance of providing citizens and business with unlimited information about the single market.
You have cut funds for the single market by ECU 17 million and those for public information, section B-33, by 50 %.
In general one may say that the initial attempt, at the end of the debate on the 1998 budget, to target zero growth has become redundant.
Despite the fact that your first reading took place after the Amsterdam Summit, I note that there is no reflection of the importance of employment policy in the premises of the draft budget.
That was to honour the arrangements we had always informally agreed to, namely that Parliament would not take more than 20 % of Category 5 appropriations.
There will be a cut of some ECU 4.5 million in the first reading of Parliament's budget that will secure the necessary cuts and will take Parliament, as we always said we would, below the 20 % of Category 5 appropriations.
Those cuts will come principally in Chapter 11 of Parliament's budget and the principal contributory factor will be the beneficial impact of exchange rates between the ECU and the Belgian franc which makes substantial savings possible.
Having said that, the budgetary problems facing us as a Parliament are largely the consequence of decisions taken by the Council itself.
If we look at Parliament's budget and why we ever had the problem about going above 20 % of Category 5 appropriations, we must look at those three places in Europe that have one thing in common - Edinburgh, Maastricht and Amsterdam.
The fact that Parliament will have to buy its D3 building in Brussels by using a special purpose vehicle might be to the advantage of the Luxembourg taxpayer who will receive certain benefits from the additional taxes we pay in Luxembourg, but it will cost the European taxpayer about ECU 1 million more in year one than if we had followed the Commission's proposal of direct Community financing of the acquisition of our buildings.
I suppose, as rapporteur on Parliament's budget, I have felt precious little like a budget rapporteur and rather more like a peripatetic estate agent, trying to dispose of our surplus physical assets on whoever might be interested in them.
Certainly, as far as Parliament is concerned, next year's budget is seriously contingent upon our ability to dispose of the leases of Belliard I and II building and of the Van Maerlant buildings.
Obviously I accept that we are arguing very openly, but it must be remembered that even the President of the Council, and all Presidents of the Council, who are either ministers of finance or budget ministers, know perfectly well that the art of budgeting is not to spend more, but to spend more wisely.
I think that this is an exercise to which we are committed on a daily basis in our Member States.
We made it crystal clear at the Budget Council - and I think Parliament knows this and appreciates it at its full value - that we were prepared to give favourable consideration to any proposal from the Commission, in the event that the payments were not enough to cover commitments entered into.
I think that that is a very important point, and - although I risk the reproach that in the final analysis the Council has made a declaration which does not match its willingness and determination to achieve zero growth in the 1998 budget - I would say that the Council is sufficiently realistic and reasonable to share Parliament's view of all the legal obligations of the European Union.
It is now up to the Parliament to shoulder its responsibilities.
I await with impatience the discussions that will take place in this hall on 21 October.
The debate is closed.
The report will be presented to the next meeting of the WTO committee for resolving disputes on 25 September.
I cannot disguise the fact that the European Commission is very disappointed with this report, because in it the appeals panel reaches the conclusion that several aspects of the COM for bananas cannot be reconciled with WTO regulations.
The European Commission fears that the appeal panel's ruling could have very wide repercussions on the interpretation not only of the banana regulation, but of a whole range of important WTO regulations affecting the obligations and policies of all WTO members going well beyond the banana regulation.
The Commission is currently undertaking a careful assessment of the consequences of the WTO process.
In this the obligations of the EU towards our own banana producers, the ACP countries within the Lomé Agreement, and the effects of the Uruguay Round on our relations with Latin American exporting countries will have to be given equal consideration.
And we urge the Commission to do something more than worry about being disappointed.
We want the Commission to tell us what solutions it is proposing in order to redress the situation, which is of vital importance for peripheral areas of the Community and for third countries with which we have long maintained relations.
We want the Commission, as the executive, to be able to offer positive responses for the future of something which is tremendously important for the economy and the social and political life of other countries.
We want a little more effort from the Commission on this problem.
Mr President, Commissioner, just as in Chronicle of a Death Foretold by Gabriel García Márquez, we find that the omens which have been hanging over Community and ACP state banana production in recent years are being fulfilled almost inexorably.
Unfortunately, these actions have not been successful in the way that was intended.
But nor would anybody try to claim that those three experts, from Hong Kong, Switzerland and Australia, were previously pro-Community.
I wonder whether we should not have taken steps to prevent an American citizen very close to the Government of the United States, and previously linked with it, being appointed chairman of the appeal panel on the common organization of the market in bananas.
We have many arguments in our favour, Mr Fischler.
The current regime has meant that both producers and exporters, including important American distribution companies, benefit from the European market.
The European banana market is the largest in the world, because of both its volume and its prices.
In seeking and achieving these aims, Commissioner, you and the Commission have the support of our group and probably of a large majority of this House.
Production of bananas in ACP countries, overseas territories and the Community represents more than an item in the trade balance; it is a crucial factor in general economic and social equilibrium.
These bananas have a monopoly of the United States market and are also conquering the world market.
In Europe they have 70 % of the market, compared with 30 % for Community and ACP bananas.
The compensation to ACP countries serves to guarantee the survival of this crop.
The first question that arises is what the Commission proposing to do.
For my group, how banana producers in the European Union itself will be affected is important.
The second point, if I have understood correctly, is whether or not this decision adversely affects the Lomé Agreements.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, the United States do not produce bananas, nor do they export them.
So it is to defend the interests of the great banana companies that exploit Latin America and dominate the world market that they have made a complaint to the WTO against the Community banana imports system.
The WTO appeal panel has just confirmed the initial conclusions, by rejecting the Commission's appeal.
This decision is unacceptable.
It proves once again that, as in the case of hormone meat, the WTO is solely guided by the blind pursuit of free trade, without any concern for the interests of the poorest, the developing countries and Community producers.
From this point of view, the German leaders played a very harmful role by disputing the common organization of the banana market, even before the Court of Justice.
This is not the position of our group.
In agriculture, be it bananas or hormone meat, there is only the bad and the very bad.
Mr President, even in 1994, following the decision of the GATT group of experts, it should have been clear that the common organization of the banana market did not conform to the rules of free international trade.
The GATT and the WTO are blind to the requirements of consumer protection, environmental protection and social standards.
Even in December 1994, we Greens rejected the WTO Basic Agreement in this Parliament, and were half criticized for it.
I am afraid the ruling against the common organization of the banana market will become a precedent for condemning all cooperation with ACP states.
The Lomé Agreement is subject to a WTO exemption only until February 2000.
Then the World Trade Organization regulations will force a basic modification to the development cooperation of states in the European Union.
By just such a generously tailored quota for production resulting from social and environmental agreements, EU development policy objectives can be made more visible.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, we were all really eager to see what was going to happen and, following your brief speech, we are all a bit disappointed.
On behalf of our group, I want to express our definite support of any initiative the European Commission may take, whether legal or administrative, in order to be able to maintain and improve the Community banana regime and thereby guarantee the interests of our producers and those of the ACP states.
Mr President, Commissioner, it appears that the WTO panel is preparing to decide against Europe and its ACP partners on 25 September, as regards the Community regime for banana imports.
This decision would indeed call into question a unique form of cooperation, which is both original and effective, and based on a system of commercial preferences arising from the determination of the European Union to develop the economies of its partners in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific, by setting great store on high value-added sectors, such as bananas, the spin-off from which has a positive effect on their economies.
The results of an award against the European Union would be disastrous in many respects.
It would cause the greatest difficulty to the whole of the economy of several of these countries, where banana production can represent as much as 60 % of GDP, because the banana regime is a factor in political stability.
The social consequences would be disastrous, both among our ACP partners and among the banana producing territories of the European Union.
For somatotropin, for hormone milk, the codex alimentarius has granted us one extra year.
We know the story: Mexico, Ecuador, Honduras and Guatemala, four states enslaved to the United States, have decided to make a complaint - all the others have made an agreement with us - supported by the United States who have no direct interest in the business, except that these countries are where Chiquita, Delmonte and Dole have taken up residence.
So first our cooperation and development policy is called into question.
Indeed, at ECU 75 of customs duties per tonne, multiplied by 2, 500 million tonnes, under the pretext of the accession to EU membership of Austria, Sweden and Finland - this all adds up to a gift of ECU 2 billion in banana duties.
This ruling spells despair for many ACP countries.
The reason I say that is because I hope he is still discussing with his colleagues what approach to take to arbitration on 25 September.
What we need to know is whether the Commission is determined to get as good a result as it can.
But what they need more than anything is time - time to adjust to a very competitive market; in some cases it will take at least five years and in other cases it will take a far longer period until they can compete with dollar-banana producers.
If he can get those types of concessions from the arbitration deal on 25 September he will have done the Windward Islands a tremendous favour.
Parliament wants to help.
I am afraid that in this case free trade means that those countries are free to see their economies and their democracies actually collapse.
The only alternative would be to call the whole WTO into question, but I do not think the majority of this House would want that.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure I need not remind you that the Community regulation setting up the COM in bananas is the result of a compromise respecting a balance between the interests of the various sources of Community supply (ACP and dollar area), and takes into account earlier commitments of the European Union, namely Community preference, preferential access for ACP state bananas, and GATT rules with regard to third countries.
If the basic regulations of 404/93 had granted operators import certificates and customs quotas only on the basis of purchases of Latin American bananas made in the three years prior to the COM, B operators, who had never in the past purchased these bananas, would not, on the basis of that criterion, have had access to the import certificate.
By setting out a specific provision, namely the granting of 30 % of import licences for Latin American bananas to B operators, the basic regulations precisely avoided the maintenance in the EU single market of the de facto monopoly granted prior to the COM by operators who had always marketed exclusively Latin American bananas.
The maintenance of this monopoly would have been all the more unlawful as Latin American bananas are less costly and would furthermore have been the only ones under the regulations to benefit from the increase in consumption of bananas in the Community market, due to the restrictions on deliveries of Community and ACP bananas, while the customs quota is adaptable in the light of increase in consumption.
Also, everything must be done to maintain the banana COM in its current form.
Even so, the common organization of the market in bananas was ratified in the Marrakech agreement by 116 countries.
In short, this is a problem about the sovereignty of the European Union and its Institutions, and about whose interests the European Union should serve.
Mr President, the rejection of the European Union's efforts to retain the banana regime spells utter disaster to small banana-growers in the Caribbean, in Europe and elsewhere.
The plantation workers of Chiquita, Del Monte and the other multinationals will not receive much benefit.
But we should also consider all alternative means of supporting the banana industry in these circumstances.
We must seek to put in hand measures to modify the system itself.
The Commission, Parliament and the Council should come together to formulate a programme, perhaps convening a conference and conducting a campaign to safeguard the interests of all small producers at risk, of whom the small banana producers are typical.
This position is all the more compelling when it involves the defence of the interests of European regions which are heavily penalized by negative structural factors in their economies and limited development, aggravated by peripheral geography and territorial discontinuity.
Banana production in European regions like the Autonomous Region of Madeira constitutes the principal and sometimes the only source of income for many thousands of Madeiran families and makes a strong contribution to the environmental balance of the region.
The economic and environmental damage, amongst other things, of having to reduce banana production in Madeira drastically, as a result of complete liberalization of trade in this product, is incalculable.
It will be unacceptable for the European Union not to maintain and defend a policy of quantitative management of the European market.
We think it would be appropriate to affirm now that, along with this policy of quantitative management, the European Union must continue to have available a system of income support, already in existence moreover, and that it must not only be maintained but must be fundamentally strengthened.
The policy of cooperation and support to the development of ACP countries established for decades and enshrined in successive Lomé agreements and in the European development fund is a necessary and sufficient basis to make it unacceptable for the European Union not to be able to apply preferential treatment to these countries in the banana sector, when it maintains this same preferential treatment in many other sectors.
Only 80 or 90 Members voted against.
Mr President, I realize that, because of the delicacy of the issue, Commissioner Fischler has been extremely cautious this afternoon.
If current attempts to establish this regime in the name of free trade lead to the loss of the small 30 % of the Community market which is all that remains to Community producers and ACP countries which have traditionally exported to the Union, then we will have done away with free trade.
I believe, Mr Commissioner, that at this moment the Commission has some regulations about free competition under Community law which the World Trade Organization has failed to take into account; it must be remembered that the World Trade Organization also has powers relating to services.
It is important for the very reasons that we want Member States of the EU to respect EU rules.
We have entered into these agreements because in many respects nation states are too small and because it pays to cooperate within a common set of rules, even if in some cases we think the rules are against us.
Within that organization we have, like other countries, made certain commitments which must be respected.
I am sure he would acknowledge, as I do, that the clear winner after this WTO ruling is Chiquita bananas.
As I am sure he is aware, a Senate committee is now looking at this influence and perhaps will shed some light on what was a rather sordid part of the US presidential election campaign.
The Caribbean producers have been somewhat perplexed at the ruling of the WTO.
I would also like to know whether the Commission is aware of the American amendments to our regime which have been drawn up at this moment and whether it intends to object to them, as I hope.
Commissioner Pinheiro says that we must have very clear development objectives in our international economic relations.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, it is well-known that the distribution of import licences is one of the bases of the COM in force since 1993, limiting entry of Central American bananas so as to guarantee the marketing of Community and ACP country production.
The conclusions of the WTO panel were firmly on the side of the countries which appealed against the current COM in bananas.
They represent only 3 % of world trade.
I believe that the Commission has a very firm obligation to help out those countries.
We want to exercise our right.
We want to ensure that they do have a right to grow bananas, in particular in the interests of the many people involved in banana production in those countries.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, today our committee would like to put on record that eleven years after the Chernobyl disaster, the problem is still unresolved.
The solution is linked to the will to affirm the role of the European Union in the recovery and development of countries like Ukraine where distortions linked to the move from a state economy to a market economy persist, distortions which are a burden on daily life.
The European Union has an instrument - pretty limited, true - in the Euratom loans to improve the safety and efficiency of reactors in third countries.
The Memorandum of Understanding signed in Ottawa in December 1995, provided for the closure of the Chernobyl reactor in the year 2000, completed by a long term energy strategy including, as a least cost investment plan, the completion of reactors K2 and R4 which you, Mr President, have mentioned.
The report, chaired by Professor Surrey of Sussex University, was followed, as we know, by an avalanche of documents, including the Lahmeyer and Stone &amp; Webster report, the subject of analysis by our parliamentary committee.
All this has done no more than create further confusion on the matter and has not indicated a clear route for taking a decision at Community level.
We recall that we have held specific hearings on this issue, we have listened to the experts, we have also analysed the positions of those countries, of the energy committees and agencies, but the plain fact is that nothing has changed.
The EBRD itself has established a series of working groups in order to clarify to what point the conditions of economic viability, environmental viability and nuclear safety are respected in the chosen option - least cost investment - to complete the Russian-designed WWER 1000 megawatt electrical power Khmelnitsky 2 and Rovno 4 reactors, to meet the safety standards approved by whoever originally conceived of these nuclear reactors.
In December 1995 the G7 decided on a comprehensive programme to support the decision by President Kuchma to proceed with the closure of Chernobyl in the year 2000.
The G7 has now made considerable progress in the implementation of this programme.
Some US$ 1 billion in the form of loans have been made available for investments in non-nuclear projects and some $ 500 million have been raised for the purchase of equipment, the subsidizing of technical studies and projects relating to the closure of the Chernobyl power plant.
Important aspects of the G7 policy for Ukraine are therefore the modernization of thermal and hydro-electric power stations, the promotion of energy saving, but also, as rightly stated by the European Parliament, the financing of the dismantling of two nuclear power stations, Rovno 4 and Khmelnitsky 2, still under construction.
Taking all this into consideration, after serious and in-depth deliberation with the other G7 partners, the Commission has come to the conclusion that a phased implementation of the Rovno 4 and Khmelnitsky 2 project offers the best guarantee for the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding.
The Commission is, however, of the opinion that this can only happen if at that time the other international financial institutions, in the first place, and particularly the EBRD, have also played their part and made a loan available; if, furthermore, the Ukraine authorities have again confirmed that Chernobyl will be closed in the year 2000 and also if sufficient guarantees are obtained for the dismantling of the reactors on the basis of international nuclear safety standards; and if, finally, a number of other technical and financial conditions have been met satisfactorily.
With the aid of our Tacis technical assistance programme a safety programme for the two uncompleted reactors concerned has been developed.
As you know, they are 70 % completed but the work has been stopped for some years.
There is close collaboration between the EBRD and the Commission with regard to the preparation of the loan applications, although the criteria and procedures for the EBRD on the one hand and Euratom on the other hand do differ from each other.
The Commission recently responded to the report by the European Court of Auditors on activities of Tacis in the field of nuclear energy in Ukraine.
On the basis of this report, a number of mainly administrative measures have been taken.
The report, however, did not contain any explicit reference to the two unfinished nuclear reactors.
Mr President, few countries in the world have more difficulty producing, importing and using energy than Ukraine.
The prospects in their own coal industry are not good so it is not surprising that they have decided to carry on with their nuclear industry.
If I understand the Commissioner correctly, what has now been decided is that the two reactors are going to be completed with funds from Euratom and the EIB and that the EBRD is going to have no part of that.
We are always talking and doing studies, yet the question is so simple.
We are not talking about whether there should or should not be nuclear power, nor are we deciding the energy policy of Ukraine (which only the Ukrainians have the right to do).
Mr President, we are all agreed, Chernobyl must close in the year 2000.
That was agreed in December 1995 between the G7 and Ukraine.
The EBRD panel is well aware that dismantling the two existing nuclear power plants is a poor use of funds.
I should like to ask the Commissioner if the Commission can still turn the tide to some extent by only supporting either K2 or R4 financially, and I hope it can.
Thank you very much, Mr Papayannakis.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is question time (B4-0520/97).
The Commission has examined Mr Escudero's question very carefully.
But it can also, when appropriate, call directly upon acknowledged experts in the various cultural sectors.
The fact that the experts are changed periodically seems to me a very important point.
Mr Commissioner, I have two questions: first, the extent to which the advancement of minority groups and/or minority languages, perhaps better called 'languages less often used in the European Union' , play a part in Kaleidoscope; and secondly, what role is played in Kaleidoscope by the eastward enlargement and the preparatory process for the candidate states.
As you know, in many of the proposals this is covered by some existing Community programme which can allocate resources, such as the Phare programme itself, but the choice is theirs.
I believe that is very important.
Although these countries can still have problems with the development of a market economy or the application of Community patrimony, nevertheless there is no doubt that they can contribute to the final composition of the cultural sphere.
On Wednesday, 9 July 1997, the Court of Justice ruled in the De Agostini case that Sweden could not ban advertising aimed at children carried by TV channels broadcasting from other countries, such as TV3 or Kanal 5.
The Court's judgement could be contradictory because, as pointed out in the Swedish National Board for Consumer Policies' study of children and advertising, " younger children in particular often take literally what is said about various products' .
The Court of Justice, in its rulings on these measures and certain well-known cases (the Agostini affair and TV Shop) describes them as a complete set of measures specifically designed for the protection of children from television programmes in general and television advertising in particular.
Also, the Court of Justice makes a clear distinction between misleading advertising and television advertising designed to attract children's attention.
So these are two clearly separate questions.
In fact, neither Parliament, the Council nor the Commission felt that such a prohibition was necessary or justified.
Nevertheless, taking account of a petition from a delegation to the Council, the Commission did promise to carry out a study into the repercussions of television advertising and telesales on children, with a view to re-examining this question when the directive underwent its first revision.
As you know, the directive has several years of life, so to speak, before being revised again.
As I say, the Commission is going to carry out that study in plenty of time, bearing in mind that Article 26 of the directive states that the Commission has to present the report on its application by 31 December 2000 at the latest, with proposals for its alteration, if necessary.
I therefore hope that a start will be made as soon as possible, since this is a major problem, not only in our country, Sweden, but throughout Europe.
Consumers in Sweden have, by the way, reacted very strongly against the unrestricted children's advertising found in Europe.
As I understand it, you expect to have an answer by 31 December 2000 at the latest.
I put it to you that you are now trying to alter something which was approved by Parliament only a few months ago, when the transfer of the current directive has not yet come into force in any country.
Thus we do not believe that the existing legislation is enough, but rather we want to investigate what can be done in the future.
Question No 25 by Irini Lambraki (H-0563/97) Subject: Agreements between airlines What action does the Commission intend to take to protect the European public against agreements between airlines which infringe IATA safety rules and EU competition rules, as in the case of the agreement between Sabena and Virgin?
The Commission is satisfied that agreements between airlines have not resulted in violations of existing safety rules.
All Community carriers possess the appropriate licences and operator certificates under the terms of the 1992 Council regulation on the licensing of carriers.
Those licensing authorities are therefore in a position to monitor the possible consequences for air safety of any agreement entered into between Community carriers and, of course, they fulfil that duty.
Under Article 85 of the Treaty any agreement between air carriers which may affect trade between Member States and which results in the restriction and distortion of competition within the common market is incompatible with the common market and is therefore prohibited.
The exception to that rule, as provided for in both the 1987 and the 1993 regulations, is those agreements which may ultimately result in better services for consumers when such agreements have as their purpose the joint planning and coordination of schedules, the joint operation of services on new or low-density routes, the holding of tariff consultations and slot-allocation and airport scheduling.
Secondly, I feel even more strongly that it is a question of passenger safety and, at least now that so much is heard about airline companies, we must bear in mind the safety of thousands of people who travel both in Europe and elsewhere.
Firstly, unless the airlines involved, like all other air carriers in the European Union, satisfied the safety rules, they simply would not have licences.
From time to time it is known that we are investigating cases and that the Commission is pursuing a case from the point of view of cartels or dominant positions.
On the basis of the information currently available to the Commission services, I believe that the acquisition of 35 % of the shares of CSI by the ARBED group will give rise to a concentration that will have to be examined under both the merger regulation and the relevant provisions of the ECSC Treaty.
As the details of the operation and in particular the relationship between ARBED and the Spanish companies which are negotiating for up to 50 % of the capital of CSI, have yet to be finalized, no notification has been made to date and no investigations have been carried out in relation to the concentration.
As far as the proper valuation of the company is concerned, prior to its sale, it appears that ARBED paid the full market price for its shareholding, as its offer was made in competition with other steel producers.
So, this proves that there has been normal competition for participation in CSI.
So, in any case, we will have to wait for the investigation and the final findings.
This is in line with Community policy but it has to be looked into properly from the point of view of competition rules and state rules.
Question No 28 by Niels Sindal (H-0617/97) Subject: Government aid It is deplorable that, while opposed in principle to national government aid, the Commission and the Council continue to give the go-ahead for packages of massive national aid, particularly to ailing shipyards, most recently in Germany, Spain and Greece.
Mr President, I shall also be brief, as these decisions were taken some time ago already, and as the honourable member knows, these are cases that have been with us for years.
In the case of Greece, the delay in the payment of subsidies which had been authorized some years earlier, prompted the Council to accept the Commission's proposal, under which interest relating to late payments could be added, but nothing more.
The Council considered that this was a matter of settling a case from the past, and that consequently, there was in reality nothing new.
The Spanish authorities produce reports on the state of the progress in the commitments, four times annually, and we send teams on site to check, in the shipyards, that commitments have effectively been met.
The last case involves Germany.
Here too, this was the consequence of a drama that had involved Bremen Vulkan.
But as the money had been taken out by Bremen Vulkan, compensation had to be made.
Furthermore, as you know, a very considerable reduction in capacity will take place in Bremen, in Germany.
I can tell you already, that the Commission will take a fairly strict attitude with regard to assistance in this sector.
Since I put this question, fate has decreed that a Kellogg's breakfast cereal plant, which stands beside a shipyard which has been closed in my hometown, is now going to close to as it is being moved to Spain and Manchester.
They are objective areas - objective 1 and objective 2 - where subsidies are also provided in a different way.
My question therefore equally concerns what the Commission is going to do to ensure that there is capacity in the Commission to monitor how aid is provided from both Community and state funds in future.
I wish to suggest to the honourable Member that we continue this discussion later because in the coming weeks and months there will be several initiatives by the Commission, including some by Monika WulfMathies in the field of the structural funds.
As far as national regional aid is concerned, I will be trying to reduce the eligible regions - at least to some proportion - and also to reduce the levels of aid intensity linked to a whole series of other initiatives to tighten the rules and try to develop a stricter public aid policy.
I would just suggest to the honourable Members that they wait a few weeks and then there will be a proposal from us on the future of shipbuilding in Europe and what we think might be envisaged from the point of view of state aid.
So there will be many opportunities to discuss it further, and I reiterate our willingness to discuss it fully with Parliament.
Secondly, that an application for asylum made by an EU citizen shall not normally be seen as valid, since the Member States are to be regarded as safe countries of origin.
Thirdly, that all Member States retain their right to make decisions and can therefore always examine applications for asylum from EU citizens on condition that the Council of Ministers is informed and the examination is done on the basis that the application is manifestly unfounded.
I also think it is important to establish that each Member State has a perfect right to examine each asylum application itself.
I would just like to put the following question to Commissioner Gradin.
Mrs Gradin, you have confirmed firstly the independence of the courts; secondly, the sovereignty of Member States to examine any application for asylum; and thirdly, that these applications will be considered unfounded from the outset if they originate from citizens of a State which guarantees all the basic rights and is therefore considered a safe place to live.
Secondly, an application for asylum made by an EU citizen shall not normally be seen as valid since the Member States shall be regarded, as the protocol states, as 'safe countries of origin' .
Thirdly, all Member States retain their right to make decisions and can therefore always examine applications for asylum from EU citizens on condition that the Council of Ministers is informed and that the examination is done on the basis that the application should be manifestly unfounded.
The battle against narcotics was also a major issue in the structural dialogue during the Irish Presidency in spring 1996.
The applicant countries are expected to adopt our acquis communautaire .
This also includes the battle against narcotics in general and chemical drugs in particular.
On 16 June the Council of Ministers passed a resolution to set up what we call an early warning system.
Moreover, since 1993 we have provided technical assistance through Phare, not least for the control of chemical precursors.
A lot remains to be done, of course, and I am working intensively to ensure that this issue will continue to be prioritized in future in our cooperation with the new democracies in the east.
I am very pleased with the answer and with the work which the Commissioner presented, but I have two questions in connection with this.
What action can the Commission take to help Mr Clark return his wife to the United Kingdom and what further action to ensure that greater harmony of immigration policy exists throughout the EU so that cases such as this do not recur in the future?
In such cases a family member can assert his or her right to family reunion.
For citizens of third countries who need visas, Community law requires that a visa shall be issued at no cost and without burdensome procedures.
However, if it is a citizen who lives in the country where he or she is a citizen, the family members are covered by the national rules and laws applicable in that country.
According to rulings by the European Court of Justice, a person can assert his or her right to freedom of movement and right of residence against their own Member State.
This applies when he or she returns to their homeland after having resided in another Member State.
On 30 June the Commission adopted a draft convention on rules for immigration throughout the European Union.
I accept, as you said, that the role of Member States in this matter is crucial.
This initial debate resulted in the Council Resolution of 25 September 1995 on the division of responsibility with regard to a temporary solution for the admission and residence of people in need of asylum.
This was followed by the Council of Ministers' Decision of 4 March 1996 on an early warning and contingency system.
The Commission has tried to take the question one step further with its proposal in April this year for joint action on temporary asylum for refugees.
The European Parliament has also contributed to stimulating concrete efforts for a division of the burden of responsibility by introducing two new budgetary lines.
It is based on the idea of shared responsibility between the Member States.
The other line, B7-6008, covers the Community's financing of pilot projects which aim to facilitate the voluntary return of people who have received temporary asylum in the Member States.
The Commission has already successfully got the necessary legal instrument through the Council of Ministers, based on Article K 3(2 b), for the implementation of these two budgetary lines.
The Council decision was taken on 22 July.
It is a summary of the central points of the Member States' policies in this area, in particular the rights and obligations which each Member State gives people who are granted temporary asylum.
According to the proposed joint action, the Commission should report annually to the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers on how the rules on temporary asylum are being implemented in the Member States as well as the financial effects.
The Commission is of the opinion that in these cases national authorities are responsible for the welfare of the animals in question.
Mr President, Mrs McIntosh, as I said earlier, one must first bear in mind that the question of animal protection is not solely the task of, or not solely regulated by, Community law, but that merely specific aspects of animal protection are regulated at Community level.
Anything more than that comes within the authority of Member States and their legislation.
Where regulations under Community law are concerned, in this case Guideline 119/93, Member States are also charged with the execution and application of these Guidelines.
Question No 37 by John Iversen (H-0550/97) Subject: Pesticides One of the results of the new Treaty of Amsterdam will be that a number of directives now based on Article 43 such as the Pesticides Directive, 91/414 will instead be based on Article 129.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Guideline 91/414 concerning the dissemination of plant pesticides has been in effect since 1993.
The first testing stage for previous active agents and the testing of certain new agents has just started.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this question concerns the bringing into circulation of so-called vegetative propagation material from grapes.
As for the participation of representatives of the private sector in meetings of the Standing Committee, the relevant Council decision establishing the Committee only permits representatives of Member States.
For this reason some are grown in France, then loaded and sold again to Portugal.
Question No 39 by Arlindo Cunha (H-0595/97) Subject: The Commission's strategy for CAP reform The next CAP reform must provide the EU's farmers with the resources and conditions they need to adapt to the increasing external competition caused by eastward enlargement and GATT.
This will lead to more than half of agricultural production in certain countries of southern Europe being excluded from the premiums of direct aid to income, creating discrimination difficult to sustain at the political level.
I should like to remind you that here in Parliament it has been repeatedly urged that the Commission should only make such proposals when reports on these two sectors are being discussed in the European Parliament, and when a view has been expressed on them.
You may rest assured that these concrete proposals will be made available just as punctually - at the end of the year, or the beginning of next year - as the firm proposals for the areas grain, milk and beef, so that these southern products can be discussed within the framework of more general discussion.
I should also like to draw attention to the fact that there is naturally a fundamental difference between grain, milk and beef products - although I must add in parenthesis that these products are also of the greatest importance in southern countries - and that is, that we are recommending here a marked reduction in price guarantees which will result in prices falling in these areas.
In the other sectors we are making no recommendations that would result in a fall in market prices for olive oil or tobacco grown by tobacco farmers within the European Union.
Mediterranean farmers need you to give them these guarantees of future prospects, as you do for other parts of Europe.
We want to make no differentiation between farmers from the south and those from the north.
The future of agriculture must be secured throughout Europe, and the reform proposals should, amongst other things, help to clarify what we can secure this future with.
Since the allotted time for questions to the Commission is now up, Questions Nos 40 to 85 will be dealt with in writing .
The completion of K2 and R4 nuclear reactors is part of an agreement between the G7 and Ukraine on the closure of Chernobyl.
Other least-cost studies were unofficially undertaken later, but these were not done by an independent panel of experts.
I must labour this point.
The official economic due diligence, I must emphasize, was done by an independent panel of experts and it follows that in the absence of a weighty published critique of the panel's work, any work, such as that being done by Stone and Webster, is unofficial and its basis must therefore be suspect under the EBRD operating principles for investment in the energy sector.
Indeed the Stone and Webster study has changed the assumptions to try to make K2 and R4 economic, and the model produced a long list of other projects which became economic before K2 and R4.
ECU 30m nuclear-safety funds have already been committed to the K2 and R4 reactors through taxes.
Despite EP budget responsibility, decisions are being taken in a secretive manner without any consultation or proper information being given to Parliament or any clarity on the decision-making procedure.
Parliament is, along with the Council, the budgetary authority.
The budget for 1997 includes a stipulation that requires that Parliament be consulted in advance about individual Community loans.
If we want to close Chernobyl we need to look carefully at what is actually being done in that particular area.
Mr President, the more we hear about this whole project the more alarmed I have become.
I have the feeling that this Parliament could become embroiled in a cause célèbre with the Commission.
If it is the case that the EBRD is evading its own requirements to go for the lowest cost option, this is a serious matter which could have serious repercussions.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the closure of the nuclear power station at Chernobyl is an extremely sensitive subject, in the light of the dramatic accident which occurred, and which we naturally all remember.
In the light of the dangers of this type of power station, it is in the interests of all that the closure of Chernobyl should occur as soon as possible.
However, the Ukrainian government has put a prior condition on the closure of the unit still operating at Chernobyl, namely finance for the completion of the replacement nuclear power stations at Khmelnitzky 2 and Rovno 4.
If the EBRD is to be managed as a private bank under common law, one cannot really see why there is any need for its existence.
Furthermore, it appears to us regrettable that the European authorities which, in general, and fairly systematically, it must be said, push for the integration of European states, even when this goes against the wish of the population, as can be seen in Bosnia, does not recommend Ukraine at any time to intensify its energy cooperation with the Russian Federation.
The wish increasingly to dissociate members of the CIS one from another, and so make them into Western economic colonies, in a manner of speaking, may well be profitable in the very short term, but probably not in the longer term.
In our view, only such a political line of rapprochement could provide some safe outcome, first for the urgent needs of short term nuclear safety, and secondly, for the need to create a climate of peaceful cooperation in Europe, reminding ourselves of this obvious truth, which is apparently too often forgotten: the Russian Federation is also in Europe, and no-one has the power to expel it.
Clearly we need a solution to Chernobyl.
We are indebted to our colleague, Gordon Adam, for his extremely thorough report - quite characteristic of that very diligent person - on the situation in Ukraine, which is clearly terrifying.
This is not the time for a debate on whether or not nuclear power is a good idea and I urge colleagues not to misuse this debate for that reason.
We are looking at a specific case.
Clearly, in western Europe, constructing nuclear power stations in our market and in our conditions is not always the least-cost at the moment.
The energy situation in Ukraine raises much wider questions than those we have posed this evening and we have alluded to some other aspects and, indeed, other possibilities.
Mr President, safety aspects also militate against completion of the two nuclear power stations.
The planned modernization programme will not even comply, Mr Commissioner, with the new Russian safety standards, as the construction of the reactor type used in K2 and R4 still fulfills the old Russian standards.
I think it is irresponsible to allow Chernobyl to run for even one more day, or perhaps to use it as an excuse for the construction of two more, equally problematic, nuclear power stations.
A few days ago the President of the EBRD, Jacques Larosière, was in Austria, where he held talks with members of the Austrian Government.
Austria came out quite clearly against any financing of these two nuclear power stations.
When one considers the heat loss of everything being built in Ukraine - up to 60 % - that is so huge that one can easily imagine that one could help the people there with far fewer resources and in a much less dangerous manner.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I shall address myself directly to you, because this debate seems to me to be utterly absurd.
Mr President, the results of the disaster at Chernobyl have hung like a sword of Damocles over Ukraine and the whole of Europe for more than ten years.
Everybody knows today that Chernobyl must be definitively closed.
It is simple: two nuclear power stations are 80 % to 85 % completed.
When two weeks ago, during a summit with Ukraine, we again asked President Kuchma whether he was able to confirm that his earlier political commitment to close Chernobyl in the year 2000 was still applicable, he said that it was, inasfar as the international community is also prepared to honour the commitment that it made in the Memorandum of Understanding in 1994 and 1995.
But it also involves, among other things, supporting completion of the two nuclear power plants under construction.
If the international community does not come up with the financing - let us also be realistic about this - then we know that Ukraine has already reserved funds in its own budget at the moment in order to achieve the dismantling of the two reactors in another way, but that of course does not give the West the opportunity to lay down the safety conditions that now form part of the loans that we wish to provide for the dismantling of the reactors.
The Commission will shoulder its responsibilities in this regard.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Van den Broek.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 noon.
The debate is closed.
Often technological developments and changes in the social and institutional framework have quickly deprived a business of the basis of its business concept.
General instruments, tax incentives, joint industrial research projects and the exploitation of the results are more suitable than quantified set targets in the specific programmes.
That is chiefly a task for the individual Member States.
We should not give our citizens the idea that the Amsterdam Treaty can solve the problem of unemployment in Europe.
In our report we stress that innovation policy in the Member States is a substantial part of the education system, and we point out, among other things, that in the short term neither legislation nor measures will contribute to a genuine culture of innovation.
It is appropriate that the first action plan for innovation in Europe should come from Florence which was the centre of so much early European civilization.
We are aware that the correlation between research, technological development and innovation on the one hand and productivity growth and job creation on the other is very strong.
Clearly we need better provision of finance for small businesses.
Essentially this will be at the individual, local and national level but it is important that the Union sets the operational environment.
This action plan is good and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy of this Parliament welcomes it.
But we need to prioritize to a greater extent, which is not easy for the Commission but which is essential, to create more opportunity to provide equity finance and to work on the European company statute.
I welcome this report and believe that Parliament should spend a lot of time looking at what the Commission is doing and ensuring that our innovation policies, which will really foster jobs, will take us forward into the next century.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have been appointed rapporteur on the current and future situation regarding European industrial competitiveness, and I am therefore working urgently on this important dossier.
I can also tell you that I am a militant Web-surfer, and therefore extremely conscious, not only of the great importance of the Net, but also of our considerable backwardness in this field.
I can also say that I shall include a number of those observations, reflections and propositions in my own report, which is due in a few months.
The shortfall in research is, without any doubt, one of the causes of the rise in unemployment in the European Union in the last few years, and the situation has been aggravated by very substantial delays in the field of new technologies - a dossier with which I am also well acquainted - and in particular, the take-up of new technology among the population, and especially among the youth, through our national educational systems.
For this, we need larger budgets, as everyone will agree, but also priorities in our actions, a proposal with which I also agree.
However employment presupposes economic growth, which itself requires research, technological development and innovation.
We have problems with flexibility, which is noticeably worse, perhaps because we in Europe cultivate rights instead of incentives, and rules instead of opportunities.
The way to more jobs, better workplaces and a better environment and working environment is through innovation.
That applies to this Parliament where I myself have the honour of being responsible for technological innovation in connection with the new buildings, but it also applies, for example, to European schools, which should be an example, but which from a technological point of view are definitely not an example, perhaps because they are subject to a centralized form of management.
We agree with Mr Rovsing's appraisal of communication failings and about the need to establish priorities and clarify the European Union's obligations.
However, there are various contradictions and ambiguities, which mean that in the end our opinion is not entirely positive.
Secondly, there are calls for European policy to improve the structure of research - which we think is correct - and also its relationship with small businesses.
Thirdly, we think that although the investments supported by the Commission are important and result in improved funding, the Maastricht criteria are nevertheless imposing budgetary restrictions on research as well, both overall and in each country.
Fourthly, it is said that there is a need for a favourable climate, but students' training causes an increase in competitiveness and individualism, and this can hinder that favourable climate.
Finally, we believe that we need to rely much more on the workers and the unions, both within companies and outside them, to be able to create this climate of technological innovation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has a special place within the industrial world.
The role of the authorities in this field, as in many others incidentally, is to create an environment favourable to corporate innovation.
The report's recommendations lay great emphasis on the role of small and medium-sized companies.
Their role is clear, but you will allow me to give equal emphasis to the major role of the larger companies in this field.
We should also, possibly, have raised the question of technology transfers and cooperation between large and small companies, particularly large companies and sub-contracting companies.
In this field, as in others, the principle of subsidiarity must not only be raised, but also respected.
Finally and in conclusion, I would like to insist on the fact that innovation can only develop in an economic and social climate which is favourable to enterprise, and that it is vain to promote special campaigns in this field and to devise assistance and incentives, if economic policy is locked up in narrow monetarism, and does not favour growth.
I have also found them in the Commission document and in the excellent report by the rapporteur.
I think they could be made better use of and in order to get the banks in on this, I think this debate could be an excellent way of doing this.
It is stimulating in its criticism and motivating for the Commission, because the report invites the Commission to do more, particularly in the fields of finance for innovation and management of Community programmes for research and development.
The Commission is sensitive to the rapporteur's recommendation, which invites the Commission to set up priorities on four points.
The Commission shares the opinion of the rapporteur with regard to the priority to be granted to the question of finance and innovation.
The Commission on 1 July 1997 launched a pilot project - Hightech, Innovation and Technology Equity Capital - in collaboration with the European Investment Fund, to encourage private venture capital operators to invest in the start-up phases of technologically innovative projects.
The project was very warmly welcomed, and in two months, many funds were committed to playing a more active role.
The European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund should also in the future, and in accordance with the resolution of the European summit for growth and employment held at Amsterdam, contribute to the improvement of the potential for innovation among companies in the European Union.
On 25 June 1997 the Commission adopted the Green Paper on the Community patent and on patent systems in Europe.
And you know that in this field there is much that needs to be done.
It is vital that results financed out of public money should be better exploited, and this service should contribute to that.
The third point is that the framework programme should mark a change in Community policy towards research for innovation.
The rapprochement between the themes of innovation and small and medium-sized companies within a single programme should make it possible to open up this framework programme more widely to small and medium-sized companies, and to ensure they benefit more broadly from its results, by making a better evaluation of their requirements.
The improvement in methods of management of the framework programme should facilitate the re-orientation of programmes or projects currently in their execution phase, in the light of technological and social requirements.
The implementation of the proposals of the White Paper on education and training, in particular Erasmus and apprenticeship, and the pilot projects such as 'Learning in the information society' , should contribute to promoting innovation and ensuring its image is democratized.
In conclusion, the debate around the Green Paper and the publication of the action plan have raised awareness of the importance of innovation for company competitiveness, for growth and for employment.
Parliament's recommendations and suggestions will be taken into account by the Commission in the implementation of its action plan and in the preparation of the Luxembourg summit on employment.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Cresson.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, one of the things that impressed the world most in terms of global environmental action was the Montreal Protocol - the agreement, that was unique at that time, between 24 nations to work towards a ban on CFCs.
That has now grown to 163 countries and indeed production is now banned in the European Union, in OECD countries and will be in developing countries from the year 2010.
The solution must be a ban on sales; not just of virgin CFCs which is important and taken on board quite substantially by the European Commission and a number of European nations, but a total ban because of the problem of relabelling and lack of control.
I, personally, have always been a great subscriber to the principle of subsidiarity in European decision-making, but this is one area in a global environmental issue where there is no room for subsidiarity.
I ask the Commission, which has been a strong advocate of reform, what step it is now going to take to stop this smuggling of CFCs into the European Union?
However, in the matter about which we have just received information from our colleague, the Parliament should be invited to congratulate the Commission services, which are frequently put in a difficult position because, in the field of combatting fraud, they bring to light fraud which very often is more or less covered by the administrations of the Member States.
It should be remembered that production of CFCs has been banned since 1995 in the European Union, and is also in general banned in all the developed countries, and will be so in all the developing countries from 2010.
Nevertheless, we see that the lack of international customs cooperation and the poor quality of cooperation between the customs departments of the Member States, in matters affecting the environment, creates breaches in the protection to which our countries should be entitled.
The intervention of UCLAF is therefore a major victory, in so far as coordination at European Union level seems to have borne fruit.
The Group of the European Radical Alliance wishes to invite Parliament to make progress towards total prohibition of CFC imports into the European Union.
The European Commission unit for combatting fraud has intervened, as you emphasized, to institute and coordinate inquiries with the customs departments of the Member States.
These inquiries have recently resulted in discoveries of illegal imports into a number of Member States (Germany, Netherlands, Belgium) of some 1, 000 tonnes of CFC and halon of Chinese origin.
Simultaneously, several initiatives have been taken to reinforce the control system and seek out possible sources of illegal imports.
In these past few days in particular, parties to the Montreal protocol on substances depleting the ozone layer have been studying the problem as part of a tenth anniversary meeting, and are discussing a proposal whose aim is to oblige all parties to set up a regime of licences for the import and export of substances of this type.
The Commission intends, at the time of the revision of Council Regulation 3093/94 relating to such substances, to propose the prohibition of the sale and use of CFCs, whose production has already been banned since 1995.
The regulation lays the obligation on all Member States to set out persuasive sanctions in the event of non-compliance with provisions, but it is their responsibility, clearly, to apply these sanctions effectively.
Indeed, in May last year Mrs Bjerregaard said: ' we obviously are interested to study reports from the UK, but we will have to see if there is enough information to take the matter forward' .
Anybody who has studied this trade knows quite clearly that it is a classic example of the operations of illegal crime and illegal trade in general.
There are clearly alternatives to all existing uses and the Commission has been slow to ban the use and the sale of CFCs within the Community.
A World Bank plan exists to buy out almost half the world's production in Russia, costing only $ 27 million, yet the response by Member States so far has been poor.
Britain has offered $ 3 million, Denmark has offered $ 2 million, Norway - it is not in the Union, but at least it is a responsible country - has offered $ 2 million.
The Americans have also offered money.
There is also evidence that some other countries in eastern and central Europe are not obeying the current agreement on ending the production and use of CFCs, which have been identified as an ozone killer.
Methyl bromide, which has two thirds of the damaging potential of CFC, and is used mainly in developing countries in agriculture, is principal amongst these.
The same applies, though, to the partially-halogenated hydro-chloro-fluorocarbons, the HCFCs, which are being increasingly introduced throughout the world as replacements for CFCs, and whose damaging effect is only 20 % of the CFCs' potential.
For this reason we cannot vote under point 7 for inclusion of the HCFCs.
The European Union should, as already agreed, lead with a good example here.
If I have understood the Commission properly, during the Montreal conference that ends tomorrow, it will also put forward proposals to prohibit the sale and use of all CFCs worldwide.
This is therefore a very serious problem as everyone has stressed in this debate.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, smuggling occurs when it brings in a lot of money.
As I said earlier, the European Commission anti-fraud unit has opened and coordinated inquiries with the customs departments of the Member States.
Yet others again have raised questions about the current situation on the application of Community legislation in the various Member States.
Replacement products used in this sector are hydrocarbons, HCFCs, and to a lesser extent, HFCs.
In the refrigeration equipment field, the industry believes that a volume of between 50, 000 and 100, 000 tonnes of CFC is still contained in existing equipment.
The question may arise as to whether the Commission believes that total prohibition of the sale and use of CFCs - which is equivalent to drying up the supply of CFCs - would also be the most appropriate means to eliminate demand and facilitate inspections.
The position of the Commission is therefore very firm.
Furthermore, the European Community has put forward a proposal whose aim is to forbid the sale of CFCs in all industrialized countries.
The European Community has presented a proposal whose aim is to forbid sales of CFCs in all industrialized countries.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Cresson.
We are all convinced that guarantee rules for all should be established at the international level, but we are still concerned, all the more so as the decision on this closer consultation between the European Union and the United States was part of an agreement which led to the suspension of the WTO panel when the United States was in the dock over its Helms-Burton Act.
That is only one example of what could happen if this chapter is reopened.
Finally, and this is a basic clarification, if there is a wish to apply a retroactive criterion to Cuba and support the approach of the United States on nationalization issues, given that in that country a large part of the property belonging to foreigners or Cubans who have emigrated to the United States was nationalized 36 years ago, and considering that, while virtually every other state has for years sought compromise solutions on its citizens' nationalized property, the United States has refused to do so, the new rules under discussion could be extended to any commercial operation, any investment in that island, in contradiction, I repeat, to the decisions which have been taken by the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I say first of all that looking at the question generally, the existence of the World Trade Organization and the ability to take a case to the World Trade Organization has been the best and perhaps the only effective weapon the European Union has against the completely unacceptable attempt of the United States to export its policies and impose them upon us.
Without such a dispute settlement mechanism, without those rules, we would have very little ammunition indeed in this contest.
I say that because it illustrates very well the importance of the European Union staying loyal to the principles of the World Trade Organization because they enable us to defend our interests.
The understanding of 11 April 1997 reached between the European Union and the United States calls for the development of disciplines which 'should inhibit and deter the future acquisition of investments from any state which has expropriated or nationalized such investments in contravention of international law and subsequent dealings in covert investments' .
It is clear from that language that the understanding does not necessarily provide for the negotiation of disciplines which would prohibit future investments in expropriative property because it talks about inhibiting and deterring and also refers to investments in contravention of international law and not otherwise.
Of course not all such investments will be in contravention of international law.
In addition and in parallel, the understanding also calls for the European Union and the United States to work together to address and resolve through agreed principles the issues of conflicting jurisdictions and secondary boycotts.
It is very important to note that the negotiations on this point have to be parallel with the negotiations on investment disciplines.
The full implementation of the understanding would call for the United States to grant the European Union a multilateral regime waiver under this legislation, which is not the subject of the case in the WTO but nonetheless is part of our agreement with the United States.
The understanding presupposes the continued waiver of Title 3 of the Helms-Burton Act and also that Congress will amend Helms-Burton to permit a presidential waiver of Title 4.
With regard to the observation that the European Union has committed itself to join the efforts of the United States to promote democracy in Cuba, which is referred to in the text of the oral question, I would remind the honourable Member that the language of the understanding is quite clear.
It does not contain a commitment on the part of the European Union and the United States to take action jointly.
Each side remains free to judge how, where and when it wishes to raise these issues in Cuba.
Therefore, on the question of whether the Commission considers that such disciplines would make it impossible to invest in Cuba, taking account of the historical factors mentioned by the honourable Member, I would say clearly once again that the coverage of past expropriations is not excluded by the wording of the understanding but that it presupposes that a clear violation of international law has taken place and, as I have indicated, the understanding only commits the European Union to disciplines which would inhibit and deter investments, and not to disciplines which would prohibit investments.
The next question relates to the fact that international law provides rules on investment protection, including rules on the legality of expropriations.
The Commission and the Member States have consistently in our negotiations insisted on the fact that under the understanding, disciplines could only apply to expropriations which have taken place in contravention of international law.
It will be clear from what I have said that the negotiations are currently at a complex and delicate stage.
The Commission's objective remains to achieve a balanced solution covering both the disciplines for investment in expropriated property in the sense that I have described them, and the principles on conflicting requirements and secondary boycotts.
Any deal would have to lead to Congress adopting the legislative amendments to permit a waiver of Title 4 of the Helms-Burton Act; and the United States' Administration would also have to grant a multilateral regime waiver under the D'Amato Act.
For the moment we do not have an agreement but those are the principles and procedures which we are applying.
And we have never accepted the extra-territorial principle of the act, which interferes with the trade relations of the European Union and its Member States with third countries such as Cuba.
I should like to say, Mr President, that our political group has always rejected the Helms-Burton Act.
Bearing in mind that when the European Commission signed this agreement with the Clinton Administration the time limit was 15 October, it would perhaps be a good idea if the Commission could tell us the position of the United States Congress as regards the amendment of Title 4.
Mr President, we have debated the Helms-Burton Act here many times and passed resolutions on it, and the position of my group with regard to the extra-territorial provisions in this Act is unchanged.
Only 20 % of this act deals with trade policy in the context of the WTO and that is the prime concern of the Commission and Parliament.
But 80 % of it involves investments in Cuba by third countries and then in former American ownership.
My second question concerns the multilateral agreement on investment that is currently being prepared by the OECD.
The agreement will be signed in May, if it is good, by 29 countries and the Union.
The question is whether the American property expropriated in Cuba 36 years ago was illegally expropriated.
I should like to know the opinion of the Commissioner on these two questions.
This is a concept which I have never heard mentioned in international law and I would like to know what it consists of, especially in view of the fact that until not long ago the European Union had been holding talks with the Cuban Government in order to reach an agreement on trade and cooperation since, as I should like to remind you, Cuba is the only country with which we do not have such an agreement.
It seems to us that the discussions at the WTO are resulting in greater acceptance of the premises put forward by the United States, and do not safeguard the interests of the European Union - the sovereignty of the countries of the European Union.
When they talk about regulating investments, they are of course thinking about Cuba - as you know as well as I do, Sir Leon - about Cuba and the investments which certain countries in the European Union are putting into Cuba.
But in May this year, Mr Commissioner, you proceeded independently and we reprimanded you.
Two months later we were proved quite right.
On 11 June the US Congress further increased the internationally much-criticized US embargo.
The EU must not continue to knuckle under, but must sensibly fund the existing budget items, instead of deleting them.
It must at long last introduce a treaty of cooperation with Cuba.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, relationships between the United States and Europe are studded with misunderstanding and divergences in approach, even in fields where the objectives sought are in reality identical.
The case of the Helms-Burton legislation is a supreme example of this type of transatlantic misunderstanding.
The Member States of the European Union and the United States of America wholly share the aim of democratization in Cuba, even if, within this Parliament, romanticism of Castro still seems - and this is strangely out of tune with the times - to be quite popular.
Proliferation is of all the more concern in that it very often advances the politically correct concern to fight for human rights or the protection of the environment, in order, in reality, to winkle out foreign firms and prevent their competition in tenders for American government contracts.
This compromise, in the eyes of our group, is a poor one.
We all considered it right to call in the WTO, not in order to make an example in the interests of the WTO's negotiating freedom and free international trade, but in order to enforce our legal rights.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 noon.
We share with the United States an objection to the non-democratic government in Cuba.
But a strong wish was expressed repeatedly in the Council of Ministers that we should try to find a negotiated settlement.
But we and the Member States have rightly taken the view that what is important is to protect the interests of the European economy above all else and to ensure that no action taken by the United States could damage us.
The consequence has been that the President of the United States has suspended Title 3, the most damaging title of this legislation, and that since the understanding there has been no action under Title 4.
We then entered into a negotiation which, if successful would have the effect of permanently suspending Title 3, so that European industry and individuals were never threatened in that way, and of giving the President of the right to do the same with regard to Title 4.
The MIA negotiation is another matter which is broader than this and which we are also engaged in.
We hope to negotiate with them later in the WTO on a broader agreement.
The 15 October target date is a serious one and we have told the Americans that.
I believe that if we are successful in the negotiation, we will have protected the interests of the European Union in a very effective way and we will actually have used the WTO procedure, which is valuable.
For only by bringing the case will we have led the United States to suspend Title 3, not to take further action under Title 4 and to do something with regard to the D'Amato legislation as well.
If we do not succeed in our objectives we will have the full right to return to the WTO, to resume the case and to seek its resolution through the WTO.
The negotiations are complicated and incomplete but I can assure you that we will not come to a conclusion or agree to an agreement which does not protect fully and adequately the interests of the European Union as I have defined them.
We have repeatedly reported to the Council.
I have explained the matter to committees of this House repeatedly.
Nor is there the slightest reason to think that the reluctance of the Member States to change Article 113 has anything whatsoever to do with this issue.
But in my opening remarks I indicated the principles of international law which determined whether expropriation was illegal or otherwise, in relation to the question of compensation.
Mr Commissioner, the question of who will decide what is an illegal expropriation is a very interesting one if it opens the possibility that a big country, by its legal system, decides effectively what is constitutional in other countries.
We are quite a long way from it but we have made some progress.
As to whether the mood in the Congress permits a solution which would enable the requisite amendment to the legislation to amend Title 4, I cannot answer that either.
The answer to the question is very simple.
The entry into a treaty is not an abdication of a sovereignty but the exercise of sovereignty because no country that enters into a treaty is compelled to do so unless it thinks it is in its interest.
As everybody knows, but just to clarify it, the MIA negotiation is something that existed long before the Helms-Burton issue arose.
This issue rose at a late stage in negotiations and we are talking about a particular provision which will have to be agreed in the same way as any other provision.
Of course, that is only part of the settlement of the Helms-Burton agreement as a whole and as far as that is concerned, I will follow all the normal constitutional and parliamentary practices in keeping the House informed.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Brittan.
The debate is closed.
