I wanted to ask whether Parliament provides the interpreters and covers the expenses for meetings of this kind, and whether this non-profit association continues to be supported in any way by Parliament.
Thank you very much Mrs Maes.
Thank you very much, Mr Galeote.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about a Reconstruction Agency for South-East Europe whose first operational Agency is to be opened in Pristina, Kosovo.
For example, the director of the Agency must present a quarterly report on its activities to Parliament; the European Parliament must follow the discharge procedure and certify to the director that the budget plan has been implemented correctly; and the Commission must present to Parliament an annual report approved by the Agency' s administrative board.
That of course is just not on.
I personally could not, and I am certain that the gentleman whose task this is is much less well placed to explain. (Applause) I would therefore urge you to help me convince the Council that the Reconstruction Agency for South-East Europe with its headquarters in Thessaloniki must be very closely connected with the headquarters of the Stability Pact, which must also be in Thessaloniki.
I will respond properly to her report at the end of this morning' s debate.
It calls on all parties to respect Security Council Resolution 1244 and the military agreements and undertakings in full and hopes that complete KFOR and UNMIK deployment will be completed without great delay.
The Commission supports the creation of a democratic and multi-ethnic Kosovo and deeply regrets the continuing ethnic violence.
It condemns, in the strongest terms, violence perpetrated by any ethnic group and calls for maximum efforts to secure the reconciliation and cooperation which are essential to stability and security for all in the region.
The Commission' s roles in the massive efforts to restore infrastructure and civil society in Kosovo will be of interest to the House.
Broadly, there are two such roles: engagement in the major reconstruction programme and collaboration in the framework of UNMIK coordinating initiatives with other international donors.
Firstly, a total budget of EUR 137 million is foreseen for 1999 under the Obnova Programme of which EUR 46 million has been committed and implementation is under way.
The Commission proposes, therefore, the creation of a locally established reconstruction agency to ensure the effective application of the Community' s reconstruction programme in Kosovo.
The taskforce has programmed and is implementing the first EUR 46 million tranche of reconstruction assistance.
Firstly with the other participants in reconstruction and the major international financial institutions, the Commission is involved in damage and needs assessment.
The current priorities are putting the banking system in order, working closely with other pillars and KFOR to provide essential supplies, shelter and transport in advance of winter, preparing with the World Bank and the IMF a simplified budget and working on fiscal issues and drawing up with the World Bank a medium-term investment framework to be presented to the next pledging conference.
Mr President, following the Council' s recent decision on the easing of sanctions relating to the Kosovo crisis the Commission is putting forward a proposal for the exemption of Kosovo and Montenegro from particular EC sanctions against the former Republic of Yugoslavia.
Cooperation from all relevant authorities in Kosovo will obviously be vital in order to establish effective controls on end use and to avoid circumvention.
I know this House does not need convincing, but as a direct and leading contributor to relieving suffering and rebuilding normality and as a coordinator of the efforts of others, the European Union must make the maximum possible commitment.
This agency will be dealing with problems in Kosovo, so it should be in Kosovo.
Our fundamental concerns relate to the balance of power between the Commission, the Council and the Member States.
The European Union generously released EUR 500 million to help the Kosovars rebuild their country and the Commission did its best too.
The members of the Committee on Budgetary Control have decided unanimously, that is across all parties, to reject this state of affairs.
Some of the points have already been mentioned by my colleague from the Committee on Budgets.
Mr President, the reconstruction of Kosovo has not yet got underway and the Member States are already greedily asking themselves: what can my country get out of it?
That is generally accomplished by setting up a Governing Council with representatives from the 15 Member States.
The citizens of our Member States cannot accept there again being even the possibility of money being squandered.
We have not become involved in Yugoslavia and, in particular, Kosovo in order to replace one ethnic group with another ethnic group.
The European Union must make sure that there is co-operation between all ethnic groups in the region as a whole.
Therefore, my group will also agree to the amendment' s being deferred, because the Council must first do its work. (Applause) Mr President, I was in Kosovo last winter and wrote a report to Parliament' s Subcommittee on Human Rights.
I would say to the Commissioner, however, that this is not how you combat fraud and mistakes.
It is therefore quite naturally unacceptable, Mr President, if the chain of command is now to be still longer, that is to say if the agency in Kosovo has to wait not only for orders from Brussels but also from Thessaloniki.
Finally, Mr President, I would urge that, as far as possible, local, civil representatives of the Albanian population are relied upon, that the Albanians' own talents are used and that they are not helped with things they can work out for themselves.
We agree that the Reconstruction Agency for Kosovo should be established in Pristina, but the Agency or the Office for the Reconstruction of Bosnia was in Sarajevo, and still faced enormous problems.
Now, as far as this is concerned, what we know of the European Union in Bosnia is the enormous bureaucratic weight of the way we function as the European Union.
It is true that only democratisation will take us forwards.
Mr President, the situation in Kosovo is characterised by the persistent attempts by the KLA to exploit the presence of NATO and KFOR forces in order to carry out complete ethnic cleansing of the Serb, Gypsy and other minorities, with the exception of the Albanians, living in Kosovo, and to construct its own state by detaching the whole region from the state of Serbia.
It is perfectly understandable that today we are debating the economic reconstruction of Kosovo, which, however, is directly related not only to expediency policies of the Member States, but also to their efforts to distribute those funds set aside for the rebuilding of Kosovo to the various associations within the Member States.
Indeed, its attitude does not seem to take into consideration the spirit and approach taken by Parliament both in the first amendment of the 1998 Directive and in its Resolution of July this year.
We support the two main strategies advocated by the rapporteur.
Political calm, allowing the political landscape in Kosovo to take shape, are musts.
Mr President, the reconstruction in Kosovo is without a doubt one of the most urgent tasks, but also responsibilities, of the European Union.
However, the European Union' s responsibility must this time involve more than merely financing the reconstruction.
Only under these conditions can we count upon broad support for this project from the European population.
Thousands of refugees are now reaching our shores with no destination in mind, while the Member States and the European Union are completely incapable of providing a perspective and a specific response to this problem.
Kosovo comes under the Stability Pact, which has to do with the proposal to establish the headquarters of the Stability Pact in Thessaloniki.
One of the amendments states that the countries of Southern and Eastern Europe should also have the opportunity to participate in the reconstruction projects.
We believe it is still too early to make overtures to these two countries.
Mr President, it is true that the main problem is really how the area should be reconstructed and with what intentions.
I can, of course, recall Greece being in ruins in the wake of the Nazi occupation and the civil war, which was won with the aid of certain countries, and of course, more recently, Bosnia, Russia and Albania.
The vote which took place the day before yesterday was a vote on an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, but did not contain any provision which covered the Group to which I belonged.
We must recognise the fact that this is simply one of the results of the monstrous aggression committed by the government of the United States of America and its European henchmen in contravention of every rule in international law and also of every political teaching.
The citizens of Europe paid for destruction to take place.
The United States of America and the countries of Europe are unfortunately responsible not only for the destruction in Kosovo, but also for the destruction in Serbia, Macedonia and Montenegro.
It would therefore be as well, Mrs Schreyer - in view too of the foreseeable problems with the supplementary budgets for the year 2000 - to find an adequate solution to this issue by December' s Second Reading of the Budget for the year 2000.
A stable, democratic and developed Balkan region is a prerequisite for the Union to have an effective and positive policy in the troubled Caucasian region and oil-producing countries which are threatening the peace and stability within that region.
A stable, democratic and developed Balkan region makes it easier for the Union to have a positive influence in the Middle East and in Eastern Mediterranean countries.
Mr President, reconstruction not only in Kosovo but also throughout the whole of the region which is continuing to be hard hit by the repercussions of the conflict is, of the utmost importance.
There must be management autonomy in Pristina but this service must be powerful enough so as to be able to overcome any obstacles.
It must revive the economy at a local level and it must create free communication between countries and between the regions of the area.
It is about our fully re-establishing life in the region and being able to see more clearly what is also happening in Yugoslavia.
The European Union has a role which it must play effectively and which it must take seriously.
Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, a lot has been said about the reconstruction of Kosovo.
You know that this Parliament has gone to the utmost trouble to find a compromise strategy, and we shall stand by this compromise strategy and are prepared to make our contribution to it.
The second resolution contradicts the convictions of us all and also the agreement made between the UN, NATO and the KLA.
In response to what has been a very high-quality debate, I am extremely pleased to be joined by my new colleague, the Budget Commissioner, Michaele Schreyer, whose presence is evidence of close interest in this issue and its financial and budgetary implications.
I would like to thank very much the rapporteurs and members of the various committees who have given such thorough and urgent attention to the crucial issue that is before the House now.
Clearly the agency' s mandate does not cover assistance in the other countries of former Yugoslavia or other Balkan countries because this structure is the specific European Union instrument for the reconstruction of Kosovo.
It is designed to maintain the European Union' s necessary control over the reconstruction programme and to safeguard its independence and right of initiative in the process.
The Commission' s proposal reflects the need to set up an instrument for the rapid, decentralised and efficient management of reconstruction aid in a way that takes account of the urgency of the situation and the exceptional efforts that are required.
The Commission' s initiative takes past experience into account and, in particular, the difficulties encountered in the first phase of reconstruction in Bosnia which, as the House has rightly recalled again this morning, led to delays in implementing those programmes.
The agency will employ staff in ways that are subject to statutory provisions for carrying out public service tasks which the technical assistance office should not and cannot take on.
As is the case with all other existing Community agencies, the Commission proposes that Member States be represented on the governing board so that their presence ensures full coordination of the European Union' s activities with those carried out in the field by Member States.
Furthermore, the participation of Member States in the governing board will make it possible to ensure that once the annual programme is decided by the Commission, all the rest of the decisions related to projects will be taken on the ground without referring back to the management committee composed of Member States in Brussels.
Mr President, the location of the agency' s headquarters, as this morning' s discussions again made evident, has led to some controversy in the Council as well as in this House.
That is where the provisional administration of Kosovo is based and all the agencies and organisations responsible for reconstruction in the region are located.
The Commission has already sent a document to the Council presidency and to Parliament in which it proposes a clear functional division of the agency services and staff between Pristina and Thessaloniki, with all the operational services concentrated in Pristina and the agency' s director based there at its centre of operations.
Finally, I should like to thank Parliament on behalf of the Commission for its amendments.
I emphasise, however, that the Commission and Parliament have the same objective: to maximise the speed and efficiency of the Commission' s efforts on the ground in Kosovo for the people of the region.
It is essential to involve the people of Kosovo in the reconstruction process and to ensure effective coordination with non-governmental organisations.
Budgetary transparency is clearly necessary, as Parliament proposes to draw a clear distinction between the contribution from the Community budget and contributions from other sources and to distinguish between expenditure on physical reconstruction and on institution-building.
Finally, Mr President, the Commission would be in favour of Parliament being consulted before any decision by the Council on extending the agency' s activities to other regions of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Thank you, Mr Kinnock.
Mr President, I am a newcomer to this Parliament, as an MEP.
The Council, at ministerial level, is only represented on Tuesdays and Wednesdays in the Plenum, but we take note of your observation.
Mr President, since the Vice-President of the Commission has declined to say anything about the questions relating to the currency and to the KLA, may I proceed on the assumption that the European Union has no opinion on these issues?
I am sure he is old enough in this Parliament - I am speaking of his experience of course and not his age - to understand why at this juncture I could not.
Thank you very much, Mr Kinnock.
The debate is closed.
Without a positive response to these problems, peace will always be at risk.
The European Union and, in particular, the European Parliament have always expressed their unconditional support for the attempts to help the Middle East peace process and to assist the Middle East.
In the Resolution of March 1999 on the peace process and future aid for the Middle East, the European Parliament stressed with good reason that if the Wye Plantation Accords are confirmed - as they have been - the main problems must still be resolved, including in particular the status of the refugees.
In order to take into account the development of the political situation in the region, Article 6 of the Convention lays down that, at the end of 2000, developments regarding refugees will be re-examined and possible UNRWA programmes concerning the Palestinian authorities gaining more power over their own affairs will also be evaluated.
However, since the Palestinian authorities only control their own territory in the West Bank and Gaza, we must pay careful attention to UNRWA' s actions regarding the refugees who are still in Syria, Lebanon and Jordan and in all the countries where Palestinian refugees can be found.
However, it is essential for this EC-UNRWA Convention to be adopted and implemented as soon as possible.
This is particularly important, especially in view of the current crisis in which we are discussing UNRWA' s budget.
Just two more points: the Committee on Budgetary Control has proposed two amendments on greater transparency, which we subscribe to, and finally, there is a legal question of the way in which our vote is requested by the Commission, and this is something which we will have to examine.
One is that we are helping 3.5 million refugees.
When we look at the aid we are giving, EUR 40 million, that is not a lot of money.
I accept it is quite a large part of the EUR 120 million that are being given and 85% of our budget of about EUR 40 million per annum is for education, which I consider the right way forward.
I do not want to waste Parliament' s time and I thank the President for giving me the opportunity to speak on this subject.
Mr President, this report has been approved unanimously by the Committee on Development and Co-operation, and, wisely, with the two amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgets, so that, rather than just words, we will actually have an economic and financial plan.
The achievement of a just peace in the Middle East, which we advocate in the Socialist Group, is only possible if, together with the negotiations on the items on the peace agenda in this complex conflict, the problem of the refugees is resolved.
The role of the European Union in aid to Palestine is undeniable.
And, in this respect, the communication of the Commission, which has given rise to this report, simply continues our coherent approach to our contribution to peace by means of the said aid.
This should not be an obstacle to the European Union' s, and in particular Parliament' s, more direct participation in the peace process.
Although we know it is not a definitive solution, we must approve this report as one more European Union contribution to the difficult peace process in the Middle East.
The European Union, in its turn, should provide financial assistance here.
In this way, we shall, in the future, too, have a considerable responsibility for the Palestinian refugees.
For the period 1999 to 2001, UNRWA has requested an amount of EUR 120 million.
We also welcome health care based on needs.
Can I begin by expressing the Commission' s gratitude for the thorough report by the Committee on Development and Cooperation and for the support given throughout the consultation procedure for the Commission' s efforts to conclude the Tenth Convention between the Community and the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine refugees in the Near East.
The tenth triennial convention covers the period 1999 to 2001 and provides for a contribution of EUR 120.82 million to UNRWA' s regular education and health programmes.
That EUR 120 million includes a 5% annual increase which reflects the operative principle of indexation that takes account of inflation and population growth.
The Commission has made efforts to improve and to clarify the Convention being considered before the House today in order to make its application more transparent and also to take into account the relevant agreed provisions in the European Community-United Nations global arrangement.
Other innovations in this convention including Article 4 on payments, Article 8 on visibility of the Community' s contribution, Article 9 on arbitration and Article 12 on entry into force, all aim at enhancing transparency and accountability.
I would like to advise the House that the Commission cannot accept the two amendments proposed by the Committee on Budgets for two reasons.
The annual report submitted by UNRWA will certainly be provided to Parliament as well as to the Council.
The House will be conscious that, in the context of the Middle East peace process and the Oslo peace accords, the refugee issue was specified for final status talks.
Under those accords, the parties were supposed to have negotiated the final status issues by 4 May this year but sadly that has not happened.
I conclude by saying that until the refugee issue has found a just and comprehensive solution, the Union' s support for UNRWA, as a provider of para-governmental services in the West Bank, Gaza, Lebanon, Jordan and Syria, to alleviate the very difficult lives of 3.5 million Palestinian people in the refugee camps, is absolutely crucial.
Mrs Ilka Schröder has also asked to speak.
The debate is closed.
I would like to ask for a split vote on Amendments 8, 10, 14 and 18 because that would allow us to vote for more of the amendments that Mrs Pack has put forward.
It is not a question of a new debate in this Chamber, but only a question of gaining time.
That is what we shall support.
Per annum, this will mean in practical terms a reduction in the overall annual budget for road safety campaigns from EUR 9.9 million to EUR 8 million.
It is hard to believe that in the fifteen countries of the European Union as many as 7,500 lives are lost simply because people do not use seatbelts in the front seat and in the back seat.
Certainly it is one which is particularly vulnerable and this week we have heard yet further alarming reports of leakages from Sellafield which will damage the coast of Galloway, the Firth of Clyde, Argyle and beyond.
We have had in the recent past, several tragic examples of accidental pollution in the form of spillages of hydrocarbons and other dangerous substances, particularly chemical ones.
Regarding the amendments adopted by the Committee on the Environment, we have voted against all of those which invite the European Union' s neighbouring countries to make use of the PHARE, TACIS and MEDA programmes in order to make them contribute financially to the implementation of this Community framework for co-operation.
On the other hand, the members of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group have voted in favour of all the other amendments, including amendment 22, which limits the Commission' s right of initiative and which allows the ad hoc committee to have control over its agenda, to produce its own minutes, as well as the declarations of interest of its own members.
It is essential that we curb the tendency which we have seen in other areas: The Commission does in fact tend to set committees up and then try systematically to take complete control of them, in order to make them totally dependent on their views.
Any committee set up by the Commission must remain autonomous and independent if it is to play its full role, which is that of providing expert advice.
Jackson report (A5-2/99): The members of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group have voted against all the amendments adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which aim to turn the Commission' s recommendation into a directive, for three basic reasons: because of the bureaucracy, because of the legal basis and because of the structure of the inspection bodies in the European Union' s Member States.
Indeed all members of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group are in favour of a Europe which encourages co-ordination between the different Member States, rather than a bureaucratic Europe which advocates a strict adherence to the rules and which does not adapt to geographical and cultural differences.
Finally, we would like to remind you that the inspection bodies in the different Member States are, for cultural or historical reasons, different.
As far as we are concerned, the European inspection body must remain as it is, that is, a body which allows us to see if the inspection bodies of the Member States are applying the Community rules in order, of course, to prevent distortion of competition between the different Member States.
I shall conclude by saying that the members of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group will try to ensure that, throughout this legislature, a bureaucratic and technocratic Europe does not develop any further, but that Europe does develop within a framework which is harmonious and accepted by all the citizens of the European Union' s Member States.
European Council in Tampere (B5-110 and 116/99): Mr President, the resolution which has just been voted on concerning policies of police and judicial co-operation and the free movement of people in preparation for the forthcoming European Council meeting in Tampere, shows some developments, which appear to be positive, in Parliament' s position.
For example, I noticed that our House has just rejected the original drafting of paragraph 6 of the resolution which stated that it was impossible to achieve the area of freedom, security and justice if the rule for unanimity in the Council was maintained.
The paradox is that we have absolutely no need for European co-operation in order to facilitate the potential integration of nationals of third countries.
This is really each nation' s job, whereas we would need this kind of co-operation in order to facilitate their return to their own country.
Mr President, on behalf of the Labour members of the Socialist Group I wish to inform you that we were unable to vote in favour of the Tampere resolution in its final form.
There are other issues that were examined in this resolution which should be more properly dealt with in the forthcoming intergovernmental conference to revise the Treaties.
In our view, paragraph 3 deals too generally with the integration into the relevant Pillar of the EU of police co-operation and co-operation in connection with criminal law.
With regard to paragraph 19 about providing Europol with opportunities in the operational sphere, we think that this paragraph is to be interpreted as meaning that any such development of Europol co-operation should be for the purpose of promoting the fight against cross-border crime, but must in that case take place within the framework of the Member States' right to full control over police activity within their own borders.
In paragraph 2, the European Parliament claims that responsibility for the preparation of the Charter will fall jointly to the Council and to itself, whereas all the evidence shows that fundamental rights are protected today by national constitutions, and that any activity relating to them should largely, if not exclusively, involve national parliaments.
In paragraph 3, the European Parliament calls for an "open and innovative approach to the Charter' s character, the type of rights it should contain as well as its role and status in the development of the Union' s constitution" , which clearly demonstrates the desire for it to be more than just a collection of existing laws, as the Council wanted it to be.
In paragraph 4(3), 4(4) and 4(6), Parliament requests that the future forum should itself determine the competences of its office as well as the organisation of its working parties and secretariat, which would give it a very large degree of independence and which would enable it to take the process in the direction it sees fit.
The motion for a resolution includes a desire to transfer police co-operation from the third to the First Pillar, a wish to give Europol operational powers and a plea to set up a common European prosecution service (Corpus Juris).
We have voted against giving Europol operational powers because we don' t want it developing into a European answer to the FBI.
We respect the fact that the other Member States wish to transfer co-operation to the First Pillar, but we cannot vote in favour of this as long as Denmark has a reserve in the legal sphere.
Mr President, with your permission, I would like to make a Commission statement on the effects of the financial crisis in Russia and on matters relating to corruption and money laundering.
As the House will know, some stability has been achieved in the general financial situation in Russia since the dramatic fall in the international exchange value of the rouble in August last year.
The Russian economy has consequently gained a breathing space in the run-up to the duma elections in December and the presidential elections next summer.
Adoption by the duma of the budget proposed by the government for the year 2000 will be a significant test.
With reference to the more specific issues of the flight of capital and money-laundering, I would like to say the following.
The Commission is aware of the current media speculation and the growing worries about the misuse of international assistance funds provided to Russia.
Clearly we must await the outcome of ongoing investigations in Europe and the United States of America, and the Commission is naturally following the matter closely.
Meanwhile Community assistance is, as this House will know, primarily delivered through the TACIS programme which is centrally managed from Brussels.
That EUR 4 million is obviously directly managed by our representation in Moscow.
Moreover, Russia does not currently receive Community loans, and the lending mandate of the European Investment Bank for countries outside the European Union does not extend to Russia.
The Commission has always made it clear to Russia that reversing capital flight urgently and fundamentally requires a more appropriate investment environment and better protection of investor rights in Russia.
One example of such activities is a study into Russian institutional and regulatory requirements in combating money-laundering that will be launched later this year.
There is also growing cooperation between the relevant Commission and Russian officials in customs and anti-fraud activities.
The Commission therefore hopes that the Russian authorities will respond to the present situation in a convincing way and it is vital that those authorities cooperate fully with the ongoing investigations in Europe and in the USA.
Against that background, timely action by President Yeltsin in signing into law the Russian draft legislation on money laundering would be reassuring to the international community.
In addition, the Commission would like to see a speedy resolution of the problems in the Russian banking system, which is obviously at the centre of concerns about corruption.
Confidence in that system needs to be restored quickly and decisively as a major contribution to the achievement of something like normality.
Mr President, can I associate myself with Mr Swoboda' s remarks.
It correctly sums up what I believe is a very dangerous situation developing in Russia.
I hope we can therefore take some sort of political initiative to try to make sure that country puts its basic law into proper order.
At the same time, however, we must remember that Russia' s leaders are primarily and directly responsible to their own people, the Russians themselves.
Russia has two elections in the near future, the situation is very tense, the country has a sick president, and the whole economy is in difficulties.
Russia has a political crisis, and that has continued since the country changed direction.
As a consequence, what happens in Russia always takes us by surprise.
Aid and assistance to Russia must, however, continue, but we have to learn from experience so that the operation may be as successful as possible.
The European Union must strive to ensure in particular that Russia can develop a workable democratic system for itself, with viable social and economic institutions.
To assist the operation it would be of value to establish regionally and locally based contact and co-operation between the countries of the EU and Russia.
There are particularly favourable opportunities for this in border areas between the EU and Russia, as the bilateral agreement on co-operation in neighbouring areas made between Finland and Russia at the start of the 1990s shows.
Unfortunately, there have been difficulties in communication between the European Parliament and the Duma.
If we are to invest further in the Russian economy we have to find the means to support and develop local economic activity - as our colleague has just said - which meets people' s needs and provides a sense of stability and involvement.
The emphasis on money laundering and crime is only part of the issue.
Mr President, the European Commission has now woken up to the fact that the aid and assistance granted to Russia is being abused.
The reason for this criminal activity has also been the aid granted by the West.
With this in mind, the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament should look in the mirror and recognise their own mistakes.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we are declaring that, together with the new Commission, we must give a central role to the European Parliament, it is only natural that we should consider relaunching Parliament' s foreign policy at the same time.
The crisis in Russia gives us that opportunity.
Moreover, the United States decided in Congress to launch an inquiry to ascertain the use of money given as financial aid to Russia and whether it has been used instead in an illegal way.
Having said this, the Community' s Institutions must, in my opinion, ask the competent Russian authorities to clarify how funds intended for the development of the country and for its food crisis were used.
If this is the first commitment, we must immediately clarify our relations with Russia and clarify the bilateral relations between the Community and the Russian Government.
If we do all this, we will give our institution political significance and we will regain credibility in the eyes of the world.
Industrialists have made it clear to us - for example, in the EU/Russia industrialist round table - that they want to invest in Russia.
I recognise that in the current atmosphere it is difficult to justify EU technical assistance but we must continue that process because of the importance Russia has for us for security reasons as well as economic reasons.
This is just what I have already been saying - our problem is that, in our action programme, we are setting false priorities for Russia.
Earthquakes in Turkey and Greece The next item is the joint debate on eleven motions for resolution concerning the earthquakes in Turkey and Greece.
Mr President, the earthquake that struck Turkey in the early hours of 17 August was the worst in over half a century in a region that is prone to such shocks.
The European Union has responded to the disaster with some EUR 45 million of emergency humanitarian aid in addition to bilateral aid from a number of our Member States.
We must insist on urgent implementation of this Community assistance.
I will not say reunited as yet, but certainly brought closer.
So it could be that, because of the awful events and a certain rethinking and reconsideration within Turkey, a new beginning will be possible in the next few months in the relationship between Turkey and the European Union, with the help of Greece.
But for once it could be written in the history books that these terrible disasters in both these countries were the beginning of a new relationship, even a new political relationship, and possibly even a new economic relationship.
Personally I shall also strive, as the former rapporteur on Turkish matters in this House, to achieve these new relationships between Turkey and the European Union.
With this in mind, my group will attentively follow the latest endeavours of Commission and Council and will consider them positively, but critically.
Mr President, the earthquake in Turkey is clearly one of the most dreadful disasters of this century.
This dialogue could begin between the European Union and Turkey.
The proposal of my Group would be that now, in addition to considering how we can best help Turkey in its reconstruction, we must also give additional thought to how we can offer Turkey some prospects for the future.
While engaging in these reflections, we should also deal with Turkey much more openly and clearly show that, as far as the prospects of EU accession are concerned, we would be genuinely willing to accept Turkey as the thirteenth applicant country, should Turkey approach us.
Mr President, we all sympathise with Turkey after the traumatic experience it has been through.
In Greece, the destruction is not so wide-spread but the cost in human lives is grave with 138 dead, 3 seriously injured, and approximately 100,000 left homeless.
Mr President, I will not make further reference to the tragic events of the earthquakes which have shaken the whole of the region, both in neighbouring Turkey and in Greece, at varying degrees, of course.
Mr President, because these were the worst earthquakes ever to hit Turkey and Greece, leaving thousands dead and injured and causing extensive damage to houses, factories and businesses, as well as to the infrastructure of both countries, the European Union must take both immediate and long-term action to deal with the problem.
The cost of the disasters in Greece is estimated to be at least EUR 600 million.
Of course, EUR 100 million can be drawn from appropriations from the second Community Support Framework not expended by Greece.
Precisely in this period of peace between Greece and Turkey we have an opportunity, here in the European Parliament, to bring the people of both countries together and to finally purge what they kept trying to teach me, and probably you too, in school in our history books, i.e.
I wanted to express my gratitude to you and, in connection with the earthquake disaster in Greece, to again express my "silipitiria" .
Mr President, in the earthquake in Turkey, the devastating tremors within the earth brought to light the devastating situation within society.
Ankara did not just leave people to their own devices but also confiscated aid funds and hindered the work of foreign NGOs.
We cannot accept such contempt for people without protest.
But the fact that both the Greek and the Turkish people decided to offer each other mutual help is a positive sign.
They should rather at last admit their share of responsibility for the political and economic situation on the Bosphorus.
The European Union has spent thousands of Euros to assist the victims in Turkey.
I also join honourable Members in offering the deepest sympathy of the Commission to all who lost friends and loved ones and all who have suffered injury in the terrible disasters in both countries.
The Commission took speedy action to try to assist the Turkish people and its government in their efforts to deal with the catastrophe.
In addition, following a visit by the Finnish Presidency and Commissioner van den Broek to Turkey on 26 August, a financial package of EUR 30 million is currently being assembled to help with the current emergency and rehabilitation activities.
To permit swift utilisation of the funds, the EUR 30 million will also be allocated through ECHO.
Firstly, from 2000 onwards, Turkey should receive a share which reflects its important reconstruction needs from the MEDA 2 funds.
Secondly, as this House will know, there are two regulations before the Council and this Parliament that will underpin the European strategy for Turkey.
Those regulations foresee a total of EUR 150 million for Turkey over a three-year period which the Turkish Government regards as being of significant help.
Thirdly, the European Investment Bank is asked to make a special effort - we think around EUR 600 million worth of lending - to support reconstruction needs.
In addition to these developments, the Commission envisages the possibility of acting in coordination with the IMF in granting Turkey macrofinancial assistance geared towards maintaining the reform process under what are evidently difficult conditions.
As the House will know, and as we have heard from several honourable Members in their statements and speeches in the course of this afternoon, the people of Greece also suffered tragic deaths and damage in recent earthquakes and further tremors.
There is, therefore, little that the Commission can do to give material support to the efforts of the Greek people and its government in the short-term.
However, together with the Greek Government, the Commission will look into the possibilities of reallocating some of the unused Objective 2 resources for reconstruction support in Greece.
In the international effort for Turkish victims, the Greek Government gave instant support.
Let us hope that what we have seen graphically demonstrated, indeed movingly in this Chamber this afternoon, and the genuinely humane gestures undertaken by both Greeks and Turks in recent weeks, will lead to the strengthening of relations between the two neighbours and between Turkey and the European Union.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m.
That is the Agenda for the sitting of 16 September.
Mr President, it is actually a little strange that we closed a debate half an hour ago on the financial vicissitudes of Russia and have now moved on to another problem facing the country.
Even the political system is under pressure and political violence will only increase instability in the country.
The Russian authorities must enter into political dialogue with the authorities of Chechnya, who must also take responsibility and stop supporting illegal groups in Dagestan.
We believe, and this point is also made in the resolution, that the OSCE should be the one to bear this message.
But they are things we can do and which will also serve to convey that we have our reasons for wanting Russia to become stable, both in terms of the details we are discussing here and as a whole.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware of the fact that there is seething unrest in the Caucasus.
Most news reports only give us a scant account of the drama taking place in this part of the world.
There is clearly a lack of objective information on the political situation there, but there is also a lack of respect for human rights.
Regardless of where responsibility lies for the situation in Dagestan, the fact remains that it is a result of the dramatic developments following the fall of the iron curtain and that the countries in this region have only managed with great difficulty to liberate themselves.
We have seen this in direct proximity to us in Europe in the former Yugoslavia, and now we are observing similar developments further away.
There are perhaps 30 different peoples in Dagestan with just as many different languages.
And in Moscow there is not a lot of interest in the situation.
Nonetheless, the people there are in real need of humanitarian aid, and this must take priority.
The Commission joins with the Finnish presidency in expressing its sympathy to the Russian authorities.
As regards Chechnya and Dagestan, this is the long-term damage left by a brutal colonial regime, which we will only get to grips with little by little.
Most of them were arrested during the military operation against Kosovo, when a state of emergency was declared throughout Yugoslavia.
I hope that the Council and the Commission will do all that can be done to help secure the release of these people and their return to their homes as soon as possible, just as all the other refugees who were outside Kosovo have been able to return to their homes.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time we have discussed Kosovo today.
Perhaps we should appeal to them less as politicians and authorities in this region than as the father or sons they also are.
But we expect all states in the international community not to lift any of the sanctions against Serbia until, among other things, these prisoners are released.
It is possible to have peaceful co-existence between Serbs and Albanians, and between Croats, Muslims and Serbs in Bosnia-Herzegovina, only if, among other things, the matter of prisoners and deportees is clarified.
We must adopt this resolution and we must endeavour to reach a solution for these prisoners using all the decisiveness and vigour this Parliament can muster.
Mr President, I am very happy to see that our Parliament is finally looking into this matter.
It is obvious that the international community made a serious mistake by not including the question of Kosovar prisoners in the agreements reached with the authorities in Belgrade.
I agree entirely with our colleague Doris Pack when she says that this must be a precondition for any lifting of sanctions.
I agree rather less, though, on the ability of the European Union and the international authorities to intervene in this matter.
The issue of Kosovar prisoners is a humanitarian issue.
The European Union is still providing humanitarian aid to Serbia.
I think, and the Commission is in a prime position to intervene at this level, that as the issue of the Kosovar prisoners is a humanitarian one, the European Union could be less zealous in its supply of aid to the Serbian authorities until they have released all Kosovar prisoners.
Over the last few weeks there have again been dozens of arrests of Burmese citizens and foreigners who continue to fight for democracy and human rights in this country.
We also denounce, as does the International Labour Office, these practices as a crime against humanity.
Only the isolation of the military dictatorship through sanctions and dialogue with the opposition groups and the ethnic minorities can contribute to establishing democracy in Burma.
Then there are a further 100,000 illegal refugees in the surrounding countries, in Australia, Europe and the United States.
This summer I attended a conference in Bangkok held by an international organisation that concerns itself with Burma.
They feel that Europe will gradually start to forget about them and that people no longer really take the situation that has now been going on in Burma for ten years very seriously.
We are aware that Burma' s Parliament was disbanded, that dozens of Members of Parliament have been killed, are in prison or under house arrest, or are among the refugees.
We know that the situation is growing more serious: the Burmese government is stepping up the repression in the shadow of the events in Indonesia.
Mr President, to speak of Burma truthfully, crudely and without disguising our words, is to speak of the violation of human and collective rights, of the non-recognition of the results of free elections and the persistence of dictatorship, of human exploitation through forced labour which benefits certain Western multinationals.
The European Union must continue to act under the Finnish Presidency so that relations with Burma can be re-established as soon as possible, but on the basis of the respect for human rights, the results of the elections and the liberation of the British prisoners who were arrested for defending democracy.
Iran Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only two years ago, in Iran, two Jews were accused of spying for Israel.
Today, thirteen Jews and several Muslims from Isfahan, Shiraz and Tehran have been arrested and face the same fate.
We are worried because we know what conditions of detention in Iran are like.
These fears are backed up by the hanging last year of a 60 year old man.
For this reason, I feel that the amendment tabled by our colleagues in the Greens Group is even clearer than the initial common resolution, and I would like to say that, personally, I am in favour of it.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the news last Sunday about the death sentences issued against the four people involved in the student disturbances over the summer in Iran sent a wave of disgust and indignation among the Iranian people and throughout other countries.
The shock was that much greater because many of us were delighted at the election of President Chatami and at the signals of openness, reforms and respect for human rights which he was giving out.
The Iranian people could at last begin to hope for a new future and for a time when the period of killing and violence would be behind them.
Mr President, distress cannot be measured or compared quantitatively.
It is quite shocking how the tragedies we have seen in Kosovo, East Timor, Turkey and, in some respect, Greece, have overshadowed the situation in Iran, which has become very significantly worse.
Mr President, the power struggle in the Islamic Republic of Iran between conservatives and those inclined towards reform continues to rage unabated until today with all the consequences you would expect for the constitutional state, in other words the non-application of the constitutional state' s basic principles.
There has certainly been no lack of this type of violence in the Islamic Republic of Iran since it was first founded in 1979.
The latter and his immediate entourage attempted to conceal their involvement in the grim liquidations of 1998 with utterly vile lies about a Jewish-American plot against the fatherland.
But in one country, a dinosaur has presided over a regime responsible for widespread human rights violations for 32 years.
President Eyadema would be my first candidate for bringing before the new International Criminal Court.
We know about the human rights activists tortured in jail every day.
We need to use the office of the EU facilitator to sort that out, to get an agreement between Eyadema and the opposition parties to take Togo to democracy.
Cooperation between the European Union and Togo should only be resumed when Togo fully complies with the provisions of Article 5 of the Lomé Convention.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, regional co-operation between the states of West Africa has made good progress in recent times.
We naturally also join Members of this House in strongly condemning violence, no matter which ethnic group is the perpetrator or the victim, and we actively support efforts by UNMIK, KFOR and OSCE to establish law and order in Kosovo.
The Commission obviously shares the deep concern of this House about the fate of the many civilians who are still missing.
Finally, on numerous occasions, the Commission has condemned the gross failure of the authorities of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Serbia, to respect accepted international norms of humanity and minority rights.
That apparent contempt for international obligations is one of the main impediments to improved relations between the former Republic of Yugoslavia and the European Union and an impediment too to the reintegration of the former Republic into the international community.
The Commission, as the House will know, strongly deplores the continued violation of human rights by the military authorities in Burma: in particular, the oppressive treatment of ethnic minorities, the persecution of Aung San Suu Kyi and other NLD members, the denial of basic trade union rights and the use of forced labour, the prohibition of freely functioning parties, the countless arbitrary arrests and the continuing state violence.
The Council is currently reviewing the common position and its extension, as honourable Members said in the debate, should be decided before the 29 October.
The Commission has made it clear that although Burma has become a member of ASEAN the European Union cannot agree to Burmese participation in the EC/ASEAN Agreement.
We use every opportunity to press our Asian partners to urge the Government of Burma to enter into a substantive dialogue with the opposition, led by Aung San Suu Kyi, and with the ethnic minorities and to change its policies radically in order to respect human rights.
Members are aware that Aung San Suu Kyi recently renewed her call for more comprehensive international economic sanctions against Burma, including unilateral sanctions, whilst the present regime controls the country that she loves.
The Commission participated in the recent EU troika visit to Rangoon which was undertaken with the aim of clearing the way for the establishment of a political dialogue with Burma as provided for in the Council conclusions of 26 April.
The objectives of establishing political dialogue are to explain the European Union common position on the human rights situation and on the absence of the rule of law and democracy in Burma and to assist in creating conditions that would be conducive to political dialogue between the governing SPDC military junta and the democratic opposition and representatives of the ethnic minorities.
The European Commission remains committed to maintaining the pressure upon the SPDC, formerly known as the Slorc.
Meanwhile the international situation continues to deteriorate and no meaningful response has been made to the repeated international calls for the Burmese authorities to take steps towards the promotion of democracy, human rights and national reconciliation.
As the House will know, the Commission views the human rights situation in Iran with deep concern, which we share with this House.
In the comprehensive dialogue between the European Union and Iran, questions directly relating to human rights are always raised by the European Union representatives.
The Commission is also concerned about the trial of 13 Jews from Shiraz on charges of espionage.
The Union has made a number of representations on the subject, both through the troika and bilaterally.
It is evident that the recent developments in Iran reflect the internal power struggle between moderate reformists and conservative hard-liners.
Despite some shifts in the political situation since then, I regret to say that the prerequisites for the resumption of development cooperation and the full normalisation of relations with Togo - respect for democratic principles, the rule of law and human rights - are still not adequately fulfilled.
The Commission welcomes the positive will for progress that was demonstrated by the government in opposition in the framework agreement, but substantial further progress - for example, properly conducted legislative elections that are anticipated in the next year - is required before we can consider resuming regular cooperation.
The Commission shares the particular concern for the resolution of the general human rights situation in Togo that is expressed in motions before this House.
It is obviously very disturbing that the offences against human rights reported recently by Amnesty International have largely been confirmed by other sources.
The House will know that wherever problems relating to human rights occur the United Nations system provides for a number of follow-up mechanisms to promote improvement in the situation.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, yesterday evening in a long television speech, President Kabila again reaffirmed his faith in the Lusaka agreements.
Therefore we still have a long way to go before we have a stable, peaceful and democratic Congo.
But the Lusaka agreement has lent important impetus to the process.
Firstly, this agreement is fragile, and no one can guarantee today that we will not be confronted by a major obstacle - here, the several armed groups who are not aligned to any State, are not under anyone' s control, and these groups could, in fact, destabilise the peace process.
Although the Commission has a role to play in this, I feel that the Council should also remain alert to it, because we think that in the future, we will be moving towards a partnership agreement between Europe and these countries.
It might also be a good idea if, through the Council, countries such as the United Kingdom, France, Portugal and Belgium should face up to their past more productively than they have done to date.
Mr President, Commissioner, the words spoken by my colleagues show how fragile a peace process is and, at the same time, how important.
The hostilities and war in the Congo, but also in the region of the Great Lakes and in Angola, are all interlinked conflicts and are not just the cause of dreadful human suffering but will also hinder any efforts to build and develop in the future.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the conflict which has brought bloodshed to the Great Lakes region for more than a year now appears to be reaching a favourable outcome.
We are delighted at this of course, but much work remains to be done.
The European Union must participate in this process alongside the United Nations and the OAU to verify the withdrawal of foreign troops from the country as well.
On the other hand, it is necessary and even imperative that the Congolese resume dialogue among themselves.
The Commission considers that the European Union, together with the rest of the international community, must take decisive steps to contain the repercussions of the crisis in the Great Lakes countries which in a variety of ways, as Members have said, threaten the security and stability of the whole of Africa.
In this context the Union is undertaking significant mediation and dialogue promotion efforts at the different levels of the conflict and the Commission is ready to contribute to the success of the Lusaka ceasefire agreement in the following areas.
The Union intends to continue the promotion and financing of mediation efforts, notably those of the President of Zambia, that made the Lusaka agreement possible in the first place.
The Lusaka agreement foresees an inter-Congolese national debate to allow for the reconciliation of the differing political forces in DRC and to pave the way for a new political disposition in DRC.
Several Member States are contributing to the 90 United Nations military observers who are deployed in the capitals of the region and at the military headquarters of the rebel groups in order to oversee the implementation of the Lusaka agreement.
Thirdly, in terms of economic and development support, the commitment of the Commission in the Lomé Convention framework could and should be reactivated under two conditions: Firstly, improvement in the security situation in the DRC and secondly, an outcome of the national debate which provides a stable political disposition in the DRC in which the essential elements of the Lomé Convention are respected.
Finally, humanitarian aid is obviously a continuing need and the Commission Humanitarian Office (ECHO) has deployed around EUR 55.5 million this year.
The debate is closed.
