I ask this in the spirit of successive resolutions on human rights in Colombia passed by this European Parliament and in support of brave human rights defenders working under the threat of violence and of death.
Thank you very much, Mr Howitt.
Of course, both the Bureau and the Presidents will present Parliament' s position in accordance with their traditional decisions in that regard.
The situation is thus strange, to say the least.
But it is even stranger still to draw up a budget within the framework of the interinstitutional agreement and the budget perspectives which we have.
Effectively, we are working within the framework of the Financial Perspective decided in Berlin.
Well, the least that one can say is that the programming exercise which took place there was quite strange, firstly in terms of its duration (setting a seven year programme in two days of Council meetings was perhaps risky) and vague in terms of the amounts.
Countries such as Cyprus and Malta are in an uncertain situation already.
The budget programming exercise was, therefore, vague, but also very restrictive for the European Parliament because, for the first time, we are working within a framework where we have obtained less flexibility in exchange for - not more money, as previously, but less money.
The situation is inherently paradoxical.
The matter becomes thoroughly surreal when we tackle the subject of the financial year 2000, as the European Union is experiencing an absolute contradiction here.
Finally, the increased weight of the Union' s responsibilities, especially as regards Kosovo, are also creating far greater tensions, far greater pressure on the budget.
Well, confronted with this situation, some institutions, particularly the Council - I am wondering what the Commission will decide in the end - tell us that we are going to finance more policies, with more partners, take on more responsibility, with less money.
When I speak of cutting expenditure, I am thinking, for example, of expenditure under Category I for which a cut has been proposed.
As regards structural funds, we have considerable payment requirements, due both to the implementation of the new instrument of Agenda 2000 but also to the vast weight of past commitments.
All that entails considerable burdens as regards payment and, in this respect, the Council follows neither the Commission, nor us, and proposes a perfectly unacceptable reduction in relation to the preliminary draft budget.
The same is true for expenditure under Category 5.
At the same time, the priorities of yesterday and today are being sacrificed, and this is unacceptable, in favour of the priorities of tomorrow.
Parliament says no.
And we cannot expect to pay for the Balkans, for example, in a structural and lasting way by means of enlargement, etc.
We are waiting for the Commission to make a statement on this point.
We would be in a situation even more paradoxical than I am willing to accept, setting up Parliament as defender of the Commission' s preliminary draft budget, replacing the Commission as guardian of the major policies decided by the European Union.
I should warn you on this point.
This entails active support, and even an active demand for administrative reform addressed to the Commission.
All the measures relating to TAOs have that objective, in the same way as all the appropriations for OLAF.
Internationally, our second priority is effectively to finance, by some means, the main priorities: Kosovo with up to EUR 500 million, the agreement on Morocco with up to EUR 125 million, the programmes for Turkey and Timor with up to EUR 50 and EUR 30 million.
In this regard, we have voted on an amendment which corresponds to a serious political commitment from this Parliament, even if we vote it before Category 4, which means that it does not to date have the status of an amendment, but it does constitute a commitment on the part of this House to vote in these appropriations at second reading, especially regarding the Morocco agreement which is one of Parliament' s political priorities.
The second approach adopted by the European Parliament is not to sacrifice our traditional priorities.
We are waiting to formalise in writing and give concrete expression to the agreement which is in the pipeline between Commission and Parliament in order to guarantee better budgetary use of the appropriations under this sub-section.
But we want a dynamic interpretation, in accordance with what has been said and, in particular, we want an ongoing structural review of Category 4, rather than an annual review.
This must be translated into a net increase in the appropriations allocated to Category 4 for the entire period and not just for the budget for the year 2000.
Madam President, the ball is in your court. (Applause) Mr President, the 'EU budget for the year 2000 - other sections' , which we are considering, follows the rigorous policy of recent years.
The increase is EUR 44 million, or 3.5%.
The margin for manoeuvre calculated from Category 5, as referred to in the Financial Perspective, is EUR 135 million.
The joint organisational structure for these committees will be accommodated in the Bertha von Suttner Building, the former Montoyer building.
The budget provides for new posts to be created at both Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee to render the administration of the buildings more efficient.
If the rental agreement is finalised before the end of the year, the amount mentioned will be deducted from Parliament' s budget, as the European Parliament budget is, at present, 20.11% of Category 5, whereas Parliament has itself declared a ceiling of 20%.
In the spring a reserve of EUR 60 million was included in the parliamentary budget for remuneration related to the Statute for Members.
If we take these two expenditure items into account, Parliament' s share of Category 5 would be 18.97%, which is in line with the principles of budgetary discipline.
As appropriations have been proposed for improvements to the electronic office, the Court of Justice can expect a clear increase in resources.
After this, we expect that the Court of Justice will be able to cope better with its workload, reduce the number of documents left untranslated, and serve Member States, citizens and businesses better in the interpretation and application of European law.
That is why in many cases the establishment of new posts is no longer the responsibility of the budgetary authorities.
The work of the institutions can be assessed more clearly, on the basis of results, and can be better managed.
The Committee on Budgets - and I thank all my colleagues, from the chairman to all the group representatives for their participation - unanimously proposes the following recommendations: 1.
to reinstate the amounts laid down in the 1999 budget. 2.
to ask for additional appropriations to be allocated to finance measures to promote health and safety in coal mines, and to ensure the development of clean technologies and of products with a high added value, in the steel sector; 4.
with enlargement in mind, to ask for part of the PHARE programme appropriations to be earmarked for activities connected with the steel and coal sectors of the applicant countries; 5.
to reiterate clearly the request for a reduction in administrative expenditure, as the sum calculated 19 years ago is clearly excessive for current requirements, and to carry out an assessment of real staffing requirements in light of the Union' s current and future political priorities in this sector; 6.
to provide for 'bridging' pilot projects between the ECSC budget and the general budget in order to facilitate the transition between the activities financed by the ECSC and the Union' s programmes, in particular as far as structural funds and research are concerned.
This would certainly give more weight to our decisions.
Mr President, Members of the European Parliament, the discussion of the budget for the year 2000 has progressed significantly since I presented the Council' s draft budget here in Parliament on 14 September.
The view of the Council is that the Commission' s proposal overestimates requirements for the year 2000.
In matters of appropriations relating to structural operations, the difference between the Council and Parliament concentrate on two areas: firstly, the size of the advance payment in respect of new structural operation payments, and, secondly, the timetable for attending to old, unpaid, committed funds.
It is important that the budgetary authorities respect the ceilings for expenditure adopted in the interinstitutional agreement.
Regarding the so-called BAT issue, or the issue of technical assistance offices, perhaps the time is not yet ripe to conduct such a laborious reform as Parliament is proposing in the budget for the year 2000.
Funding for action in Kosovo and in connection with other external relations will be a challenge for the Union in terms of budgetary procedure and financing.
The budgetary authorities should now wait for the final, reliable, assessment of needs, which, in my opinion, cannot be expected until next year.
As for East Timor, aid has been channelled there via ECHO.
As I mentioned earlier, Kosovo has become the main priority of the budgetary procedure for 2000.
It would seem appropriate to reallocate appropriations of humanitarian aid for Kosovo, especially as a large number of refugees have now returned to Kosovo, and to a certain extent humanitarian aid in Kosovo would seem to be the first step on the road to reconstruction, offering people at least shelter for the winter.
With regard to the concern expressed by Parliament regarding the possible consequences that might result from the reallocation of appropriations under Category 4 regarding Union aid for the least developed countries, we should not forget that, by virtue of the Lomé Convention, the European Development Fund channels EU aid to many of the countries in question.
The European Development Fund is not included in the general budget for the European Union: the Member States contribute directly to it and it has its own internal financing rules.
I have noted that the European Parliament also intends to propose appropriations that exceed the excessiveness threshold under Category 4 of the Financial Perspective, so that funds would be allocated to finance operations in East Timor and Turkey and to adopt the new fisheries agreement with Morocco.
The consequences of the Turkish earthquake have required our assistance already this year.
This assistance was provided for in the supplementary and amending budget no. 4/1999.
It is, however, too early to determine the total amount of aid appropriations required for the year 2000.
Appropriations to fund action in Turkey and East Timor should also be found within the framework of the excessiveness threshold under Category 4 of the Financial Perspective determined at Berlin.
I might, however, remind everyone that, in adopting the draft budget, the Council has also reallocated some Category 4 appropriations in order to create a reserve for the funds required under the new agreement.
Finally, I will briefly comment on the overall increase in the budget and the frameworks for drafting it.
On the basis of votes taken by Parliament' s Committee on Budgets, the payment appropriations would increase by over 6%.
Let this also serve as a basis for adopting the budget for the year 2000.
Since the drawing up of the preliminary draft budget in the spring there have been important events which could not have been anticipated at the time but which will and must be reflected in Budget 2000.
Most importantly, this year we have had to experience a war on European soil necessitated by the most atrocious violations of human rights and by a policy of expulsion and ethnic cleansing on the part of the Milosevic regime; a policy which could not be tolerated by a democratic Europe and by a democratic international community committed to human rights.
I am glad, therefore, that there is absolute consensus, absolute agreement between Parliament, the Council and the Commission, on making available in the EU budget the necessary funds for Kosovo.
However, as I have already said, this preliminary draft budget of the Commission does not take into account Kosovo, East Timor, Turkey and the fisheries agreement with Morocco.
The Council draft reckons with EUR 92.4 billion for commitments and EUR 87.9 billion for payments and the amendments adopted by the European Parliament Committee on Budgets give overall commitments of EUR 93.4 billion and payments of EUR 90.8 billion.
those of the Commission in its preliminary draft, of the Council and of Parliament, the expenditure to be appropriated for the year 2000 in fact exceeds the totals for this year.
Regarding the OLAF staff, the Commission will incorporate into its letter of amendment the proposal of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets to provide 75 new jobs next year.
The Commission will also take account of the request to provide funds in the budget for the fisheries agreement with Morocco.
The Council decided at the first reading to finance an across-the-board cut in the appropriations for external action.
The Commission proposes financing the necessary funds firstly by making adjustments within the external action Category, secondly by using the smaller part of the flexibility reserve and thirdly by making adjustments between policy areas, which will entail a change in the Financial Perspective.
This is a course which was established in the joint agreement, the interinstitutional agreement between Parliament, the Council and the Commission, in May of this year.
The message the Foreign Affairs Committee has taken from the Council is that they believe we can only pay for Kosovo by taking money out of the hands of those who are even worse off than those in Kosovo.
They are cutting EUR 70 million from NOVA: in other words, a 40% cut in assistance to Bosnia, so Bosnia has to pay for Kosovo.
Of course there has to be financial responsibility and we have to set priorities, but a 10% cut across the board is not a proper setting of priorities.
There are two other areas that the Foreign Affairs Committee would like to draw your attention to.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Budget Committee and Mr Bourlanges for their work.
I am disappointed that the Council Presidency has not referred to this.
In its budget guidelines for the year 2000, Parliament called for the phasing out of the agencies.
In some cases this is the second or third consecutive year when there has been a large transfer away from particular lines.
This demonstrates the need for Parliament to monitor budget implementation more closely throughout the year.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join the two previous speakers in expressing my thanks and praise for the work done by the general rapporteur and the Committee on Budgets.
As our second objective, we wished to rationalise and restructure the budgetary instruments in the sector of asylum and immigration policy.
Indeed, with this, we anticipated the request of the European Council at Tampere, as the Council considered it appropriate to envisage creating a financial reserve, in some form or another, intended to offer temporary protection in the event of a mass influx of refugees.
Mr President, the first reading of the budget by Parliament, which we have been following today will, as always, have a significant impact on the policy of the European Union, of which Economic and Monetary Union forms a part.
The budget contains internal policy lines concerning the Prince programme.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs (ECON) believes that this endeavour should continue to be a vital policy priority and that a great deal of work is still required before the banknotes and coins can go into circulation throughout the European Union.
ECON also believes that funding measures in the field of taxation should be an absolute priority as it is still an area which displays some irregularities in the internal market, and as a consequence, budget line B5-3001 for the completion and development of the internal market should be kept at the level proposed by the Commission in its draft budget.
ECON also endorses the amounts recommended in the draft budget as regards the Fiscalis programme in line B5-305.
Finally, speaking as a member of the Greek delegation, I would like to express my regret at the European institutions for not yet coming up with an appropriate legal basis to enable us to provide assistance to a particular Member State recently struck by natural disasters.
We should not expose ourselves to the danger of limiting legal protection in the European Union, not least when we constantly talk of wanting to create an area of freedom, security and justice.
We cover the energy programmes, those relating to industry, including small and medium firms, the research programmes under the framework programmes which of course amount to more or less 60% of the internal policy expenditure of the European Union, and the trade and technical assistance lines.
Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues on the Budget Committee and the Budget rapporteur in particular for the good cooperation we have had with them in this first reading.
We are looking to implementing the employment chapter from Amsterdam and making progress in relation to the macroeconomic dialogue agreed at Cologne.
Mr President, firstly I congratulate the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets on the work he has done this year.
The rapporteur has done very well given the constraints he has been under this year.
I cannot thank the Council in the same way when I examine their PDB.
They have to give greater priority to the interests and needs of citizens.
Utilising the amounts determined last year through the conciliation on the Whitehead report, the consumer affairs budget lines will continue to build confidence amongst the public, reassuring them that we are not just a Europe open for business but are also campaigning for citizens' rights as consumers.
I particularly welcome the possibility of developing new strategies for dealing with mental health problems and neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer' s and CJD.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, relations between the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Budgets were always tense during preliminary work on the budget.
All the same, we place particular importance on not accepting the Council proposals for across-the-board cuts and, above all, on providing for a moderate increase in veterinary and plant health expenditure and in sales promotion.
The Council really must accept that, in future, changes will be made to agricultural sector expenditure across the individual blocks of which it is made up.
It should be noted that recent years have seen a convergence of Parliament and the Commission in this sector.
The previous lack of vision on the part of the Council must give way to a more realistic approach, not least with a view to what the future holds for us in terms of the powers of Parliament, also where the budget is concerned.
On my initiative, we in the Committee have drafted three amendments which have all recently been adopted either directly or indirectly by the Committee on Budgets.
In particular, the Committee on Fisheries is concerned about line B2-901 concerning supervision and monitoring measures by the Member States, line B2-903 concerning support for the common European fisheries policy and line B7-8000 concerning international fisheries agreements.
That is a truly considerable amount, yet the commitment and payment appropriations increased in 1998 and 1999 and might, in all probability, increase further.
In 1999 alone, the Member States applied for more money than was available in the EU budgets.
The third matter is obviously Morocco.
The number and quality of jobs is of significant added value to the EU and, as we all know, also plays a crucial role in enlargement.
In particular I would like to thank him for the attention he has paid to liaising with my committee over recent months and our predecessors in the past year.
My committee has advanced five budget priorities: Objective 1, 2, Interreg, transport safety and sustainable mobility.
The Council is proposing that the payment appropriations are cut by EUR 433 million for Objective 1, EUR 95 million for Objective 2 and EUR 33 million for Interreg.
This Parliament enthusiastically endorsed the Agenda 2000 Structural Fund programme.
Existing programmes will stall before they are transformed into new programmes.
My committee has proposed 100% restoration of these three budget lines to the level of the provisional draft budget.
This EUR 561 million increase in Structural Fund appropriations will allow us to honour properly historic commitments and ensure the new Agenda 2000 programmes hit the ground running.
Culture has not come out of the budget process as well as it wished, but we are doing rather better than the Council of Ministers' proposal and have figures close to the 1999 level.
I would say that the EUR 238 million proposed for Socrates is simply not enough to do a sensible job.
In the year 2000, the EU will spend less than EUR 2 per citizen on education, encouraging young people to participate in exchange programmes or to acquire knowledge of different languages and cultures, on informing its citizens about the future developments of the Union while supporting our audio-visual industry.
Of this scant EUR 2 support for Europe' s cultural heritage will be less than 20 cents.
Not one of those organisations covered by budget lines 3021 or B3-2005 has received a single euro yet in 1999 for their budgets.
Mr Prodi, Mrs Reding and Mrs Schreyer, we are relying on you to do it better this coming year.
From this point of view, the draft budget for the year 2000 gives rise to serious concern.
In addition to the fact that first the Commission and then the Council have proposed very significant reductions in all the budget lines concerned, we now have to respond to a great number of tragic situations throughout the world.
But we must do this by freeing up new appropriations and not by amputating all the Category 4 lines by approximately 10%.
We cannot make the very poorest people pay for the operations of the European Union.
We need sufficient appropriations to finance reconstruction in Kosovo, of course, but also for East Timor.
We also have to finance the fisheries agreement with Morocco, which is a priority for the European Parliament.
We must therefore invite the Council to review the Financial Perspective for our external policies in Category 4.
I believe that Parliament is fairly unanimous on this point.
Nonetheless, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, we have decided to submit three amendments.
The second amendment concerns the lines of health, reproduction, and the fight against AIDS, which we propose to merge.
AIDS will be the next tragedy in Africa.
The third amendment which we wish to submit concerns line B7-6000 on the Community contribution to the operations of NGOs.
This is an amendment which does not have financial implications but which is going to enable the Liaison Committee ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Schreyer, ladies and gentlemen, according to an ancient Chinese proverb 'women are half of Heaven' and it is only right that in the European Union women should also be involved in the budget in the same proportion.
We in the Committee on Women 's Rights and Equal Opportunities have few priorities: firstly, actions specific to women and, secondly, gender mainstreaming in all Community policies.
The Fourth Action Programme for Equal Opportunities expires at the end of the year 2000 and I would like to remind Commissioner Diamantopoulou of the promise which she made to the Committee to submit as soon as possible a proposal for continuing this programme so that the Fifth Action Programme can follow on seamlessly.
The funds for the European Women' s Lobby, which also represents the interests of women in Europe, must also be made available in Budget 2000.
Europe is facing up to its responsibility in development policy and therefore the funds here must not be cut under any circumstances.
It makes sense to group together the budget lines B7-631 and B7-6211 into a single line.
The involvement of women in social, economic and political life must be expanded.
Mr President, firstly, on behalf of my group I would like in particular to warmly thank the two general rapporteurs for the correct points of focus and the correct strategy which they have developed.
Since a major part of the Community budget is handled by the Member States, I would recommend that, in the interests of good housekeeping, the Council pay attention in this matter to efficiency, transparency and tidy implementation so that the Commission is not forced in future to repeatedly resort to the funds of the charging procedure.
I believe that here also the Council must compromise with Parliament.
We are prepared to give the Commission the necessary funds for administrative expenditure and the management of all these projects if in return Parliament is involved in the deliberations on reform.
I must also thank all those who have approached us from the individual committees with their requests and who, in the majority of cases, in the vast majority of cases, have shown a great deal of understanding for the fact that in a limited framework much is desirable but not everything is possible.
Thirdly, Budget 2000 is noteworthy because this year we are entering the period of the next Financial Perspective, which runs to 2006, and today we must put down important markers for the coming years.
We have done this in the past and will do it in the future.
We are not making policies as a game between the Commission, the Council and Parliament for our own benefit, but in order to create the best possible conditions for the development of the European Union and for the people with whom we are dealing.
In terms of appropriations which concern commitment appropriations, Budget 2000 is lower than the budget 1999.
That is not the case.
An across-the-board cut with the lawnmower is indefensible and, therefore, we must and will fight it and we will cite Category 4 as part of the interinstitutional agreement.
We are shifting tasks from national to European level, expressis verbis, but then we are not getting the appropriate financial resources.
These, in brief, are the focal points. (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, I too would like to begin by thanking the three rapporteurs for leaving no stone unturned in their work.
My group believes that we should in fact do this as often as we possibly can.
It is Category 4.
In broad terms, I would like to lend firm support to the position adopted by the rapporteur where his policy on TAOs, the Technical Assistance Offices, is concerned.
If we look at the events of the past year we have no choice but to make this issue as transparent as possible.
We must know what concerns the public sector and what concerns the private sector.
For around three years now we have had a new procedure for this: the ad hoc procedure.
A percentage cut in agricultural expenditure in all the lines is out of the question.
The majority of people believe that it will not do to make cuts in funds for other countries that need help.
The same group of people feels that Kosovo is part of Europe and ought to be given priority.
We consider it to be essential that the rapporteur and the rapporteur for the year 2001 get down some time to answering the question as to what exactly comes under part A of the budget and what comes under part B.
The pension problem in Europe must be given serious consideration at some stage.
I feel we must carefully examine all the headings once again for whichever way you look at it, a rigorous budget is what we need at this moment in time and that is what we are all going to have to strive for.
Unfortunately I am only in a position to single out a few points and I intend to start with expenditure in the field of external action, since it is this area that is at the heart of this discussion on the budget.
I am very pleased that the rapporteur still put this right in his report.
I fully support what the rapporteur has to say on financing the reconstruction of Kosovo.
The Kosovo pot is being filled at present by means of an across-the-board cut of 10% in expenditure on external action.
There will be less money for the peace process in the Middle East; less money for projects aimed at reintegrating demobilised soldiers into society.
There is less money being invested in conflict prevention.
My group therefore believes that the reconstruction of Kosovo should be financed by raising the ceiling on Category 4.
The financial assistance for East Timor and Turkey will, however, be more limited in scope.
It may also be possible to create some room for manoeuvre - and that is perhaps something for discussion with the Council - by taking the EUR 89 million destined for humanitarian activities in Kosovo out of the humanitarian aid pot and carry it over to the total financial package for the region.
What I do want us to achieve in the course of these negotiations is to see the pension fund become independent of Parliament, both in terms of its administrative and political structure.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, any budget is the expression of political choices par excellence.
From this point of view, I think there is a singular contradiction between piling on the tasks assigned to the European Union, while subtracting the resources necessary to fulfil these tasks.
The iron logic of the budgetary Stability Pact does not go at all well with the ambition for a Europe of greater social justice and greater solidarity.
Agricultural expenditure: a systematic 10% cut of all the credit lines in relation to the Commission' s preliminary draft budget, without even examining the specific requirements, case by case.
Structural Funds: appreciable reduction in the regional aid appropriations.
External policies, especially in the area of cooperation with the countries of the South: the chop.
Examples have been given already, but let me add: food aid down by 9% in relation to the present, cooperation with Africa down by 12% and aid to NGOs down by 35%.
The reason put forward to attempt to justify these swinging cuts is the unexpected appearance of new priorities, which are incidentally perfectly legitimate, such as aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo, our contribution to the construction of East Timor now that it has been liberated, our solidarity with the earthquake victims in Turkey and financing of a fisheries agreement with Morocco.
While my group is by no means arguing in favour of recklessly increasing Union expenditures, we still think it necessary, if the need arises, as is clearly the case, to utilise the margin for the increase in expenditure which is authorised under the agreements signed between the Member States themselves.
This is why my group is requesting, within the limits envisaged under the agreements signed by the Member States themselves, a review of the Financial Perspective for all the items I have just mentioned.
And, Monsieur Bourlanges, since he who can do more can do less, we are at all events supporting the rapporteur' s proposal for the review of the Financial Perspective for external policies.
In addition, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to some amendments proposed by my group in favour of a study on the application of the Tobin tax in support of the world cultural heritage classified by UNESCO within the countries of the Union, in favour of a freeze on aid to Turkey, excluding, of course, aid to the earthquake victims, until the Turkish authorities change their attitude to the Kurdish people, on the question of Cyprus and on the subject of human rights in general.
Finally, we urgently demand that the appropriations allocated in the 1999 budget to the European Women's Lobby, which unites 1400 women' s organisations and which performs work of a high quality, are renewed in their entirety in the 2000 budget.
As you can see, these are common sense proposals on which all progressive Members of Parliament, and even others, can and should agree.
Mr President, the budgetary procedure for the year 2000 is henceforth included within the strict financial framework with the regulated expenditure for the period 2000-2006, as accepted by this House in the interinstitutional agreement.
If the same stringency in budgetary matters prevails as much at the level of the States as in the Union, here it is chiefly a response to the demands of some Member States, and we know that the first victim of this stringency will be the common agricultural policy.
On the subject of foreign policy, we are of course in favour of the fisheries agreement with Morocco, an essential agreement in European-Mediterranean relations, which are too often neglected by the Union.
We are also in favour of financial support for East Timor and of aid for Turkey in the aftermath of the earthquakes.
As for aid for Kosovo, let us one last time deplore the bombing of a European State by the countries of the Union.
The austerity that the Financial Perspective herald will in fact be a sort of selective austerity: foreign policy rather than agricultural policy.
The significant weakening of agricultural policy and the dubious regional policy are elements that our group could not possibly accept.
And if there were further need, paragraph 20 of Mr Bourlanges' resolution, which considers the distinction between compulsory expenditure and non-compulsory expenditure to be seriously anachronistic, would be sufficient to justify our rejection of the budget.
Mr President, last May this Parliament endorsed the financial framework for the period 2000-2006.
Financing important priorities such as Kosovo and East Timor is now becoming dependent on a political game that Parliament and the Council are playing over the Financial Perspective.
It is far too early to call upon Article 19 of the interinstitutional agreement.
We must first look seriously at the various possibilities for financing these new priorities within the present framework.
The rapporteur proposes to incorporate 50% of outstanding payments into Budget 2000.
Any attempts to squeeze the political parties into a European straitjacket will only serve to widen the gulf between Brussels and the citizens of Europe.
Our group put forward an amendment aimed at achieving this but the Committee on Budgets rejected it.
Mr President, I would first like to congratulate the rapporteur and, with a great deal of respect for the work he has done, thank him very sincerely for this draft budget which is courageous and innovative in many aspects.
The rapporteur is to be praised for having achieved it by means of a budgetary procedure which has run its course with the utmost smoothness, even if Parliament is in the process of issuing a major challenge to the Council - a challenge which, in my opinion, is worth accepting.
This year, a milestone year, what with the war in Kosovo, the events in East Timor, the earthquakes in Turkey and the commitments of a Union that wishes to take on more responsibility in the international arena, the Council is proposing a budget of EUR 92 billion, that is, EUR 4 billion less than the budget for the previous year.
The Edinburgh perspectives set us an ever higher ceiling and the Council gives us an ever more limited budget, meaning that it will be necessary to cut back on actions in the field of development, for example, or human rights and many other actions, in order to finance the priorities which have been set, and it is not our fault if Europe is the great paymaster of foreign policy.
We have an interinstitutional agreement that allows us, if exceptional events require, to go beyond the Financial Perspective, so why not do it?
It will still be less than the 1999 budget, but I think that the citizens of Europe will clearly see that this endeavour is not only logical, but also perfectly feasible at the level of the budgets of our Member States.
We would therefore do well to proceed in this way and I think that Parliament should follow through and, if necessary, demand that we have recourse to the former Article 203 of the budget.
We have an interim solution which, I think, will enable us, by means of dialogue with the Commission, to find an agreement on a definitive solution.
I am pointing out this pragmatic aspect of our report for the year 2000 and I would compare it to policies which were rather more extremist in which a clean sweep was made of mini-budgets and then one found oneself with one or two thousand TAOs which could not be managed because the project had been axed in the meantime without any thought as to the consequences.
As regards political parties, may I say that, frankly, asking the Commission to lay down the status of political parties - I am referring to the contribution of the last speaker - is neither fair nor worthy.
In his opening remarks, he clarified for us the perspective for the 2000 budget in putting forward the idea that we have to have more programmes, we have to have more countries and we have to have less money.
For my part, I would like to focus my remarks on three aspects which concern the running of European policies and the attitudes which we have taken in Parliament in previous years to these aspects.
There is some degree of concern at some of the initial moves the Commission is now making in its information structures which we in Parliament will keep a close eye on.
I have put down an amendment, our group has put down an amendment, to make sure that we can have a report from the Commission on how far this has gone.
There are still one or two countries where the Commission and Parliament are separate in terms of structure and we need to be particularly vigilant in instances where more than 75 or 80% of the appropriations go into paying for salaries and buildings rather than adequate information policies.
We must, therefore, make sure not only that we get proper coherence between the agencies working on the ground but also Madam President-of-the Council, that we do not take decisions which mean that we are spending money futilely because of a Council decision that we must have some people removed some 100 miles away in another place.
Kosovo and stability in the Balkans must be a long-term project.
It is us, as Europeans, who have to take that responsibility.
I therefore welcome the idea of a working committee between the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgets.
We must make sure not only that funds are properly spent but that the ideas which are coming through are properly coordinated.
The Council has been absent from this debate on discharge.
We must find some way of having a dialogue between the institutions over the next 12 months to make sure that these reforms take place and that we have the right kind of criteria for making sure that we are getting value for money from the staff.
Mr President, I speak on behalf of the Socialist Group in relation to the Virrankoski report.
Firstly, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very good approach to this issue and to say that the Socialist Group broadly agrees with the matters he has raised.
On the issue of staffing, which affects all the institutions, we take the view that we have to find a balance between financial prudence and the ability of the institutions to do their job properly.
We would have liked to be a bit more generous to Parliament in terms of staffing resources.
The way in which the Bureau and the Budgets Committee have worked together to come to a compromise on Parliament' s budget has been very constructive.
I want to highlight just three issues within Parliament budget.
One is the issue of the Members' Statute.
But you simply cannot put money on the line without having an idea of who is going to qualify for this money, what purposes the money is going to be used for, and so on.
It is now up to the Commission to bring forward a proposal on how we might implement the proposal for a European political party.
Finally, and perhaps something that you and I, Mr President, take a personal interest in, the notion of regional offices.
We have put money in the reserve in the budget.
When we come to second reading, I hope we can release that money from the reserve and get on with implementing the policy of regional offices.
It is quite clear that the Court of Justice has not had the resources to carry out its tasks properly.
The Council has made a limited gesture in terms of improving staffing of the Court.
The Council needs to make a more refined proposal before we come to second reading.
It is, on the other hand, a rejection of the way in which the Commission and the Council have proposed financing the reconstruction of Kosovo.
It is important that a solution to this problem is found, and it is my hope that, in the negotiations, the Council will show the required flexibility so that we might find a solution within the framework of the interinstitutional agreement.
We have started with the assumption that EUR 500 million should be found for the reconstruction of Kosovo.
These tie down the administration and can lead to far too little flexibility and a lack of accountability if we go too far in that direction.
We therefore need a critical review of the Financial Perspective.
Mr President, the first budget of this new financial framework confirms and reinforces the grave apprehensions we had during the debates on Agenda 2000 and on the interinstitutional agreement that goes with it.
This is why we want to see this merely as the starting point for a final sum which will be established in the near future and in the context of the Conference of Donors, which is in progress and in which the European Union is participating.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Bourlanges for his competence and the great balance he has shown in preparing this budget.
This will allow us to intervene immediately in specific sectors and, at the same time, to verify whether our budgetary policy is on course, moving in the direction we set out.
Mr President, the budget line for reproductive health has been halved by the Council and the Commission.
Approximately 300 million women suffer from short- or long-term illnesses because of complications in pregnancy.
That is more than a quarter of all women living in developing countries.
The risk of dying in pregnancy or while giving birth is 1 in 8 in Angola, while it is 1 in 8,700 in a country like Switzerland.
If there is no access to reproductive health facilities, there are consequences for the whole family, not least the children who, in the worst case, also die when the mother dies or else stop going to school and become malnourished.
Well, Mr Bourlanges is bringing us back to this bellicose atmosphere, even quoting Marshal Foch, which is appropriate, I suppose.
But in the meantime, well, Italy will pay, and France will pay another EUR 600 million.
Mr President, this budget is fundamental to the development of Europe in the next few years.
It is the first budget in accordance with the new Financial Perspective and institutional harmony will depend very much on its efficient execution, and without that harmony - and I would like to underline this - it will be very difficult to implement a genuine European policy.
We must remember that the previous Parliament approved, in May, the Financial Perspective for 2000-2006 and the interinstitutional agreement.
We must also remember that the Berlin Council approved the Financial Perspective by means of an extraordinarily complicated consensus, which began with some extremely divergent standpoints between the Governments and, furthermore, with a European Commission which had resigned and a European Parliament which was at the end of its mandate.
What I mean by this is that it is now of fundamental importance to defend the Financial Perspective.
Only in this way for example can we guarantee the financing of the Union' s structural policies.
If the Council has not found any other way of financing the reconstruction of Kosovo other than an across-the-board cut in the external activities of the Union, it is logical that the European Parliament will want to defend those lines.
We must remember that the fisheries agreement with Morocco affects almost 30,000 citizens of the Union and that regions such as Galicia, the Canary Islands and Andalusia have a large proportion of their fleet fishing in Moroccan waters.
It is normal - and this is the view of the rapporteur and my own group - that, at the beginning of the budgetary process, we should be concerned to see that in the first reading no commitment had been specified for these EUR 125 million.
Nevertheless, and bearing in mind that fishing policy is a Community policy whose funding is separate from the Treaties, a formula has been found between all of us that allows the Council' s amendments not to be rejected in the first reading, including those referring to fishing, but rather defers their approval until such a time as financial agreement is reached with the Council.
However, it is also clear that the outgoing Commission did not include any indication concerning the renewal of the agreement in its preliminary draft and, for this reason, did not include any appropriation in the reserve.
And we want the Member States to confront these exceptional circumstances, and the reconstruction of Kosovo is an exceptional circumstance, with exceptional solutions which must not be sought by means of a simple across-the-board cut imposed on Parliament in their lines and programmes.
Secondly, Mr Pittella who, as a new member, came to the committee and has made quite a significant point about the phasing-in of the ECSC funds.
When Mr Bourlanges began he said it was the first time he had had 15 minutes to speak in Parliament, and my immediate thought was "yes and that will not be long enough" .
Mr Bourlanges, I congratulate you on your approach to the budget.
This first reading is predominantly about the asterisk amendment concerning Kosovo, the Morocco fisheries agreement, East Timor and Turkey, which was mentioned by the rapporteur.
There are forces within this Parliament which would quite happily see it scrapped tomorrow but as far as I am concerned my job - and the job of Parliament per se - is to defend the agreement which we made earlier this year.
The amendment for Category 4 should not be seen as Parliament just flexing its muscles.
But I do not want the Council to see it as a threat.
I hope the Council can do the same.
This is not just some act by Parliament to mount a show of force, but at the end of the day Member States will put pressure on individual Members whose parties are in government to get us to change our mind.
I want the Council to take back this message.
We abide by those same principles but in this instance, after what Parliament has fought for over the years, this revision of the interinstitutional agreement, a revision of the Financial Perspective as outlined in the interinstitutional agreement, is extremely important to Parliament.
Mr Bourlanges stands before a double paradox - a debate on the budget which deals with expenditure but not income, and then a budget subject to the double conflicting pressure of an increase in the tasks of the European Union and an actual trend towards reduction of the European GDP rate which is reflected in the Union' s budget.
However, I do not think that everything can come down to difficult negotiations that seek a possible compromise between new resources and the sacrifice of former priorities.
Today the European Parliament, the Executive Commission and the Council have to take on the responsibility for opening a broad, thorough debate in full view of the European taxpayers.
This must not lead to any increase in public spending in Europe, but requires individual countries, all the European countries, to be willing to transfer the resources corresponding to the de facto transfer of competences to the Union.
The increase in the Community budget will and can correspond to a reduction in national budgets.
The task we have before us is a formidable one which can no longer be avoided, for otherwise the all the European institutions will lose credibility.
I am indebted to the rapporteur and the Committee on Budgets for their support for Amendment No 69, which I submitted with the support of Mrs Van Lancker and Mr Beysen, as well as most of the Flemish and French-speaking Belgian Members.
It provides for an appropriation of EUR 50 million to be taken up in the financial reserves for financing the activities to be undertaken by those producers or Member States wishing to set up an integrated quality control system for the whole food chain.
That will make it possible for us to restore the consumer' s faith in his or her food.
Secondly, I would like to affirm my support for paragraphs 13, 17 and 57 of the Bourlanges report.
Paragraph 57 relates to the allocation of additional posts to OLAF and the Veterinary Office in Dublin.
Paragraphs 13 and 17 concern the future of the TAOs, the Technical Assistance Offices.
The Council maintains that the European Parliament is proposing very far-reaching reforms and that it will not be possible to accommodate these in Budget 2000.
Mr President, the main proposition of the Bourlanges report involves increasing the budget by EUR 700 million to finance what he calls the four priorities, with, first and foremost, aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo.
But financing for the reconstruction of Kosovo, and indeed Serbia, where the fate of the population seems not to be of interest to the European institutions, should be taken out of the military budget of the powers responsible for the destruction.
The humanitarian arguments which we have heard serve mainly to hide the fact that EUR 500 million of public money, supposedly earmarked for Kosovo, only serve to make profits for big business in the private sector, especially building firms and public works contractors.
On the subject of internal policies, since the Bourlanges report establishes priorities, the first priority should be to prevent all the redundancy plans announced by Renault-Nissan, Alsthom, Rhône-Poulenc, Hoechst-Marion-Roussel and many others.
This is the only way to oppose the rise in unemployment effectively without it taking a single penny from the budget.
Mr President, there is one financial matter of importance to Ireland which I would like to focus on during this wide-ranging debate on the budget.
For the border county region which I represent it will be worth something in the region of IEP 80 million.
But my primary concern relates to the transitional period between the ending of the existing programme and the commencement of the next programme.
Mr President, Commissioner, in undertaking our first reading of Budget 2000 today, we are discussing the first budget under the guidance of the new Commissioner, under your guidance Mrs Schreyer.
And it is the first budget to be treated in accordance with the Berlin decisions on Agenda 2000 from March of this year.
Firstly: I do not consider it credible that, as the European Parliament, we should, on the one hand, require the most stringent tests from all other institutions, in particular the Commission, that we should expect the staffing structure to be adapted to new challenges and that we should want to accomplish this through the European budget, when, on the other hand, we are not prepared, here in our own domain, in the parliamentary budget and in the parliamentary administration, to take the necessary action.
I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their loyal cooperation and hope that in the second reading also we can adopt a sound budget.
Mr President, naturally enough the rapporteur and some of the previous speakers have already alluded obviously to what for me is one of the crucial political elements - if not the crucial element - of this draft budget.
But, as rapporteur for the interinstitutional agreement and the Financial Perspective, I feel compelled to emphasise it.
Between 25 March and 6 May, we held the last round of negotiations between Parliament and the Council.
We are beginning to see the cost of the needs of Kosovo, there has been an earthquake in Turkey and a political disaster in East Timor, not to mention the need to pay for the fisheries agreement with Morocco, which the government of the principal country involved must have forgotten in the negotiations in Berlin.
If the Commission now presents a proposal for revision of the Financial Perspective, think of that bottle, Madam Minister.
Commissioner, Mr President, the current climate conference in Bonn is crying out for more funds for renewable energies; to wit funds from the EU, both for research and for demonstration projects.
Yet this so-called "free market" only exists for multinational concerns because, for example, the SME cannot access either the information on money allocation nor the programmes themselves.
In the last two decades exports from Latin America have increased by 300% whilst the gross domestic product in those countries has only increased by 3.3%.
Since the beginning of the worldwide policy of a liberalised world economic area, there has been a massive redistribution from the rich to the poor, both within societies and between States.
Mr President, any budget reflects the financial implementation of the intended policy.
But it is absurd to find ever more responsibilities for the European Union without providing it with the necessary financial funds.
In a changing world, we must be in a position to make adjustments to the budget far more quickly so that, without increasing the overall budget, we might meet any new needs including, first and foremost, the development needs of the new Member States in Eastern Europe but also the need for emergency aid and reconstruction in the Balkans, which ought not to be financed through cutbacks in support to the Third World.
More cost-conscious administration must be implemented and the wastefulness of which we have again and again seen examples and which the Court of Auditors' reports have revealed for a number of years must be eliminated if the EU' s citizens are at all going to be able to regard the EU' s institutions as serious partners in the development of Europe.
The professionals in the Member States who participate widely in this action are in agreement in favour of a study.
Such a study could in particular result in the harmonisation of the Community contribution which currently varies between 40 and 100%, according to the products.
For the same period, there are plans to finance a communication action for third countries, but in the absence of an implementing regulation, it will probably not be possible to use the provision in the year 2000.
Mr President, supporting the economic reconstruction and the political renewal of a free, democratic and independent East Timor is not only nor is it fundamentally a question of humanitarian aid.
It means above all, that liberty, democracy and respect for human rights are the fundamental principles according to which we would like to see our world develop.
By deciding that the budget for the year 2000 is to make Europe' s financial contribution to Timor one of the four great European priorities, the European Parliament will be giving an unmistakable political signal to Europeans and to the world.
The assessment reports on the reconstruction costs for East Timor, as well as for the attendant international financial aid plan, have still not been completed which means that it is not yet possible to have an accurate estimate of the European contribution to the costs of reconstruction.
The political message that we shall be giving when we vote next Thursday in favour of Mr Bourlanges' draft legislative resolution is nevertheless unmistakable.
Europe' s support for East Timor is an absolute priority for Parliament in terms of the budget for the year 2000.
Finally, at the very time when Lusaka is reminding us of the human and economic ravages due to AIDS in Africa, we are reducing the funds dedicated to it, contrary to the Commissioner Nielson' s assertions, while mixing them in with the policy on health and reproduction.
In short, we cannot be satisfied with this new distribution of appropriations which destabilises the priorities of the European Union in developing countries.
Mr President, in the time available I want to refer to just one particular line in the budget which is the school milk scheme where the Commission has proposals to reduce the allocation from EUR 96 million to EUR 53 million.
However, I am disappointed that reductions are being made in the overall budgetary allocation but I hope that the European Council, when it comes to reviewing the second reading of the EU budget for the year 2000, will take on board the recommendation of this Parliament that it should increase the funding for the programme to EUR 67 million or IEP 53 million in next year' s allocation.
That is why we now want to increase the resources for developing dialogue between the two sides of industry.
Mr President, I would like to start by saying how indebted I am to the rapporteur, who has done some sterling work in this area.
The rapporteur has struck the right balance here.
I believe that the Council and in fact the Commission itself are responsible to a certain extent for the problems now facing us.
But we must also look at how much Kosovo' s economy can bear.
Humanitarian efforts to help refugees or victims of war in Kosovo, people injured in the earthquake in Turkey or innocent people hit by events in East Timor have obviously led to demands being made upon the European Union.
We have budget frameworks in the form of an interinstitutional agreement, signed less than six months ago.
Mr President, this is my first budget.
Given the commitment in the Treaty of Amsterdam to incorporating the interests of consumers into all other policy areas of the EU and the derisory level of the consumer budget, which stands at a quarter of one percent of total EU spending, there is a need to begin by making sure that valuable programmes such as the school milk scheme are safeguarded.
This is not the case in the draft budget as my colleague, Mr Hyland, said earlier.
The reason I feel strongly about this budget line is that it has an impact on the long- and short-term health of people, it addresses social deprivation issues and it impacts on the economy and jobs in my region.
But it now emerges from the Trialogue meeting last week that the Commission will be proposing an increase of EUR 31 million.
I must say that I am disappointed that the Council is not here because I would like to know if they will support this.
Mr President, in this debate, the European Parliament has the opportunity consistently to underline its resolve concerning the future of the European Union.
In this context, I must emphasise the fact that the Council' s draft budget represents less than 1.10% of the Community' s GDP, an amount which is already quite low in itself and what is more, is considerably lower than the ceiling of 1.27% set in Edinburgh and confirmed in Berlin.
Amongst the new priorities, I would single out that of the reconstruction of East Timor, a region which has been a permanent target of the attention of the European Parliament which in September, once more adopted a firm resolution.
In terms of the political commitment it represents, I think that the proposal to dedicate a specific budgetary heading to East Timor is of great significance.
Mr President, adopting the budget for the cultural sector is more difficult than usual this time.
The Socrates II programme is presently the object of conciliation, and the recommendations for a second reading on the Youth for Europe action programme and the Culture 2000 programme will be discussed in the plenary sitting on Wednesday, which is tomorrow.
Thus the final effort to have these multiannual programmes approved still remains to be made.
At the same time, the Committee on Budgets has had to present the allocations for the implementation of the programmes next year.
It has to be clearly pointed out that the figures presented by the Committee on Budgets do not constitute a stand on the result of conciliations.
The worst that can happen, however, is that Parliament' s position on financing for the programmes remains unclear; that can be used against Parliament.
As multiannual programmes must in any case adapt to the general Financial Perspective of the relevant budget heading as well as the budget as a whole, it is necessary, in my opinion, for Parliament to enhance the effectiveness of its internal coordination when discussing multiannual programmes and the budget.
Communication between the special committee and the Committee on Budgets should not be broken at Parliament' s first reading, after which some time might pass until the matter is finally resolved.
The Treaty of Amsterdam emphasises Parliament' s position as a responsible and effective decision-maker.
Budgetary language is not dry because it is made up of numbers but because it pays little heed to changes in society and its needs, expectations and hopes.
And if it is clear that rigour is required in the implementation of the budget, I would also claim that we require rigour in the drawing up of the budget.
And here today, how many of us have had to insist on the question of the fishing agreement, a clear case of a lack of rigorous information.
When we talk about expecting enlargements as from 2002, are we taking account, in our building policy, of the enlargements to come, in 2002, 2003 and 2004?
In any event, it can only be reformed by means of the Members' Statute.
This would free up our time and give us the opportunity to concern ourselves with the new projects, new goals and all the aspirations that we have expressed here today.
There are two budget lines that are particularly dear to my heart.
One is B5-512, financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises, support for family businesses.
I believe that enlargement also represents a huge opportunity for small companies.
I would like to limit myself to a few points in my speech, points which I would like to come back to since, in my view, Parliament and Commission proposals must be reconciled.
I wish to refer, firstly, to market measures in the agricultural sector.
The Commission agrees that it is of course, necessary for the budget appropriations for the year 2000 to correspond to actual requirements as far as possible, and that no artificial reductions should be made here.
I hope that on this basis we will be able to reach a consensual solution as to how matters are to be represented in the budget plan.
The question of how the sum of EUR 500 million stands in relation to Kosovo' s estimated GDP is indeed worthy of mention.
Like everyone, I believe, on the Committee on Budgets, I attach particular importance to seeing these commitments being made in writing further to the highly interesting letter which Mrs Schreyer sent us and to which our chairman, Mr Wynn, responded requesting, I believe, further details.
I shall therefore ask you, Commissioner, together with your colleagues, please, to formalise the commitments that you have just undertaken in the terms you deem appropriate, so that we can be familiar with the facts and we can proceed to the vote on Thursday on the basis of clear commitments which do not allow for any misunderstanding between us.
The debate is closed.
Mr Duisenberg should in fact be here by now but he is stuck in a traffic jam.
Indeed, the transfer of a core competency of the modern state, namely monetary policy, to a truly European and independent organisation such as the ECB must be regarded as a historic event which marks an unprecedented degree of economic and political integration within the European Union.
I should like to start by commenting on the discharge of the ECB' s accountability vis-à-vis the European Parliament.
The Treaty establishing the European Community contains various provisions to ensure the democratic accountability of the ECB, one of the cornerstones of which is certainly the presentation of the Annual Report to the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union.
However, apart from this annual exercise, the ECB and the European Parliament have established several other contacts.
Within the scope of these hearings, which - in line with the European Parliament' s Rules of Procedure - take place on a quarterly basis, I provide detailed explanations regarding both our assessment of current economic and monetary developments and the decisions taken by the ECB.
Furthermore, the ECB also had the opportunity to welcome delegations of members of the European Parliament' s Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to its premises in Frankfurt.
Thus, while the Treaty requires the ECB to publish a quarterly report on its activities, the ECB has decided to publish such a report on a monthly basis, the Monthly Bulletin, which gives a detailed presentation of economic and monetary developments.
First, let me mention the extended press conferences that the Vice-President and I hold immediately after the first meeting of the Governing Council every month, transcripts of which - including transcripts of the questions and answer session are also accessible via the ECB' s website.
Our communication policy gives clear priority to maintaining and enhancing the credibility of the Eurosystem and confidence in the euro, both of which - credibility and confidence - are crucial elements in the successful conduct of monetary policy.
In this context, one should always bear in mind the fact that the Governing Council acts as a collegial body, and that all decisions have to be communicated to the public in a clear and consistent way.
Speaking a common language is particularly important for a central bank operating in a monetary union comprising several countries.
More time will be needed before we can assume that all the technical issues have been addressed properly, and the publication of forecasts can be considered without endangering the ECB' s credibility.
I am confident, however, that we can achieve this in the course of next year.
Let me also emphasise that the role of the ECB' s internal forecasts in the decision-making process should not be overestimated.
The role of our internal forecasts within the monetary policy strategy of the Eurosystem therefore differs from the role of inflation forecasts in a strategy of direct inflation targeting.
The ECB has also been asked to publish reports featuring national data relating to countries participating in the euro area.
On the contrary, the Eurosystem must take a euro area-wide perspective in its assessment of the economic situation in general and the outlook for price stability in particular.
Publication by the ECB of detailed reports for each country participating in the euro area would run counter to the necessary creation of an area-wide perspective in the conduct, discussion and thinking of monetary policy.
However, it should be recognised that the national central banks of the Eurosystem continue to produce their own regular reports that address national economic and financial developments in some detail.
I should now like briefly to expand upon another issue which I know is of fundamental concern to the European Parliament, namely the contribution of monetary policy to the general economic policies in the Community.
The Treaty provides for a fundamentally sound allocation of objectives and policy instruments between the monetary and governmental authorities in Europe.
The Treaty also states that, without prejudice to its primary objective of price stability, the Eurosystem shall support the general economic policies in the Community.
By maintaining price stability, it is our firm belief monetary policy makes the best contribution it can to achieving a high level of output and employment in the medium-term.
Markets function most effectively when relative price signals are not distorted by fluctuations in the general price level.
Second, a climate of price stability reduces the inflation risk premia in interest rates, particularly in longer-term rates, and thereby improves the conditions for financing investment.
Attempting to use monetary policy to raise real economic activity above its sustainable level will, in the long run, simply lead to ever higher inflation, but not to faster economic growth.
While the contribution it makes through maintaining price stability must not be overlooked, monetary policy clearly cannot solve the serious structural unemployment problem in the euro area.
Safeguarding sound government finances is a means of strengthening the conditions for price stability and achieving strong sustainable growth which is conducive to employment creation.
The clear division of policy responsibilities I have just described enhances the credibility of monetary and economic policies in Europe, increases transparency and facilitates accountability.
In addition, in operations of relevance to the single monetary policy, the decision-making bodies of the Eurosystem will be involved in assessing the compatibility of the envisaged operations with the pursuit of monetary stability.
Finally, I should like to turn to a different issue which has also been raised by the European Parliament on several occasions, namely the question of cross-border retail payment services in the euro area.
The ECB is aware of the criticism that has been expressed with reference to the low level of efficiency and high costs involved in the processing of such payments and it fully shares the concerns expressed by the European Parliament in this regard.
After the introduction of the euro banknotes and coins on 1 January 2002, these differences in service levels for national and cross-border payments within the single currency area will become even more apparent.
Against this background, the ECB strongly advocates the creation of a single payment area in order fully to reap the benefits of the single currency.
One pre-condition, therefore, for achieving a substantial enhancement in the processing of cross-border retail payments is undoubtedly the fact that the banking industry must implement common technical features in the processing of funds between banks.
The ECB expects the banks in the euro area to achieve substantial improvements by 1 January 2002 at the latest.
The ECB will, however, closely monitor further developments in this area and will inform the European Parliament and the general public about the progress achieved.
Clearly it is still early days in terms of judgement on the results of the ECB' s mandate but here, too, we can already point to many positive signs, not least that investors are prepared to lend euro area governments their money at very low rates of interest.
It is very much in this context of overwhelming support for the objectives of the ECB and of praise for its achievements so far that my remaining remarks should be seen.
It may achieve its objective of price stability but without openness it will not be clear whether that objective has been attained by design and can therefore be repeated in future or by lucky accident which may therefore require some improvement in its methods of working.
Secondly, the ECB should publish a six-monthly forecast of economic developments in the euro area.
Finally, the committee may request that the President appears following each significant monetary action.
The committee also rejected the Greens' view as expressed in their amendment today, that the price stability mandate should be altered to take account of the difficulties faced by manufacturers alone if their prices fall.
I would, however, like to say on behalf of our group that we consider the fundamental conditions to be sacrosanct.
The Group of the European People' s Party/European Democrats sees itself as the political group which says yes to the independence of the ECB, to reinforcement of the stability policy, regarding both price stability and currency stability, and which also says yes to further reduction of the public debt, to new growth and employment and to the credibility of monetary policy.
I am particularly pleased that the President stressed again today that the European Central Bank also regards consumer protection as an important task within monetary union.
This shows that the ECB is taking its responsibility in supporting other national economic objectives, particularly employment, seriously, and we know that the economic "spring" in the European Union, in spite of the varied developments within the euro area of the 11, certainly needs even further support.
I would ask the ECB to make a constructive contribution towards achieving the Growth and Employment Pact and to say very clearly what part it intends to play in the macroeconomic dialogue in order to contribute to a balanced policy mix.
It is now a complete reality which is operating with total normality on all the economic levels envisaged - in the Member States, in the European Union, on an international level.
One of them is clearly the issue of transparency in some areas that the President of the Central Bank himself has already mentioned.
It is not, for example, in a position to challenge the social rights gained by Europeans.
The Central Bank, on the other hand, has been assigned a specific function by Europeans, that of ensuring price stability.
All central or international banks of major countries are bound, in one form or another, by this democratic accountability with regard to the socio-economic community - in the Anglo-Saxon countries through Parliament and in Germany through the federate banks of the Länder.
We support the two amendments tabled by the rapporteur himself, for publication of votes in the Council of the European Central Bank and the econometric models on which these votes are based.
From this point of view, the Huhne report is justifiably very pleased with the reduction in interest rates which occurred in April.
Apart from the positive effect of this decision on employment, it is in line with the objective of ecological sustainability, which is to say the rejection of a policy of excessively favouring immediate prospects at the expense of long- term future prospects.
This is why our group is concerned about the rumours of a forthcoming increase in interest rates.
Such a decision would compromise both the upturn in employment in Europe and ecological investment, especially that related to saving energy and combating the greenhouse effect.
Such a decision could only be taken in the event that price stability was threatened.
Well, price stability applies in both directions.
In order to prevent such situations arising, our Group is proposing an amendment drawing the attention of the European Central Bank to its mandate to ensure price stability in both directions.
President Duisenberg, I would like to mention three matters critical to this first annual report of the European Central Bank: accountability, transparency and employment.
Firstly, in my view, the content and the drafting of the report do not make it sufficiently clear that the European Central Bank is willing to subject itself to democratic control by the European Parliament.
This is demonstrated by the fact that dialogue on monetary matters between Parliament and the ECB is assessed on page 95/96 on just the same terms as cooperation with other institutions.
In my opinion, this is in contradiction to Article 113 of the Treaty on European Union, which makes it mandatory for the ECB to present an annual report of its activities and its monetary policy to Parliament.
Indeed, this Parliament is the forum where the ECB must present its monetary decisions, justify them and, if necessary, let them be criticised.
I still consider this to be the crucial foundation for establishing... (The President cut the speaker off.) Mr President, today our Parliament has the President of the European Central Bank as its guest, that is to say the president of the first institution to which the nations of Europe, by who knows what perturbation, have decided, eleven of them at least, to confer to give sovereign power.
Mr President, the ECB' s first annual report looks back over 1998, a year dominated by the build-up to the launch of the single currency on 1 January 1999.
But it has since become apparent that bringing about the monetary union of eleven Member States also has its drawbacks.
Regional differences in the rate of inflation are in fact greater still in the United States.
Mr President of the Central Bank, I am speaking on behalf of the Italian Radical Members.
The Huhne report certainly contains positive elements, especially as regards the request to the European Central Bank for more information regarding the grounds for the decisions it adopted through the publication of concise Minutes including dissenting opinions as well.
Regarding the method, I wonder why on earth Parliament, in discussing the 1998 report of the European Central Bank, feels the need to include its approbation of a specific measure which the European Central Bank will give an account of in its next report - the 1999 report.
And what sense is there in Parliament giving an opinion of one single act of the Central Bank?
But, at the same time, the European Central Bank must make decisions which concern every individual citizen of Europe.
I would also like to point out that the European Parliament has a particularly privileged role here.
The European Parliament is explicitly mentioned in the Treaties as the partner of the European Central Bank in dialogue, and this is not the case in the same way with other institutions.
It has taken some very important decisions, for example, its decision on the definition of price stability.
It will be much more difficult for the European Central Bank to take uncomfortable decisions, such as, for example, raising interest rates rather than lowering them, if the economic situation becomes more difficult and if actual risks to price stability arise.
Publishing the votes could lead to a situation where there would then be national debates on the behaviour of individual members.
That would be extraordinarily negative both for the European Central Bank and also for all of us.
The European Central Bank has achieved some excellent work, it has earned the confidence of the citizens by dint of its work in the last few months, and this is what we are going to reflect in this resolution.
Mr President, this first annual report of the Central Bank gives me the opportunity to make an on the whole positive assessment of the work accomplished to date by the European Central Bank and the operation of the euro area.
The Central Bank has managed to fulfil its primary mission of maintaining price stability.
The general economic policies of the Union have been accompanied by an opportune reduction in key interest rates.
The countries participating in the euro area have been in a position to continue their structural improvement.
The ECB has a duty to remain vigilant, but as the mean rate of inflation of the euro-11 is still well under the 2% mark, I dare to hope that the Governing Council will give growth and, consequently, further reduction in unemployment, a chance.
The crisis in Asia was not triggered by traditional macroeconomic imbalances, but by the financial excesses of the private sector.
The irrational exuberance which characterises some stock exchanges, the excessive indebtedness of American households and of some economic sectors in important countries cause a definite threat to hang over worldwide economic stability.
The ECB should make a firm commitment in all the appropriate fora to create a new regulatory framework for the structure of international finance.
Mr President, Mr Duisenberg, it is probably not necessary to say it, but please allow me to emphasise, as a humble MEP from a small country - the Basque Country - that you have a lot of power but it is a democratic power.
In the real economy we are witnessing great mergers and concentrations which must be carried out in accordance with good practice and respect for consumer rights.
We also agree with the measures proposed with regard to the increase in transparency and the need to clarify what the European Central Bank understands monetary policy to be, beyond price stability - which is evidently its main function - because this will undoubtedly contribute to an appropriate and balanced policy mix which is aimed at promoting sustainable development and lasting employment.
If you take note of what other Central Banks have done and if you trust in this Parliament, have no doubt that we will make progress with transparency without endangering the objectives of the European Central Bank.
Mr President, the European Central Bank is still very much an institution which makes crucial decisions for the millions of citizens of the European Union without being subject to any democratic or political control.
Mr President, European citizens are, first and foremost, interested in and, at the same time, concerned by the content of the policies of the European Central Bank, the European Union and the Member States - policies which give absolute priority to so-called monetary stability and the interests of major credit capital, at the cost of dramatic job losses and the total disintegration of the so-called European social model.
Workers are concerned by the fact that the European Central Bank considers a growth rate of over 2.5% to be dangerous for the notorious monetary stability, thereby deferring indefinitely efforts to address the issue of unemployment.
Some countries have already entered an anti-inflationary phase, but there are growing signs of a rise in interest rates in order to maintain monetary stability.
Mr President, with growth rates below 2%, with a new rise in interest rates, with deflation and the rigorous implementation of the Stability Pact, growing pressure is being brought to bear on the security and social rights of workers, and this will indirectly bring about a dramatic deterioration in their living standards and working conditions.
Neither Article 113 of the Treaty nor Article 15 of the Statute give Parliament any powers other than the power to talk.
Nevertheless I applaud the aims and coherence of the Huhne report as a basis for defining accountability of the Central Bank, on which I should like to say a few words, particularly on the issue of transparency and accountability.
I would like to point out that Britain and the British Conservative Party - to which I belong - have never been hostile to the euro as a currency for those Member States which genuinely wish to join, as we are all bound together through our membership of the single market so that a collapse in confidence for the euro would affect us all, whether we are in or outside the EMU.
A collapse in the credibility of or belief that the Bank would not be prepared to pursue an anti-inflationary policy at all costs could have severe repercussions economically throughout the whole Union.
It is also vital, in my opinion, that the Bank be encouraged to follow the example of other leading central banks, such as the Federal Reserve in America, and make transparency a central feature of all its activities.
I regret, therefore, that attempts to require the Bank to publish the names of those present, the voting on monetary actions, after a grace period of some two years and the publication of the ECB' s econometric models were defeated at committee stage and have not been put before this House today.
I believe that any confident central bank would welcome the opportunity for its members to be challenged on the fundamental assumptions underlying their decisions.
But particularly in the ECB' s case, as it does not have the track record of the mighty Bundesbank and could quickly lose the confidence of the financial markets if it is reluctant to protect itself through greater transparency.
The Bank has to learn to operate within the same spirit.
I also believe that the financial markets and the people of Europe will expect no less of this new Central Bank and that this Parliament should be relentless in the pursuit of an open and accountable European Central Bank for the near future.
Indeed, if I am interpreting the Treaty on European Union correctly, this is an essential element in the balance designed by the people who set up Economic and Monetary Union, with the success we have seen, taking into account the conditions of the transition to the euro on 1 January this year.
It is only to be expected that our debate today should be more concerned with the methods rather than the basis of the monetary policy.
We must take advantage of this period to strengthen the resources that we, the European Parliament, have.
So, as regards transparency - many people before me have said it, but let me repeat it once again - if we want to be able to really act as an intermediary in monetary policy, which you implement and which we discuss, then we need you to present the decisions you are taking, and give your reasons and justifications for them.
As regards monetary policy itself, you said, Mr President, that it cannot solve the structural problems of the labour market.
Sustained growth in Europe is essential if we wish to solve the problem of employment.
But if we want sustainable growth for a high level of employment, we need monetary policy to accompany this movement.
In this sense, the policy which you are pursuing in the area of interest rate policy is clearly essential, and we are awaiting very clear commitments from you in this respect.
Mr President, this is an important debate for it is the first time we have come to discuss the European Central Bank' s report.
The spokesman of my group has expressed this very well and I will not repeat it.
We believe in the independence of the Central Bank, but this Central Bank is much more independent than the Bundesbank or the United States Federal Reserve, because it was not created by an act of Parliament and cannot be modified by one, because it does not exist side by side with a government that has its own economic policy.
Secondly, we have the problem of the relationship of the Central Bank with the other European institutions.
It has been said here that the priority objective is dealing with inflation, but it is not the only one: we have to think in terms of, amongst other things, an economic focus, responsibility, the international representation of the euro and the monitoring of the banking institutions at a time of significant mergers amongst the financial institutions.
Mr President, Mr President of the European Central Bank, this debate is taking place with the euro having been in place for nine months, in conditions which enables us to affirm that its introduction has been successful, even if only in the limited sense that the transition to the third phase of the Economic and Monetary Union has taken place with no great upsets.
The second issue I want to address, which for me is more important, is that of growth and employment, specifically the relationship between monetary policy and growth and employment.
We agree with you, Mr President of the ECB, when you say that price stability is necessary for growth, and that growth and the creation of employment cannot happen without guaranteed price stability.
Likewise we agree with you when you say that monetary policy alone cannot resolve the problem of unemployment.
But we must also warn - and you understand this perfectly - that bad decisions regarding monetary policy may harm growth and prevent the economic recuperation which has started.
There is no lack of historical examples in this respect and the warning is worthwhile at a time when economic recuperation in Europe is far from being confirmed and when, at the same time, there is speculation about the imminence of a stricter monetary policy.
Lastly, I would like to take this opportunity, given that the Commission is present in this debate, to remind you of something which has also been repeated many times by this Parliament and which, in any case, is very important to our group: economic policy does not end with currency and does not end with monetary policy.
The third phase of Economic and Monetary Union raises the issue, even more than in the past, of the need for a more robust and articulate coordination of economic policies.
In this case, it is the responsibility - I would say the main responsibility in this area - of the Commission.
Mr President, obviously I do not share with the rapporteur in offering congratulations to the ECB.
These gentlemen of the Central Bank act like the spokesmen for the employers who are effectively in the process of reducing "rigidities in labour markets" by axing thousands of jobs, such as Michelin, Renault-Nissan, Alsthom, Rhône-Poulenc, and Hoest Marion Roussel and many others even now, or by propagating the precariousness of jobs by means of wages which cast an increasing proportion of the population into ever greater poverty while the fortunes of major shareholders continue to grow.
I hope that in all the countries of the European Union these reactions will unite the victims of the policy of employers.
Mr President, Mr Duisenberg, we MEPs, as we have stated a number of times this evening, have a unique role to play in relation to the single currency because this Chamber here is the only place in which the people of Europe can have any democratic input into how their new currency is run.
Mr Duisenberg, in my view, you have a more or less impossible task because you have to set a rate that is suitable not only for the booming economies of Ireland and Spain but will also suit the faltering economy of Germany.
I welcome your frankness, Mr Duisenberg, in making clear the very big political leap which has been made by those countries which have already entered Euroland.
But political union may not just be the idle dream of a few federalists.
Mr President, I shall start in English because I must address my congratulations to my British Conservative colleagues for their steadfastness in fighting the euro to the last penny of Japanese investment in their economy or any other investment in their economy.
Mr President, since we are discussing the annual report, it would be a good idea to focus our attention on a number of long-term issues.
While using a "broad-based assessment of the outlook for price developments" , as the Bank calls it, which is basically an "inflation forecast" , seems perfectly logical, using the M3 money supply has neither practical nor theoretical support.
The European Central Bank has not yet said anything to us about that.
In the future we wish to see a strong and independent European Central Bank and not just one alongside our global competitors, Federal Reserve and the Bank of Japan, but, preferably, edging ahead of them.
In discussing the annual report in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, we had lively discussions on inter alia the issue of transparency and how it can be gradually increased.
The European Parliament must, as the representative of the European people, have the right to demand that in future, the ECB, like other central banks, should also publicise the arguments both in favour of, and against, its monetary policy decisions.
Finally, I would like to say that I thoroughly support the publication of the reports on the economic situation of the countries in the euro area and the various indicators that go with it.
We have to remember that, although the euro area has just one monetary policy, we still have eleven different economic policies, for whose coordination the Member States are responsible, within the frameworks determined in the Growth and Stability Pact.
As far as his former life in the Netherlands is concerned; the Central Bank of the Netherlands, of which he was President for many years, was at the centre of the field of influence in society in which socio-economic policy was developed, and I believe that we should take our example from this and involve the European Central Bank in a European macroeconomic dialogue.
The annual report goes into great detail about the seamless way in which the crucial transition to 1999 was effected, a very important moment.
And with regard to the specific problem of the external representation of the euro, we are satisfied with the role that the European Central Bank is playing.
We are not so satisfied with the role of the Commission.
As I pointed out in my hearings, we will have time to return to a discussion of this issue.
So if you allow me, I will try to formulate my answer by grouping together many of the issues that have been raised in Parliament and produce a comprehensive answer, or at least some remarks.
Although I realise and I am grateful that the desire to have the votes or minutes published by the Governing Council does not appear in the motion for a resolution which will be voted on tomorrow by your Parliament, in this discussion a lot of attention, much more than I expected, was paid to the phenomenon of transparency, culminating in publishing the vote.
As far as transparency is concerned, which I define as giving to the public or Parliament as much information as possible about developments in the economy, about monetary developments, about the outcome of the deliberations of the Governing Council, I believe - and I said so in my introductory statement - that the European Central Bank can look squarely in the eyes of any central bank in the world.
For example, there is our publication immediately after the meetings of the Governing Council of the considerations which have played a role in the Governing Council' s ultimate decision whether or not to change interest rates.
I believe that you will find no central bank in the world which is more transparent than we are.
The only thing we do not do is we do not publish votes.
One always has to bear in mind that every word that is spoken by me or any other member of the Governing Council about economic developments and about the decisions which are taken and in what direction sets in motion immediately billions of euros across the world.
That must be a misunderstanding because what the Federal Reserve system publishes twice a year in its Humphrey-Hawkins testimony for the Senate is a range of figures for a few indicators, the range being the range of the individual forecasts of members of the Federal Open Market Committee coming from the regional Federal Reserve banks.
And I already made some remarks in my introduction on the relativity of forecasts, even if they are published, for the decision-making process.
Various Members of this Parliament have questioned whether the ECB places too much emphasis on prices and too little on growth and employment.
Firstly, the Treaty of the ECB makes it literally mandatory for the ECB to give primary attention to their primary objective, which is to maintain price stability.
The Treaty says "without prejudice to price stability" , that is only when price stability, I should say, is guaranteed, should the ECB in its policies support the general economic policies of the Community.
There is another small remark I would like to make, Mr President, but it is important in the context of the motion for a resolution.
In the resolution it says "providing that this price stability is attained" .
The wording of the resolution may be interpreted as suggesting that when the current rate of inflation is below 2% then the Eurosystem would be under an obligation to support the general economic policies of the Communities.
Also, I would like to repeat that we do not overestimate the impact that monetary policy can have - what it can and cannot do.
The direct impact of monetary policy measures on employment and growth is very limited indeed.
Turning to the current situation, I should like to repeat that the monetary policy strategy of the Eurosystem, which has been made very clear to Parliament, is based on two pillars, both designed to be forward-looking over the medium-term.
The two pillars are: the reference value for monetary growth, M3, and a broadly-based assessment of a wide range of indicators and their impact on the primary aim of price stability.
That broadly-based assessment is one that encompasses a wide range of indicators, of course including developments in the real economy, movements in employment and unemployment, an assessment of movement of the exchange rate in so far as it has an impact on price levels in the euro area.
That is our strategy.
Of course we look at the current developments in inflation also as one of the indicators of what we think is going to happen in the future, but it is certainly not true that we only look at the current inflation rate, as implied in the draft resolution.
You will understand that I will not join Parliament in the debate on what decisions might be taken in the short-term on interest rates, although that decision has been alluded to by various Members of Parliament.
We formulated that by saying that banknotes may be frontloaded provided there are legal or contractual guarantees at the receiving end which ensure they will not be brought into circulation before 1 January.
I have touched upon all the major issues that have been raised today on banking supervision.
It is well known that the Treaty gives very little responsibility to the European Central Bank in the area of banking supervision.
The ECB is now fully involved in all discussions in all international fora on the future of what is now called the "financial architecture" in the world.
The ECB is fully involved in all discussions of the G-7, of the G-10, of the OECD.
In December there will be the first meeting of this new Group of 20 at the initiative of the G-7 countries, consisting of the G-7 countries and a few emerging market representatives.
Thank you very much, Mr Duisenberg.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, the Commission has today accepted a report to Parliament and the Council, assessing ECHO.
Combining the two portfolios of development and humanitarian aid provides a better opportunity for this, not least on the basis of the fact that both ECHO' s sphere of work and the Commissioner' s responsibility for development policy are global in character.
The plan is to present a report on this subject in June 2000.
In all these areas, a connection with the Commission' s development policy should naturally be guaranteed.
The plan is to report on these areas in July 2001.
This will be a good opportunity to see some concrete results of ECHO' s work and for me to do what I can to establish fruitful cooperation with all our partners.
Firstly: can it be deduced from the Commission' s arguments here today that the funding of ECHO for humanitarian aid will mainly continue to be channelled through the programmes of different NGOs, or is any change envisaged in this regard?
We are not closing the option of changing the regulation but this will be taken up in a much broader, long-term process - the one I mentioned concerning the policy part of our response.
For the time being we will work on the basis of the existing regulation.
How codecision will eventually be hammered out in terms of relations between Parliament, the Council and Member States in decision-making on humanitarian activities is something that needs to be discussed further and perhaps negotiated.
Mr President, I want first of all to say that I am here as a representative of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which is meeting now.
I want to say to Commissioner Nielson that his presentation was music to my ears.
My question is this: is the Commissioner prepared, in anticipation of the report also promised for June 2000, continually to consult in one form or another with Parliament and with any non-governmental organisations concerned?
The fact that we are involved as active partners in these different conflicts and crisis situations is also a demonstration to our own citizens in Europe that Europe has a role to play in these places.
Mr President, involving the NGOs is something which the machinery both of the United Nations and of Europe is intensely concerned with, and this is doubtless something which is necessary.
It is, for example, a fact that the NGOs have direct representation in the United Nations whereas members of the parliaments are only appendages of their governments, and it is only as such that they can offer any input.
With regard to the part of the question concerned with the role to be played in what we are doing by members of the parliaments concerned - and that is another way of looking at the question - I want to say that the debate itself, the very dialogue between the Commission and Parliament about the policy we are to pursue, is for me the decisive factor, and it is from there that we get the decisive inspiration.
Mr President, could I ask the Commissioner whether he considers that this evaluation risks putting structures in place which actually endanger the possibility of us of being able to react in a crisis as quickly and as effectively as he suggests we should?
There must be a critical mass of donors who are willing and able to make a more long-term effort in a given country, so coordination is extremely important here.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Nielson.
The debate is closed. (The sitting was suspended at 8.15 p.m.) Annex - Formal sitting Ladies and gentlemen, it is my very great pleasure today to welcome Mr Andrés Pastrana, President of the Republic of Colombia here today. (Loud applause) Mr President, your visit to the European Parliament comes at a time when the whole population of Columbia has demonstrated loud and clear its desire for an end to civil unrest, and for democracy and respect for human rights.
Please be aware that the desire for peace expressed by your fellow countrymen addresses us and it is our duty to encourage any initiative which may contribute to peace.
This massive demonstration coincided with the opening of peace negotiations between your government and the guerrilla movement in Uribe.
Yes, the European Parliament can stand alongside the Colombians who last Sunday chanted Nunca mas (No more).
The European Union will assist you in your peacemaking enterprise, and shall promote the strengthening of relations between the European Union and Colombia.
The cooperation agreement, of the third generation type, has already made it possible to establish solid links between us.
At this moment, and from this hemicycle within the new European Parliament complex, my country has the great privilege of addressing Europe, through the elected representatives of the people of the fifteen countries which currently make up the European Union.
Colombia, the country which I govern by democratic consent, is struggling with a difficult quest for peace, employment, development and, above all, social justice.
The sovereign population of Colombia, in the highest vote in history, expressed itself clearly and delivered to me an emphatic mandate.
In the negotiation processes in Guatemala and El Salvador, the role of the European Union was fundamental.
The traditional concern of Europe for peace and human rights, and its marked tradition with regard to negotiation processes provide my country with absolutely essential support: this support is vital.
Violence has plagued our country for years.
Today the people of my country, like never before in their history, are united in the demand for a cessation of the violation of human rights, especially kidnap which should cease to be used as a source of finance by the guerrilla movement and other violent groups.
The guerrilla conflict has concerned our people for 40 years.
During this time, several insurgent groups have participated in the conflict.
But there are also several who have now understood that the best alternative for our country is to abandon violence through a process of political dialogue.
In little more than a year, through dialogue, we have already agreed an agenda for negotiation which consists of twelve points and last Sunday, in a historic moment for our country, we embarked upon a negotiation process which must lead our country along the path to the construction of a lasting and genuine peace.
This zone covers only 3% of the national territory and a quarter of 1% of the Colombian population lives there.
Let us remember the cases of El Salvador or Guatemala.
I would like to repeat that I will do everything possible to achieve this peace which is essential to all of us.
But, as I said a few days ago before the United Nations General Assembly, I do not want peace at any price, but rather a peace which genuinely strengthens democracy, which preserves the territory and allows all of the citizens to enjoy full rights and liberties.
I believe that a decent and democratic future is not possible without a culture of respect for fundamental rights.
To this end, I have implemented a broad State policy to combat, within the framework of the law, those armed groups which operate outside that law, to guarantee security, protection, support and freedom of action for the defenders of human rights; to assist people who have been displaced by violence; to adopt legal instruments which protect human rights and strengthen our judicial apparatus.
The results of the application of this policy are reflected in the notable decrease in the complaints of human rights violations emanating from the public, as recognised in the reports from the intergovernmental bodies and NGOs which operate in this field.
In addition, a Presidential Decree has been issued to promote respect for non-governmental organisations which operate in the field of human rights.
Ladies and gentlemen, my government is taking decisive action with regard to the protection of human rights, and in this task we need the support of the international community.
It is also important for Colombia that both Europe and the United States understand the correlation between drug trafficking and violence in Colombia.
There is no nation in the world which has offered up as many martyrs as Colombia in the fight against drug trafficking.
The economic power of these organisations led to corruption in many areas of our lives.
Therefore, I would like to take this exceptional opportunity to invite all the countries of the world community to fully implement the principle of what has been called "shared responsibility" , in order to combat the global problem of drugs.
We have significant agreements with the European Union which recognise the shared responsibility in this area.
Together we must continue to make advances towards complete solutions which cover all the links in the chain.
And together we will have to give priority to those education and prevention programmes which will bring about a reduction in demand.
It is therefore the duty of all of our countries to stop this destruction in order to defend at all costs the human right of future generations to a habitable planet.
For this reason we want to propose to Europe an Environmental Alliance between the countries of Europe and Colombia so that we may move forward together in this noble purpose.
It is necessary to find fundamental solutions to our problems.
The final result will be the strengthening of our State, as the essential requirement for the achievement of peace and progress.
Colombia hopes to finance, jointly with those countries which are in some way involved in the drug chain, the infrastructure of the project and also hopes to involve private capital, both national and foreign, in the economically productive companies so that they may incorporate advances in technology and new capital.
In order to live in peace we need a national agreement supported by the international community.
Thank you very much. (Sustained Applause) Mr President, thank you for the statement you have just made which will remain imprinted in our minds as Europeans, and in our minds as female and male politicians.
And then you explained how you intended to progress along the road to peace.
