Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 29 October 1999.
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting The Minutes of Friday 29 October have been distributed.
Thank you, Mrs Isler Béguin.
Mr Alavanos, I shall answer you straightaway.
The Commission has informed us that contrary to what it had laid down, it is not able to adopt the proposals on the subject and therefore does not wish to make a communication on the matter.
On the other hand, the Commission is quite prepared to make a statement on the situation regarding British beef and veal following the meeting of the Scientific Committee.
I shall therefore ask you if you agree that the communication on discrimination that was tabled should be replaced by a communication on British beef and veal. (Parliament gave its assent) We shall have a communication on British beef and veal then.
Madam President, on behalf of my group, I have requested that the communication proposed by the Commission concerning the case of British beef be followed by a debate.
I believe that Friday' s debate, without the Commission and without the report of the experts, was a positive step because we are obliged to create confidence and offer responses to the people' s problems; we should not always become embroiled in debates amongst ourselves which may be very interesting but only when a joint approach is required.
The second reason is that, in the past, and also very recently, this matter has lent itself to images which may have been amusing in some cases, such as the image of smuggling meat between two countries of the Community, but I do not think that we should re-awaken certain conflicts between our countries since this would seem a farce given the gravity of the issue.
We therefore believe - and of course my group is prepared to do this - that it is important that the Commission should give an explanation and that we, in the debate, should express the positions that we have taken as groups.
My group is prepared to do this and I believe that this would be more effective in restoring citizens' confidence, rather than holding a Question Time as we go along.
I must say, Mr Barón Crespo, that I am absolutely amazed that you are demanding an impromptu debate now.
This morning our group considered this afternoon' s discussion.
Some Members in the group also felt that there should be a debate.
Commissioner Byrne will make a statement to us, and we will then discuss it using the 'catching the eye' system and ask our questions.
It is very important that we have the opportunity to question the Commission on this sensitive issue and the issue between questioning and debate should not loom so large.
Madam President, with regard to Rule 1 et seq, it seems very unfortunate to me to compare the rights of MEPs with the situation regarding British cattle.
Mr Barón Crespo, are you standing by your request that we hold a debate and not a question time as usual?
I shall put this proposal to the vote, with a request for a vote by roll call. (Parliament rejected the proposal) British beef and veal Madam President, I am pleased to have the opportunity today to update Parliament on the developments over the past few days in relation to BSE.
This followed a very thorough examination which focused on the concerns raised by the French authorities.
In this particular case, we now have scientific backing for the existing systems of controls.
The French authorities have now requested clarification on five key points.
Accordingly, a meeting of officials will take place this Friday to discuss the issues in question.
A few extra days in discussions is a very small price to pay for a successful conclusion.
Madam President, I should like to thank Commissioner Byrne for that statement.
That is of great importance to my committee and will be of importance to this Parliament in the months to come.
Not only are we concerned to identify and establish its level of competence but also it would be of considerable importance to identify clearly and mark out the jurisdiction that the food safety agency would have at Community level and how it will interact with the agencies at Member State level.
What we are engaged in here is an exercise in clarification of the five points that I have referred to.
The French authorities have not unreasonably requested more information in relation to these very important issues.
Most of them are a request for information as to how the date-based export scheme actually operates, both on a practical level and on a technical level.
My service is perfectly happy and willing to give that information to the French authorities.
So I am perfectly satisfied that it is more accurate to refer to this exercise as a clarification.
No doubt the two Member States who still have an import ban will support you in this!
They are related to five topics: traceability, further testing, issues surrounding derived products, further information relating to controls, inspection and controls by the Food and Veterinary Office on the single plant that exists in Truro, in Devon, which slaughters and exports this product, and finally, on the issue of labelling.
In relation to the labelling issue, there is EU-wide legislation in draft at the moment, intended to be implemented by 1 January 2000.
In the meantime, the UK authorities have in place their own beef assurance scheme labelling system and have indicated that this labelling system, on a voluntary basis, would operate in respect of exports to France and elsewhere.
As a transitional measure, pending the final implementation of the EU-wide labelling system, this proposal has been put forward by the UK on a voluntary basis and will operate in that way.
Madam President, Commissioner, together with the Scientific Committee, you have taken responsibility for the consumer and I believe that I myself was one of those who have experienced this crisis at first hand and I have always monitored the work of the Scientific Committees.
But I think that we must be particularly vigilant as regards the identification of cattle in the different countries of the Community.
Further work is on-going to try and achieve a situation whereby these tests, or a development of these tests, might well be used in a pre-clinical situation.
With the Scientific Committee having ruled on Friday that British beef is safe, it seems incredible that we have this further delay.
In relation to the delay, I should like to point out that the Scientific Steering Committee' s report was delivered on Friday night.
In relation to Mr Brown, he and I have discussed this issue on a number of occasions over the last two weeks or more.
If there is a problem today and French specialists have recommended that this ban should not be lifted, this means that there are some serious questions to be asked.
Personally I am trying to put myself in the shoes of consumers who must by now have an idea of the situation.
I have read in the press that there are only three prion specialists on the Scientific Committee.
I therefore turn to you, Commissioner, in order to find out if these three prion specialists really abstained, in which case those who voted unanimously were not prion specialists and we would then be able to understand why the proposals, the compromises and the supplementary questions tabled by France have been accepted.
There has been a little confusion in relation to the interaction between the Ad Hoc Committee and the Scientific Steering Committee.
The Ad Hoc Committee is made up of experts on BSE.
It is that committee that took the vote and it is that committee that was unanimous in its view, having reviewed all of the information that was contained in the Ad Hoc Group' s report and some other documents that were supplied by the Ad Hoc Group and obviously applying their own scientific knowledge.
These sixteen scientists are drawn from most of the Member States.
In relation to the issue you raise about scrapie in sheep and BSE, whereas they are similar diseases they are quite different in their forms of transmission and so on.
Commissioner, in what way is the scientific competence of the members of the Scientific Steering Committee superior to that of the German scientists, of the Scottish scientists and of the French scientists who tell you that there is a risk of zoonosis.
I should say that I am absolutely satisfied as to the competence of the Scientific Steering Committee.
The Commission cannot tell them what to do, either in relation to the substance of their reports or indeed as to their timing.
In relation to your question on the precautionary principle, this is derived from a concept that was first laid down in the environment field.
It is quite specific in the way it says that it should be applied and one of the specific aspects is that there has to be an absence of scientific evidence in relation to a particular danger, or serious doubt as to the scientific evidence.
If that is the case, would you not further agree that the debate about the safety of British beef ought to be concluded by 10 November next and on Wednesday, if the Commission has no word on that matter, will you bring forward, regrettable as they are, the legal proceedings which are then overdue?
Mr Whitehead, thank you for those kind words.
Therefore there is no exportation of derived products under the DBES scheme but it may happen and in the event that it does, questions were asked of me yesterday to clarify exactly how it would work, how products might be segregated and so on.
I would then be in a position to first of all give an up-date to the Commission next Wednesday and give a final conclusive version on the following Tuesday at the Commission meeting in Strasbourg.
However, I should say that the issues that have been raised by the French authorities in requesting some clarification of the issues that they have identified seem to me quite reasonable.
Thank you, Mr Byrne.
Commissioner, I believe that as long as we do not have consistent labelling, we will never be free of disputes about BSE in this House and in Europe in general.
If that could be done as quickly as possible, we in this House would not have to worry about BSE any more!
I have had a number of discussions with colleagues and with Members of Parliament also in relation to this on an informal basis.
No final decisions of course have been taken and, as I said to you a moment ago, the constitutional structure of that authority has yet to be decided and how it would interact with the other institutions of the European Union and with the national food safety agencies of Member States.
However, we have to be careful about, as you say, the removal of Member States' inalienable rights because any interference with the Member States' rights may very well encroach upon the rights of Member States' , thereby requiring Treaty changes.
Let me just finally address the issue of the precautionary principle you mentioned.
It is only in the absence of scientific evidence, or where there is a clear uncertainty in relation to scientific evidence, that the precautionary principle comes into play.
What British farmers, and in particular farmers in the English West Midlands region that I represent, are looking for is a speedy resolution to this particular problem.
I also further confirm to you, and repeat what I said earlier, I hope to bring a final report on this issue to the Commission no later than Tuesday week in Strasbourg.
I just wonder whether or not, having listened to all the debates, you are actually totally and utterly aware of the devastating effect of this decision on UK farmers.
The decision that was taken by the French authorities on 1 October is a decision that has had to be dealt with as best one can in the meantime.
It will not do the farmers of the UK any good, in my view, if the ban remains in place in the intervening two-year period.
I am firmly convinced that the view I take, the line that I have adopted, the decisions that I have made, reinforced by my colleagues in the Commission this morning, are the correct decision.
It is not possible to provide this labelling and information at present because the Member States have not yet provided the information for that to happen.
Macroeconomic dialogue The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the macroeconomic dialogue in order to encourage growth and employment (Cologne process).
The adoption of a single currency in Europe has increased the need for dialogue on economic policy.
In order for the euro to quickly acquire the weight it deserves, not only as part of the international economy but also in discussions concerning the economic policy of the Union area, the common points of view on economic policy in the euro area in particular must be explored in more depth.
The economic and monetary union opens many new possibilities for Europe.
The economic and monetary union means a new beginning for Europe, both in terms of entrepreneurship and of economic policy.
For the first time, all the prime movers at Union level will be seated at the same table: representatives of the Council, of the Commission, of the European Central Bank and of the parties in the labour market.
Now we are coming together at the same event.
It is important to recognise the main principles of dialogue.
The answer is that this dialogue is primarily aimed at generating an understanding of the fundamental principles of economic policy.
It complements - but by no means excludes - public debate on economic policy, which takes place in any case.
It is a lot easier to begin discussions on the basis of a common viewpoint and a joint analysis of the situation.
In Finland, the responsibility for dialogue on a political level lies with the Economics Council, whose duties and objectives are of a general and unofficial nature.
National experience and procedures, of course, are not directly transferable to European level but there is plenty to do at that level, too.
This is a positive way of promoting the prospects of an economic policy which favours economic growth and employment.
As part of the dialogue, we also have to improve the statistics on economic development - including wage and cost trends - and the flow of information.
The two levels of dialogue - technical and political - complement each other successfully.
Madam President, I would like to point out that macroeconomic dialogue forms part of the complex process of the Employment Pact and that, as the Presidency-in-Office of the Council has explained, it is a consequence of the Cologne decisions, trying, through the establishment of this dialogue between social partners and the people responsible for economic and budgetary policy with the participation of the European Central Bank, to achieve our ultimate objectives.
In accordance with the broad guidelines of economic policy, these objectives simply consist of achieving stability in monetary policy through budgetary measures and wage trends which are appropriate and more favourable to growth and employment, including exchange rates and interest rates in the long term.
The macroeconomic dialogue will be initiated in accordance with this philosophy.
I simply want to point out that the first technical meeting took place on 29 October and the next will take place on 8 November.
Despite previous experiences, such as the social dialogue established after Val-Duchesse, it is clear that the new macroeconomic dialogue has some different characteristics.
I would like to concentrate - so as not to repeat part of what has already been said - on the contribution which the Commission made to the technical debate on 29 October.
One related to the economic situation and the other was intended to prepare the informal exchanges on macroeconomic policies in the medium term.
Both documents should serve as technical contributions to the debate.
The first Commission document aimed to present the general economic situation and the macroeconomic perspectives in the short term.
The diagnosis of trends for the European Union contained in this document is of a descriptive and analytical nature.
And its contents confirm that it is possible to have a more rapid return to growth than the one announced by the Commission in its macroeconomic forecast in the spring.
The growth announced for 1999 will be around 2%, similar to that established in the forecast.
Performance was lower than expected in the first part of the year but, nevertheless, the upward trend which will occur in the second part of the year will favour growth of close to 3% as an average for the last two years, thereby reaching similar and even higher figures for 2000 than those which we had forecast in the spring.
The document also includes the possibility that growth may be higher in the future.
The second document presented by the Commission must serve to prepare for informal exchanges on macroeconomic policies in the medium term.
The document presents the macroeconomic conditions needed to promote durable growth, drawing certain conclusions from the slow growth recorded in the past, especially since the middle of the 1970s.
A technical analysis allows us to reach the conclusion that the deceleration of the growth tendency in the European Union can be explained by a combination of external impacts, exacerbated by divergence in national policies, in a context of structural rigidity.
In particular, the lack of consensus on the content of macroeconomic policies in the period prior to the entry into force of the Treaty of Maastricht and of the initial guidelines on economic policy played a fundamental role in the increase in negative effects, external impacts and the development of greater obstacles to growth and employment.
At the meeting on 29 October there was a discussion of this information which was very open and constructive, and I will tell you about this in a summarised fashion.
With regard to the diagnosis of trends, all the participants agreed that the perspectives had improved considerably, and that the negative external impact of 1998 had already been absorbed by the internal development of the European Union itself.
In relation to economic policy - the second document provides a response to the challenge of transforming the current upturn into a sustainable process of higher growth - each participant expressed their position very frankly.
Firstly, the broad guidelines of economic policy are confirmed as a fundamental element.
That is, the more we promote the objective of stability of monetary policy through budgetary measures and appropriate wage trends, the more favourable monetary conditions will be towards growth and employment.
The role of the social partners was fully recognised as a third element of the policy mix.
In this way, we will increase the possibility of sustaining, without inflation, higher growth in demand.
The combination of the complete realisation of the single market together with the single currency, in a context of structural reform and strong international competition, will allow for a reduction in the risk of bottlenecks that may arise in the event that wage and budgetary policies are inadequate.
These are what seem to me to be the most relevant elements of the meeting of 29 October and which, today, as I said, I wanted to share with you so that you may then comment on them and debate them.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by way of introduction, I would first of all like, on behalf of our group, to put it on record that we regard the macroeconomic dialogue as a welcome innovation, because for the first time it obliges all the key players in European economic policy to participate in a direct exchange of views with each other about the overall economic situation.
Secondly, I must add, however, as an Austrian, that this dialogue between social partners, between political institutions, between fiscal policy and those with a political mandate has been going on in a similar way for years in my homeland, Austria, and has made an important contribution to Austria' s present position as an economically successful and socially secure country with a high employment rate and lower jobless figures than others can boast.
The dialogue is a supplementary component of the many and various measures for growth and employment.
Our debates during these two days include the Smet report on working time and the Menrad reports on employment policy in the Member States in 1999 and 2000.
The dialogue and the name of this dialogue show that we are all in the same boat.
I therefore call on everyone involved to take part in this macroeconomic dialogue in a responsible manner and to accept this responsibility for the economic and employment policy future of Europe.
Mr President, the macroeconomic dialogue that the European employment pact has established is a highly praiseworthy new exercise.
There is never enough dialogue between political leaders and economic operators.
It is understood in advance that the aim of this two-level dialogue is not to reach agreement on common guidelines or binding commitments; this dialogue will therefore not result in an ex ante agreement for the coordination of different fiscal, budgetary, monetary or even contractual policies.
The debates on employment guidelines which are, of course, always useful, overlap with discussions on the broad economic policy guidelines and now with the macroeconomic dialogue.
European citizens do not expect more words, rather concrete measures for employment.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, on behalf of the Liberal Group we support this initiative which we consider to be very appropriate in terms of ensuring the necessary consensus in the economic and social field as well as absolutely essential in order to achieve a climate of stability, growth and greater employment in the European Union.
While accepting this approach, I would like to make two observations.
The first takes up the observations of the Socialist representative with regard to the good sense in taking account of fundamental aspects, of structural reforms, which were already contained in the White Paper on Competitiveness and Employment.
The report of the European Central Bank explains that there are certain problems in achieving greater levels of growth - or greater stability in the European Union or greater competitiveness in a process of open economy, needs which are even more accentuated bearing in mind the coming Millennium Round - specifically because certain structural aspects still need to be dealt with in more depth: from the labour markets to, as has been said, the training system, or other equally important aspects such as, for example, an improvement in the levels of research and development.
On the other hand, I would like to refer to the participants who must be taken into account in the macroeconomic dialogue and I would dare to suggest that three more should be added: the representatives of two institutions of the European Union itself, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions - two institutions which represent an extremely important economic and social dimension and, in the case of the regions, clearly, some of them have an absolutely essential role in guaranteeing these objectives - and finally the organisations of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Article 2 refers to sustainable development as one of the objectives of the European Union, although many of us might question the methods which are set down to attain it.
But certainly some of them are macroeconomic, as reflected in this debate.
Article VI, Title 2 of the new Treaty clearly states that environmental considerations should be integrated into all areas of European Union policy and practice and we believe that includes macroeconomic dialogue.
I want to know how, as elected Members, we are going to be involved in this process, particularly if it is going to be as closed as has been laid out for us.
It appears to me that we are not being treated as parliamentarians here, as being grown-up and mature enough to participate in the process of dialogue on macroeconomic policy, and I would urge you to change that and at least open up in the meantime so that we know what is happening and can explain it to our constituents.
One of the three main components of this Pact concerns the institutionalisation of the macroeconomic dialogue at European level.
A fourth point concerns the serious possibility of overlap with the Economic and Social Committee.
Fifthly, the macroeconomic dialogue concerns a field of policy with regard to which the European Union does not issue any legislation.
Macroeconomic policy and employment policy are primarily a matter for the individual Member States.
Needless to say, it is beneficial for Member States to exchange ideas and dovetail their policies, as far as the macroeconomic situation in the relevant country allows for this.
Mr Niinistö, Commissioner, if the millions of European unemployed had heard this first account of the macroeconomic dialogue promoting growth and employment, they would have despaired.
What I am afraid of is that this macroeconomic dialogue will try to export to European level the method and mechanism of the Italian conciliation process, which is the method that has given our country its lowest growth rates, its highest unemployment levels and its highest inflation rates.
In Italy, conciliation between social partners and the Government has become a pact between the representatives of established interests -unionist, political and those of Confindustria (the Italian Manufacturers' Association) - seeking to protect the established interests and revenues from the possibility of the unemployed and all those who are not represented by conciliation having a place in the new economy.
In conclusion, I think that we should use this dialogue, if necessary, to explain to the European citizens why employment has increased by 45% in twenty years in the United States but only by 4.12% in Europe.
At the beginning of this year a macroeconomic dialogue became absolutely essential and no doubt the first meeting of the partners to that macroeconomic dialogue next week will be an historic step.
The partners to the dialogue are of two types.
First there are those like the social partners or the central bank who have a direct influence on facets of the equation such as wage formation or the level of interest rates and then secondly, in a class of their own, are the European Commission and the Commission advisers on the direction, for example, of the policy mix.
I am told that these sorts of things are technical issues and that we in Parliament should remain above them, but to me the issues that will be discussed in the macroeconomic dialogue that have been touched upon here are not technical, they are highly political and we, as the democratically elected institution, should have a part to play in that macroeconomic dialogue.
Mr President, the fact that so many of Europe' s citizens turned their backs on the EU at this summer' s election is largely due to the fact that they did not think that the EU and the Member States had succeeded in creating jobs in Europe.
Growth in the EU is still too low, and unemployment in the vast majority of countries unacceptably high.
But it is important that, in future, we should in fact be so.
Mr President, complete or partial unemployment is a tragedy in human terms for millions of families.
The ABB Alston Power Trust is preparing to shed a large number of jobs in several countries within the Union, in England, France, Germany, Italy and Sweden, not to mention other countries in Europe or across the world.
Mr President the procedure relating to the macroeconomic dialogue that has been presented to us is characterised by two dominant features at the moment.
The second is the way that they are formulated appears to be liberal but actually results in further constraints.
It has been discussed in Vienna, in Luxembourg, in Cardiff, and in goodness knows how many other places.
This is unemployment that does not exist to the same degree in developed countries that are not Members of the Union such as Switzerland or Norway.
We are also being told of coordination, harmonisation and cohesion; even striking a balance is mentioned, never constrictive regulations and detailed laws which would restrict everyone' s freedom.
We all know full well that this is the direction in which a hidden hand is leading us in this area.
Mr President, monetary union binds the Member States of the European Union together in a permanent, mutually supportive community in which national approaches are possible but are not permitted to play a crucial role.
I would like to stress once again that the European Parliament was calling for the coordination of policies long before the Maastricht Treaty existed, as a means of genuinely achieving European added value.
Just as we demand it of the European Central Bank in the dialogue, we must also call for greater transparency on the part of the Council of Finance Ministers, the Jumbo Council, the Social Affairs Council and the European Council, and demand direct European Parliament participation.
I am also among those, as is Stephen Hughes, who would have liked to participate in last Friday' s meeting and who have had discussions with the European Central Bank on this rise in interest rates.
Also, I would like to take part in this coming Monday' s political debate on the effects of this rise in interest rates, which will probably be implemented soon after, and by that I do not just mean the effects on the current financial rates but also on the real economy.
I feel we should not only focus on this but in particular that we should also endeavour, together with our colleagues in the national parliaments, to enter into this debate with our government representatives and the European Commission.
Mr President, it is very important indeed that the Council and the Commission think very carefully about the meeting that is being held and the meetings that will be held in the future on the macroeconomic dialogue.
It is absolutely pointless to exclude the European Parliament from that discussion.
Last week we had Mr Duisenberg in the European Parliament to oversee the work of the European Central Bank.
We have finance ministers coming before the Economic Committee of the European Parliament and we have the social partners also coming before the European Parliament.
I want to talk about the outputs from the dialogue.
Frankly, that is much more important at this stage than who sits around the table at the first meeting.
Our experience from our discussions with the ECOFIN Council and the European Central Bank is that we are very much involved in a monologue.
We sit and listen to the orthodoxy from the ECOFIN Council and we listen to the orthodoxy from the European Central Bank.
The macroeconomic dialogue is critical.
We need to look at the reform of labour markets.
We need to look at the reform of the capital markets.
We need to look at the reform of the product markets.
All those things impact upon the social partners.
In conclusion, my group will look with interest at the conclusion of the macroeconomic dialogue.
But please involve us in the future and understand that in times of difficulty this dialogue could be critical to the way in which European citizens accept the institutions of the European Union when difficult decisions have to be taken.
It is important that Parliament is involved in these deliberations.
I am obliged to confirm, however, that the European Council at Cologne very explicitly limited the number of participants in the dialogue proper, and that the country which holds the presidency of the Council cannot but comply with this restriction.
It is important that these main players understand one another' s reasoning and basic points of departure.
Mr President, this has been a particularly interesting dialogue and I would like to begin by making an initial political comment.
I therefore believe that we should see macroeconomic dialogue in its true light.
Therefore, it is an essential element of information which, unfortunately, cannot lead us, as some MEPs have suggested, to the definition of a different economic policy.
The coordination of our economic policy is not on that level at the moment.
Neither does the dialogue intend excessive consensus nor authoritarianism.
It is an exchange of information with the aim that the different economic operators should understand the reality better and be able to act accordingly.
Nevertheless, the essential point which has been put forward - and I understand this perfectly - is the possibility of the European Parliament itself participating in the macroeconomic dialogue.
I hope we are nearing the final chapters in this long saga and that soon we will have all sectors covered by arrangements on working time to protect worker health and safety.
There is the agreement reached between the two sides of industry in the maritime sector, there is the specific proposal relating to seafarers having recourse to Community ports, but also there is ILO Convention 180 and in fact the agreement between the two sides of industry in the maritime sector was very closely based on ILO Convention 180.
These three proposals: the agreement, the directive on seafarers' hours and the ILO Convention are designed to come into effect together in mid-2002.
The difficulties we are now facing in the Transport Council over the legislative proposal the Commission brought forward stem directly from the fact that there was a failure to make progress on a framework agreement on working time in the road sector.
The other report concerns the organisation of working hours.
It could well be that this doctor has been on duty for 70 hours over the past five days or has carried out medical and even surgical operations for the past 14 hours without a break.
The European Parliament pronounced its opinion as early as the first reading and the Council has since established a common position.
In the capacity of rapporteur, I have sought a balance, not only between the Commission' s draft directive, the first reading of the European Parliament and the Council' s common position, but especially between the safety and health of both workers and the other parties involved.
So the issue is restricting working hours to benefit the safety and health of employees at work, especially in the various transport sectors, for activities at sea and in the case of junior doctors.
The Social Affairs Committee has adopted this distinction but not the definition issued by the Council.
According to the Council, mobile workers also include own-account transport operators and transport operators who work outside the transport sector, such as those involved in the transportation of concrete in the timber and construction sectors, for example.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs of our Parliament has rejected this definition, partly because these workers would then be partially excluded from the scope of the existing working time directive.
Not included in the description of mobile workers are rail transport workers.
This has been the case but this collective agreement also states that a solution needs to be found, not only for rail but also for road transport and other methods of transport for which there is, as yet, no solution.
At any rate, all mobile workers in the transport sectors are guided by four basic principles which are embodied in the common position on the draft directive and which, in fact, also apply to seafarers and junior doctors; namely four weeks' annual paid leave, restricted annual working hours, appropriate breaks and medical examination in the case of night work.
This applies without any restrictions to all workers in the transport sector.
Amendment No 3 concerns exemption in the case of work activities where the employees live at considerable distances from their workplace or there is a significant distance between the employee' s various workplaces.
Similarly, Amendment No 4 is a legal technical amendment on urban transport.
Amendment No 5 regulates the weekly working hours of junior doctors.
The Council and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs are aiming for 48 hours over a four-month reference period.
A transitional period of 13 years cannot be justified from the point of view of health and safety.
So we are in favour of a limited transitional period.
Amendment No 6 relates to the reference period for calculating weekly working hours in the off-shore sector.
The Council authorises the Member States to extend the reference period of four months to twelve months.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is in agreement, provided that the two sides of industry involved enter into consultation and negotiation with each other, although this consultation does not have to lead to any agreement.
Amendment No 7 provides for seafarers on board sea-fishing vessels to work an average of 48 hours per week over a 12-month reference period.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, working hours are often a matter of give and take, with some flexibility around the edges.
Luckily, there is a stream of people from our group who will illustrate this issue.
I am also very pleased that so many people from my group have expressed an interest in this social issue.
I would like to start by thanking both rapporteurs, Stephen Hughes and Miet Smet, but I would also say a big thankyou to Raf Chanterie, who got the ball rolling in the previous Parliament, for his contribution.
The Council is putting itself in a very vulnerable position if yet again something were to happen in the field of road transport.
Let those individuals in the countries which do not wish to see this issue resolved over a twelve-year period seek treatment by doctors who have worked in excess of 48 hours.
In the offshore sector, Amendment No 6 - we have looked long and hard to try to come up with a formulation that will make sure that we get a collective agreement leading to the maximum flexibility available under the directive, that is annualisation of working time.
The formulation of the common position would have simply allowed the employers to walk away from attempts to reach negotiation on annualisation of working time and Member States could then have allowed annualisation.
We have built in an addition here that will ask for a review after five years involving the two sides of industry at European level to see how the regime is functioning in this sector with particular reference to the health and safety of the workers involved.
Amendment No 7 relates to sea fishing.
The effect of this amendment will be to try to limit to one year the reference period available for the annualisation of the calculation of working time, in other words making sure that annualisation of working time is possible but no more.
I particularly want to speak about doctors in training.
As others have said, it has been a concern in a number of Member States for many years and of particular concern for EU residents who travel, let alone those who reside in places like the United Kingdom or Ireland.
Some Member States have clearly not acted quickly enough on this.
We want to be sure that those treating us are able to act effectively and efficiently, which we cannot be when we have research showing that 24 hours of sustained wakefulness reduces performance to levels associated with excessive alcohol intake without - I would argue - some of the pleasures.
We therefore urge colleagues to support the four years proposed in this report because we believe we need to accelerate change through negotiation.
My country is a country with an advanced merchant navy and so we know what we are talking about.
Mr President, I, like my colleagues, would like to congratulate both our rapporteurs on the presentation of their work.
The whole area of working time and the directive have created a lot of difficulties for individual Members and also in Member States.
I feel that whilst each of us in this House would welcome the opportunity to ensure a safer working environment, not only for employees, but also for consumers and other users of transport and so on, we have to ensure that we do not over-regulate in any individual area.
Therefore, my group will be seeking separate votes on certain paragraphs, in particular within the Smet report.
Secondly, the deletion of mobile workers from Article 17 dilutes the opportunity for mobile workers to extend the reference period from 4 to 12 months.
Therefore I am recommending a negative vote in relation to these areas.
The intention of the introduction of this legislation, as I said earlier, was protection of health and safety.
However, I have in my possession a study carried out by University College, Dublin, which highlights the negative impact of this proposed extension of the directive, not only on the grounds of safety and competitiveness, but also on the grounds of damage to the environment.
I should like to refer very briefly to some of the points highlighted.
Thirdly, it is likely that rather than aligning competition, the application of a single standard across all road transport and other transport areas in some Member States will actually distort competition.
Finally, we already have in place in the transport sector tachograph requirements which are rigorously enforced in all Member States and which may be one way of dealing with some of the concerns about the health and safety aspect.
In Ireland we have a road safety plan which has been in operation since 1998.
The next point I want to cover is with regard to junior doctors and training.
Indeed, in 1994 the report commissioned by the European Commission which looked at this whole area of junior doctors in training highlighted seven points which need immediate action: the excessive hours of work in some countries; the question of on-call duties; unrealistic rostering periods; protracted periods of continuous duty; the distribution of duties between junior doctors and senior doctors; informal pressures on doctors in training; the vulnerability of breaks and time off in the face of the pressure of service needed.
I have had several meetings with junior doctors in Ireland over the last number of months with regard to this issue.
We have a model in Australia and New Zealand which could usefully be copied in the European Union Member States.
The proposals put forward are unrealistic and impractical.
We believe that Parliament must do more, do it soon and do it well in order to rectify the situation.
Concerning junior doctors, I was delighted that the European Parliament, in committee, has agreed on Amendment No 5 with regard to a transitional period of four years instead of the Council position of nine years, which I believe is too long.
Doctors have our lives in their hands.
It is important that they are included in the working time directive.
I urge you to support Amendment No 10.
Mr President, I want to address primarily the trainee doctors issue.
But I want to make a few points before I deal with that.
It is scandalous and unacceptable that trainee doctors in Irish hospitals are expected to work sometimes in excess of 80 hours a week.
Mr President, the original directive dating back to 1993 on the organisation of working hours was necessary for the health and safety of people at work.
These own-account transport operators are no longer in someone' s employment but their role is virtually the same and the risks are to be borne by them.
The social issues which we are facing here seem to reflect to a certain degree some of the guidelines from the employment policy.
Mr President, the working hours in question are those for quite special but, nonetheless, very important areas.
Their professional future depends upon their doing this.
In fact, we are getting more and more professional groups who are working under mobile conditions, together with more and more individuals in the labour market who have mobile working conditions.
I share the Council' s view that flexibility in this sector is absolutely essential.
I am not suggesting that, but I believe that protection can best be accorded by an agreement between the two sides of the fishing and fresh fish processing industry.
Fishermen must have sufficient holiday time and a maximum limit to working time but I am seriously concerned about the damage to the industry that could result from an inflexible attitude.
In conclusion, I want to take the opportunity to refer to the other group - the junior doctors.
There have been some easy and pious words spread around tonight on working time.
Missing in all this debate quite clearly are the necessary staged processes by Member States.
It will be interesting to see how some who feel free to pick and choose who should have effective limits on working time and who should not can explain that to the workers affected.
Others have referred to particular activities and sectors which are proposed to be covered for the first time by working time regulations.
Of course, health and safety issues are a major reason for limiting working time but fisheries is already subject to codes of practice and to regulations which are monitored by competent authorities.
In fact, the efforts required are invariably more demanding than before.
It is not a coincidence that the exceptions largely relate to mobile workers and people who earn their living at sea in either the fishing or oil industry.
After all, it is more difficult for them than their colleagues in other industries to stand up against discrimination, especially as they are not constantly together with their colleagues at a fixed place of work which is easily accessible for the trade-union representatives.
The first thing that I would like to say is that the 1993 directive on working conditions is quite inadequate and leaves room for all sorts of excesses.
I deduce from this then that the overall aim is to bring working conditions into line with those of the more advanced countries of the European Union.
Now, forty-eight working hours per week, just one day of rest per week and an eleven hour break between two working days are proposals which already fall short of the gains made in some Member States.
It is absolutely essential that measures which are favourable to workers and which are in force in certain European countries are not abandoned under any pretext and that includes on the grounds of competition in particular.
Secondly, we are talking about public health.
In relation to the working time directive on road transport operators, I have concerns about the exclusion of own-account operators from the definition of mobile workers.
For road transport we will now have three categories of operators, own-account, third party hauliers and self-employed with three different working time regimes under Directive 93/104.
In relation to Amendment No 5 I fully support it.
The voluntary maximum working hours negotiated by the Irish medical organisation and our department of health is 35 hours per week averaged over their rota period of 46 hours and not more than 72 hours work continuously.
In conclusion, thank you.
All I would like to say is in protecting our doctors, we are protecting their patients.
This is a health and safety issue of both doctors and their patients.
They have long working hours in difficult circumstances with little or no recognition in terms of government policy to the serious difficulties they are encountering.
I hope very much that Parliament will clearly indicate their support for the re-introduction of the original time of four years for the inclusion of junior doctors in this directive.
Mr President, would you get into a plane flown by a pilot who was exhausted and had worked more than 70 hours in a week?
The approval of the proposal without amendments will allow the procedure to be closed once and for all and therefore complete our work in the field of working hours in this maritime sector.
I would like to remind Parliament that last June the Council adopted Directive 99/63, which incorporates into Community law the agreement on the organisation of seafarers' working time, signed by the social partners in the maritime transport sector.
And I believe that one of the great successes of this measure is the fact that we are following up an agreement between the social partners themselves, which guarantees - I believe - the effectiveness of this agreement.
Therefore, Mr President, both the directive on the agreement and the current draft directive will enter into force on 30 June 2002.
I would like to point out that Amendment Nos 2, 3, 4 and 8 will probably be accepted fully.
Furthermore, the Commission will probably agree in principle on Amendment Nos 6, 7, and 9, which may need further clarification in their wording, although we totally agree with their content.
Most of the speakers referred specifically to junior trainee doctors and to their working conditions.
I must stress that there is a great discrepancy between the Council' s proposal and that of the European Parliament, and the Commission has a half-way house proposal to limit the working week to 48 hours within a 7 year transition period.
We believe that this proposal can help resolve and ultimately push forward this directive.
I detected no reference whatsoever to share fishermen and their position in the answers.
With respect, we are still not very clear whether the Commission intends share fishermen to be included in this article or not.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
We hope that intensive scientific and technical cooperation will also enhance the overall dialogue between scientists and thus lead to greater freedom of expression, and that this will accordingly be a helpful step towards liberalisation in China.
This will serve to strengthen the presence of European economic actors in China.
Not only will the presence of European economic actors in China be strengthened in this way, but also the presence of Chinese research institutions in the EU.
Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will also be voting for this report.
We could then forget about the report on Argentina!
In any case, we end up punishing the wrong people since, in general, scientists are our allies, at least in spirit.
Perhaps we could consider this when we sign our next agreement with China.
I agree with Rolf Linkohr, both sides can benefit.
My second point concerns cooperation in the field of information and communication technology.
Mr President, I would like to ask all those here to think about the process of democratisation in China.
There is another country, Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, with a billion inhabitants, and which is the largest democracy on earth, India; and we always forget about that country and develop no strategy towards it.
I deplore this, and all the more so because this report, and particularly the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy is being particularly hypocritical.
Let us carry on with China.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to say a few words about the three agreements that we will be debating this evening.
Firstly, these agreements have been speedily adopted, and I would like to thank all the rapporteurs, as well as the members of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy and the Committee on Budgets, for having studied the proposals in a very short time.
The countries concerned of course are different.
I, as many speakers have said, consider it important to establish cooperation on a scientific level which encourages contact between our researchers and Chinese researchers.
In this context, I can only agree with the conclusions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, because this will permit greater freedom of expression for those working in the scientific and technical fields in China as well as in general.
As far as the contribution that the Internet may make, we think that through this kind of contact, and also as you said, Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, regarding the problem of e-commerce, a certain kind of dialogue will be possible in the future, as a result of this type of scientific agreement.
Finally, I would like to point out that as far as the problem of the annex relating to issues of intellectual property is concerned, the same thing applies to the three draft agreements.
Thank you very much, Mr Gahrton.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
We all know from experience that cooperation with Russia, with Russian researchers, has constantly improved and increased in recent years, both in terms of the number of researchers and as regards budget lines.
However, cooperation has been spread over a number of different programmes, including, and this is just one example, the INTAS programme - the International Association for the Promotion of Cooperation with Scientists from the new Independent States of the former Soviet Union.
A few years ago I was rapporteur for the INTAS programme, and I must say that for me it was an excellent example of how it was possible to build up a cooperation network despite adverse technical conditions and despite poor infrastructure.
We now have the EUREKA and COST programmes and the ISTC in Moscow, for example, and we need to provide a more formal framework for all this cooperation; that is also the point of this agreement.
Mr Speaker, ladies and gentlemen thank you for the report.
Russia has considerable scientific resources, especially in the field of basic research, and a large proportion of it remains untapped and unutilised in an international context.
Through techno-scientific cooperation we can also promote the exploitation of natural resources of North-Western Russia, which are of great importance for the future development of the economies of both Russia and the EU.
To a certain extent, this has detracted from the interest in practical cooperation with Russia.
We know that the nuclear aspect is excluded from this agreement.
A great deal of uncertainty remains in this respect, despite agreements between the Commission and Parliament - the KEDO agreement which is due for renewal.
In his reply, he wrote that negotiations started in 1994 regarding the nuclear segment and nuclear fusion were completed but not signed.
Furthermore, and this is something new, investigative talks on cooperation are said to be taking place regarding the trade in nuclear material.
You will understand that we are very concerned about this in our group and that this is raising further questions.
Incidents are taking place in Chechnya which are forcing us to rethink.
The European Parliament needs to give a clear signal in the short term.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to consider and ask you to consider with me whether we should formally postpone this vote tomorrow to allow us to present our opinions tomorrow.
Mr President, in principle, we welcome the conclusion of a cooperation agreement in the scientific and technological fields between the European Union and the Russian Federation.
The EU hopes to serve their welfare and life interests just as well.
I think that you covered all the essential points.
Finally, you rightly spoke of the issue of private companies, and we also feel, as you do, that the presence of companies in the project for collaboration is a central element for the whole framework-programme and which is particularly important in this kind of agreement.
Of course there is also the question of the summary document on the different points that have already been made in terms of information.
This use must obviously be developed even further.
More fundamentally, as far as the political issue that has been raised over Chechnya is concerned, I obviously share your questions and your distress, but the question is this: until now, the European Union has neither suspended nor curtailed its diplomatic relations with Russia, because we feel that we must always maintain channels for dialogue with Russia in order to get our messages across, including those which express our concern about what is happening in Chechnya.
I think that this agreement is of great importance for dialogue and for the promotion of cooperation in the area of technological research and development.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, fortunately we do not have the same problem with Argentina that we have with Russia or China.
Cooperation between Argentina and the European Union is therefore also a way of encouraging Argentina and other Latin American countries to increase the amount they spend on investing in future.
We are witnessing a flight, not only of capital, but also of people educated either in these countries or in Europe or in the USA, who have left their country and sought work elsewhere.
In my report you will see a summary, provided by the Commission, which indicates that Argentina received EUR 18 million under the fourth framework programme of research.
I have a figure in front of me which I find encouraging - and it ought to be extrapolated to the whole European Union: Germany' s chemical industry spends DM 12.3 billion a year on research and development, added to which there is DM 5 billion for research abroad, generally in the USA in practice, but also in countries in Latin America and elsewhere, and you will see that there are more and more investors in the research sector.
In addition, just as with China, I would like to remind you that research with these countries - with Argentina and other countries - is a two-way street.
Given that this year is the two-hundredth anniversary of Alexander von Humboldt' s journey to Venezuela, I would like to recall that Alexander von Humboldt did not just take something out there - his curiosity - but he also brought something back, namely knowledge about tropical plants and about the geography of this interesting continent.
On that note, I also hope that research cooperation with Argentina and other countries will benefit the people of Europe, the European Union.
The European Community and the Republic of Argentina have a great interest in cooperating in terms of mutual assistance because, despite the fact that Argentina is a young country, I believe that it is very important that this Latin American area should be fully associated with the fifth framework programme for technological research and development.
With regard to other possible forms of cooperation, we must follow a logical order of priorities, starting, as proposed, with member countries of the said area, that is to say, Paraguay, Uruguay, Brazil and Argentina, and then moving on to their associated countries - Chile, Bolivia, etc - with which, as we all know, the European Union is discussing an interregional association.
I would also like to highlight the fact that we are looking at a good example of how a country which has still not achieved its maximum level of development will commit itself to a sustained form of growth which respects the environment through the use of renewable energy, by means of this agreement on scientific and technological cooperation.
Finally, I believe that it is very important to establish these regular contacts between the European Parliament and Argentina, not only in this area, but also in the economic, social and cultural fields, since it is an obligation of the European Union to consolidate our presence in that country with which we Europeans have so much in common.
In fact this is the first agreement concluded with a Latin-American country and it fits perfectly within the guidelines for cooperation by the Union with countries with emerging economies, as laid down in the Commission' s communication in 1996 on this matter, and put into practise in the fifth framework programme.
Until now, as you pointed out, Argentinian researchers have only benefited from cooperation projects established in areas such as nutrition, health or the environment.
This agreement will enable both parties to exploit all the potential for advanced research skills in countries in terms of sustainable development, as has been pointed out, but also, as you can imagine, in the area of the specific Energy-environment programme, in the area of renewable energies, bearing in mind the commitments made in Kyoto.
We will also ensure that this constitutes a starting point for negotiations with other countries in Latin America.
Next, as I indicated in my general presentation, it goes without saying that Parliament will be kept fully informed of developments arising from this agreement.
An important aspect of the Union' s cooperation with the countries of this region is, as you have pointed out, the interregional dimension.
In the projects undertaken until now, the emphasis was on the development of projects in collaboration with other Mercosur countries, an association in which Argentina plays an important role and is thus a sort of bridgehead for us to reach other countries in Latin America.
This aspect will thus continue to be the object of particular attention in terms of the Union' s relationship with the countries in this region.
The Commission, as well as Parliament, will be particularly attentive to it.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the UN Climate Convention in Kyoto, the European Union accepted a target to reduce CO2 emissions by 8% by the year 2012, relative to emission levels in 1990.
If we now know that cars are accountable for 12% of these CO2 emissions, if we know that people who buy cars are completely unaware of the fact that the car is a polluting tool and to what extent it does pollute, although, for example, they do know what the maximum permitted level of alcohol in the blood is or I know that if I buy a car which uses three litres per 100 km then this is quite an economical car, then it is a matter of urgency to make the consumer aware of car pollution.
We have to impress on people that, at the moment, we emit an average of 186 grammes of CO2 per kilometre by car and this must be cut down to 120 grammes per kilometre.
At the Commission' s proposal, the European Parliament submitted a number of amendments during the first reading.
We have noted that the Council has incorporated a large number of these in its common position.
A second point relating to the revision is that Parliament had requested that the directive should also apply to second-hand cars, managers' cars and cars registered for the day.
That on the basis of best practices in one or more of the Member States, the provisions in this directive are applied in a manner which is as uniform as possible and that red-tape is avoided for manufacturers or sales outlets.
The intention should at any rate be to reduce CO2 emissions as efficiently as possible and to act swiftly.
When I bought my first car my primary consideration was to be noticed in it by the opposite sex.
Now other considerations such as safety and economy are more pertinent.
It is good to see Europe following Britain' s lead.
Whilst I realise that there are subsidiarity implications for this flexibility it is also true that by having different information and different formats in different Member States this could distort the single market and confuse consumers who wish to buy in different states.
It is also possible that a manufacturer could move a model up to a class containing larger vehicles simply by adding 15 cm of plastic to the front.
In welcoming this scheme, I hope that when it is reviewed in 2003, if any of the problems I have mentioned have arisen, these can be addressed.
I would, however, like to say something about the centrepiece of the strategy - the voluntary agreements between the Commission and the car industry.
If we really end up with 140 g in 2008 as intended, that would be excellent.
Nevertheless, I would like briefly to refer to the factor which gives rise to this directive: the energy efficiency of cars.
Consumption decreased, during this period, from 17.8 to 8.7 litres per 100 kilometres.
These laboratories - which are often physically a long way from each other and lack a coordination and communication strategy between them - invest a lot in improving very specific features of cars, and very little in improving the car as a system for moving from one place to another.
To this end - and since directives such as the one which we are discussing today have been very well received - I believe that the European Parliament must promote and support initiatives which are aimed at an integrated product policy in which the R and D in design, in this case of cars, receives all the attention it deserves.
I believe that unless we deal with production in an integrated way, that is, from the moment that the car' s raw materials are selected, through its manufacture, the production process, the use and finally the recycling and final disposal of the car when the buyer is no longer using it, we will never really manage to introduce measures which are genuinely significant in the field of reducing green-house gases.
Therefore, I believe that this list we are talking about of the ten most efficient cars could also be, if we carry on like this, the list of the least inefficient, and in no sense will it be the list of the best.
I believe that the common position submitted to us by the Council fully addresses this third requirement.
The directive we are discussing is certainly an important part of our strategy for combating CO2 emissions.
Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for taking on this report.
True, this is not going to change the world but it can be a small move in a larger strategy.
Secondly, the Commission also has plans to create an Internet page with information about the fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions of private cars for sale within the European Union.
The debate is closed.
But today, reminding you of something I said here during the last part-session - after Tampere the European citizens have received the message that Europe is no longer just a market - I would like to say loud and clear that, with this strategic document on the internal market which has been presented to this Parliament and which I am speaking about today, the citizen is going to have a clear idea of the coherence of that market and the fact that the ultimate and main protagonist of that market is the citizen.
It is clear: the internal market is a wonderful achievement, a success story, without any doubt, but it is not perceived as such by the citizens nor small and medium-sized enterprises.
It is something that goes much further.
Until now, there has been a lot of very good legislation with very clear consequences, but it has been done without a strategy.
Now the strategy is here and the importance of this strategy is fundamental if we want the citizen to see that the internal market is not just a matter of legislative acts which relate to the four freedoms, but that it affects them fundamentally.
Therefore, congratulations to the Commission and, naturally, we offer our unconditional support to this idea which seems to us, in Parliament, to be very interesting and deserves to be developed.
We also believe in the need to establish a fair balance and Parliament hopes that its points of view will be fully taken into account.
And with regard to the citizens' more specific ideas, we are very much in agreement with this general strategic objective, but we want the citizens to understand their rights better and above all to be able to exercise them in a clear and concrete way.
And to this end we need a clear legal framework, a legal framework for the internal market, with principles, which radiates into other policies and by means of which the citizens may have a clear idea of what has been done over the last 50 years and which now, through these initiatives, we believe will have an absolutely guaranteed future role.
I would also like to thank her for the congratulations she has extended to the Committee and, indirectly, the services which fall under my remit.
The Commission' s announcement combines a strategic vision for the long term and priorities for action in the short term.
The aim is to enhance the internal market' s efficiency, benefiting both citizens and businesses.
A number of important measures are currently being discussed by this Parliament, for example regarding e-commerce.
The Cardiff report will be published in mid-January.
The Commission will need to table its proposals for new specific actions by April.
Firstly, the dialogue with Europe' s citizens and industry which provides information on the precise way in which rights can be exercised.
Initiatives, such as SLIM and the business test panel are intended to lighten the administrative load for industry.
Finally, the new institutional equilibrium established by the Treaty of Amsterdam, requires that Parliament, the Council and the Commission cooperate in the field of legislation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank the Commission for bringing this paper to Parliament so speedily and for informing us about its strategic intentions in such detail.
In particular, I consider it to be very important - and this is also made clear in a motion for a resolution which we have submitted today - that in future, internal market legislation should be more coherent than it has been in the past.
We very often have a problem with internal market legislation these days in that there is no framework, no common structure for legislation.
Commissioner Bolkestein drew attention to the need for this at the joint meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in Strasbourg.
I would also like to make a few comments about the amendments tabled on this motion for a resolution.
I think that not even Gerhard Schröder or Tony Blair would be very enthusiastic about these amendments.
With this in mind, I welcome the Commission communication on the European internal market which we have before us.
Mr President, I am very pleased to be able to respond to this strategic document on behalf of my group.
I wish to draw attention to this in relation to the ultra-peripheral regions of the Union whose status has now been specifically recognised by Article 299 of the Treaty.
We have the biggest opportunity ever to make the single market a reality to many sole traders and SMEs in our Member States who may not previously have thought of selling outside their own immediate locality.
However, this commercial revolution in the way we do business will also require a revolution in our legal thinking.
The systems of commercial and civil law that exist across our Member States were largely constructed in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, a response to industrial and commercial changes in those centuries.
Some have suggested a new lex mercatoria.
The new commerce will need a framework that provides certainty both for consumer and trader alike.
In the main paper we are particularly attracted - as are others - by the emphasis on the need for a coherent approach to Internet regulation and e-commerce; also, intellectual property, distance selling and data protection - taking them all together in order to protect consumer rights and ensure adequate rules of viability.
Naturally, in our group, we want to see that the achievement of the internal market involves a balance - as you said yourself, Commissioner - between market freedom and the need to protect the environment, consumer health and consumer confidence.
I should also like to mention our sense - like yours - that the ordinary citizens need to see an increase in the speed and efficiency of infringement proceedings against defaulting Member States where the rights of European Union citizens exercised within the internal market are impinged upon or denied.
I am very upset, as a member of the academic profession, to see yet again the issue of foreign language lecturers in Italian universities coming forward without yet a resolution after eleven years, after three judgments in favour of the rights of these ordinary citizens seeking to exercise freedom of movement, seeking to take advantage of that fundamental principle of the Union and the internal market of no discrimination on nationality grounds.
The Commissioner has shown himself wise and far-sighted in his strategy document.
In a short space of time, the Commission and Commissioner Bolkestein have presented us with this communication on a strategy for the European internal market.
I believe that the Socialist Group will vote in favour of it, but it has introduced a series of amendments which, as you might expect, reflect socialist thinking.
And within this strategic objective, we should achieve, amongst the operational objectives, the promotion of employment and ensure the coordination of social protection and the broad protection of our citizens' rights.
At the moment, we have a broad set of Community regulations, fifteen sets of national regulations and in many cases, for example in the federal, or almost federal, States, many more.
I hope, therefore, that after this first Commission communication, the Commission will present Parliament with a strategic programme, with the necessary legislative package, with more time for the Commission and more time for Parliament, but I also hope that, during this legislature, the internal market will become a reality and that, in becoming a reality, it will do so to the benefit of the citizens and the workers and that it will allow for the continued consolidation of this European social model, which I would say at the moment is the envy of those countries which do not belong to the European Union.
The strategic document which has been submitted to us certainly represents an important change in the single market and extends and consolidates the idea of a single market which is one of the main cornerstones of the construction of Europe.
Firstly, there is the question of how we are going to create a real single market where the States are currently tending to implement protectionist measures - we have seen some cases, even recently and how the Commission intends to make the best use of the infringement procedure, speeding it up and encouraging the citizens and their associations to report the breaches of Community law which occur daily in the various Member States.
The European Union must provide a direct legal framework to allow the free movement and free provision of services and avoid conflicts and obstacles to free movement caused by too great a divergence in the legislation of the various countries of the Community.
In these areas, a fair balance between public regulation and self-regulation of those concerned will allow the market to function without infringing citizens' or consumers' rights.
Besides, these new technologies require consumers' trust in order to be fully used.
This must happen without calling into question the acquis communautaire and guaranteeing the albeit delicate balance currently in place.
Then, and only then will we be able to make a more accurate judgement of the Commission' s intentions.
And in this respect, Commissioner, there is a phrase in the communication which worries us.
It says literally that "a more intense trade in goods and services between the Member States could lead to additional risks to the consumer" .
Mutual recognition is a principle which was important in preventing barriers to the free movement of goods, but it is only partially valid for the construction of the internal market in the absence of harmonised legislation.
And of course the sort of new technologies available to businesses and consumers that many of us have referred to tonight are going to be the engine for making the single market develop even more quickly.
I really echo what my Socialist colleague said a bit earlier because we have to consider the newly emerging electronic technologies as being the engine of creating the single market.
One of the things this strategy has to do is to really encourage businesses and consumers to move and adopt the new electronic commercial technologies as soon as possible because of themselves they will be what creates this single market in the future.
I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, in reflecting on that, that as empowered consumers start to adopt this technology, that many of the barriers that are put in their way at the moment, the legislation for example on commercial communications, on the way that goods can be presented to customers, are going to become redundant.
The internal market is a reality.
There are four strategic objectives, each of which is split up into three, four, five or six operational objectives.
I too favour maximum standards, but we cannot prevent countries from going beyond the generally accepted standard in some areas.
The document that we submitted and that is being discussed this evening, attempts in fact, in the first strategic objective, to create a balance between the internal market on the one hand and the protection of consumer and environment interests on the other.
The debate is closed.
