Mr President, I should just like to point out that yesterday, regarding the Rothley report, I gave two written explanations of vote on Amendment No 74, which unfortunately I am unable to find in the minutes, and also an oral explanation of vote on the amended Commission proposal.
Mr President, this is a personal statement.
The matter involves the election of a professor at the University of Thessaloniki, which was invalidated in 1993 by the supreme court in Greece.
Thank you, Mr Trakatellis, but, under Rule 6, we only have to announce this here: this is not the forum in which to consider the matter.
Mr President, as you rightly stated and as is shown in the agenda, we are now going to address, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Court of Auditors' report No 1/96.
I believe, Mr President, that this case must be treated as an example, not only because of the importance of decentralized cooperation, but also in terms of the procedure to be followed in the future should another, similar case arise.
I refer both to the 72 amendments which were examined in committee and to the 17 to be examined here today in this part-session.
We are restricted to presenting, here today, the Court of Auditors' report No 1/96 and to giving our political opinion on it.
It has instigated an administrative investigation and has sought to discover how far the companies cited in the report might have been involved in other programmes, in other DGs and even in other divisions.
Furthermore, one of the points I would like to stress in my speech on the report we are presenting is to examine whether the UCLAF should continue in its present form, being totally and absolutely dependent on the Commission, or if it should act independently of the Commission.
However, I am concerned about whether it is able to act with the same degree of freedom within the Commission.
The Committee on External Economic Relations is also, and, I would say, above all, in view of its competence in the matter, concerned that the Mediterranean policy, which is an essential dimension of the Union's identity in the outside world, should not be jeopardized by the unlawful conduct of certain officials outside, or even inside, the institutions.
In this connection I would heartily recommend the creation, as is occurring with the Central and Eastern European countries, of a network of Fellow Members' Innovation Relay Centres to strengthen the links between universities, hospitals and research centres on both shores of the Mediterranean.
The Court of Auditors rightly noted breaches and irregularities in procedures, but, as I have already stated before the Committee on Regional Policy, it would have done better to draw the matter to the Commission's attention in the appropriate way before reaching the point of sanctioning breaches of procedures and other irregularities - this being in the spirit of the European Union and hence according to a kind of theory of communicating vessels.
We therefore take the view that all the necessary measures should be adopted, but also that the MED programmes should be reinforced and implemented quickly.
This is a question that we shall not solve today, but I wanted to raise it, nevertheless.
We shall emerge from this whole process much more careful and very much more critical.
This debate has shown us that we must reflect our own role.
The price that will have to be paid for the fact that we give the go-ahead for these programmes today or tomorrow will be a very intensive investigation of how the Commission handles these things.
Something that is not acceptable, ladies and gentlemen, is that after it had become aware of a devastating report by the Court of Auditors on the management of the MED programmes, highlighting numerous irregularities and serious deficiencies, the Commission failed to decide on the immediate institution of an administrative inquiry, and that the judicial authorities in the Member States have hitherto not taken any steps at all.
That was tantamount to giving a blank cheque to external advisors who were sitting in judgement on their own case.
It is true that the Commission did not, and still does not, have the resources for the correct management of the financing of the MED operations initiated in July 1992.
It is a matter for the Commission, and a matter of urgency, to draw up proposals for reform to get the MED programmes back on the right road, and it will be a matter for us to judge the Commission by its acts.
This is another of those typical cases where Parliament can take a good deal of credit, because it is indeed up to the European Parliament to get to the bottom of this kind of issue.
These aid programmes are needed in the Mediterranean and elsewhere in the world.
I would also support the idea of a black list of consultants with the many changes of name that take place, often meaning that bureaux which carry out the study prior to the invitation to tender for a project are also able to submit a tender.
But all these programmes, PHARE, TACIS, and so on, on the other hand, which the Commission is always asked to take on, are, in actual fact, delegated to external consultants.
The particular case with which we are concerned today is not, therefore, an isolated one.
Disciplinary action should indeed be taken against officials who have committed irregularities, and any irregularities downstream should be sanctioned, but if, according to a basic principle enshrined in internal rules and customary standards even at the level of the Financial Regulation, the official or officials in charge of implementation of these programmes believed they were acting correctly when they placed managers from large consultancy firms or external fund managers in the body which then had to take decisions on projects, regarding this practice as absolutely normal in the case of projects with non-member countries, it is then clear that the problem lies further upstream and it is right to tackle it.
In so doing, we will be able to determine whether the course we have followed in this or other projects is right, not least because, in my view, we do not give the Commission sufficient in-house staff to tackle this kind of programme themselves.
Mr President, the report before us today is an important one, important because the facts it sets out, linked to the use made by the Commission of the budgetary appropriations for the MED programmes, are particularly serious.
The Commission elected to subcontract the management of the MED programmes to the Agency for Trans-Mediterranean Networks, the ARTM, an association set up by the Commission itself.
As a result of their dual status, those directors were also able to participate in the negotiating of contracts concluded with themselves, and in the preparation of projects which they were then instructed to implement by the Commission, and to have access to documents which they should never have been able to obtain.
Out of sixteen technical assistance contracts, ten were awarded without any prior invitation to tender, while in the case of the other six the awarding procedures were highly irregular in the advantage they gave the two technical assistance bureaux in question.
The Commission, which was aware of the situation from 6 October 1995, did not even undertake a systematic review of all the contracts concluded with the two technical assistance bureaux on which doubt was being cast.
So, Mr Fabra Vallés, we must on this occasion denounce the Commission's management methods in the matter of decentralized co-operation.
I think the problem is comparable to those which many Member States have with the implementation of development cooperation, which can also generally be described as poor, simply because the Member States do not have their own people or their own mechanisms in the countries where development cooperation is applied, but are dependent on cooperation with others.
I believe that this whole problem - which has never really been resolved in the European Union, but is becoming more and more significant because of the take-up of external aid and the scale of the Structural Funds - is one which deserves greater attention.
And this management problem is becoming an increasingly large and serious issue in the European Union.
I am fully aware that the MED programme began before he took office.
Commissioner Marín was right to freeze the programmes, but I hope that, after this long period of time, he has resolved the organizational problems, so as to ensure transparent and efficient management.
There appears to be some confusion - whether deliberate or not - between the decentralized MED cooperation programmes and the MEDA programme approved at the Barcelona Conference.
We are discussing a matter connected with a regulation, approved by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 1992, whilst the MEDA Regulation was approved in July 1996.
The MEDA programme has absolutely nothing to do with this type of cooperation.
In the first place, because it highlights dysfunctions in the management of the various companies to whom we entrusted application of the decentralized cooperation programmes in the Mediterranean and of the European Commission's own services.
Secondly, because it reveals shortcomings in Community legal mechanisms relating to legal protection of the European Community's financial interests.
Thirdly, because it shows how much internal effort the European Commission still has to put in to devising and perfecting an early warning system and the mechanisms which would enable it to prevent the dysfunctions observed in one expenditure sector - in this case, the MED programmes - being able to arise elsewhere in other expenditure sectors, as has been the case.
Lastly, because it demonstrates that cooperation between and the combined efforts of the institutions - Court of Auditors, Parliament, Commission and Council - indeed permit progress and considerably help towards the solving of such programmes, because I feel that what we are all seeking is a solution to these problems.
With regard to the first point - the dysfunctions observed by the Court of Auditors - you will be aware - because I have had the opportunity to explain this on many occasions and I regret the fact that the speakers have not mentioned it -that, within two weeks of the Court of Auditors advising me, through their auditors on 6 October 1995, that they had detected irregularities, I decided to suspend and cancel all contracts as a precautionary measure.
However, two years ago - and I regret that some of those involved have left the chamber without hearing this discussion - I decided to suspend the contracts.
At the same time, I asked the UCLAF and the Commission's Financial Control - as you know - to launch an investigation into the entire network, in order to ascertain, once and for all, precisely what was going on.
In view of what had happened, on 17 July 1996, i.e.
At the same time, we demanded repayment of all the sums owed.
The following technical assistance bureaux have been ordered to pay back sums of money: ' Cité Unie Développement' . 'Cité Unie Développement' has now paid back the amount owed.
Case closed. ' Córdoba City Hold' was awarded two projects.
This organization has queried the figures and is prepared to pay 70 %.
As regards the 'Conseil des Communes et des Régions de l'Europe' , we have also asked for the money to be returned.
The deadline for a reply runs out this week.
Finally, ARTM, ISMERI and FERE have either failed to reply before the deadline or are rejecting the Commission's claims.
The Commission - I said this privately and I am now saying it in public, to avoid confusion in the future - took the decision in the past to take a company to court in its own country so that that country's legal system could examine whether there were grounds for a criminal prosecution.
The Community mechanism is not in doubt.
In practical terms, what we are going to do is to extend the shielded type of contract of the Barcelona MEDA programme - note - to the rest of the DGs, so that, if an abuse should arise on the part of a technical assistance bureau, payments will immediately be stopped, the company will be sanctioned and the money recovered.
At least, here, we are guaranteed that the former MED projects will not result in the loss of a single ecu.
This is one of the matters outstanding - I accept that - in this 20 % of things which are still pending.
Next, the Commission has already taken on board the establishment of an early warning system so that, from now on, when any anomaly is detected in any external-network programme, all the DGs will suspend programming as a precautionary measure.
The Commission, admittedly, has blocked all payments in connection with current contracts established with other DGs in the case of all those companies which are refusing to repay the money owed.
Orders have been issued for all contracts to be suspended.
Together with these two contracts, we discovered three more, in association with other technical assistance bureaux and under another name.
I am aware of one thing: I am not concerned about being able to defend the decisions we have taken.
And my reply has been: ' I am aware of that fact, but I needed to know what was going on' .
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Vice-President Marín most sincerely.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
Mr President, first of all I should like to say that I am not going to take up all of my five minutes, because the smoke made by Commissioner Marín has definitely prejudiced this debate.
I should also like to remind you - the Chair, that is - that at the meeting of Presidents in Luxembourg, it was agreed - and this is not a question of transparency but of honesty, as transparency is a term applied to glass whereas honesty is the term to be applied to humans - we must maintain that honesty and vote on this report after 12 noon.
That is why I agree to draft it, in the knowledge that I was defending the interest of 170 000 tobacco farmers - because there are 170 000 not 135 000 tobacco farmers throughout Europe, working farms of 1.5 to 2 hectares, between 1000 and 2000 hours a year.
How many other people in Europe work between 1000 and 2000 hours a year?
Tobacco is the only agricultural product subsidized by the EU which kills its consumers when used as it is intended to be used.
The first health advice doctors give to their patients coming in with breathing or heart problems is to stop smoking.
The amendments I have tabled propose ongoing support for farmers in Objective 1 and 5b areas, switching to types of tobacco which will eventually be able to compete on the market without subsidy, and assistance for new types of agriculture or other jobs on a scale never enjoyed by the hundreds of thousands of miners, steel workers, shipbuilders, fishermen and others who have lost their jobs through restructuring over the last two decades.
For while DG V strives to uphold Article 129 of the Treaty on health protection and its cancer action programme is severely over-stretched, DG VI has rejected options to remove resources from a product that kills people and whose advertisements will hopefully be banned by the Council next year.
That is why we should act now in favour of support for farmers by rapid diversification and conversion as proposed by the Court of Auditors in 1994.
All these are amongst the poorest regions in Europe and, in many of them, tobacco is not only the main source of wealth but the only source of wealth - there is no alternative.
Such is the case, for example, of Thrace and Macedonia.
More than 80 % of European tobacco production is concentrated in these regions and it provides employment for 180, 000 people in terms of direct agricultural work and for a further 125, 000 in the conversion industry.
It is impossible to argue in favour of economic and social cohesion - fine words in favour of Europe's poorest regions - whilst, at the same time, the same people, on occasion, plan sectoral policies which selectively punish these same regions.
Mr President, from the standpoint of budgetary control, the COM reform is acceptable in substance and in form and our committee has voted on and accepted these conclusions.
These, which were expressly referred to in the Regulation have not been set up and, owing to the administrative complexity of supervision, the alternative instruments which the Member States have set up have not functioned.
To block this reform or to deny these subsidies adversely affects - in the first instance alone - the welfare and future of Europe's farmers and possibly benefits extra-Community commercial interests.
Great advances have been made since the 1992 reform, and it must be acknowledged that tobacco growers have managed to adapt to the new context and rise to the challenge confronting them.
The point is whether the impetus towards a more secure future should come from the harmful nature of smoke, a problem on which we should not lower our guard, or structural reasons which concern the Common Agricultural Policy as a whole, particularly the policy for the least favoured areas, which is precisely where tobacco production is concentrated.
This would be a move in the wrong direction, targeting the weakest, perhaps only to place a huge gift in the hands of the strongest, the four tobacco multinationals which dominate the consumer market in Europe.
Producers must, however, be aware that they will only have a future if they are strongly market-orientated and have a sounder organizational capacity, and they must also appreciate that Community aid will be less and less available in the coming years because, like it or not, this is the natural trend throughout the Common Agricultural Policy.
But, Commissioner, I think that soon, if we have a new rural policy in the Community, the situation for tobacco, for employment and for our quality of life will improve.
Let us hope that its inclusion in the EAGGF Guarantee Section, as you told us yesterday, is not a sign that rural policy is being subordinated too much to the old CAP which we want to change.
Mr President, I would like to make some very obvious observations which, precisely because they are obvious, must be taken into account by Members of this House at voting time.
We would also like the Commission to explain to us how the research money is spent, since, although we are not against increasing that budget, we would like to know how it is spent, so that we can decide whether the extra 2 % is still needed, as may be the case.
We do not, therefore, want this proposal to punish us into creating 300, 000 jobs which already exist and which cost the Community a respectable amount of money, an amount which I regard as sufficiently justified, in order to help - as has so rightly been stated - the four multinationals which run the business.
Mr President, I will forego more than half of my time to help ensure that the vote takes place this morning.
Mr President, many things have already been said which I too would have liked to say.
The Liberal Group takes the view that tobacco growing is a very important agricultural activity in several countries of the European Union.
President, since the first measures against tobacco production in 1992, production has fallen by 31 % and the number of growers by 7 %.
President, I must tell you that every kilo by which tobacco production in Europe is reduced, is replaced by several kilos imported from third countries by multinational groups involved in the manufacture of tobacco products, so there is in fact no discouragement of smoking.
The tobacco industry purchases its supplies from the world market, and if Europe fails to deliver the right quantity or quality, the industry will buy from outside the European Union.
I am in agreement with the idea of a planned reduction in excess consumption of tobacco, but it seems to me hypocritical, and inappropriate, to believe that stopping production in the European Union would put a stop to smoking, whereas it is ourselves as the free consumers who need to be influenced.
Mr President, I must congratulate Mr Rosado Fernandes on the quality of his report, which very clearly sets out the issues involved in tobacco growing in Europe and rightly denounces, and I quote, ' the erroneous premises' of the Commission's report.
We shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution as presented by the rapporteur and adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Our group has requested a split vote on Recital A.
The Commission's document is based on two guiding themes that are lacking in relevant foundation.
I must remind the House that the European Union is a net importer of tobacco and that any reduction in European production will immediately be offset by an increase in imports from third countries.
The Commission's second line of thought suggests a change in the way the 'tobacco' CMO supports producers, justified, according to the Commission, by the excessively poor quality of the tobacco produced by European farmers.
Mr President, we must preserve employment in a loss-making agricultural sector, and we could not accept any reduction in support for European tobacco production unless we had achieved a level of self-sufficiency.
Mr President, I should like to go along in general with the objectives of the proposal made by the Commission to improve quality and make the management of quotas more flexible.
I should like to say three things to you, who criticize tobacco: first of all, I should like them to understand the importance of the 300 000 jobs in the sector, in a Europe with no greater tragedy than unemployment.
The Rosado Fernandes report is along the right lines, because it covers the entire scope of the tobacco industry and does not forget the growers.
What is at issue is not the substitution of tobacco crops by other crops but the provision to the workforce in an area where tobacco is grown of an alternative economic activity capable of providing it with an income precisely where it is, not on the edge of urban areas.
Because if we really wanted to restrict smoking in the European Union, we ought first to close the cigarette factories.
In the long term, aid for tobacco growing has to be eliminated.
Mr President, the Commission has tabled a proposal concerning certain changes to tobacco growing.
After all, the roots of the agricultural policy lie in supplying food to the European Union; the tobacco sector definitely does not fall within this objective.
I also think that the Budget Committee's opinion deserves our total support.
Mr President, the Commission agrees that gradual disengagement would be very serious for regions experiencing major economic problems, and would not have an effect on tobacco consumption.
That is why the aim of the reform is to increase the market value of the tobacco produced in the Union.
To achieve this goal there are the three issues of modulation of the premia, flexibility on the quota and withdrawal from the sector.
The aim of these measures is to increase the quality of the tobacco produced.
My first impression is that you are right, and I intend to look into the matter further. (Parliament adopted the motion for a resolution) Mr President, I should like to ask whether the rapporteur would accept a verbal amendment to this amendment.
So I would propose - and I hope the House will follow me - that we vote in favour of my amendment. (Parliament adopted the motion for a resolution) Mr President, as regards paragraph 8 of Amendment No 6, I should like to ask whether the rapporteur agrees to take it as an addition to rather than a substitution for paragraph 8.
It is a bit difficult, because we have voted already so it is too late.
Firstly, I regret that the proposal from the Committee on Agriculture to reduce the burden on the 1998 budget by shifting the payments for oil seeds has not been accepted.
I also reject the proposal to create a reserve of ECU 329 million.
on the Brinkhorst and Fabra Vallés report (A4-0232/97) The undersigned have abstained from voting.
The three areas for which new appointments are proposed are precisely those areas where the EU system itself has contributed to the occurrence of the problem.
The need for the 35 posts in GD XXIV, for the co-ordination of the Scientific Committee's work resulting from the BSE crisis, has arisen as a result of a fundamentally misguided agricultural policy which has meant that animals have been treated the same as basic commodities.
As for the posts intended to combat fraud, these are linked to the programmes created by the EU own hands, Phare, Tacis, Meda and Echo.
on the Mouskouri report (A4-0237/97) We are all very strong supporters of the campaign to promote books and reading, which is why we welcome the Ariane programme.
The principal aim of the ARIANE programme is to support the translation of works written in lesser known languages in the EU, for example Danish.
The Danish Social Democrats are happy that the Conciliation Committee has finally reached agreement after a long period of negotiations.
The ARIANE programme is of great importance to the dissemination of literature written in lesser known languages.
The ARIANE programme can thus contribute to intercultural understanding between the peoples of the EU countries.
Ariane is mainly a programme of subsidies for translation.
Important participants in the work will be international cultural organizations, especially the Council of Europe.
I hope that the Ariane programme will be a successful first step in efforts to develop and renew the whole European book sector.
on the Fontaine report (A4-0246/97) Nicole Fontaine's report on the free movement of doctors is nearing its concluding stage.
The conciliation procedure made it possible for most of Parliament's proposals to be adopted, and I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on that.
We must reassert here that the genuine recognition of diplomas and genuine freedom of movement for professionals, are vital elements in European integration and in the development of European citizenship.
The recognition of doctors' qualifications throughout the European Union is a significant step towards the creation of a single market and with greater possibilities of success for our professionals.
The free exercise of professional practice implies the harmonization of rules of access to education, otherwise there will be a feeling that a given country, in isolation, is determined to set a system of numerus clausus to meet the demand of its own qualified doctors, when the market is open to people from countries without the same protection.
For the same reason, there has to be a harmonization of the numerus clausus between the various countries in a single area which, by means of this Directive, would offer the working conditions of a national area.
on the Dybkjaer recommendation (A4-0235/97) I welcome the Dybkjær report on the review of the Fifth Environmental Action Programme.
Due to the fact that the report deals with many important issues, there have been many representations from interested parties and particularly from industry bodies.
The amendment that has caused the greatest amount of interest is Amendment No 34 to Article 11.4, which proposes to elaborate the waste hierarchy.
The waste hierarchy has been in existence since 1989, when the Commission first proposed it in their Waste Management Strategy Paper of that year.
The decision by the European Parliament simply means that the road to sustainable development is no longer straight and it will now take longer to complete the journey.
There is a serious contradiction between the world leadership that the European Union claims to want to have in terms of environmental policy and the vagueness of the wording of the Commission proposal and the common position of the Council on the programme 'Towards sustainable development' .
In the presentation of Agenda 2000 - defining the political guidelines for the beginning of the 21st century - the Commission stated yesterday its commitment to integrate the environment into its global strategy.
The Commission's Agenda 2000 runs a similar risk, if the will to integrate the environment into other policies is not translated into measures, with timetables and penalties for transgressors.
on the Jarzembowski report (A4-0243/97) My group is obliged to vote against this report.
We have voted in favour of the amendments by the Committee on the Environment, but to no avail.
The report has in fact postponed indefinitely the internalization of the external costs of goods transport.
Lastly, the EU has a great responsibility when it comes to finding a solution for the Alpine region.
In the negotiations with Switzerland, all that counts is our own short-sighted interest in clearing the way for 40-tonne trucks, and Austria is now being given a special arrangement for the Brenner pass.
The European Parliament thus has the opportunity to review the scope of a very important text, with a view to more efficient and fine-tuned charging of heavy goods vehicles within the European Union.
The Commission's proposal should introduce some aspects of harmonization mentioned in the Green Paper 'Towards fair and efficient pricing in transport' , which sets out the long-term guidelines for a policy of charging on infrastructural costs and the costs of congestion in road transport.
The present system is based on all-in levies.
The European Parliament's report introduces two important amendments to this text.
First, Parliament calls upon the Commission to take due account, in its proposal for a Directive on the charging of heavy goods vehicles, of the thoughts set out in the Green Paper on 'the internalization of the external costs of transport' and the conclusions of the corresponding parliamentary resolution of 30 January 1997.
The environment in the Alps is extremely sensitive.
The report by the Committee on Transport has significantly amended all sections of the Commission's proposal.
There is little point in introducing a maximum rate 30 times higher than the minimum.
My main objection to the system of taxes proposed by the Committee on Transport is that it does not distinguish between Euro I and Euro II vehicles.
I also appreciate that the rules now being proposed are temporary and will apply for only three years.
The special provision which the Committee on Transport is making for the Brenner pass does not go far enough.
I have abstained from voting on this report.
on the Berger report (A4-0238/97) I cannot support the proposed increase in the minimum financial requirement that a road haulage operator must possess in order to remain in business.
The Commission proposes increasing the present minimum financial requirement, in terms of capital and reserves, of ECU 3, 000 per vehicle to ECU 9, 000 for the first vehicle, with a further increase of ECU 5, 000 for each goods vehicle over 6 tonnes or for passenger vehicles seating more than 20 people.
I will oppose these proposals because it would inevitably make it more difficult for individuals to start up new businesses in the transport sector.
on the Virgin report (A4-0241/97) What are we to do with our wastes?
Should we, in certain circumstances, threaten third countries that refuse our wastes?
But, as Mr Virgin corrects the Commission's errors in his report, I gladly vote for his report and the excellent amendments from the Environment Committee.
If a country has indicated that it is not willing to receive any or only certain forms of 'green' list waste, its wishes must be respected.
I therefore deplore the piecemeal approach adopted by the Commission to the universal service and call upon it, at long last, to prepare a strong, all-embracing Directive on a subject that is essential for the future.
The European Union, and all its Member States, need strong signals to demonstrate the commitment of the Community's institutions to the concept of universal service which, if we really want it to, can destroy the ultraliberal image that has done so much damage to Europe.
The undersigned have voted against the report for the following main reasons: 1.The report is a clear example of the technical and bureaucratic problems which arise when an important public infrastructure is handed over to commercial interests.2.There will be complications which will affect consumers when a fragmented system, such as the one currently proposed for telecommunications, comes into operation.3.Infrastructures such as this should be maintained as national entities.
It is easier to establish connections between national systems.4.The use of private operators will deprive the people of their constitutional protection for telephone privacy which is a central civil and democratic right.- on the Argyros report (A4-0213/97) We are trying to find something here which in such a thematically limited form is going to be difficult to achieve, an 'effective framework of regulations for the European telecommunications framework' .
van Velzen (A4-0215/97), Argyros (A4-0213/97) and Herman (A4-0240/97) reports . (DA) The Danish Social Democrats today voted for the three reports indicated.
on the Rosado Fernandes report (A4-0214/97) Mr President, I am giving this explanation of vote not on behalf of the group, but for myself personally.
It is absurd to subsidise a product by up to 80 percent or more in order to give the producers a minimum income.
The Commission's analysis is positive as it recognizes the social importance of tobacco production in the Union and the fact that it is a non-surplus-producing activity.
This well balanced report offers a degree of comfort to tobacco producers whose farms, let me remind the House, are generally located in the poorest southern regions of Europe.
It is unrealistic to believe that smoking in Europe can be stopped by stopping tobacco production in Europe.
I also support the use of research funds to try to find a better quality product, and particularly research geared to reducing the nicotine content, a harmful product of tobacco.
However, Mr Commissioner, some of the measures contained in its proposals actually destroy jobs.
EU agricultural policy should be environment, health and consumer friendly and should include a gradual reduction of aid for agriculture.
The reform of the raw tobacco sector has led to a number of movements to protect public health, often with good intentions, but unclear in most cases.
If certain aspects of the Commission's proposal and many of the amendments in this report were put into practice, tobacco production in the European Union would vanish and be replaced by cheaper imports from non-Community countries.
Finally, we must freeze the 450 million dollars that were promised by the World Bank and postpone the adoption of the report on the cooperation agreements.
It seems as if the moral and material support which we have given from outside in the past has been for nothing.
Mr President, recent events in Cambodia once again cast doubt on the ability of that country to pursue the process of democratization and reconstruction.
Ung Huot has been appointed to replace Norodom Ranariddh.
This also demonstrates the complexity of the situation in Cambodia and shows that Cambodia has not yet completed its process of political stabilization.
For this reason I consider that the Council should bring every necessary pressure to bear on the Cambodian authorities to revive the 1991 Paris Accords, and I am also convinced that the Commission must take on the task of ensuring that the election date of May 1998 is respected, which, we all hope, should bring this tragic situation to an end.
The international community of states must insist that, in May 1998, the planned free and democratic elections are able to take place and that we are able to see them take place with our own eyes.
Mr President, two years ago I participated in the EP delegation to Cambodia.
We were optimistic that, following the 1993 elections, a political accommodation had been reached between Funcinpec and Hun Sen's Cambodian People's Party.
We hoped these elections would bestow some political stability on a poverty-stricken country whose recent history had been so tragic.
The deaths of some 58 people with a further 200 wounded is a sorry postscript to the coup and presages future upheaval and mayhem.
Mr President, following the military coup in Cambodia on 4 July, we were all very shocked.
We had hoped that after the blood-bath in Cambodia, which had been going on for such a long time, peace had finally been achieved with the Paris Agreement in 1991.
We know that since the elections in 1993 corruption has been increasing in Cambodia.
We should not, however, in any way accept this military coup.
The question is, what can we do?
It would draw attention to the terms of the statement issued by the presidency of the European Union in response to the fighting on 5 and 6 July, calling for what a number of Members who have spoken have done, namely an immediate and unconditional ceasefire, a return to normal government and the holding of the promised elections on schedule in May 1998.
The UN Security Council issued a statement on 11 July again calling for dialogue between the parties and an end to confrontation.
The Commission has sent a note verbale to the authorities expressing concern for the safety of its aid workers but has not ordered their evacuation.
Any plans for long-term aid measures will be closely coordinated with Member States' representatives on the spot and here in Europe.
The vote will take place today, at 5.30 p.m.
The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution (B4-0638/97) by Mr De Vries and others, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on the arrest of war criminals in former Yugoslavia.
The reason is that it has only been possible to bring a few of the 75 people who have been indicted for war crimes in connection with the war in the former Yugoslavia to trial.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the application on the table now is an application that we are fully able to support.
Mr President, I should like, above all, to thank the Liberal Group for proposing this resolution.
And when we were signing and backing the Dayton solution, we all knew as much.
If we want peace to exist in Bosnia after the withdrawal of the SFOR troops, then a great deal more needs to be done.
There are still far too many people going about freely who ought to be appearing before the tribunal in The Hague.
Mr President, I too should like to thank our friends the liberals for this initiative.
I think that it is very important to keep up the pressure on the international community to allow this tribunal to function.
No justice would imply a continuous threat to long-lasting peace and stability, thereby undermining the political and economic recovery of Bosnia-Herzegovina and hampering the return of refugees.
The Commission considers that the arrest of war criminals in former Yugoslavia is an essential element of the conditionality attached to the development of relations between the European Community and the signatory parties to the Dayton Peace Agreement.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today, at 5.30 p.m.
I am convinced that these are manifestations of revenge by the State which, as in the case of Joseph O'Dell, involve the repetition of judicial errors which are fatal to so many people.
The case of Joseph O'Dell, a presumably innocent man condemned to the gallows in the sovereign State of Virginia, offers us the chance to prove they are wrong, the hope that our voice will be heard to save his life, the dream that our common resolution may begin to reverse the savage trend towards the judicial assassination of thousands.
To express this belief, on the recommendation of Amnesty International, people condemned to death are granted honorary citizenship of my city, Palermo, which for too long has been a city of death, affirming a culture of life.
In the case of Joseph O'Dell, an honorary citizen of Palermo, the situation is even more barbarous.
If this appeal is not accepted, Joseph O'Dell will be killed on 23 July on death row in a Virginia jail, taking with him the doubts about his guilt and leaving not only Virginia but all of us with the shame of a murder on our hands.
Madam President, I should like to thank you for giving me the opportunity, anticipating your presidency, to speak on an issue which has stirred up a great deal of emotion in my country and throughout the European Union.
It is not, to be sure, the first time; we hope that, if not the last, then at least it will be one of the last times in which, in extremis , the actual legal situation of a person condemned to death is prevented from being verified.
Here we have a person declaring his innocence and asking to undergo DNA testing.
Madam President, honourable colleagues, on 23 July - as we have been reminded - in the State of Virginia, an innocent man may be put to death.
By means of this resolution, we are not attempting solely to have the death penalty rejected and to have this House, in accordance with its repeated declarations, make a pronouncement, requesting that Joseph O'Dell's death sentence and that of four other citizens sentenced to death be commuted, but, first and foremost, we should like Joseph O'Dell to be given the opportunity to prove his innocence.
Our notion of the value of human life, all human life, moves us to join with all those who have stood up to ask for clemency for Joseph O'Dell and to formulate this solemn call to the Governor of the State of Virginia and the government of the United States not to commit yet another irreparable act.
The death penalty is irrevocable.
Madam President, colleagues, if there is one thing the European Parliament can be proud of, it is its resolute, unshakable conviction that the death penalty must be abolished worldwide, and that it must fight to ensure that the death penalty is not carried out where it exists under the legislation.
For all these reasons the will of Parliament which we are going to express is very important.
If this message, in addition to the Pope's, in addition to those of many men and women of good will, can reach the Governor of Virginia, I hope that there will be a chance of saving the life, on 23 July, of Joseph O'Dell, and with him of so many other prisoners under sentence of death on death row in American jails.
I have to admit that I cannot speak with any knowledge of the facts of this particular case - and I wonder who in this Chamber can actually do so.
However, I shall only be willing to hand out moral lessons to America when I am persuaded that in our country and on our own continent, the weak and the victims are properly protected against criminals, and at present that is not the case.
Madam President, we are voting for this resolution not only to confirm - as we always have - our opposition to the death penalty, a choice in favour of civilization which Parliament has made so many times, and out of the deep moral conviction we hold - the Pope recently, referring to this case, said that God alone is the master of Man's life and death - but because, in this case, we feel it our duty as Members of the European Parliament to add our own initiative to avert the risk of a miscarriage of justice.
Madam President, the macabre liturgy of State revenge is to be repeated for the nth time on 23 July.
O'Dell must constitute a precedent, the nth precedent for modifying the still violent culture of a great country such as the United States.
Precisely because many, too many, of its states apply the death penalty, the US provides yet another excuse for those far less democratic communist countries which justify the existence of the death penalty in their more or less legal systems.
Kenya Madam President, a few days ago a number of citizens who were peacefully demanding minimal institutional reforms for Kenya, necessary for the proper conduct of the forthcoming elections, were subjected to police brutality, resulting in the death of as many as seventeen people.
The destabilization of Kenya would constitute a most serious blow to human rights and could destabilize the whole region.
Without these reforms the elections will be a farce, and yet another enforced legitimization of the personal power of Arap Moi.
It is quite clear that Kenya is suffering from a lack of democracy and that, through this week's demonstrations, the Kenyan people are asking for radical reforms.
I think that it is the European Union's responsibility to support this process; otherwise, our cooperation with that country may be useless.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the reports that reach us from Kenya are really far from satisfactory.
The events of the last few days in Kenya show that this country and its regime are still a long way away from the minimum standards needed to qualify any country as democratic.
The popular drive for democracy and freedom of the individual is now being manifested forcefully throughout the African continent.
This has been the most important and positive new aspect of the situation in Africa for many years now, and could allow the whole continent to base its civil, social and economic development on a solid, agreed basis.
That is what was trying to emerge in Kenya, where opponents of the Arap Moi regime, in large demonstrations, called for legislative and constitutional reforms to allow the coming elections to be truly free and fair.
For once we can express our support for the initiative of the international community, which, through the ambassadors of 19 countries in Nairobi, strongly condemned the tragic events and demanded that a process of democratic reforms be launched.
Developments in the Kenyan situation will, moreover, be of fundamental importance for the whole region, the region of East Africa and the Great Lakes, where more than ever there is a need to establish conditions of stability, democracy and development.
All this conflicts with the principles on which a constitutional state must be based in 1997.
It is in this context that we call for the reinstatement of the three judges removed from Peru's constitutional tribunal.
It is in this context, too, that we must today condemn the pattern of threats and attacks against the media in Peru, which seek only to report freely and fairly on the abuses that have taken place.
The bomb attack on the Global Television station in Puno last October, the physical assaults against three journalists from the En Persona television programme at Naña on 25 June, the ferocious attack against the political editor of the newspaper Ojo at San Miguel on 1 July, and this week's removal of Peruvian nationality from Baruch Ivcher, owner of Peru's TV Channel Two, represent an attack on independent journalism which should be prevented by constitutional safeguards.
Madam President, at the time, we came out clearly against the kidnapping of a very important group of people in the Japanese Embassy.
The European Union should look again at its relations both with Peru in this case and also with other countries in Latin America and examine how it should apply pressure to prevent a recurrence.
Mr Commissioner, I always look forward to your answers, but today I have to attend another meeting and must be on my way.
Madam President, Peru has always been one of our problem children in Latin America.
Only then can a balance be restored in that country between economic stability, the fight against terrorism, freedom of opinion and a renaissance of political life.
With this in mind, my group will support the resolution.
In Peru at the present time there is neither freedom of the press nor freedom of opinion.
Anyone who expresses criticism of President Fujimori is putting his life in danger.
The Peruvian system is increasingly coming to resemble a military dictatorship.
Courageous members of parliament, such as Xavier Diez Canseco, who visited us here in Parliament two weeks ago, have been and still are the victims of assassination attempts planned by people like Montesinos, and this has been proven.
Sexual mutilations in Egypt Mr President, I am pleased that, finally, after a number of fruitless attempts to bring this subject before this House, we finally have a common resolution on female sexual mutilation.
Firstly, I wish vigorously to deplore and condemn the practice of sexual mutilation of women, both in Egypt and anywhere else that this execrable practice takes place.
And, thirdly, I would vigorously ask the European Parliament and the European Union, via the relevant channels, to force those countries which carry on this practice to scrupulously respect human rights in general and the undeniable rights of women, on the basis of absolute equality.
Madam President, after many struggles all that has been achieved so far must count as aquis , if we take into account the 1989 United National Convention on the Rights of Children, the 1995 Peking Conference on Womens' Rights, Article 4 of the Declaration on the Abolition of Violence against Women, the results of the International Conference in Cairo, and others.
I think it is right that Parliament should speak out against this, while saying at the same time that we must do everything to banish and take legal action against this genital mutilation, not least in our own Member States.
Madam President, I support many of the things that the previous speakers have said.
It is helpful to bring enlightenment and to challenge this tradition, which unfortunately the women in these countries also want to maintain.
In my view, this illustrates the difficult campaign which President Mubarak is waging to keep his country out of the clutches of a fanatical orthodox religious group.
It was reported recently in the 'Financial Times' that one militant Islamic organization was announcing a cease-fire after five years.
Egypt suffers from overpopulation and all the development problems which go with it.
Madam President, female circumcision in Egypt poses an interesting legal problem for Parliament.
In countries with a western legal tradition, the administrative courts and Councils of State, where they exist, have the fundamental function of protecting citizens from abuses by the public authorities and Governments.
For that very reason it is absolutely essential for the European Parliament firmly to oppose this appalling practice, which is merely derived from case law, to protect both civilized legal culture not only in the West, but also worldwide, and all those resident in the European Union, bearing in mind - as some of our colleagues have been saying - that female circumcision is, I am sorry to say, also practised within some Member States of the Union.
In condemning female circumcision, which is sometimes fatal and always causes lifelong disablement in terms of fully developed sexuality, a sexuality that allows and gives full value to pleasure and enjoyment - why not raise it to the status of a human right? - we shall be aiding the Egyptian Government and all Muslims who oppose the fundamentalists.
The judgement of the Administrative Court of Cairo, annulling the decision by the Egyptian Minister of Health to forbid the practice of female circumcision in Egypt's public hospitals, marks a step backwards in the struggle to prevent the sexual mutilation practised upon women in Egypt and elsewhere.
The Egyptian Government had reached a just decision, in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the proceedings of the international conferences on women held - in case we had forgotten - in Cairo and Peking.
So not only the exercise of democracy in Tunisia, but also, and above all, the dignity of this Parliament and of the European Union as a whole are at stake.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, though we are dealing with the resolution on Tunisia today, that is not because the situation in Tunisia is particularly bad.
There are many countries in which human rights abuses are altogether worse and more extensive.
And on this point I should like to say quite clearly that in the past there have been very positive developments in this area.
Amongst other things, a member of a political organization who took part in a colloquium in Brussels was treated very roughly, to put it mildly, on his return home, and in this as in other cases, differing accounts are given as to what happened.
There is in fact a paradox in Tunisia.
So I believe it is important that, as a sign of genuine friendship, Parliament should say these things to the Tunisian Government and authorities, so that our dialogue can be based on reality and not on imaginary situations or pious hopes.
Early parliamentary dialogue, before any of the institutions - the European Parliament or the Tunisian Assembly - is able to make a unilateral pronouncement.
The European People's Party will not be voting in favour of this motion.
Unfortunately, Madam President, my group cannot support this resolution.
Madam President, by adopting a resolution on 22 May 1996 on human rights violations in Tunisia, this House helped to bring about certain positive results.
Deprived of passports - this is what actually happened, Mr Soulier - or under pressure, the persons invited by those who set up the meeting of 11 June at the European Parliament were unable to attend.
This House has no intention of becoming a court of law, nor of adopting a didactic stance, but we would call the attention of the Tunisian Government to its failure to comply with the commitments it entered into in the association agreement with the European Union, which are based on respect for democratic principles and human rights.
That is the essential subject of this debate and of the compromise motion for a resolution of which I am a joint signatory, in the hope that the Tunisian Government will put an end to its policy of harassment and restriction of liberty against defenders of human rights and will respect freedom of opinion, expression and association.
The text of the resolution does not actually ask the Commission any questions and so the Commission should not take a position on the precise terms of the resolution.
With regard to Kenya, the European Commission participated in the framework of the Donors' Democratic Development Group in Kenya in the drafting of a joint declaration on free and fair elections later this year in Kenya.
The declaration was handed over to President Moi on 6 May.
That resulted in another meeting with the President on 1 July.
The events which took place last week in Kenya, which reference has been made to in the debate, prove that the situation is deteriorating and that the need for dialogue between the government, the opposition and the donor community is all the more important.
It is in that context that the statement of the European Union Member States and the Commission, made public on 9 July in Nairobi must be seen.
The European Union underlined its concern about the escalation of political violence and reiterated its earlier statements that Kenyans must be able to exercise their democratic rights in a peaceful environment.
Turning to the question of Peru, the Commission shares the concerns relating to the resignation of the three judges of the constitutional court and takes note of the points made with regard to human rights and press freedom in Peru.
The situation in Peru is monitored closely by the Commission which, in accordance with the positive approach adopted by the European Union, is doing everything in its power to support efforts to promote and safeguard human rights in the country.
The Commission will encourage actions with that goal in mind including the very important work of UNICEF against this practice.
The debate on Tunisia was somewhat different from some of the earlier debates in this section of the afternoon's proceedings in this sense: as far as Tunisia was concerned, the House was not united in its view.
The Commission is closely monitoring the statements concerning measures taken against opposition members of parliament or members of civil society in Tunisia.
The Commission welcomes the assent given by Parliament to the European Union Tunisia Association Agreement which the Commission negotiated with Tunisia, which was signed in July 1995 and which will enter into force after the forthcoming ratification by the remaining three Member States of the European Union.
This agreement contains two major innovations: on the one hand, respect for human rights and democratic principles becomes a central element of the accord; on the other, a political dialogue on subjects of common interest is instituted.
This agreement should be seen in the light of the political and security components of the Barcelona Conference which launched the Euro/Mediterranean partnership in November 1995.
In 1996 the Commission funded sixty-two projects to promote democracy and human rights benefitting all the partners in the southern and eastern Mediterranean, including Tunisia.
Personally, and on behalf of the Commission I would suggest the inclusion of a paragraph in the present resolution encouraging both parties to resume the talks as soon as possible.
You said that there were no speakers on the Philippines, but I have checked and I was in fact down to speak for one minute to say what has indeed now been said by Sir Leon Brittan.
During this debate on anti-personnel mines, 25 people are likely to be killed by such a weapon.
In Oslo, the final touches are now being put to a fully fledged convention, which is likely to be signed by more than 100 countries in December.
Mr President, we are all aware of the importance of this convention, which could be signed in Oslo at the end of this year.
Similarly, someone could explain to our Greek friends that there is a difference between anti-personnel land mines and naval mines, and again it might be appropriate to send a few experts to explain the details.
Instead, we should seek to persuade these two countries to overcome their reservations and join the other 13 countries - and this is something that I would welcome very much - in signing the Brussels declaration.
It is not only a matter of mines in Africa and Asia, but in the meantime we have also seen this scourge on the EU's own doorstep, in Eastern Slavonia, and we cannot send refugees back to an area where mines have been laid.
Madam President, not least thanks to the constant, courageous initiative of the European Parliament, the campaign for a total ban on anti-personnel landmines is gaining ground and could lead to significant results.
In many countries of the world, even if the political conditions can be achieved to bring conflicts to a close, the presence of thousands of landmines prevents the return to conditions of security and development for millions of people.
Despite the opposition of certain large countries outside the European Union, the negotiating process to conclude an international treaty for a total ban on landmines is already under way, and the European Union and all its Member States must support it effectively and take a very active role in it.
Now all Member States, without exception, must join and support this process, by signing the Brussels Declaration, and the Council must adopt a joint initiative along those lines.
In my opinion it will be a very good thing if the European Parliament deplores this.
I know that this is a very sensitive issue, but nonetheless I should like to ask you about it.
The Commission has used its influence and resources on a very considerable scale to help overcome the anti-personnel landmine tragedy.
It is the opportunity to transform the political support expressed by 97 states at the Brussels conference into an international legally-binding treaty to be signed in Ottawa in December.
We are the largest single contributors to the UN voluntary trust fund - over ECU 10m in the last three years.
Apart from the UN's effort we are the world's largest sponsor of mine actions in all the most afflicted countries - ECU 75m in the last three years.
We have programmes for the development of new technologies for mine detection and we have responded to the call for more assistance to the victims of mines with a pledge of ECU 1.4m to the International Committee of the Red Cross.
The conclusion of the banning treaty in Ottawa will be a great achievement.
Madam President, it is not just in the south of Europe but also in the north that we have climatic problems.
We do not want to hear: ' we gave you assistance for Objective 1 and 5b, use some of that money' .
So I am very happy to support my Greek colleagues in this plea.
Madam President, natural disasters do not only happen in the Old World.
Seven regions in the centre of the country, almost two thirds of the country's area, have been affected: 60, 000 people have been made homeless; about thirty people have been killed and many hundreds of people cut off.
There is still the difficulty of financing joint projects in a manner which really is uncomplicated.
Their support can be no more than indirect.
That means that it is up to the competent authorities in the Member States to take an imaginative view of things and to put proposals forward that priority should be given to the disaster areas in the allocation of general aid for economic development.
That really is what I can offer for countries such as Austria.
With regard more specifically to protection of forests against fires, the Council earlier this year extended the Community fire prevention action for five years.
Its purpose is to help Member States improve their fire protection system by financing studies into the causes of fires and prevention, monitoring and personnel training measures, provided that these measures are part of a comprehensive plan to protect forests against fires.
The entire Greek territory was classified as a high fire risk area by the Commission in 1993.
It should also be added that the regional development and operational programmes adopted for Greece for 1994-1999 also provide for forestry protection measures and reafforestation measures.
It therefore gives me particular pleasure to tell the European Parliament that we have reacted to this crisis by adopting on 14 July, three days ago, a decision to provide humanitarian assistance worth ECU 500, 000 to the groups worst affected by the floods in Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary.
In close coordination with the authorities of the countries concerned, we are prepared to consider requests for providing further assistance from other Community resources, notably through the PHARE programme and some high-level contacts are currently taking place in that context.
A total of 60 million Chilean pesos was thus made available to meet the immediate needs of the flood victims and that was done at the request of the Chilean authorities and after consultation with the embassies of the Member States in Santiago.
Madam President, that would involve a change in policy.
If she is here at this point, could she clarify that she is in favour of all parts of this split vote.
We are not actually voting on paragraph 13.
Because of the adoption of Amendment No 1 there is no vote on paragraph 13: it falls. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, I should like to inform those Members who have not, perhaps, examined the motions carefully, but have merely followed the voting lists, that we have adopted one motion in which the Commission is asked to bring civil law into line with criminal law.
The European Union must be able to defend itself against the airlines of third countries that refuse to observe the safety standards laid down by the Union.
All of us can remember a number of air crashes in which inadequate safety precautions caused the deaths of several hundred people.
The Union must do everything possible to minimize these risks.
I should therefore like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for his safety proposals, regarding both the aircraft themselves and the level of training of cabin and ground crew.
I voted in favour of this text.
The recent tragedies that have taken place both in the United States and in Europe do indeed call upon us to do everything possible to enhance the safety of this form of transport, all the more so since demand for air transport is increasing constantly.
This report therefore stresses the need to improve the training of air crew.
I should like to see the European Union actively involved in programmes intended to detect any shortcomings in the way in which the authorities in certain third countries apply the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and in programmes enabling us to work together with those authorities, where such shortcomings are detected, to enable them to reinstate compliance with international safety standards.
The growth in air traffic demands more and more guarantees of aviation safety.
The risk of an unsafe aircraft or an unsafe flight is borne not only by the passengers, but also by third parties, especially those living near airports.
Above all, safety is threatened when a regional airport is trying to 'survive' , and therefore applies less strict conditions than other airports.
It is said that aircraft from poor countries are involved in 92 % of all air accidents.
The proposals set out by the rapporteur in paragraph 13 are also particularly important: above all, as already stated, measures to reduce third-party risk in the vicinity of airports deserve to be given greater attention.
We also agree with the rapporteur's view that landing or take-off permission should not be given to aircraft from third countries which do not conform with the safety standards.
The human factor is of prime importance in preventing accidents.
We agree with many of the rapporteur's observations.
We also call for the establishment of an annual conference on flight safety, involving representatives from all the European air carriers, the European Union, and the workers.
On the Graenitz report The Commission's communication on environmental agreements is an important contribution in the context of the Fifth Environmental Action Programme.
The Commission's initiative in producing this communication must therefore be strongly supported by the European Parliament, and we in Parliament must not be too hesitant in our response.
For example, it must be clearly stated when an environmental agreement is concluded what the sanctions are in the event of non-compliance, and I have also tabled an amendment on this point.
I am indeed sorry that Members failed to take this opportunity to play their full part as representatives of the various peoples of Europe - the citizens of the various Member States who are also taxpayers.
As in the case of the 1992 Commission discharge, and more recently in the BSE affair, we failed to follow the argument through to its logical conclusion.
The condemnation contained in the report, following the extremely detailed report by the Court of Auditors, is a radical one.
That's all very well: the only problem is that it is doing a great deal now that it should have done three years ago.
The practices of the Commission, as highlighted by the Court of Auditors and then by Mr Fabra Vallés, do not so much call into question the activities of one particular commissioner as demonstrate a totally unacceptable general style of operation by the Commission, which it is important to stop.
The Commission should, instead, be setting an example by combating corruption within its own services.
The Commission has made known its intention, in the second half of 1997, of presenting its proposals for improving the social dialogue.
Only organizations which meet the representativeness criteria can be involved in the social dialogue.
One could hope that the most substantive form of social dialogue, collective negotiations and the signing of collective work agreements between the representatives of working people and employers, would be an object of support in the context of this debate, while representativeness too ought to be improved by the participation of representatives from SMEs at every level of the social dialogue.
The same fate befell the amendments relating to participation by SMEs in the Val Duchesse social dialogue and the other levels of social dialogue.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report, and indeed to thank the Commission for the fact that this communication invites us to engage in a broad debate on the social dialogue.
I am convinced that wage and labour agreements will also have to be reached at European level in future, as part of economic and monetary union.
It is still particularly unclear how the social partners can now play a part in the European strategy on employment.
It is significant that the Luxembourg presidency has not put any formal questions to the social partners, for example on drawing up a European framework agreement in which they too would offer binding commitments.
I support the rapporteur in his questions, and in his concern at the fact that the European Parliament is not involved.
I should have liked to say more, ladies and gentlemen, about the shortcomings in the sectoral dialogue, but I see that I have no more time.
However, it has become painfully clear to me, as a result of the Renault affair, that in the sectoral dialogue too, many binding agreements need to be reached, and I very much hope that the Commission will take advantage of this communication and bring forward some binding and specific proposals in the coming months.
The United Kingdom's accession, in Amsterdam, to the agreement on social policy, has strengthened this development.
In 1993, the Commission developed a catalogue of representativeness for organizations involved in the legislative process.
That is the background to our demand for a separate vote on Point 16 of the Peter report, and that is why we want the section that suggests that there will be a delay to be deleted.
It is important that the social partners should be able to use the opportunities that the Treaty on European Union offers them.
It is equally important that the Commission should be active, in issuing a new communication on the social dialogue.
So the Commission is absolutely right to attach the greatest importance to the development of the social dialogue.
In particular, ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you that in French law representivity is the only criterion which confers upon a professional organization the right to negotiate joint agreements.
Although the representative bodies involved in the sectoral dialogue are numerous, only three organizations participate in the agreement on social policy.
The idea of including the social partners in those States that are candidates for accession is an interesting one, and I must thank Mr Peter for having drawn attention to it.
Clearly, therefore, we in the Liberal Group cannot support a number of amendments which are based on the view that we should lay down what the social partners are able to deal with themselves through collective agreements, and as far as the Liberals are concerned, that is certainly not always necessary at European level.
Mr President, in the wake of Amsterdam and on the initiative of the French Government, the debate on social and employment-related issues has been opened, and we take a particularly keen interest in it.
Social dialogue is an important element of the social Europe of solidarity that we would like to build in the interests of the citizens of Europe's States.
After all, how can agreements concluded within the European Union be legitimate, and accepted by the citizens whom they affect, if the representative national trade union organizations to whom the citizens have entrusted the defence of their interests are not involved as of right in the negotiations?
At the same time, in order to defeat the attack being launched by employers and by certain governments on acquired social benefits and workers' rights, it is necessary that all Community Directives on social affairs should guarantee respect for the International Labour Organization conventions, should explicitly provide for the retention of the most favourable provisions for the workforce currently applicable in the Member States, and should contribute to the advancement of social rights in all the Member States.
Mr President, much has changed since the social dialogue was introduced in 1985.
On the labour market there are now approximately 20 million unemployed and in the social sector, according to the Commission, there are 50 million on the poverty line in EU countries.
These areas are equally important aspects of economic and social stability.
There are some good ideas in circulation such as shortened working hours, which has been implemented by the car industry in Germany, at Volkswagen, for example, and in the public sector and in companies in my homeland, Sweden.
Mutual agreements have led to a reduction in working hours without loss of wages or with only a small reduction.
Unlike the rapporteur, I think it is necessary to broaden the social dialogue in order to rally the troops.
It should include not just small and medium sized companies, as proposed, but also other organisations such as the European Network for the Unemployed which we in the Green Group proposed in amendment 5.
Mr President, the social dialogue at Community level does not always take unambiguous form.
The report which we are debating today rightly emphasizes employment and the creation of new jobs, and the need to prevent relocation.
We take a favourable view of incorporation of the Protocol on Social Policy in the new treaty and extension of the co-decision procedures to social matters, depending on cooperation, but we also hope that it will be possible for the social dialogue in a broader sense to reappear in the co-decision procedures for which the Treaty provides.
The process of transferring shared competences to the European Union has not been accompanied by developments in the leading role of the social partners.
In 1985 we saw the start of an experiment in social dialogue which should be developed further because it has not yet gone far enough.
The Treaty on European Union and its most recent review at Amsterdam pick up on the need to support such social dialogue.
Social dialogue can solve problems in certain directives under study or being debated; social dialogue can and must solve problems regarding the regulation of different economic sectors; social dialogue is the best instrument for regulating labour relations and for regulating working conditions.
Therefore, employers and employees, through their representative organizations, have to transfer the leading role they have at national level to the European level and, from that European level be much more active in applying common actions and measures to promote employment.
Mr President, I believe that all of us taking part in the discussions here agree that the social dialogue will only work if there is representativeness, in other words, if everyone who is involved in the social dialogue at national level also has a place at European level.
This is particularly important when the European Union wants to implement Community measures at national level as well.
That is a dilemma, because it means that many business people do not have a place at European level and, conversely, the European Union has no opportunity of asserting its interests in Austria.
This report is a step in the right direction.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I share the concerns of the rapporteur - and those of the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy - when he expresses his anxiety that social dialogue should not act as a buffer or shock absorber for Community institutions and governments against the earthquakes sometimes generated by the implementation of certain economic policies.
Today, even, the US multinational, Electrolux, is threatening to cut twenty thousand jobs in Europe - some of these are in Alcalá de Henares, Spain, a country with 20 % unemployment.
Because, as we saw in the code of conduct regarding equality of salary opportunities which was approved, the lack of a female presence means that women are unable to achieve a certain level of salary - the difference, in many European Union countries, still stands at 20 to 30 %.
Never before has the social dialogue been quite so important, at least in terms of its maintenance, and we can see that in many ways it is under threat from people who would, I think, prefer industrial anarchy.
It is also fair to say that we have had very little involvement in the UK in the social dialogue.
I would take it that you are now all convinced that the difference in scale between SMUs and large businesses also requires a differentiation of policy in some areas.
The needs of SMUs do not always coincide with those of large businesses, and that is why many SMUs choose to join forces amongst themselves.
It is not just the fact of representation which is important here, but also the extent of the input from those taking part in the dialogue.
The SMUs must be able to participate as such, and not only in consultation, but also in the negotiations leading to social agreements which can subsequently be declared binding.
In order to resolve the problem of unemployment the labour market must be reformed.
It is important that the labour market partners do not gain a unique position in the EU's democratic decision making process.
Mr President, the social dialogue, which embraces all branches of industry and is present in various sectors of the economy, in advisory committees and at sectoral level, makes an important contribution to the finding of effective solutions in employment policy, to the creation of new jobs and to the participation of women.
The social dialogue must be oriented towards the future.
Madam President, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the debate.
The social partners are playing an increasingly important role in developing European social policy, and the dialogue will certainly become even more important as the social partners have a key role to play in taking forward the political conclusions agreed at Amsterdam.
But the communication on the development of the social dialogue at European level, which was adopted by the Commission in September of last year, demanded a frank reappraisal of all aspects of the social dialogue from all the involved parties.
First, I want to thank you for having made the effort to present your views at this point in time so that they can be taken fully into account when work starts on drafting the second communication.
However, I would like to say as well that I realize that the European Parliament is disappointed that it has not obtained a direct say under the new Treaty on adoption of legislation based on collective agreements.
Very many members here this evening highlighted the whole question of representativeness, and the representation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the social dialogue in particular.
The Commission has always made the distinction between consultation and negotiation, and emphasized that it strives for as broad a consultation as possible whilst never deviating from the principle that negotiations have to be based on mutual recognition of the negotiating parties.
I fully support the demands expressed in the report for a more effective dialogue at all levels.
It has become even more important in my mind in the light of the elevated status given to the fight for employment in the new Treaty and the new Title.
Mr Skinner asked a particular question and I would like to respond to it.
He asked about our level of knowledge and information about the social dialogue in all of the Member States right across the Union.
Madam President, the Commissioner has announced that there will be a second communication, but if that is just as vague as both the first one and that answer from the Commissioner on the involvement of small and medium-sized undertakings, we shall not be making any progress.
I asked whether there is a definite date yet, a date when the social dialogue will next be on the agenda, for example in DG V.
Madam President, the report to be considered by the European Parliament concerns a Commission proposal to establish a Council Regulation amending certain orders in the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities.
Madam President, this amendment of the Financial Regulation, as the rapporteur pointed out, derives from the conclusions of the second phase of the SEM 2000 programme for improving financial management of the Commission.
Parliament had already issued a global pronouncement on that second phase in November 1996 and, to a certain extent, we had sketched out the major guidelines for it.
However, in this report, of which I was rapporteur, I had the chance to examine the problem and, therefore, this gives me further insight into the enormous amount of work done by our rapporteur.
This is a carefully worked-out report and, I should say, perhaps a little dry and unrewarding, but it is an extremely important report on the generally good positive basis of the Commission's proposals.
Amongst our contributions which have been accepted by the rapporteur, I would like to highlight the texts which aim to prevent problems of confusion of interests, a recurrent issue in the management of some programmes, and, in voting on the Fabra Vallés report, less than an hour ago we encountered the problems deriving from insufficient regulation.
We therefore believe that the texts we have finally been able to draft are very opportune.
On this proposal, Parliament goes further than even the Commission, although this is because the Commission's proposal is limited in scope.
And I should mention to the Commissioner that we always receive proposals for amending the Financial Regulation in instalments, and we would like to know whether, within an internal work schedule, the Commission has a detailed programme of the various stages and packages it intends to send us.
We are well aware that we cannot draw up a new code but, as we understand that improvement requires the sending of packages, we would like to know whether the Commission has this programme for its future work already mapped out.
The current proposed amendment to the Financial Regulation is intended to provide a legal framework for some of the main reforms in financial management that we are introducing in the context of the SEM 2000 initiative.
Key topics dealt with in this proposal are: the improved management of existing financial commitments and a closer control of work on the implementation of Community activities that is delegated to outside agencies.
Those have been stressed by the Court of Auditors in the last two years in the context of its statement of assurance on the Community's annual accounts.
On Amendment No 7, Article 22(4), Indent 4, the first essential point relates to each institution's right to delegate powers for implementing the budget - and that has been referred to by the speakers - in accordance with its internal rules to delegate those powers to Directors-General and in appropriate cases to other officials.
For operational reasons, in order to be able to do the job, the Commission, which executes 98 % of the budget, needs to be able to delegate powers to 500 or more officials, some of whom inevitably will be exercising some degree of discretion on behalf of their institution.
We understand that such a provision is desirable in relation to delegations of powers to an outside agency and that case is covered by Amendment No 20 to Article 55(a) which the Commission accepts.
The Commission fully recognizes the importance of proper financial discipline on these additional points.
Amendment No 6 relates to a previous proposal for amending the Financial Regulation in the EAGGF Guarantee Sector, which is now due to be adopted by the Council shortly as an A point.
Amendment No 12 contains a phrase relating to the re-use of VAT recovered from Member States, which appears inconsistent with the new and, as I understand it, agreed approach for the treatment of VAT defined in Amendment No 11 to Article 27.
Amendment No 21 relates to procurements and would require tenders to include directly all the requirements laid down in the invitation to tender on pain of elimination.
Amendments Nos 13, 15 and 19: the Commission can accept the principle of amendments consolidating the financial controller's right to give a visa on commitments and payments by sampling methods in appropriate cases.
However, I must say - and I repeat this again - that the problem we had both in the MED case and in that of tourism, was mainly due to the vagueness of the orders.
The day on which a Member State has to return properly utilized funds, from the structural funds, I have no doubt that at least the press in that country, and possibly other Community countries as well, will make it front-page news, at least in the economic section of the press.
You might say that we have to get started, finally, with this agreement.
There has therefore been a small degree of confusion, in terms of our bilateral relations, given its positive appearance in the eyes of the Committee on Budgetary Control and its negative appearance in the eyes of the Committee on Regional Policy.
So I would like to explain why we, the Chairman of the Committee on Regional Policy and I, as rapporteur, were moved to sign a joint amendment, bearing in mind that this was included in the code of conduct.
I would anticipate your comments, Madam President, that obviously the rapporteur will be in favour of this amendment although it was not addressed at the time in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Basically, ladies and gentlemen, the issue is one of transferring the principle of the financial corrections of the accounts of the EAGGF Guarantee Section, which has been in force for many years now, to other sectors of the Community budget.
Hence the urgency requiring us to vote on this report tomorrow without fail, so that Parliament will have defined its position before the Commission finally settles the issue.
Evidently, Articles 23 and 24 of the Funds Coordinating Regulation.
The SEM 2000 programme has been the catalyst and therefore we have managed to achieve a turnaround in political will.
Moreover, Articles 23 and 24 were, perhaps, unclear and this led to difficulties with applying them.
We should give the Commission the means of control in those countries which are implementing the structural funds.
Madam President, I should like to do two things, and also make some comments on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy.
The second weak point is the Member States themselves.
We do, admittedly, have Articles 23 and 24 of the Coordination Regulation, but these have never yet been used as the basis for financial controls.
The funds are intended to be used for economic and social cohesion purposes, and should not be allowed to trickle away, senselessly and uselessly, as a result of inefficient administration or fraudulent dealings.
I am able to support Document SEM 2000, Commission Document 3 and also the rapporteur's conclusions.
The majority of structural funding is used through programmes to promote particular objectives, which are administered by various Directorates-General in Brussels.
Madam President, I support the adoption of the report.
On financial control, the action that the Commission has taken and which has received support from the report takes two forms.
The first is a proposal from the Commission for a regulation under Article 23 of the structural fund regulation, to clarify the minimum requirements for controls by Member States in the structural funds.
The second is a set of guidelines to Commission services on the criteria for making net financial corrections under Article 24 of the structural fund regulation.
The draft regulation is a clarification, therefore, of the arrangements for management and control already provided for under the structural fund regulation.
The guidelines for net financial corrections flow, in the Commission's view, from the existing provision of the main structural fund regulation and do not require any additional legal base.
Meanwhile we will keep Parliament fully informed about the application of the Article 24 provisions in specific cases, which are applied in full consultation with the Member State concerned.
