A period of 24 hours, as stipulated in the Rules of Procedure?
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure and a great honour for me to appear before this plenary session of Parliament in my new capacity as Secretary-General of the Council and High Representative of the Union for Common Foreign and Security Policy.
I recently had the opportunity to appear before the Committee on Foreign Affairs of this Parliament to deal with certain priority issues.
I will try - I hope - to cooperate closely with the Commission in particular, with President Prodi and with Chris Patten, who is also here with us this morning.
The three of us have committed ourselves to working together and to doing so effectively.
The citizens expect us to respond efficiently and quickly in the event of crises and rightly expect their concerns to be taken into account.
You have a fundamental role to play in reflecting those points of view and contributing to the creation of a common foreign and security policy which is more efficient, cohesive and closer to the citizen' s concerns and which reflects the values and principles which have forged our identity as Europeans.
Madam President, this morning I would like to focus on two main questions.
Firstly, I would like to bring Parliament up to date on some of the main issues which I have been concentrating on since I assumed my new role almost a month ago.
I will briefly evaluate the progress made in recent days and I will review our perspectives for the future.
One of my first commitments after taking office was to attend the summit held in Russia on 22 October.
I have had the opportunity to inform the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the most important points which were dealt with there, especially Chechnya, which I am sure is a source of concern for the majority of you.
As you know, last Monday, two days ago, the Council condemned the disproportionate and indiscriminate use of force in Chechnya, which has caused great suffering within the civilian population and which has unfortunately forced many tens of thousands of people to disperse towards other parts of the country.
The Council has asked the Russian Government to honour its obligations, laid down in international humanitarian law, to prevent civilian casualties and keep the border between Chechnya and Ingushetia open.
We must continue to apply the greatest possible political pressure on the Russian authorities.
They must seek a negotiated solution, a negotiated agreement through dialogue, since there is clearly no military solution to the crisis in Chechnya.
The only solution must be of a political nature.
I have communicated all these concerns - which I am sure you share - to Prime Minister Putin on the two or three occasions when I have been able to speak to him, and to Mr Ivanov, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the last time being on Sunday night.
On 28 and 29 October I travelled to Kosovo with Commissioner Patten, which gave us the opportunity to meet with all the political leaders of both communities as well as with the representatives of the United Nations mission in Kosovo and also KFOR, the international security force in Kosovo.
We urged the local political leaders to support this process by showing firm leadership and we highlighted the importance of all the moderate leaders expressing themselves clearly and assuming their responsibilities so that there might be a chance of the reconciliation process succeeding.
As you know, yesterday the Council received the mandate of the Member States to evaluate the situation of the democratic opposition in Serbia and, as from tomorrow, by means of the OSCE Summit in Istanbul, I will begin to work to this end, holding any meetings that are necessary.
We are working together with President Prodi, Commissioner Patten and Bodo Hombach to improve the coherence and efficiency of our activities in the region.
In the coming sessions we will have the opportunity to develop these points more thoroughly.
At the beginning of November I attended the ceremony in Oslo to commemorate the assassination of Prime Minister Rabin and I had the opportunity to talk to Prime Minister Barak and President Arafat.
I made it very clear that the Union is prepared, obviously, to offer any necessary aid and technical expertise so that this objective may be reached.
Madam President, since I took up this post I have also participated with the Presidency of the Council and Commissioner Patten in various meetings of the troika.
We had the opportunity to evaluate the situation of the bilateral talks and we agreed to move ahead with the negotiations on the association agreement.
Our request, with regard to human rights issues, received a response which I would be prepared to describe as encouraging, with the confirmation that invitations have been sent to non-governmental organisations, which are active in the field of human rights, to visit Algeria.
A call was also made to take advantage of the current situation to significantly improve relations between all the Magreb countries.
Madam President, I will end by telling you very briefly that I have had many other fruitful meetings over the last four weeks: with the President of Colombia, who was also received in this Parliament in plenary session, with the President of Latvia, with the Foreign Affairs Minister of Cyprus, to try to see how we can generate impetus for the meetings which are certain to start on 3 December in New York.
We will also do everything possible to persuade them to fulfil all their obligations laid down in both the OSCE Treaty and the current Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, the readaptation of which will probably be approved at the Istanbul Summit.
Madam President, there are many other issues which I would like to discuss with you, but please allow me, for the sake of brevity, to deal with the matter of security and defence.
Madam President, I am prepared to describe the General Affairs Council which took place on Monday as historic.
For the first time, the General Affairs Council met with the additional participation of the Union' s Defence Ministers and held a debate - an important one in my opinion - on the creation of a European policy in the field of security and defence.
Its purpose was to prepare the conclusions to be adopted in this respect at the European Council in Helsinki, under the Finnish Presidency.
It has been clear for some time that, if Europe wants to occupy its rightful place on the world scene, it must have a European security and defence policy, as well as a Common Foreign and Security Policy.
The crisis in Bosnia, in the first place, and the crisis in Kosovo, have illustrated the fact that we need more than mere declarations of intention.
Cologne was not an arrival point but rather a departure point and I am sure that Helsinki will be a new, very important, stage in this process.
Over time the debate on defence has been becoming less abstract and more specific, more concrete.
We are quickly reaching the point when we will take a decisive step forward and make our commitments a reality.
On Monday, at the General Affairs Council, the Ministers made it very clear that they had the political will to decide in Helsinki what Europe' s collective military capability should be for the purposes of the Petersberg Tasks.
This means that we will have to reach agreements which will allow them to express their point of view when we assess a crisis situation and we will have to put in place suitable mechanisms which will also allow them to fully participate in operational decisions if we invite them to work with us.
We must show our capacity to respond in crises, which perhaps do not threaten our survival, but which do threaten something as crucial as our moral standing, our moral stature as Europeans.
I believe that the defence of our values, our way of life, our freedoms and our well-being will be achieved much more efficiently in a joint fashion rather than individually by each of our countries.
The European Council in Cologne called on the Council to examine all the aspects of security, with a view to strengthening and coordinating all the non-military instruments for responding to crisis situations.
You will remember that, both in Bosnia and now in Kosovo, the problem of an international police force is still great and remains unresolved.
If we adopt these measures and adequately resolve these problems, I am convinced that we will make a significant contribution to the development of our Europe, to the development of our continent.
We will be able, without doubt, to strengthen our security and guarantee greater cooperation from our partners and allies.
Madam President, I would like to end by repeating my deep-seated intention to work closely with this Parliament in all these areas.
It is the only way we can defend our values and our common interests.
However, this will only be achieved through close cooperation amongst all the institutions.
The support of this Parliament will be essential.
Madam President, I trust that my presence here this morning is only the beginning of an effective and constructive dialogue, the results of which will benefit citizens more and more, both in the Union and in the rest of the world.
Thank you, Mr Solana, High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
The High Representative and I have spent a good deal of our first weeks in our respective jobs considering together the terrestrial problems 30,000 feet below our aircraft seats - so much travel.
It reminds me that Lord Grey, the British Foreign Secretary for ten years at the beginning of the century, only ever went abroad once.
I do not wish to repeat all the points which have been so well made by the High Representative, but since you have invited me to take part in this debate, something which I greatly welcome, I should like to say a few words about the Commission' s view of the building of a European security and defence policy.
As was clearly apparent at the historic meeting - it is the High Representative' s adjective and the correct one - at the beginning of this week of the General Affairs Council attended by defence ministers, Member States believe that enhanced cooperation in the security and defence area in the European Union will bring two major benefits.
First, it will enable everyone to make better use of their resources and, secondly, it will mean that everyone packs a bigger punch precisely because Member States are working more closely together.
More is expected of us, in my judgement, by our own citizens, who do not think of Europe just in terms of balance sheets and GDP figures.
It is as simple as that and as difficult as that.
The Amsterdam Treaty and the Cologne Declaration represent a formidable challenge.
But what we do have in the Commission is the means and the experience to make an important contribution to the non-military dimension of security.
It is not just in south-east Europe that we have seen the need for coordinated military and civil crisis management both at Union level and between Member States.
We have to improve our ability as a Union and as Member States to manage crises and to contribute to those international organisations which are also active in this, alas, all too necessary area.
The Helsinki European Council will discuss an integrated approach to conflict management and we are, as a Commission, making a full contribution to that discussion.
In conflict prevention and crisis management, time is of the essence.
The new Commission has begun work to try to improve the effectiveness and speed of response of the instruments that we have in crisis situations.
I hope that we can count on the continued support of Parliament in developing more flexible and more rapid procedures, and as the High Representative I am sure would readily agree, I lose no opportunity to make the same point to the Council.
The Commission' s role in crisis management is clear, but our role goes beyond crisis management.
Plainly, military and non-military matters cannot be neatly compartmentalised.
Plainly, the Commission must play its full part in crisis management even when there is a military component, because there will also be a non-military component.
Plainly, the Commission is not a college of amateur chiefs of staff and plainly, we want to work successfully with the High Representative and with Parliament to ensure that Europe has the security and defence policy that it needs and that its citizens want.
And if there is another plainly left in the dictionary, it is this: so long as I have my present responsibilities, no cigarette paper, or perhaps after David Byrne' s announcement on tobacco yesterday I should say no piece of tissue paper, is going to separate the Commissioner for External Relations from the High Representative.
Madam President, this is the first time that the Secretary-General and High Representative, who is also to be the Secretary-General of the West European Union, has been here with us in the Parliament.
You bring with you, Mr Solana, exceptional credentials for these duties.
With you as the Secretary-General of the West European Union and the West European Union integrated into the European Union, parliamentary supervision naturally takes on a new duty and, together with the national parliaments, which will retain a supervisory function, it is the European Parliament which must carry out this supervisory function.
We therefore believe that the Assembly of the West European Union, which has played an important role in the past, must transfer these duties to the directly elected European Parliament.
You mentioned some of the areas in which the European Union must operate, including Russia.
The security of our continent will depend on how things unfold in Russia.
We want a competent, democratic Russia, but we also believe that what is happening today in Chechnya is a disgrace for Russia and a disgrace for Europe.
I am not going to sing the praises of Javier Solana.
We have shared a great friendship and many years of struggle, first for the freedom of my country and then for our integration into Europe.
And I expect that the defence of democratic values which he displayed in earlier incarnations will accompany him and inspire him in his new task.
Since much has been said about his duty as High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, I would like to mention an aspect which I consider to be important: our Common Foreign and Security Policy will be, fundamentally, a reflection and extension of our internal strength.
I believe that this consideration must inspire his activities and, at the same time, as Secretary of the Council, I hope it will allow him to help in the task of reforming and giving coherence to that institution which, at the moment, is perhaps the institution which most requires the impetus of rationalisation.
I believe that he is the person who has shown himself, in this historic process, to be the most capable of seeing through the complex evolution which involves the development of a European identity in terms of defence, in which NATO itself and our North American partners are coming to accept the need for a strong European pillar, not only in the field of defence, but also in terms of the industrial dimension which must support it and also in the role of stabilising and consolidating democracy in Europe and the Mediterranean.
To this end, I believe that he will have a decisive role to play at the upcoming OSCE meeting as regards the crisis in Chechnya.
This issue of cost will have to become a parallel priority in our debates.
We are committed to a capability for autonomous EU action in my group.
In so far as you have dealt with the issue in broad transatlantic terms, my group welcomes strongly that emphasis.
A second point I would like to raise is the question of the European Union and the coordination of our aid policies and our foreign policies.
The Union or its Member States account for half of all the world' s humanitarian aid and half of all international development aid.
The Union gives three-fifths of all aid to Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States.
This is a core challenge that we look to you and to the Commission to resolve in terms of foreign policy.
Madam President, Mr Solana, Commissioner, I believe the crisis in Kosovo showed, among other things, that international crisis management cannot be left to NATO alone in the world of the twenty-first century.
In fact, the leading role played by the United States is not as unproblematic as some might think.
We cannot accept a situation where different criteria have been applied in Kosovo and in Chechnya, for example.
Finally, the main question here is how relations between the European Union and NATO will develop.
We have to avoid a situation where the European Union is becoming an actual pillar of NATO in Europe.
It is important that NATO and the European Union remain, in reality, distinct from one another.
Madam President, Mr Solana, I opposed the action of the Secretary-General of NATO.
In fulfilling your new role, you will find my group a demanding partner, extremely critical, if necessary, but deeply convinced that the European Union must be represented to a much greater extent, more active and more proactive, in the international arena.
What splendid challenges you could devote yourself to accepting on behalf of the Fifteen: establishing yourself as a protagonist in your own right in the Near East in order to contribute towards establishing a just and lasting peace, as now seems possible; launching the Lomé negotiations once again on new bases, integrating the concerns of our 71 partners in the south, in order to safeguard the spirit of this Convention which is unique in the world; addressing international financial institutions with an alternative opinion, for example, in favour of cancelling the debt of those countries which are today arrested in their development because of this infernal mechanism; starting a real international crusade in favour of disarmament, particularly nuclear disarmament, at this time when there is great danger once again of proliferation; establishing yourself as the spokesperson, the standard-bearer for the enhancement of the United Nations' system again, ensuring that the UN Charter is respected, promoting a form of civilised international relations, forever doing away with war as the means of settling disputes, and, in the short term, if you please, putting an end to the intolerable inertia of the Union as regards the savage war in Chechnya by some means other than a few purely formal communiqués.
Finally, I invite you, High Representative, to make a courageous and critical assessment of the war in the Balkans.
The power, which is legitimately censured, is still firmly in place, while the population, which is unfairly penalised, is enduring a martyrdom which is morally unacceptable and politically dangerous.
These realities cannot fail to be of direct concern to you.
So, do not take as the only lesson to be drawn from this terrible experience the need to be able to line up more troops, to increase military expenditure and to advance at the double towards the Europe of Defence within, what is more, the framework of NATO.
I am not seeking to draw a veil over the military aspect of security, but the key factor, in my opinion, is that this strategy continues to be obsessed by military matters, at the expense of a major pan-European policy for the prevention of conflict capable of dealing with the tensions and splits of the post-Cold War period on this continent.
The Council representative did not even consider the request I made for a debate in the European Parliament prior to this conference to be appropriate.
This is assumed to have been a success which has shown that NATO has a role which the EU should now take over because we can do so more cheaply and more efficiently than the Americans whom, moreover, we are supposed to follow through thick and thin.
People have a distorted and hypocritical stance on the question of Kosovo' s constitutional status and status in international law, and the action in Kosovo shows first and foremost that the small nations have been made to join forces with the Allies.
My question to the Chair is this: will Mr Solana be present and answering questions in this afternoon' s question time to the Council on issues concerning foreign and security policy for which he is responsible?
Mr Alavanos, I shall give you a reply straight away.
Madam President, the new political-military apparatus which Mr Solana is hoping and praying for is nothing but a watered down version of the European Defence Community which France discarded in 1954 in a far more threatening international context.
Germany, rather like France in the 1960s, hopes to find in political Europe not only the opportunity to regain lost credibility but also the opportunity to find veiled resources of power politics.
So, the on-going interest in short-term results at the expense of the long term, a certain French President' s need for personal glorification, a score of zero, and all these discussions and other protocols of Nuremberg are in danger of upsetting the subtle geopolitical balance of power which has existed for decades between the United States, France, Great Britain and Germany.
Madam President, this morning you guaranteed us 24 hours for the submission of amendments.
If you would rather, we can try to organise things in this way.
At present only some of the languages are available.
Madam President, I am sorry but the period of 24 hours starts from the time when the Members have the document in their own language, in this case at noon today.
The time limit for amendments would then be set at noon tomorrow, if I understand correctly.
I would like to know, Mr Solana, what the political, economic and budgetary means are - bearing in mind the principle that "he who pays is in charge" , which you know very well from your time as Secretary-General of NATO - to create a force which can maintain peace and prevent situations as dramatic as those which we have seen recently in the Balkans.
You have also spoken this morning of the problem of human rights.
In this respect, I would like to know your opinion with regard to relations between the European Union and China, especially in light of the recent trade agreement between that country and the United States.
Firstly: What is your opinion of President Clinton' s statement that Turkey should become a Member of the European Union?
And secondly: What do you think about the pressure which the United States administration is putting on some European companies - I am referring to the Spanish Sol Meliá chain and other companies such as the Club Méditérranée and the German company LTU - and what measures, in your opinion, should the European Union take?
Lastly, Mr President, I would like to ask the High Representative, with regard to our policy and relations regarding Latin America, if you think that the new European Union priorities which have resulted from the Rio Summit would require new resources.
These decisions also include the Member States' undertakings to establish a specific military capacity in such a way that the EU' s ability to take credible initiatives in accordance with the principles of the UN' s Charter is reinforced, and this without any Member State' s interests being compromised and without the EU' s taking on NATO' s basic tasks.
We are seeing more and more proposals on the way.
Yes, but I think our citizens want us to be able to intervene before crises break out at all.
The CPN still exists, but the problem, then as now, is that there is no structure in the Commission or in the Council which can effectively utilise the experience and expertise of the CPN and others.
High Representative, the establishment of your post and, in particular, your appointment, have certainly created high expectations among those members of the public - and I think they are numerous - who think that Europe needs a Common Foreign and Security Policy if, as you said, it wants to be at all credible in areas other than trade or economic stature.
You have said that the Ministers for Foreign Affairs should be able to take far more decisions in this respect.
Member States often acted as a brake on any decision taking.
Recent publications from the United Nations on Srebrenica once again show how various international organisations fell short of their responsibilities.
High Representative Solana and Commissioner Patten understand very well how interdependent the civil and the more military aspects of the CFSP are and, thus, how much they need each other as well.
The European Union should emphatically demand that not only the minor but also the major war criminals, Karadzic and Mladic, be arrested.
Now there are a significant number in my group from neutral and non-neutral countries alike who are actually very much against the whole idea of the creation of a European defence identity, and the debate within the neutral countries is being conducted in an extremely dishonest fashion.
That actually is quite a broad perspective and anything can happen within that.
The St Malo Summit concluded that the EU needed, and I quote, 'strengthened armed forces that can react rapidly to the new risks and which are supported by a strong and competitive European defence industry and technology' .
The efforts which are now being made in the common security and defence initiative are an attempt to find the European answer, specifically in terms of prevention.
We should not do this with independent expensive structures but, as far as possible, in accordance with the NATO Resolution adopted at Berlin in 1996, in tandem with NATO and with the NATO structures.
In my estimation, this would also mean that we will be able to carry out our duties jointly or separately, but not against our traditional partners.
The European Union, with its common currency, common internal market and common legal system, has a common interest in also implementing a credible common security and defence policy.
For this reason, at the Intergovernmental Conference, we should seek to make article 5 of the WEU Treaty a protocol of the EU Treaty to which each state can accede and, specifically, on the basis of an independent sovereign resolution.
An equally good augury is given by the desire for mutual cooperation expressed by yourself and by Mr Patten, who has also just made some very rational statements.
The Kosovo crisis has made Europeans aware of the gaps in the political and military resources available to them.
Furthermore, they have become more than ever aware of the risks they are running in letting a system continue which was designed at the time of the Cold War and which is no longer in any way suitable for the instances of instability which are proliferating around Europe and even within Europe.
But I am afraid that this window of opportunity may close again all too soon under the pressure of national conservatism and budgetary constraints.
The same goes for the fundamental question of the respective roles of Europe and the United States.
Before I welcome this proposal, I wish to see removed the ambiguity that has arisen in the wake of the remarks made by the British Defence Secretary, Geoffrey Hoon, namely is it a Franco-British force or an EU force?
If the EU is to act as one in the future then the force must be an EU one with components from all Member States who wish to participate, and operating on the initiative and under the political control of the EU.
I look forward to the Helsinki Council endorsing this vital principle and other elements which will strengthen the EU' s security and defence role.
The European security and defence identity should and shall emerge.
The British armed forces are world class but they have been desperately over-stretched over the past year.
I have to say that legitimate concerns about military capabilities are not resolved by the Europeanisation of defence, which responds to an essentially political agenda and is an aspect of the process of European political integration.
Encumbering the European Union with defence responsibilities will do little to encourage it to make more effective use of its valuable non-military crisis-management instruments, which could genuinely complement the military forces of NATO.
Firstly, that the European Union is capable of maintaining a common front during a crisis.
Thirdly, it also shows us that NATO works well, and indeed works best, when the United States is focused and gives clear leadership.
And within this framework you have taken on the important task of personifying the joint effort to put in place a foreign and security policy which concerns us all.
As you reminded us the other day in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, you are at the other end of that telephone which Kissinger spoke of.
And please be assured that, in your task, you can count on the stimulus and support of this House and my group in particular.
I believe that there is a golden opportunity for you now in the Caucasus to prove yourself as a true Prometheus and not an Epimetheus.
I hope, Mr Solana, that you will, in any case, be a Prometheus, both in the Caucasus and in your forthcoming term of office, as that will serve the interests of Europe, of democracy and of human rights.
Mr President, in the little time that remains I will try to deal with two or three issues of a general nature concerning the questions and matters which you have raised during this sitting.
But please allow me first of all to thank all those Members of the various parliamentary groups who have chosen to speak and have wished me, and wished us, luck in this enterprise.
I can tell you that I will put all my commitment, all my energy and all my political experience into making a great success of this enterprise, in cooperation with all the other institutions.
I believe that, as some speakers have expressed so clearly, the Europe that is moving into the 21st century is much better than the Europe that many of us dreamt of and it still perhaps has a journey to make for those of us who are dreamers.
And in this direction and in this effort you will find that I am working with you.
This has come about as a result of the decisions taken in Cologne and, specifically, it has happened in the common strategy with regard to Russia.
This afternoon or tomorrow morning an important meeting of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe begins.
The honourable representative of the left group said that the OSCE must continue to be at the heart of pan-European security.
In the hours to come we have a wonderful opportunity to try to make the OSCE into an important organisation and, at the same time, to persuade the Russian authorities to allow Europe to play a role which, up till now, it has not been allowed to play.
I can tell you that, on the part of the European Union, tomorrow and the day after, we will do everything possible to enable the OSCE to play an important role, in accordance with its obligations, at a time when a new charter on security in Europe is about to be signed.
We will be in contact over the coming months and years to enable us to make a success of this noble endeavour which we are all taking on with great enthusiasm.
Thank you very much, Mr Solana.
The debate is closed.
The constant dialogue with the previous Commissioner, Sir Léon Britain, in 1998 and at the beginning of 1999 also contributed to many of the ideas of the European Parliament being incorporated in the Commission' s communication of 14.7.1999 and to these ideas being fully taken up in terms of content.
The main concern in all this was always free and fair world trade in the interest of the European economy and those employed in it.
Since the new Commission began its work, we have been engaged in intensive and, I consider, thus far highly successful dialogue.
The entire Millennium Round should be accompanied by recommendations of a specific nature which, formulated in accordance with Rule 97 paragraph 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, give us the opportunity to influence the work of the Millennium Round before the new Agreement is concluded, to play our part and to bring our weight to bear accordingly.
In our report, we also demand that the Commission be successful in this matter and return with the right results.
If we assume that fair and free world trading has been the basis for the increase in prosperity of many countries and their people, and particularly developing countries, then we must also realise that, as the largest trading power in the world, the European Union has a basic interest in building on this success story and involving more and more peoples and countries globally.
We must link our interests with those of the pre-accession states in Europe, of our neighbours in Europe and of the developing countries, in particular the ACP countries.
It must be comprehensive, it must strive for balance in the benefits gained worldwide and it must be convincing for our partners.
Market participants must have the easiest possible access to all markets in the world.
The four basic freedoms of the internal market - the freedom to move, the free movement of goods, the freedom of services and the free movement of capital - must also be objectives which are valid worldwide.
The European agricultural model of rural sustainable agriculture, which is based on the preservation of rural areas, the environment and our quality produce, as well as the production of foodstuffs, should be retained.
The result was the opening up of new markets in third countries, but also the opening up of our markets for other industrial states.
By way of conclusion, may I thank the Secretariat, our advisers and all those in Parliament who have worked together on this report.
Mr President, Europe' s new role in the world will be conditioned by external and security policy, but also by the tensions between social, economic and political needs.
The world trade round is therefore exceptionally important in Europe speaking with a single voice in world trade negotiations so that social and environmentally-friendly growth can also gather pace through the contribution of world trade.
An international competition system must create minimum norms so as to prevent anti-competitive behaviour such as the forming of price and area cartels, the misuse of a market-dominant position or vertical and horizontal competitive restrictions which distort competition.
For this reason, the Millennium Round must contribute to coherence in the world economy between trade, economic, currency and financial policies.
In my opinion, the rapporteur has succeeded in sending out three signals in the report: to our worldwide partners, a signal of the resolve of the European Union; to our people, a signal for a human face to globalisation; and to our citizens, a signal of the parliamentary dimension of the WTO process.
In this resolution, the Parliament is giving the Commission full backing for Seattle.
The place for political debate on the Millennium Round in Europe is the European Parliament.
For this reason, we in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs naturally stand up primarily for the personal situation of those affected and for their rights and bring this to the debate.
These seven core Labour Standards are based on the four basic human rights in the workplace; the right of association and to organise freely and unhindered, the right to form trade unions, the right to freedom from forced labour and the right to a childhood.
At this very time when new partners such as China are joining us within the framework of the WTO, this is of particular importance.
This precautionary principle must be anchored in the WTO rules and regulations in a legally binding manner.
Thirdly, the issue of providing information to consumers on preparation and production methods, commonly referred to as PPMs, and the possibility for Member States to take non-discriminatory measures.
The dispute settlement procedure, with which we have always had so many problems in the past, and many dispute procedures which we did have concerned the areas of environmental policy, consumer protection and animal protection, must become more transparent.
Such situations must not be repeated in the future.
Mr President, the experience of implementing the current WTO agreement for five years and the conflicts and disputes that it has created between countries shows that free and fair trade cannot be confined to straightforward issues of price ratios, subsidies and tariffs.
For this reason, I would like to highlight four points for the forthcoming negotiations.
Fourthly, we need to ensure that all subsidies allocated to the agricultural policies' different objectives are classified according to the same criteria.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Schwaiger for producing an extremely complex report and, in particular, Erica Mann, also for coordinating much of the work in producing amendments to the report.
However, I think that we must grasp the nettle and acknowledge that cultural industries are no longer an addendum to these discussions.
As draftsman for the Committee on Development and Cooperation, my interest is naturally on the effect a new WTO round will have on developing nations.
This round on liberalisation of trade takes place at a time when the gap between developed and less-developed countries is continuing to grow.
The agenda of the Millennium Round comprises only agriculture and services, but the Commission rightly wants a much more comprehensive round.
But, in return, the developing countries must improve their core environmental standards and accept that this is not yet another form of protectionism.
We want a broadly based round, increased liberalisation of world trade and, in particular, strengthening of the rule-based system.
We want to take the interests of developing countries into account and pay special attention to environmental issues and the fundamental rights of workers.
It must be admitted that, although in general a crisis is needed in trade talks before any significant breakthroughs are achieved, the situation in Geneva is, at present, more difficult than anticipated.
Agriculture will be the most difficult area in the talks, and the one that is most likely to end in deadlock.
The Cairns countries and the USA are calling on the EU to show greater flexibility in agriculture for them to agree to a mandate for a broadly based round.
Likewise, consensus among the Member States is growing in the areas of trade in services and intellectual property.
The EU has not finally made up its mind whether to include workers' standards in the decision or in a separate decision at Seattle.
The country to hold the Presidency and the Member States support the work of the Commission to enhance the Geneva process.
Mr President, on Monday the General Affairs Council adopted the short, separate conclusions concerning preparations by the Ministerial Conference.
In the conclusions of the Council there is a reference to the WTO conclusions adopted on 26 October and a reiteration of support for our aim to have a broadly based round.
The Member States also gave their support to the Commission in the last-minute preparations.
Mr President, the WTO has certainly succeeded in significantly increasing international trade and worldwide economic production and in removing trade barriers.
In order to reduce the gap between the worst and best developed national economies there must also be agreed social and environmental standards as well as consumer and health protection.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is agreed that states which meet basic social and environmental standards should be especially protected during integration into the world economy.
The excellent report by Konrad Schwaiger, which deserves consensus and a majority, makes clear that this is about more than just trade policy; it is about the participation of all countries on the basis of equal rights, social progress and the enforcement of human rights.
I am very grateful to the President-in-Office of the Council for pointing out the overall difficulties which exist in opening this new negotiating round in Seattle.
Nevertheless, I wish you, Commissioner Lamy, and all those who are involved, the best of luck.
Even in the rich countries, in particular the United States, which have profited most from open markets, the increasing number of international competitors within the framework of the World Trade Organisation has lead, ironically I might add, to growing scepticism and concern that globalisation is also bringing with it impoverishment, destruction of the environment and the loss of national sovereignty.
The Socialist Group unreservedly supports the efforts of the Commission and the Council for a comprehensive negotiating round.
Only this strategy can ensure that all the issues which have a European interest are truly given full consideration.
This is particularly important because so many issues, especially new issues, as many of my colleagues have already mentioned, are of an extremely emotive nature, for example, the issues of how we can include investments in the scope of the world trade round, new rules on competition, social and working standards and much more.
In this respect, I would once again like to make it absolutely clear that the Commission and the Council have our support.
The ELDR remains unambiguously supportive of further trade liberalisation, of the strengthening of the multilateral trade system and of a broadly based negotiation covering a wide range of existing and new trade matters.
This Parliament also has a central role in allaying legitimate public fears about the consequences of globalisation.
In truth, without the WTO we would be unable to construct the global legal and regulatory architecture which is indispensable to any coherent political response to globalisation.
For these reasons we have been active in tabling a series of amendments to the report, pushing for the development of new WTO rules in areas such as the environment, now directly affected by international trade policy.
We have supported all efforts to strengthen the place of developing countries in the world trade system, not least by underlining the inescapable need for continued reform of the EU' s common agricultural policy.
That is why tomorrow we will vote against those sections of the report which call for exceptional treatment for particular sectors.
It is impossible to separate the question of China' s accession to the WTO from our wider consideration of the EU' s position in Seattle.
The EU is in a delicate position as the last major WTO player not to have concluded a deal with China.
An optimistic interpretation would suggest that Europe is now in a strong position to exploit and build on the concessions already secured from China by Washington.
The ELDR has always strongly supported Chinese accession to the WTO but not at the cost of legitimate European interests, which do not always converge with American commercial interests.
But trade is not an end in itself.
Many of the losers are poor people who find their land taken away from them by large commercial firms or their livelihoods destroyed by new and often unfair competition from cheaper imports.
That is why our Group believes that before we rush headlong into yet more trade rounds in Seattle we first need a comprehensive impact assessment of the social and environmental effects of the liberalisation that has already taken place as a result of the last Uruguay Round of trade negotiations.
We need tariff-free access for least-developed countries, not only for virtually all products - that is a phrase that leaves a giant loophole for the EU to continue protecting its own agriculture - but for all products from those countries.
We need industrialised countries to make legally binding their commitments to give special and differential treatment to poorer countries.
But, above all, when we see evidence that world trade rules are destroying poor people' s livelihoods or damaging the environment we need to change the rules.
Nothing demonstrates that more clearly than the case of the Caribbean banana farmers, some of the most vulnerable producers in the world, whose access to the EU markets has now been ruled against WTO rules, as a result of which they face a devastation of their livelihoods.
Many things in the Schwaiger report are positive: the defence of our agriculture, cultural diversity and more besides, but I will limit myself, because of time restrictions, to only mentioning some of the fundamental issues.
We want to safeguard workers' rights, the right to strike, and apply codes of conduct that this Parliament... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, if the Commission had not already accustomed us to this sort of vagueness conducive to the extension of its own power, the Schwaiger report would plunge us into a sea of confusion.
There, one can detect only extremely virtuous motives, as on every occasion when general principles and noble ideas are being aired.
The Commission has been granted a mandate which is already the result of an intergovernmental compromise.
If the plan described here cannot be modified now or in future, what strategy is the Commission going to adopt?
We believe that only the Member States are in a position to frame appropriate policies which would properly safeguard our interests in this area.
I wish to congratulate him on this considerable work on a subject as complex and polemical as the WTO.
In this Chamber we have already clearly expressed our concerns and reservations with regard to this new round of negotiations.
In the face of globalisation, it is essential to take account of these differences which considerably change the rules of the economic game, with drastic consequences in social terms.
The urgent need to establish a more democratic negotiating system, operating in a more transparent way, seems justified, in my view.
It is indeed essential for parliaments to be involved in on-going consultation, with real respect for the procedures.
In Europe today we have extremely high standards, both with regard to environmental and consumer protection and to social protection of workers.
I am concerned that in reality the contents of the 1998 ILO Conference will crop up.
However, this voice must not just be the position of the powerful or of a few globalisation fanatics, but must represent the interests of the small and medium-sized companies which form the backbone of our economic strength.
Firstly, I have been given a voting list on which Amendment No 9 is not identified as an amendment by the Committee on Budgets.
I would like this mistake to be rectified, at least on the voting list that has been attributed to my political group.
Secondly, there is an Amendment No 31 that only existed in the German version until yesterday afternoon, and the Portuguese and English language versions contradict each other.
Thirdly, I would like the Bureau to explain to me why it intends to proceed to a vote on Amendment No 31 when Amendment No 9 is established in our Rules of Procedure, Rule 130(2); in other words, why this amendment is moving further away from the original.
The fear of violence and harassment is a hindrance to children, young people and women, making it difficult for them to participate fully in normal social life.
Violence is also responsible for considerable economic, social and health costs to individuals, Member States and the whole Community.
In my country, Finland, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has launched a project for 1998 - 2002 to prevent violence against women; the endorsement of the Daphne programme was very important also from this standpoint.
The project will focus on violence against women, a reinforcement of the attitudes towards violence, a reduction in the level of violence as well as the development and enhancement of services for victims and the perpetrators of violence.
A great many initiatives have been undertaken already in this field, resulting in creating an increase in collective awareness on the subject.
This favourable background must be exploited and actions must be increased in order to finally eliminate all these forms of violence.
The Daphne programme bears witness to this desire to tackle the problem in a coordinated fashion at Member States level, while integrating candidate countries.
It represents an essential tool in the fight against violence of this type.
While there is general agreement in acknowledging that violence against women transcends all national barriers without distinction as to class, culture and/or age, there is nonetheless no structured mechanism which makes it possible to gain an objective idea of the extent of the problem within the European Union.
Indeed, the systematic recording of acts of violence against women is a very recent phenomenon in some countries, whereas in others there is no systematic record at all.
However, the medium-term action programme will no doubt prove extremely useful to decision makers and will feed into political decisions and practices in this field.
The Council has included more than half of our amendments in its common position.
The Council' s text in fact makes reference to health in its physical, mental and social aspects and to quality of life, as well as to violence as an infringement of human rights.
The budget allocated (EUR 20 million) is also insufficient to tackle a problem as far-reaching as this.
Total funding will amount to £20 million and this will be allocated in two principal areas - the exchange of information and cooperation at Community level and the raising of public awareness.
The Daphne Programme will aim to promote information campaigns on potential risks of violence and ways of avoiding them, encourage pilot projects and innovative measures and help to create a Community information source to assist NGOs.
It is important in the context of the next round of EU Structural Funds 2000-2006 that measures under the various EU programmes be screened so as to guarantee that they comply with all national and EU legislation in the field of equal opportunities.
The Council has curtailed the duration of the programme - 4 years instead of the 5 originally envisaged, but the budgetary allocation remains the same.
There are, then, great expectations, and it is imperative for our House to vote on this matter and, according to the rules of codecision, we must mobilise the 314 votes necessary for the Daphne programme to be adopted.
It is therefore very important that this report has been adopted and our only regret is about the ups and downs throughout the process that have led to its delay, given that it follows the Beijing Conference of 1995.
Haug report (A5-0052/1999) Mr President, Mrs Haug' s report on the European Union' s system of own resources seems rather contradictory to us, and that is why we are opposed to it.
On the one hand, it declares excellent principles of economy, particularly the idea that the Union' s own resources must be limited to 1.27% of the GNPs of the Member States, a ceiling which the Commission proposal rightly sought to circumvent surreptitiously.
This position is perhaps due to the rapporteur' s German nationality and the special situation of Germany but, in any case, she is right on this point and we support her on this.
On the other hand, however, the self-same rapporteur contradicts her own desire for economy by calling, on the lines of the Berlin Council of March 1999, for the creation of new autonomous own resources, i.e.
Thus, according to the Berlin Council, and today according to the Haug report, the resources of the European budget should henceforth be made up totally or partially not of State contributions but of direct taxes levied on citizens.
At the same time, we must expect the power of decision regarding these taxes to be passed quickly from the Council to the European Parliament.
We agree that we ought to have a more direct link between the European Union and its citizens when it comes to financing the EU' s budget and that we ought to be increasing the Union' s economic independence step by step.
We have voted against the Haug report.
The Haug report does not involve our automatically introducing taxation by the EU, but it opens the way for a debate on the subject.
At the Berlin Summit, the Council reached an agreement on the amendment of the own resources decision.
A number of amendments, such as adjusting the financing of the UK rebate and increasing from 10 to 25% the deductions on traditional own resources, reduce the contributions of these Member States to the EU.
Following a compromise which was reached with great difficulty, we can accept these adjustments, but they are certainly not what you would call attractive.
It would have been better if a solution had been found in the form of a generic correction mechanism, for example, by introducing a band for national contributions to the EU.
The report, for example, advocates rendering the Union less dependent on Member State contributions.
In other words, the Member States can keep what they managed to secure in Berlin for now.
The Member States must assume responsibility for collecting their traditional own resources.
In the committee I voted against those amendments which jeopardised the UK abatement.
It is my responsibility as chairman to uphold the position of the committee and therefore I voted for the Haug report.
The European Commission is, however, taking advantage of this opportunity to introduce new regulations which represent a new vision of budgetary discipline and which extend its administrative powers, and this is something we cannot accept.
The French members of our Group are opposed to this amendment of the legal character of the legislation, insofar as a regulation makes it easier to take into account the impact of budgetary discipline on Member States and on Community institutions.
The Commission' s initial proposal indeed met with unanimous opposition within the Committee on Budgets.
The rapporteur has drafted an excellent report on this matter.
In addition, the report emphasises, rightly so, that any savings should not affect the principles of the CAP, as they have been approved in Agenda 2000.
There is a wide margin between the agricultural guideline and the financial perspectives for the current Member States.
Lechner report (A5-0060/1999) - (DA) Out of respect for the Danish reservation in the legal sphere, the Danish Social Democrats have declined to vote in the final vote concerning the Directive.
The Nordic Green Left (NGL), which consists of the Nordic members of the Group of the European United Left, has today voted in favour of the report concerning the service of legal documents in civil and commercial matters.
The purpose of the proposal is to ensure the protected and regulated forwarding of legal documents between the Member States' legal authorities, and this is something we can fully support.
Gebhardt report (A5-0057/1999) - (DA) Out of respect for the Danish reservation in the legal sphere, the Danish Social Democrats have declined to vote in the final vote concerning the Directive.
The Nordic Green Left (NGL), which consists of the Nordic members of the Group of the European United Left, has today voted in favour of the report concerning the recognition and enforcement of judgements in matrimonial matters and in matters concerning the custody of children born of the same parents.
Given the current legal jungle, some parents are even driven to break the law and, deplorably, snatch children from their ex-partners.
By simplifying procedures and making judgements under EU agreements on matrimonial matters legally binding and directly applicable in all Member States, justice will be speeded up and an end brought to such long, drawn-out and heart-rending cases.
MEPs cannot pretend they can put a stop to the pain caused by separation and divorce, but they can at least try to put a stop to the legal circus that can often accompany it.
I had to wait until the end of the vote to ask my German colleagues what was in fact written in the German version and they confirmed to me that "BSP" means "gross domestic product" .
In these circumstances, I think that this amendment should not be considered valid, given that it was voted on without knowing about the most essential part of this amendment which is this concept of "GDP" or "GNP" .
Mr Casaca, I did indeed read out "gross national product" because the Italian version contained the acronym GNP, which means, as I said, gross national product.
The Parliament, which has played an important role in this process, as well as taking pleasure from the developments in Northern Ireland, should involve itself in the efforts to ensure that the other two violent conflicts in the European Union - that in Corsica and, above all, that in the Basque Country - move along the road to a definitive peace.
I would ask all the groups and Members of this House to assist in this effort towards dialogue so that these peace processes within the Union may reach a positive solution, as so fortunately appears to be the case, at last, in Ireland.
To move to the debate: I am extremely pleased to be able to participate in this important debate and I must say that I am very grateful to the business managers for arranging the timing before my departure to the OSCE Summit.
I hope the House will not regard it as a discourtesy if I am obliged to leave just before the end of the debate but I have to get to Istanbul, not least for a meeting on the Stability Pact.
The debate provides a useful opportunity for me to inform the House of our most recent contacts with the Russian authorities over events in Chechnya.
At the same time, I shall be able to participate in the discussions in Istanbul on these issues with a much clearer understanding of the views of the European Parliament.
The concrete proof is the dialogue that we have built up under the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement and the common strategy adopted at the Cologne European Council.
It is equally obvious that the unfolding situation in Chechnya puts our relations with Russia under considerable strain.
The Russian authorities must understand that their present action has an impact on their acceptance by the international community and on Russia' s credibility as a political and economic partner.
They seek to justify their action in terms of domestic public opinion.
But we live in democratic countries with democratic institutions like this Parliament.
We have taken every opportunity to get the message across at all levels.
More specifically, the Council urged a role for the OSCE and asked that a branch office of the OSCE assistance group to Chechnya should be immediately opened in Nazran and Ingushetia.
The Council concluded that the Istanbul Summit this Thursday and Friday could be used, inter alia, to drive home these messages to the Russian authorities.
Recent events in Chechnya add a strong political argument against meeting any new Russian request for food aid.
The OSCE meeting in Istanbul provides an opportunity for progress, although I cannot claim to be very optimistic.
The Russians have made it plain that domestic public opinion is dominating other considerations in their handling of the crisis.
I am therefore, like the Presidency and the High Representative, in close contact with Igor Ivanov, the Russian Foreign Minister.
We met in Helsinki last week in the margins of the Northern Dimension Conference and we have since spoken on the telephone.
Continuing security worries have limited assistance efforts so far.
The Commission is keen to see a constructive relationship between the Russian Federation and the European Union.
We have a shared interest in the future security and prosperity of our continent.
Russia' s apparent aim is to bring the whole of Chechnya back under Russian control.
The use of force against civilians is prohibited under international humanitarian law.
Indiscriminate bombing has been responsible for many civilian victims.
The European Union has underlined the need for rapid de-escalation of the conflict and urged Russia to commence negotiations for a lasting solution to the problem.
It is clear that a basically political conflict cannot be solved militarily.
Under humanitarian law, the victims of internal conflicts have a right to humanitarian aid.
The EU has called on Russia to ensure that aid gets through quickly and unhindered, so that a humanitarian catastrophe may be avoided.
In the resolution the Union urges Russia to acknowledge its commitments to international humanitarian law, to make use of the excellent services of the OSCE and to guarantee that international humanitarian aid arrives at its destination.
Earlier this autumn, the Russian leadership, at its meeting with the EU and representatives of EU countries, assured us that Russia would seek a political solution.
In its opinions, the EU has always condemned terrorism in all its forms.
It considers that violence towards civilians carried out in the name of the fight against terrorism is never acceptable.
It is vital that the administrative border between Ingushetia and Chechnya remains open so that the civilian population fleeing Chechnya can safely reach the Ingushetian side.
We must aim to establish in Nazran, Ingushetia, the OSCE' s Grozny mission, which has now been evacuated to Moscow.
We will follow the situation closely and continue to put pressure on Russia, so that a lasting and peaceful solution can be found to the situation in Chechnya.
Mr President, Mr Sasi, Commissioner, it is with relief that my fellow Members and myself welcomed the statement from the European Union' s Foreign Affairs Council the day before yesterday, forcefully condemning the disproportionate and indiscriminate use of force in Chechnya.
We were, in fact, in the majority in this House in condemning the methods adopted by the Russian army to quash under fire any sort of potential resistance to its advance without taking into consideration the losses thereby caused among the civilian population.
We were also in the majority in deploring, together with the majority of public opinion in Europe, the striking contrast between the din of the bombing and the sustained silence of the governments of the European Union.
I can bear witness to this because yesterday, I chaired a meeting of all the groups of this Parliament where a draft joint resolution was finalised which, unlike others, will not be a compromise text and will in no way be a compromise between divergent positions, but will indeed be a synthesis enriched by the proposals of each of the political families united in a common desire to offer Parliament' s contribution to a political solution of the tragic situation currently causing bloodshed in Chechnya.
In this resolution, which I have no doubt will be massively supported by my fellow Members, we are adding our voices to those of the Council in condemning the action currently being taken and in requesting that negotiations are initiated directly with the elected representatives of the population of Chechnya.
Together with you, we are requesting that the necessary humanitarian aid be deployed immediately, in order to provide assistance to the hundreds of thousands of people displaced due to this conflict, but we are requesting, Mr Patten, that provision is made for the suspension of economic aid to Russia, initially, if Russia continues with its indiscriminate attacks upon the civilian population and does not seek a negotiated settlement.
It is important to underline what we say in the motion for a resolution, namely that we are committed to strengthening the partnership with Russia because we realise that there will be no stable, peaceful Europe without a stable and democratic Russia.
But it is the strategic partnership agreement that also gives us formal grounds, apart from our reactions as human beings, to question what is going on.
The Tacis agreement states specifically that Tacis assistance is provided on the basis of certain shared economic and political values and practices.
We want to add our voice and express our strong concern about what is going on and use the weight we have in Parliament, which we can do, among other things, through the Tacis programme.
Mr President, the stand on Chechnya drafted by the political groups of the European Parliament is, in my opinion, well prepared.
The Russian government is also supported to the extent that we condemn terrorism in all its forms.
On the other hand, we also condemn the excessive use of force and we are calling for a political solution to be sought for the Chechen question.
On the other hand, the line adopted by Parliament apparently contradicts public opinion among the citizens of the Member States.
The European Parliament' s policy on Chechnya is encumbered by the fact that Western countries have themselves acted in such a way that they have lost the moral authority to clearly condemn the blunders Russia is presently accused of.
In Kosovo a war of independence was going on, associated with violence against the civilian population.
On the other hand, Russia is now appealing to the notion that it has the right to use military force to achieve its own important political aims in the same way as Western countries did in Yugoslavia.
Despite our own moral burden, the European Union must use all its authority to solve the Chechen crisis according to the guidelines the representatives of the Council and the Commission have laid down here.
As we develop a common foreign, security and defence policy for the Union, we must see to it that it has a sound moral basis.
But when the Russians say that this is an internal problem, we must tell them that today we all live in the same world, with shared values.
Russian history claimed that Katyn was an atrocity committed by the Germans, until it was discovered that it was in fact committed by the Russians.
We have logically assessed the war in Chechnya and we have also deferred our decision on further expansion of cooperation with Russia.
It is to be hoped that the Council does not need as long to follow up our proposal to freeze the expansion of relations and the TACIS programmes for Russia until such time as the weapons finally fall silent.
The attacks on refugees and residential areas, the closing of the borders and the hindrance of international aid organisations providing humanitarian aid not only contravene the Geneva Convention on the protection of civilians in war zones and other international obligations but are quite simply inhuman and totally unacceptable.
Mr President, discussing Chechnya today reminds us of Kosovo and makes us wonder about that famous duty to interfere on humanitarian grounds, that principle which is, unfortunately, as vague as it is noble.
In Chechnya, the situation is even worse.
Thus, in 1994, the Russian army intervened to show that Russia controlled the operational oil pipelines allowing the Caspian Sea production to be exported so it would not risk being excluded from the power play dominated by America.
I am pleased that everyone has now come on board and that the Council and Commission also now support what we in this House clearly declared on this matter with a small majority two months ago.
This should also be obvious between states.
No mention is ever made of the democratically elected government of Chechnya.
I would like to urge the Council and the Commission to use the same clear language at tomorrow' s OSCE Summit as the European Parliament has used in its resolution.
However, it is also true that Russia is claiming in principle that the entire Chechen population are terrorists and as a European Parliament we cannot and must not accept this.
We therefore demand political dialogue and a political solution and commit ourselves to the means of pressure we have at our disposal, even the blocking of new TACIS projects or the refusal to provide food aid to Russia.
Mr President, through the disgraceful policies being pursued today in Chechnya, the Russian Government is rigidly following the example set by the governments of the United States and of the Member States of the European Union just a few months back.
This is another clear difference and it is really good that the extreme left have underscored these huge differences between Russia' s action in Chechnya and that of NATO in Kosovo.
Mr President, I do not need to repeat what the Commission and the Council have said on the situation in Chechnya.
I would just like to emphasise one area which can serve as a justification for our joint resolution on Chechnya: the suffering of the civilian population; the hundreds of fatalities; the 200,000 refugees and their plight given the onset of winter; the overreaction of the Russian government and the indiscriminate bombing of the civilian population.
I have the impression that this is not a legitimate war against terrorist activity, but a political power struggle at the cost of the population.
For this reason our Parliament must clearly say what it wants and what it doesn' t want.
This would then undoubtedly be a problem and a further matter for the world community and, of course, the European Union to deal with.
I can only say, and this is the major problem with this second Chechen war, that contrary to the first Chechen war the Russian parties in the Duma are nearly all united and, unfortunately, support the policy of the Putin government.
I think that the idea which was put forward here of possibly improving contact with the Russian Parliament through an ad-hoc delegation is an important one.
And I also think that, since the Russians have asked us to act as electoral supervisors in the elections to the Duma, we must seriously consider whether to satisfy this request from the Parliament because this might be a further contribution to dialogue and to the development of more democracy and perhaps also better politics in Russia.
Mr President, the situation regarding the refugees is intolerable, and it is not Russia' s internal affair.
Mr President, I am wondering whether these documents are morally right, especially as I think they are rather useless.
The documents on the Caucasus and Chechnya contain the same elements found in the Council of Europe' s document that was dismissed two weeks ago.
The European Union expresses its concerns, stresses this and admonishes that, requests a dialogue that it knows is impossible and limits itself to condemning - and this is the first point I would like to talk about - just one thing: the disproportionate and indiscriminate use of force in Chechnya.
So you could say then, that a little bit of war is alright, as long as it is not disproportionate.
I must notify the House that Commissioner Patten has had to leave us in order to catch his flight to Istanbul in order to attend the OSCE meeting, as scheduled.
All of us, the Commission, the Council and Parliament agree on this situation.
It is important that we all send Russia a signal, and a clear one at that, that violence perpetrated against the civilian population must stop, that talks with legally elected representatives in Chechnya must commence, that humanitarian aid is needed, and that its access to the region must be allowed, with the OSCE having the main role to play in finding a solution to the crisis.
Mr President, I should just like to ask you to convey our thanks to the President of Parliament for receiving the representative of a government elected under the supervision of the OSCE who is also established in the area of the Council of Europe and who was elected under the Russian constitution.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 p.m.
Hence the importance of the coming conference in Seattle and the timeliness and suitability of the proposals in the Commission' s communication as regards the upcoming negotiations.
We have to bear in mind that for European industry - and I am thinking in particular of the textile sector - access to the markets of the developed countries and emerging economies on reciprocal terms is a fundamental priority.
And now, Commissioner, I would like to ask you firstly if you can confirm your intention not to accept, on the agenda of the negotiations, any reconsideration of the agreement on the textile sector as regards the clothing industry and, secondly, how you consider that China' s membership of the World Trade Organisation will affect the European textile industry, bearing in mind that that country is the world' s foremost exporter of textile products.
Finally, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report and his desire to reach the widest possible consensus on a subject as important as the coming Millennium Round, which we depend on to consolidate a balanced trading system which will ensure, on a global level, an economic order based on social justice.
Mr President, Mr Lamy, this morning the President-in-Office of the Council reminded us of the importance of the agriculture portfolio in the WTO negotiations, and I thank him for this.
You already know that farmers in Europe are going to have to make great efforts to adapt in order to apply the Berlin compromise which, last March, represented the acceptable balance for the fifteen Member States of the European Union.
You know that developing countries must be able to count on Europe in order to guarantee the legitimate rapid expansion of their own agriculture which is often the major sector in their economic development.
Regarding internal support, how is it possible not to make the most of the fact that Agenda 2000 is leading to a significant reduction in the overall extent of support, at a time when the United States are adopting a policy which goes in the opposite direction?
Commissioner, the Berlin Agreement was drawn up in order to give the European Union real room for manoeuvre in the Millennium Round.
What we should be demanding, however, is that the ground rules governing world trade must be focused upon the needs of people here in Europe and in developing countries.
Our goal must be nothing less than a fairer and socially and ecologically more responsible form of world trade which honours the interdependence of nations.
Mr President, on the eve of the Seattle Conference, I still think it unfortunate that we are going into a fresh round of negotiations before making a serious assessment of the one before.
The fact that millions of individuals are affected by the consequences of the decisions which are to be taken there does, however, make this necessary.
Those in favour of the liberalisation of trade as the driving force for prosperity are all the less willing to undertake such a report, since there can be no real denial that the situation has become worse in recent years, and inequalities between underdeveloped countries and advanced countries, as well as the development of inequalities even within developed countries, have intensified.
Next, refuse to continue to liberalise services and, on the contrary, assist the development of cooperation of public services in education, health and transport.
Finally, maintain the principle of cultural exception, affording the European Union and the Member States the possibility of preserving their capability of freely determining their audiovisual cultural policy in the name of development of a thriving and enriching diversity.
One more proposal: establish the precautionary principle for the environment, health and food safety as an absolute priority.
The dispute settlement body must be radically modified.
We in this House have put our cards on the table in the Agenda 2000 agreement and must not allow or accept any dilution of that agreement by the United States of America.
Part of the motivation behind Agenda 2000 is to conform in a credible way with world trade rules and in the process, of course, to make Europe a key player in world trade - and the Americans will not want that.
In this House we have prioritised consumer protection, established the family farm as the agricultural model and the basic unit of production, and made rural development and the preservation of rural communities the second pillar of CAP reform.
The time has come for us in this Parliament, on behalf of the European citizens, to establish our authority and leadership in this vital area of international trade.
Their capacity to participate in the world trade system falls well below the mark.
Our negotiators should make every effort to bring about real participation of these countries by granting institutional support, free access to our markets, observing concessions made - when it comes, for example, to textile products - and preventing so-called "green protectionism" .
I would like to exchange further ideas on this issue within the European Parliament.
Mr President, Commissioner, by the year 2005 at the latest the trade talks opened in Seattle will have been completed.
Mr Lamy, you will again be there, in 2005, sitting in the same seat, and you will come and tell us that the European Union has enjoyed worldwide success in these global talks.
Developing countries will have obtained positive discrimination, financed, indeed, by the European Union, like the ACP bananas.
In exchange, in order to achieve peace - and, indeed, a new peace clause - you will have made a number of concessions at Seattle.
The tenth round of the Uruguay Round will have no further business.
The children of the Seattle negotiators will have their place in the twenty-first century and the children of the people excluded from society will, in turn, be excluded, since poverty is a socially transmitted disease.
I represent the south-east of England, one of the richest parts of the European Union, having been born in a developing country in Asia, one of the poorest parts of the world.
I hope I can therefore span, understand and recognise the aspirations of the developed world, and of the developing world, recognising the enormous benefits of global free trade whilst also recognising the imperative need to manage the transition, to enable and empower the developing world to be an equal partner in globalisation.
The multilateral trading system was born in Havana in 1948 as the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs.
Since 1951, world trade has grown 17-fold, world production more than quadrupled, world per capita income doubled, average tariffs dropped from 40% to 4% in industrialised countries.
We can send a clear message to Seattle that this is the single contribution that this House and its Members can make to world global trade.
I also particularly welcome the fact that in his text he describes the forthcoming WTO round as a development round.
It is a fact, of course, that of the 134 members of the WTO, two-thirds are developing countries, with another 32 in a queue waiting to join.
But it remains the case that the exchange of trade commitments favours the bigger traders.
They have much more to offer and their negotiating power is far greater.
We are now, Mr Lamy, at a critical stage in the negotiations for a successor agreement to Lomé IV and we will soon be embarking on complex discussions on trade relations with 71 ACP countries.
It is therefore very important now that we are negotiating a multilateral trade framework which respects that very critical relationship with the developing world that we continue to say that we will honour our obligations to the ACP.
I would also urge the Commission and Member States to pursue a WTO binding commitment to allow all exports from least-developed countries duty-free access to European markets by 2003.
I hope, Mr Lamy, that you will subscribe to that very important sentiment.
Madam President, Commissioner, the liberal group sanctions the agreement reached on Sunday between China and the United States regarding the lowering of bilateral barriers to trade.
However, the European Union now also has to conclude the same agreement with China before actual entry into the WTO can take place.
Firstly, what is the state of play regarding the Union' s negotiations with China, in particular with regard to intellectual property rights?
Madam President, rapporteur, the Greens had already spoken out against the WTO as early as 1994, because there were many reservations about this international colossus which embodies everything that is inappropriate to the market.
In 1994, not many Members of the European Parliament shared our reservations about the WTO' s withdrawal from the social and ecological spheres.
In spite of this, a majority of this Chamber will, in the end, again vote for the Agreement although nothing has been solved and although, in Geneva, it is becoming less probable day by day that there will be a Millennium Round of negotiations at all.
The standstill clause will prevent our legislation from being developed.
However, it is now possible to negotiate rules for the trade in goods and services, and it is possible to act in such a way that capital freedoms do not spread their exploitative power on such a broad global scale as electronic capitalism.
However, as far as the prices of products and services are concerned, we must ask for not only a tariff reduction but, above all, we should also make a request in terms of the quality of the products and services themselves, as a means of protecting small and medium-sized enterprises.
If we manage to comply with these obligations and improve quality of life with sustainable development, both in economic and environmental terms, we will have laid strong foundations for a better society in the next millennium.
The first is that, too often during the daily debates in this Chamber, we have heard talk of international trade and the Millennium Round as if they were something that we Europeans should be wary of, something to fear.
And then we want to debate capital punishment and other subjects in fora for trade agreements where it is inappropriate.
It is important to find a balance in this respect.
Whoever is in favour of scrapping the European agricultural policy, also favours the scrapping of all we have acquired in Europe in terms of rural policy, animal welfare and welfare in general.
This means that I also defend the European standard and we, as a Parliament, have to opt in favour of the Schwaiger report, because it offers guarantees for freer trade but, at the same time, also offers guarantees for preserving what we pride ourselves on, rightly so, within Europe.
Madam President, Commissioner, in a world which is becoming more and more interdependent, in which the problems which affect us usually have their roots in areas poles apart from us, we are obliged to work together with other countries in order to manage the planet' s resources properly, by respecting rules which are common to all of us.
Commissioner, fishing is a sensitive area which must be discussed in the Millennium Round in accordance with its characteristics and through an interpretation which links it to agricultural products, as laid down in the Treaty.
Fishing and agriculture guarantee the survival of our socio-economic fabric and contribute in a fundamental way to the supply of our food market.
The inevitable globalisation of the market must not mean a lowering of our food safety standards nor of the social rights of our workers, nor must it lead us to forget our poorer regions.
This is why it is important not to restrict ourselves in the negotiations to two topics only, namely agriculture and services.
After all, fair and correct trade at world level implies attention to ecological and social aspects and takes into account all the players involved, thereby including the developing countries.
I really hope therefore that, in its negotiations with China, the European Commission will take account of all the social and ecological aspects of the issue which the Americans clearly cared not one little bit about when they negotiated with the Chinese.
Mr President, the way in which the global market has been divided up within the WTO is not based on the interests of the people or on the interests of workers.
We do not believe that the governments of the European Union countries will defend the interests of their peoples.
The MEPs of the Greek Communist Party will be voting against the Schwaiger report because it sides with monopoly capital in its attack on workers and the people of the world.
Rules governing international economic relations and trade should respect fundamental social rights, serve the interests of workers, promote development in the less developed countries, respect the environment and create the conditions for the development of all peoples.
Here, it is not a question of expressing our opposition to pursuing greater efficiency in the multilateral relations system, but rather a question of paying the greatest attention to some important aspects.
If the first is the continuation of the inequalities between developing countries and industrialised countries, then there is also the social dumping that is being created within these very industrialised countries.
It is undeniable that the process of European convergence for the launch of the single currency has led to occasions and opportunities for growth and development in all Member States.
A few months ago, in this Parliament, we examined a report on the Multilateral Agreement on Investment which, in a very dramatic way, began by saying that we were discussing a world economic constitution.
It is difficult when, as the rapporteur said at the beginning, it is not a question of simply opting for free trade, but rather opting for a just form of free trade.
And so that this free trade may be a just free trade, it is clear that we have to reconcile trading practices with the rules regarding the environment, workers' rights, the European agricultural model and consumer protection.
Commissioner, Mr President, I think that Europe must state three main principles in this Millennium Round.
The first is that the aim of this round must be to reduce inequalities in development, unlike what has happened after previous rounds.
The rules of the multilateral trade system must take account of the differences in countries' situations, resources and levels of development.
This is why we would not be able to accept a challenge to the principles of our cooperation with the countries of the south, particularly with ACP countries, and of course in this context I am thinking of the Lomé Convention.
Thirdly, we must defend the principle of a hierarchy of norms.
I think that this is an excellent development, because it is the best guarantee that it will not be possible to drop these issues during these negotiations.
We are embarking on an important process at Seattle, from the point of view of global development and global controllability.
The world also needs rules and standards; competition alone is not enough, although our main aim with the WTO process is the more efficient organisation of trade.
The EU is promoting a solution to the challenges of Third World sustainable development and social justices.
Although the liberalisation of world trade means economic benefits and prosperity, we also have to view it critically.
The best guarantee of food safety is transparency of the food chain and clear areas of monitoring and responsibility.
Not only does it support globalisation, but it is also committed to giving it form and the force of law in order to impose dictatorship by the market.
It advocates an extension of the WTO' s powers, which is completely rejected by the associations and organisations that have become involved, who are instead calling for both an assessment of the WTO' s last five years and a moratorium on the forthcoming negotiations.
Mr President, a few weeks ago, I argued here that we Europeans should adopt a firm, credible and coherent position in order to give a social dimension to the liberalisation of trade.
And I am delighted at the convergence of views between the Commission, the Council and Parliament on this matter.
Mr President, the new round of trade negotiations will take place five years after the conclusion of the Uruguay Round.
And here we MEPs clearly have to communicate the concerns of our electors with regard to this round, which will be very important.
There is an aspect in relation to which we can say that our results are bad.
There are also other legal aspects, because the Treaty of the World Trade Organisation is not a unique treaty.
There are other international treaties, such as those agreed within the framework of the International Labour Organisation, the World Intellectual Property Organisation and the multilateral agreements relating to the environment.
I hope that in the Seattle Conference these issues will be dealt with in such a way that the new agreements will, within the framework of the World Trade Organisation, bring about an appropriate legal framework.
For example, even America and China have come closer together over the WTO question.
There are also a large number of jobs concentrated there - in the EU, in third countries and worldwide.
If we lose this sector, we weaken those regions which are already structurally weak anyway, and all in a quite irresponsible way.
Let us beware, therefore, of regarding the WTO as a panacea for our problems.
Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, I am taking the floor in order to reiterate some of the points that have already been made here by several of my colleagues from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, to the effect that we are in favour of a round of negotiations, but not just any old round of negotiations.
And from this point of view, we state here once again the need to respect environmental matters, the need to respect the consumer and the need to respect human as well as social rights.
Mr President, three brief remarks about the Millennium Round and cultural diversity.
First of all, the EU is a success story, an economic community which has put its faith in open markets and given people security in the social sphere, together with economic prosperity.
On the other hand, we shall have to be in a position to support and promote the diversity of our European cultural heritage in the future too, and this by means of promotional measures taken also by the Member States.
I am very pleased that Parliament, the Commission and the Council have highlighted animal welfare in their presentations.
It is an important issue for citizens, it is an important issue for many of us here in this House and it is important that it is debated at Seattle.
I think we must also learn the lessons of the multilateral agreement on investments.
The WTO must explain to its citizens what it is doing or it will run the risk of undermining support for free trade.
Seattle must close those loopholes, again on the basis of transparency and greater certainty about the rights and obligations of all those involved in the dispute settlement system.
Mr President, the world economy is now facing problems similar to those it faced before the beginning of the Uruguay Round 13 years ago.
I am firmly convinced that a further liberalisation and expansion of trade in the framework provided by the WTO will contribute to promoting growth and employment in the developing countries as well.
Mr President, at Marrakech we were promised an assessment of the previous round of negotiations before entering into new negotiations.
In 50 years, the volume of trade has increased seventeen-fold, whereas we have only produced twice as many goods in the world.
Finally, this assessment would condemn the patentability of "living things" and the fact that plants and life itself are becoming saleable commodities.
The 20th century has been characterised by a fundamental crisis of humanism as a result of xenophobia and acts of genocide.
The Commission rightly says that the present round is to be a development round.
I think that the question has been put in the wrong way.
The question, when we now read this report and make every kind of demand upon the World Trade Organisation, is simply that of whether the World Trade Organisation can settle all conceivable disputes in the future.
Mr President, I consider the Millennium Round to be an important opportunity to promote the opening of the international markets to competition, to extend the guarantees against anti-competition practices and to finally address the subject of investments as well.
Mr President, the commitment of the European Union, repeated in the Schwaiger report, to the creation of a permanent labour forum between the International Labour Organisation and the World Trade Organisation on issues related to trade, globalisation and labour is the only way to accompany the liberalisation of commerce and trade in general with respect for fundamental labour rights, without slipping into egotistical, hypocritical protectionism or unfair, self-destructive competition.
Let us remember, in this regard, that the 174 member countries of the ILO which, with the solemn declaration of 1998, undertook to comply with the four categories of fundamental labour rights, even where they did not ratify the conventions, are, in the main, also members of the WTO.
The desirable entry of China, which the European Union is also actively negotiating for, will certainly make the WTO more representative and will extend the potential ability to realise global free trade that is also regulated.
Mr President, the Seattle Conference is not an invitation from the United States to the rest of the world to impose the vision of absolute and unbridled free trade.
The World Trade Organisation is a European idea, one to which the Americans were converted in Marrakech, after having opposed it for a long time.
Finally, we want trade that benefits sustainable development, by creating a link between trade agreements and our other major international commitments on fundamental labour rights, on food safety and on environmental protection.
Basically, we have to undertake, on a worldwide scale, the course of action that enabled us to succeed in Europe when we moved from the Customs Union to the Single Area, and that is why Europe has the most to bring to the negotiations and has the right to expect the most from it.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council Sasi, Commissioner Lamy, I wish to add my voice to the many here who have expressed their thanks to Mr Schwaiger.
The report addresses the important points and says, above all, that we in principle support the Commission and the Council.
It is important that we also discuss climate protection in this context, for the world decided in Rio in 1992 and in Kyoto in 1997 that this is a huge problem and that we must tackle it together.
To conclude, I should like to support all those who have come out in favour of a courageous position in respect of the least developed countries, the LLDC.
Both areas of policy are now emphatically raised in the report and, as a new Member of Parliament, I can say that it comes as a pleasant surprise.
In addition, strong support for the cooperation that has begun between the ILO and the WTO promises an even better level of coherence in this area.
It is quite obvious, of course, that small countries like Ireland, Belgium and Luxembourg need free trade, but a European Union with a single market or a North American single market is an entirely different proposition.
The first opportunity is to create a partnership for cooperation and the management of the increased trading activities.
Its adoption will send a clear signal to our partners' , by confirming that the European Union will not be satisfied with a minimalist approach which only aims to improve market access in some sectors.
This would not provide a response either to our fellow citizens' concerns or to the legitimate demands of developing countries.
Going by what you have said today, your vote tomorrow will strengthen our hand and thus the Union' s hand in Seattle.
We are all aware that the debate on trade has changed the approach that we are taking, as the Schwaiger report shows.
But the next round of negotiations must also address new issues, such as development, the environment, health and food safety, fundamental social standards, competition and its transparency, minimal rules in terms of investment and the promotion of cultural diversity.
The addition of all these elements leads us to recommend a broader round of negotiations, and I am delighted to see the broad agreement on this matter between the Commission and Parliament which is shown in your report, Mr Schwaiger.
Firstly because we have commitments that must be respected in the follow-up to the Uruguay Round.
Thirdly, why should we postpone negotiation on the rules which our society is rightly calling for and that developing countries are expecting in order to integrate the liberalisation of trade and sustainable development into areas such as health, the environment and workers' fundamental rights?
I am therefore convinced that these negotiations are necessary, but I recognise - and moreover I am delighted that this is the case - that the very conditions of these negotiations have changed in relation to the previous round.
In order to respond to the debate, I would like briefly to mention a few issues which have come to light in the preparation of this report.
On the subject, first, of developing countries, it has become clear that the countries that have benefited the least from the establishment of the WTO and from the results of the Uruguay Round are also, without exception, those who are the least integrated into the world trade system.
Where integration does not go ahead primarily because of a lack of resources or inadequate expertise, then developing countries must be given technical and financial assistance in order to increase their negotiating ability and to apply the measures decided on within the WTO.
A new approach is necessary with regard to relations with ACP countries, for example, one that must, in particular, achieve convergence towards WTO rules, because the current system must be reviewed, in any case, even if we have to make the necessary transitional changes.
On the issue of intellectual property, we are convinced that the regulations in this field must enable developing countries to themselves benefit from the resources available to them and that the current measures already go a long way towards achieving this.
On the other hand, if we take a coherent view of the link between intellectual property and development, we must, at the same time as extending its guarantees, ensure that we encourage direct investment as the principle means of transferring technology to these countries, as well as developing agreements with them for technological cooperation and perhaps, and this is just a suggestion, thinking about strengthening European investment in fundamental research on living things, in order to share the profits with them.
One of our goals is to guarantee mutual compatibility in this context, which would allow environmental or other measures to be implemented in accordance with WTO rules.
It is obviously up to each member of the WTO to decide if there is a risk or not.
The precautionary principle must then allow that country to take the appropriate measures in order to avoid this risk.
We recognise the essential and crucial role that these services play in our society.
With regard to agriculture, until now we have faced a position on the part of the Cairns group which aims to put agricultural products in the same category as other goods.
In all countries, globalisation makes its effects felt in the social sphere, but it must also be pointed out that in a number of less advanced countries, international labour standards agreed on under the International Labour Organisation are not being sufficiently respected.
The mention of social standards arouses reactions in some of our WTO partners, particularly among developing countries, which are, and I can vouch for this, extremely heated.
It is crucial that, from now on, we begin by restating our opposition to the imposition of trade sanctions in the social sphere as well as to any use of sanctions for protectionist reasons.
It is, moreover, bearing this concern in mind, that our plan of widely applied preferences allows us to provide free-standing reductions to countries that effectively apply the main ILO conventions.
I would like to say a word or two about China, Mr President, before I finish.
I have not spoken publicly on this matter while I have been waiting for this debate.
Is the signing by the Americans and the Chinese of an agreement on access to the WTO, as several of you have asked, good news or not such good news?
China, a country whose development is crucial for the future of the world, is giving a clear sign that it wishes to adhere to a multilateral trade system.
From the point of view of our multilateral interests as well as of our own interests, everything depends on the contents of the agreement that has been signed, as the American Congress wanted to be the first to hear the contents of this agreement, a procedure to which your Parliament should have been more sympathetic than hostile, even if it makes my life more difficult.
Now the devil, or perhaps the dragon, in this case, is in the detail.
Furthermore, negotiations have not been entirely signed and sealed by all the countries concerned, and news of China' s rapprochement is, in fact, from this point of view, good news.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at midday.
Mr Barón Crespo, I still do not have any information at the moment.
Mr President, in any case I would like to make it clear that I presented this request three hours ago with my signature and that of the President of the Liberal Group and with the agreement of the President of the PPE Group, although he has not signed it.
It is therefore necessary for the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference to aim to improve those policies which lead to a more unified European policy on security and defence.
The third issue, together with the economy, is that of a "Social Europe" .
We are agreed that, before the European Union is enlarged to include new States, there must be a basic reform to maintain the efficiency of the European Union and also, I would say, to improve the transparency of decisions on European policy and the ability to supervise these.
Firstly: we demand the reform of all institutions and of all organisations including, therefore, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
Parallel to the Intergovernmental Conference, the Council of Ministers must carry out an internal reform, as demanded in the Trumpf-Piris paper, and the essence of the reform must be to have majority voting in the Council as the rule and, as a concomitant of this, to have codecision making by this Parliament in the case of all legislative acts.
I believe that Parliament will judge the Intergovernmental Conference according to whether this reform of the Council is successful.
Secondly: the Intergovernmental Conference must make a contribution to the democratic supervision of European politics.
Parliament must have better opportunities to supervise the Commission and to hold it to account.
In this connection, we demand that the President of the Commission should have the ability to ask this Parliament for a vote of confidence and that the so-called Prodi procedure, whereby the President is able to dismiss a single Member of the Commission, should be incorporated into the next Treaty.
If we are to remain close to our citizens, we need to have the Treaties combined into a single text and divided into two parts - a constitutional part, and a second part which would then also partly have to be subjected to a simplified revision procedure.
Fourthly: reform of the Treaties requires not only that these should be ambitious in content but also that a new method of reform should be employed.
Parliament must be involved in all phases of preparing for, and holding, the Intergovernmental Conference.
We request that the Community method as per Article 48 be used; we expect a concrete proposal from the Commission which will form the basis for the negotiations; and we also expect to reach a consensus with the Council and the Commission concerning the agenda and the procedure for the next Intergovernmental Conference.
This Article 48 itself belongs on the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference.
We think that account must be taken of the European Union' s double legitimacy as a Union of States, on the one hand, but also as a Union of the Peoples on the other, while Parliament obtains the right, when it comes to future negotiations for the purpose of revising the Treaties, to participate in decision making whenever it is the content of the future Treaties which is being negotiated.
The Commission presented its proposals last week, and now Parliament is doing the same this week.
I will list the points very briefly: the reform of the budgetary procedure, involving its updating; the extension of budgetary codecision; the integration of the peripheral institutions into the Community system; the consolidation of the financial perspective in the form of a genuine medium-term financial programme; the reform of the own resources system with a view to ensuring the financial autonomy and efficiency of the Union, on the one hand, and the transparency of the Community budget on the other, which means that there will be codecision in the determining of the overall level of own resources; the introduction of the possibility of creating fiscal instruments at a European level; the possibility that the budgetary authority may intervene every year in relation to the mix of different categories of sources of revenue; and the extension of legislative codecision and decision making by qualified majority for financial regulations in all programmes or instruments which involve Community expenditure, the CAP regulations and any act which creates an executive agency.
At the same time, however, such an increase in the number of actors on the European stage would throw up institutional problems and produce considerable operational weaknesses if relevant measures and radical reforms of the present system were not implemented in good time before enlargement.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the historic opportunity which the coming Intergovernmental Conference is offering us to prepare the institutions and the operation of the European Union in readiness for the 21st century has already been made abundantly clear here.
As such, the European Parliament needs to be able to take part in the preparations from close by and has to get involved in the drafting and approval of amendments to the Treaties in order to reinforce the democratic character of this procedure.
At the Cologne European Council, it was stated that "during the Conference, other necessary amendments to the Treaties arising as regards the European institutions and in implementing the Treaty of Amsterdam, could also be discussed" .
In these areas, it could even be considered whether Parliament and the Council could acquire the right of initiative with regard to amending existing legalisation.
The remainder will follow in a more detailed report next year.
In addition, Parliament must be able to monitor the Commission more closely, both before and during the negotiations on trade agreements.
Including sustainable development as an objective in the Treaty of Amsterdam requires an integrated approach to energy and environmental policy.
The economic system prescribed in the Treaty of Rome has remained the basis of the Community' s economic policy.
A significant part of the Member States' economic policy revolves around tax policy.
A month ago, Prime Minister Lipponen came here to present you with an account of the outcome of the European Council in Tampere and, in so doing, he also touched on the IGC preparations.
During the autumn, technical IGC preparations have been made at the permanent representative level.
Preparations for the Intergovernmental Conference in 2000 are one of the main issues connected with this tour.
The EU debate on reform has got off to a lively start, and this autumn there has been much heated discussion surrounding the IGC in the various forums.
On the basis of this report, the Commission last week laid down its own views on the Intergovernmental Conference in 2000, and what areas the IGC should handle.
The way the European Parliament participates in the Intergovernmental Conference is a very important question.
Firstly, whatever opinion we have on the scope of the IGC agenda, the main theme must be enlargement and the reforms that this necessitates.
Decision making in the European Union and its potential for action cannot be allowed to weaken as a result of enlargement.
During our Presidency, we have taken a step forward in this area.
Since its Presidency Finland has put into effect those recommendations in the Trumpf-Piris report that do not require a separate decision by the Member States.
Making these decisions and eventually implementing them will require smooth and selfless cooperation on the part of all the institutions.
Thank you, President Sasi.
And this, Mr President, is because this debate is very important, not only for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but also for the Union in general and for those people who want Europe to be effective, more democratic and more just.
Just the other day, another MEP asked me: "What solutions does the European Parliament propose for the Intergovernmental Conference?" And I answered in the same way as I will today, that this is not the time for solutions or proposals, but rather the time to decide what the Intergovernmental Conference is going to deal with and what method it will use in its work.
And that is what the report drawn up by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen has done, and furthermore it has been a good illustration of how two intelligent people can reach reasonable agreements.
I believe that the resolution tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is politically intelligent; it deals with the issues and takes a very clear and decisive political line.
The Treaty of Amsterdam did not resolve the issue of the institutional questions facing us.
And the signatories of the Treaty recognised this since they added a protocol, the protocol concerning the institutions in preparation for the enlargement of the European Union, specifically to see how these questions should be resolved in the future.
The logic of that Protocol on the institutions tallied with the Commission' s Agenda 2000 document, which envisaged an initial enlargement which we will call 5+1.
Now President Prodi' s new proposal breaks with this logic, because there are no longer 5+1, but rather 12 in the race.
Therefore, that first small reform, in which we only had to consider the Commission and the weighting of votes in the Council and to which the Cologne Declaration has also added the possible extension of qualified majority voting, does not make much sense and responds to a different political logic.
Therefore we are talking about the second part of the Protocol on the institutions; we are facing a more profound reform of the European Union, which prepares it for enlargement.
But I believe that the Presidency of the Council has a great responsibility at the moment, because assessing what is possible should not prevail over the dictates of common sense.
We already know that, as a general rule, the governments do not want to change things too much; they are happy to make do with what we have.
However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must push them a little bit, because otherwise, what I fear you understand to be "what is possible" will be too little for the needs of the European Union.
It seems to me that this is an issue that this Parliament should be involved in.
And finally any of the Amendments, Nos. 47, 26, 27 or 28, which talk of flexibility.
I believe that we should open the debate on flexibility.
But all of this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, should take into account an essential element: we should not forget what the European Community has meant over all these years nor the thing which is most important to the Community, which is the principle of integration.
Thank you, Mr Méndez de Vigo.
Mr President, first of all, in relation to the Dimitrakopoulos/Leinen report, I would like to welcome the work of the rapporteurs, who I believe have produced a piece of work which reflects not only our concerns but also an approach which is very pertinent and reasonable with regard to the objectives which the Union must have.
I would like to say that Parliament, as it did before the Treaties of Maastricht and Amsterdam, has opted for a line which consists of a short and precise list dealing with fundamental issues.
It is simple: we cannot say that we need a small reform when this Union was designed for six and now, thanks to its success, has fifteen Members and we are willing to allow 25 or 30.
I draw your attention to this issue because it seems absolutely contradictory and opposed to our own interests and needs.
And the third consideration, Mr President, concerns the tasks which face us, because they cannot be left until the end of the Intergovernmental Conference.
We are carrying out a reform of our institution, for example with the work on the Statute for Members - and I welcome the Council' s good will - and also the reform of our Rules of Procedure.
The Commission is committed to a reform programme.
To this end, I welcome the words of the President-in-Office of the Council and I hope that, while we prepare the Conference, we are capable of advancing along this road.
Firstly, we want a real process of conciliation between Parliament, the Commission and the Council in preparing the IGC.
It is crazy for us to be obliged to undergo this ponderous and protracted Treaty revision procedure when we wish merely to reform a common policy.
Mr President, here we are on the eve of a new round of reforms and the umpteenth Intergovernmental Conference.
Parliament is in a position of objective weakness in the dialogue with the governments, and it is therefore not very easy.
Secondly, the agenda must not be restricted to technical points and to the issues not settled in Amsterdam.
Codecision with the European Parliament and majority voting must become the rule, even in difficult sectors such as agriculture and taxation.
Besides, I wonder, why mention specifically in the report the need to keep unanimous voting?
Finally, Mr President, even if today talking about defence is very fashionable, my group, albeit with its differing opinions, is convinced that discussing security in an exclusively military context is not positive.
At the Intergovernmental Conference, if discussions are limited to the best way to integrate fifteen armies, then they will hold very limited interest.
I think that Parliament, as the representative of our citizens, will continue to have some intensive work to do within the framework of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference so that it might in actual fact do justice to the high expectations of people both in the European Union and also in the applicant States.
We are fighting above all for the creation of a genuinely social and democratic Europe, a Europe which retains the European model of the social State, a Europe in which public services are not deregulated away and in which everything is done to prevent social dumping.
In view of the enlargement which we all want to see, the European Union and its Member States must finally summon up the courage to undertake radical reforms so that a still politically divided Europe might grow together democratically and in terms of the social contract between citizens.
Against this background, our Group had already submitted a motion to the Committee to the effect that the European Union should repudiate war as a means of solving international conflicts.
We shall request a roll-call vote for we are of the opinion that citizens are entitled to know who in this Chamber regards war as legitimate.
Secondly, we are fighting for an institutional reform in which there is a balance, not just between the Community institutions, but between the Member States, and for this balance to be expressed in the durability of this reform.
We are also opposed to the idea of the constitutionalisation of the Treaties as well as to the integration of a future Charter of Fundamental Rights in some kind of European constitutional process because we still think that European citizenship merely complements national citizenship and that therefore, the definition of the duties and fundamental rights of each nation' s citizens falls to the citizens of that nation.
We think that the economy and the competitiveness of European countries can be developed in a context that favours the modernisation of social systems without giving up the fundamental requirement of solidarity.
We even think that Europe could acquire an external political dimension which matches its economic importance, and that this can be done whilst respecting the national interests of each Member State.
They are texts which can be changed by a new majority in Parliament.
The voters always have the final say.
Each new majority decision in the EU is an erosion of parliamentary democracy, and that is why, yesterday, we set up an intergroup for parliamentary democracy.
Its working title is SOS Democracy or Democracy First, and we shall be gathering people together from every group for the purpose of securing democracy in the next Treaty and of bringing about complete openness within the EU.
We vote differently here on most questions, but we are in agreement about the fact that our differences should be settled in democratically elected parliaments and among the electorate.
We do not accept that a Commission in Brussels should decide whether or not elected representatives of the people can receive a proposal for debate.
Equipping the Union in this way means tackling not only the Amsterdam left-overs but also many questions concerned with foreign and security policy, a lot of issues which my colleague Karl von Wogau may have addressed in relation to monetary union, and much more besides.
Out of consideration for our neutral Members, Article 5 may only, however, be regularised in the framework of a protocol to the Treaty so that each country can decide for itself whether or not it wants to accede to this part.
As proposed in the Dehaene report, the Council of Ministers would be divided, as part of this process, into an Executive Council of Ministers, which could meet behind closed doors, and a Legislative Council of Ministers, which would have to meet in public.
Mr President, my group welcomes this report, mainly because of two key points that it contains.
Nobody wants an all encompassing IGC dealing with every subject facing the Union in the Maastricht style, but there is a strong case to add to the agenda half a dozen key subjects which must be resolved if our Union is to work efficiently, transparently and democratically and is to be capable of facing up to having nearly 30 Member States.
The second reason is that it makes the case for more democratic procedures.
It is unthinkable that we should move to nearly 30 Member States without the IGC re-examining that question.
The second amendment looks at the issue of having two parts to the Treaty: the constitutional part, looking at the main principles and the institutional provisions, and the small print dealing with policies.
There are many cases in the existing Treaties - different protocols, parts of the European Coal and Steel Treaty for instance - that are amendable by simplified procedure and the IGC should look constructively at this.
Mr President, the Treaties are the European Union' s constitution.
They need to be made clearer, more transparent, more effective and more democratic.
Mr President, when, on 9 November 1989, freedom-loving people climbed over the Iron Curtain, history was changed dramatically.
For us liberals, there is nothing more important than creating a unified Europe in which we solve problems together in a civilised way.
Enlargement, but also the fact that our citizens have a crisis of confidence in the EU, are factors which demand reforms of, and changes to, the European institutions.
If a Union of 30 members is going to be able to function, it must concentrate on the genuinely cross-border questions and only act in those areas where European cooperation produces the best results.
Mr President, is our Parliament really aware of what is at stake in the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference?
When I see, in the text of the report, that we are capable of pushing absurdity to the point of deliberately limiting the number of our own representatives at the debating table to two, I say to myself, there are definitely some people in this Chamber who are scared of their own shadow.
Codecision must become the general rule.
Our Parliament must obtain, as in any democracy worthy of the name, full budgetary authority over expenditure as well as over revenue.
Let us say it: it is high time that we committed our continent to a constituent process.
The only real limiting factor is not our democratic imagination, it is our House' s political will.
Mr President, the turnout at this year' s election for the European Parliament fell in almost all Member States where other elections had not been arranged at the same time.
In spite of that, the report which we are discussing proposes that precisely these national parliaments are to lose a very great deal more influence over both their own national policies and over the EU' s treaties and policies.
Power is to be transferred to bodies for which democratic support is weaker, for example, the European Parliament, or else non-existent, for example the Commission or the European Court of Justice.
Mr President, the turn-out at the elections in June illustrated that Europe' s citizens are still too far removed from the European Union.
This report should turn the IGC into a success, but it overlooks the notions which are fundamental to Europe' s future.
The right of veto for matters which affect national sovereignty remains necessary.
Firstly, he confirmed the continued cooperation between the Council and the European Parliament and his forthcoming visit to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
First of all, on enlargement, we are talking here about enlargement of a very different scale and nature to anything that has happened before, and that has implications for the nature of the IGC which prepares for it.
We are talking in the main about countries from Central and Eastern Europe which have enjoyed, as we all know, 40 years of dictatorship when civil society was emasculated, driven underground and destroyed.
As the IGC takes place there are two aspects, therefore, that we in the European Parliament should remember.
And I believe that openness should also extend to the applicant countries themselves.
The political tensions that characterised the start of this parliamentary term are therefore not obstructing the necessary agreements between various, important - the most important - parliamentary groups on the subject of consolidating the Union, its institutions and its policies.
The wide-ranging discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs showed that Parliament is concerned with being, at the same time, far-sighted and realistic, demanding and practical.
We need to go beyond Amsterdam and look further in order to be able to realise the historic commitment to enlarging eastwards, and to guarantee further progress in the integration process that is working against the risks of dilution and stagnation.
No one can overlook the problems of strengthening the political side of Europe and institutional change but, in addition to this, we have had to deal with the launch of the euro and the European Central Bank, the lesson to be learnt from Kosovo, the widespread aspiration for a guaranteed area of security and justice and the disenchantment of too many European voters.
Mr President, thank you for having given me the floor for a few moments at this point in the debate during which I have been able to listen closely to the rapporteurs whom I had already heard, but also to the representatives and the speakers of the different groups that sit in Parliament, that is to say, many of you.
Our project, as many of you have said, and it underlies our thoughts today, is the uniting of the peoples of European States in a political, economic, social and cultural Community.
And I think that this convergence of views is a major trump card that we should hold on to both in terms of the issues at stake in the reform and of the working method that we should adopt.
As your two rapporteurs so aptly emphasised, this forthcoming Conference must concentrate on institutional issues, on all institutional issues with the notable and politically necessary exception of the discussions currently taking place on a European security and defence policy.
And that is the only question that we should be asking as we seek answers, all the answers, whichever institutions and processes are affected by seeking this answer.
The first issue that we have identified together is that of functioning well when there is a large number of states.
As many of you wanted us to, we have also put it in writing that where an issue of a legislative nature is concerned, the qualified majority must be linked to a codecision procedure between the Council and the European Parliament.
It has been taken up and stressed in the report by Jean-Luc Dehaene, President von Weizsäcker and Lord Simon and it merits being dealt with in more depth.
I think that this new revision procedure could contribute towards linking the European Parliament more closely with the revision of the Treaties.
Another point is the representation of the States in the Council.
The decisions of the Council should be more representative of the relative weight that the Union' s different Member States carry.
With enlargement, we will have to define the number of elected representatives from each State within your Parliament.
The Commission, with its power to issue guidelines, the new authority conferred on its President, will have to preserve - I hope you do not mind if I say that it will not be easy, now that I am a Member of the Commission - its collegial character, its efficiency, and its decision-making process which requires a simple majority of its Members.
By mentioning all of these institutions, I am attempting to show that there are many answers to the fundamental question that I raised just now, that is, how we will work when there are 27 of us, and these are answers that must be looked into at this Intergovernmental Conference.
The functioning of the institutions does not necessarily imply a revision of the Treaties.
In their daily work, there are important reforms of internal structures for the European Parliament, for the Commission and especially for the Council, which must be implemented before enlargement.
The second major issue, Mr President, is to prevent the risk of dilution; the risk of dispersion that enlargement entails for us all.
The Treaty of Amsterdam has established the legitimacy of certain forms of cooperation between Member States within the Union' s institutional framework in order to move beyond the level of integration that has already been achieved.
If we do not achieve this at this Conference, the current right of veto would only encourage the States that would like to achieve a deeper level of cooperation between themselves not to do it within the Community framework but to do it more and more outside this framework.
The third issue is that of continuing the political construction of Europe and, when the moment comes, we will then have to accept the consequences for the institutions of the work in progress on the Common Security and Defence Policy.
I would like to bring this intervention to a close by thanking you for your attention and by mentioning the preparations for the negotiations.
This is why we hope that the procedure laid down by the Treaty, in Article 48, is implemented as soon as possible after Helsinki.
I would also like to express our agreement to the involvement of the European Parliament taking place in the best possible conditions, with greater participation than there was, as I can testify, when we were preparing for Amsterdam.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is convinced that powerful institutional reform, adapted to the requirements of enlargement, can be achieved before the end of 2000.
I heard Commissioner Barnier say that he is intending to leave, that he needs to go early because he has other commitments.
Thank you very much, Mrs Maij-Weggen.
It has not had time, however, to be reflected in the amendments that our Group has tabled for this report.
Mr President, one of the founders of the current European Union said that, if they were to begin European construction again, they would start this time with a consideration of the people and their cultures.
In the texts which have been proposed for the reform of the Treaties and the next IGC, not even with the most powerful magnifying glass can we find a sentence which refers to the European peoples and regions and the role that they should play in the Europe of the future.
The accession of these new countries, Mr President, will mean the under-representation of internal nations and regions of the current States.
Mr President, in this debate on the agenda and procedures for the upcoming IGC, I would first of all like to express that I, like the rapporteur, would advocate taking a wider approach, at least wider than proposed at the Cologne Summit.
The reasons have been spelt out loud and clear.
Let us set out on this path, but let us do so with a reasonable timetable that is the same timetable that the IGC has.
My group has tabled an amendment to this effect and I hope that, tomorrow, our Chamber will be able to vote for it.
If we do not answer this question, we will not find a solution to the three questions "left over" from Amsterdam.
At any event, preparing the Union for the forthcoming enlargement opens up a question outstanding from Amsterdam, and that is the question of strengthened cooperation.
We must work towards a reform of this strengthened cooperation which will allow the Union to establish a real vanguard, open within the Union, in order to continue to make progress towards the security, democracy and stability of our continent.
Mr President, you will not believe this, but exactly 200 years ago, namely in 1799, there was the first discussion of a constitution, not for Europe but for Bavaria.
This was partly for the purpose of establishing responsibilities but also because of the radical shifts in territory due to an almost 83 per cent increase in the area of Bavaria.
The person with the big idea of having a constitution was the then Bavarian prime minister, Graf Montgelas, who did himself great credit by establishing a French administration in Bavaria.
Now, something else that is astonishing: the basis of the constitution was, at that time, a preamble which was drafted in 1799 and which was to set out the fundamental rights, and all this 200 years ago!
I should therefore like to encourage the Council not only to respect Parliament' s proposals but also to make them its own.
We need codecision making by the European Parliament, for the European Parliament is the biggest factor favouring the integration of Europe.
I strongly recommend that Parliament votes by a large majority in favour of the excellent Dimitrakopoulos-Leinen report.
I prefer cohesion to efficiency, and as Commissioner Barnier raised the issue a while ago of there being 27 of us in Europe, I would like to say, Commissioner, that I think that in the decisions of this Europe of 27, it is more important that all countries feel involved in the decision-making process, than discussing whether, when there are 27 of us, it will take us one hour, less than two hours or three hours to take decisions.
Cohesion is more important than efficiency if we are in fact to have a European Union with as cohesive and generous an enterprise as the one that we have seen and in which we have participated.
Europe still has a lot of work to do in order to build a democratic future.
However, some points have now been identified: a foreign and security policy needs to be a truly common one.
I think that other issues, such as the greater integration of the national parliaments in the Community' s decision-making process, are useless elements that just complicate matters.
The part provided for by the provisions on the Structural Funds could become the basic principle for the new European construction.
The European Parliament must play a truly constituent part, and continue the spirit of Alcide De Gasperi, Schuman, Adenauer and Kohl to stay in the tradition of a people' s Europe - but it has had important supporters in other political families as well, such as Altiero Spinelli, François Mitterrand and Henry Spaak.
Mr President, we are preparing to vote on the European Parliament' s first resolution on one of the great issues of the present legislature: the IGC in 2000.
But the other institutions, the European Parliament and the Commission will not, for all that, be resigned to the role of mere onlookers.
Parliament, by means of its resolutions or through its two representatives at the Conference, will have to lead the project in an ambitious direction.
This influence will only meet with success if the European Parliament concentrates on the essential points, "the priorities" , and if it deliberately refrains from presenting a long wish list of points which are as unrealistic as they are unlimited.
Our two rapporteurs have attempted to avoid this trap, although I must say that they have not entirely succeeded.
As we are developing in the constitutional area and as the Treaty represents the highest standard of our internal laws, in the future, we will have to force ourselves to be more precise in terms of the law.
We can show here that, in circumstances where the Member States are at their wits' end, Europe can, in the last analysis, be helpful to the individual.
If the drug trade already constitutes 8% of the volume of trade worldwide, then we must develop Europol as a European institution.
In that way we would surely be in a position to deal with the circumstances, with the real demands and we would be able to respond to the challenge of restoring the citizens' interest in the European construction process, an interest which was statistically proven to be low after the poor turnout at the elections of 13 June.
To accompany the undeniable success of Monetary Union, we must also make progress with Political Union and in fields which broaden the competences of the European Union in order to prevent the current imbalances; I would describe these imbalances as enormous.
There is no doubt that the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference must go much further than the fine words of Amsterdam, even though they are very important.
I talked before of constitutionalisation and, personally, I believe in a federal perspective.
For example, we must integrate the functions of the Western European Union into the Union in order to prevent new Kosovos, but we must also promote the coordination of economic policies, fiscal harmonisation and the creation of employment and a genuine social Europe which will allow us to confront the concerns of the citizens.
The current method is rather worn out but, in any case, it is essential that the Council commits itself to taking appropriate account of the proposals which the Commission and the Parliament make in turn.
But, in addition to these main objectives, without whose attainment an enlargement of the European Union would scarcely be conceivable, a number of basic questions, relating naturally to policy on fisheries, ought not to be forgotten.
The points mentioned, which take account of the importance of fisheries in Europe, must therefore be picked out as central themes at the next Intergovernmental Conference when the role of Parliament is being considered.
This is particularly apparent in connection with the economy, trade and competition.
In view of the changed circumstances, a new system for the separation of powers must be devised which augments the classical separation of powers as prescribed by Montesquieu with a new form of separation of powers at different levels.
With the union of twelve new and fifteen old Member States, we are, rather, facing the situation of a re-establishment of the Union.
I am convinced that, with 27 Member States, it will be impossible for the European Union to be as active in the same breadth and depth as it is with the present fifteen Member States.
Mr President, on closing this debate, this important debate, with an important and excellent report, what could be better than to talk of justice.
Therefore I believe - and this should include the strict current mandate for the Conference with regard to the revision of the institutions in accordance with the Treaty of Amsterdam - that we have to deal with the necessary and thorough reform of our Court of Justice and our Court of First Instance and the reform of the appointment of judges - in which the Parliament should have a significant involvement - as well as the reform of the distribution of competences between the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance, so that citizens may have an accurate and clear idea of what this European justice, which is their direct form of justice, really is, and the reform, finally - and this is another chapter - of the actionability of the acts.
I will end by saying, Mr President, that all of this will become all the more necessary in view of the other great mandate, the launch of which will be the finishing touch of the Finnish Presidency - the excellent Finnish Presidency, whose many successes it is a great honour to recognise in this Chamber and which has been a turning point in the behaviour of the Council.
Mr President, as I said at the beginning, a political community is judged by the justice it provides.
Thank you very much, Mrs Palacio.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
I request, in accordance with article 115, that the debate be included in the agenda 24 hours after the different versions have been made available to MEPs, that is, not before mid-day tomorrow.
The fact is that the Napolitano report was not available in all the languages 24 hours before the debates and before the vote, as required by Rule 115.
In order, therefore, to safeguard the Rules of this House and the Rules governing every Member, to ensure that Members have the rights they enjoy under these Rules, the Socialist Group and the Liberal Group, with the support, as was announced earlier, of the EPP Group, requested that to make sure we were in conformity with our Rules, Rule 112 on urgent procedure should be applied.
It will be a sovereign decision of this House to decide whether we can apply urgent procedure to this report.
It respects the Rules of Procedure and it respects what the majority in this House wants.
A question I think one could ask is about the motives of those who have tried to filibuster this report from beginning to end, of those who have tried to block it, of those who have tried every trick in the book and everything in the rule book to try and have it postponed.
I would like to say... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr Dell' Alba, you are not tabling a procedural motion.
Rule 112 must be applied in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
Rule 112 refers to Rule 60.
By the way, the matter is obviously unacceptable because they are not basing their arguments on the Rules of Procedure but on a rather inappropriate interpretation of the rules governing Parliament.
Under Article 18 of the decision taken by the European Parliament and the Council on the Trans-European Network, the Member States regularly provide the Commission with national plans and programmes drawn up to develop the Trans-European Network, particularly regarding projects concerning the common interest, as identified in this decision.
Mr President, thank you for your answer, but I do not find it very satisfactory because the Somport issue is ancient history.
I asked you this question because works have started again in Aspe valley.
If you do not mind, I suggest that you launch an initiative to promote alternative means of transport to the road transport in ecologically sensitive areas, otherwise we will continue to ask you this kind of question and we will only be able to say... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, firstly, I wish to repeat that this matter falls more within the competence of the Commission, and the Commission' s last question time was here in Parliament yesterday.
As the following question referred to a rail connection between France and Spain in the Pyrenees, I would, however, like to say that this rail connection is not at present part of the Trans-European Network, as approved by the European Parliament and the Council in 1996.
Question No 2 by (H-0550/99): Subject: Council's plans for combating drug abuse in the context of an area of freedom, security and justice During the Finnish Presidency, particular priority has been given to the area of freedom, security and justice.
The Commission subsequently submitted to the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, its communication concerning the European Union' s action plan for combating drugs during the period 2000-2004.
On the basis of the guidelines from the European Council, the work carried out by the previous country to hold the Presidency, the communication from the Commission and the contributions which the Member States and different working parties within the Commission have made to the Commission's communication, we have drafted a proposal for the EU's drugs strategy for the period 2000-2004.
Through the Amsterdam Treaty, a great many new opportunities have arisen which must be examined and utilised, both in the area of protecting people' s health and in the areas of legal cooperation and of cooperation with the police and customs.
New guidelines were also provided for future work in the fight against drugs.
The European Council encouraged the Council to adopt the EU' s anti-drugs strategy for the years 2000-2004 before the European Council in Helsinki.
The European Council in Tampere urged that, in accordance with the Treaty, joint research groups be established without delay as a first step in the fight against the drugs trade, trade in human beings and terrorism.
The decision made in Tampere concerning extended powers for Europol, together with intensified measures against money laundering, will contribute to the European Union' s fight against drugs.
I should like to begin by thanking the Council for its answer.
I asked this question quite a long time ago, in fact before the Tampere Summit.
I am satisfied with the answer and can only hope that the process we have now set in motion through the Tampere Summit will continue and result in concrete measures so that we might together be able to tackle criminal behaviour of this kind and the major problem constituted by the drugs trade.
I believe that, with these guidelines, very effective measures in this field of work can be produced fairly soon.
However, it is at the same time a fact that cooperation between the police authorities and also between police, customs and legal authorities must be increased.
The country to hold the Presidency has decided that close monitoring of the situation in Iran and Afghanistan will be the focus point of the action it takes on drugs.
The negative effects on civil society, for example in Europe and Russia, Central Asia and Iran, cannot be underestimated.
The European Union finds it alarming that the majority of heroin used in the Member States comes from the poppy fields of Afghanistan.
The Council proposed an overall EU policy in an amended EU common position on Afghanistan, which was adopted on 25 January 1999.
A common position by the Union, however, urges Member States to maintain relations with all Afghan groups.
Because the political situation in Afghanistan is critical, and conditions are not right for the creation of bilateral relations, it is difficult, in the opinion of the European Union, to participate effectively in drugs control activity in Afghanistan.
The European Union has noted that the UN drugs control programme, the UNDCP, began its pilot programme in Afghanistan, one that made slow but steady progress, in 1998.
The result is that production has doubled.
The European Union supports the work of the UNDCP on a general level, which it does in a well established and effective way in the area of drugs control, and it is also very satisfied with the cooperation that has taken place with the UNDCP in other areas.
As the honourable member stated, operations in Afghanistan are hampered by the lack of any broadly based government and, thus, a suitable and reliable partner in cooperation.
The European Union is working with Afghanistan' s neighbours, mainly in Central Asia as well as Iran, to enhance anti-drugs cooperation conducted with them.
The Union considers Central Asia to be strategically important in the control of drugs and is at present drafting an action plan for the region.
The projects aim, among other things, to make border controls more efficient between Iran, Afghanistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, improve the training of customs officials, and increase drugs-related expertise in Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Khirgizia, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Russia.
In the joint action plan for the EU and the United States, signed in Madrid on 3 December 1995, the following are prescribed under the heading "Reaction to Global Challenges" : increased cooperation in the fight against illegal drug trading, measures of cooperation between competent American authorities and Europol, cooperation in supporting the UN' s drugs monitoring programme, coordination of alternative development programmes designed to counteract drug manufacture, and the setting up of channels of cooperation between appropriate bodies, for example the EU' s European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction and the Inter-American Monitoring Commission for Drug Addiction.
American authorities have approached the European Union with a view to possible cooperation within the international police college in Bangkok, which is a body like the one in Budapest.
I think this is very good indeed and I want to thank you very much for your answer.
Mr Sasi, in the United States the annual USD 18 billion spent in the fight against drugs is increasingly being called into question.
As the author is not present, Question No 5 lapses.
The Council would like to remind everyone of the conclusions reached on 25 May 1994 in this matter, which concern nuclear safety in the electricity industry in Central and Eastern European countries and the newly independent states, and in which the Council defines its approach to this question.
In recent years we have regularly taken into consideration the fact that the European Union' s neighbouring countries, whether they be the associated countries of Central and Eastern Europe or the countries in the European Free Trade Association, and those belonging to the European Economic Area, participate in important Community action concerning the development of the use of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency.
The countries in question may participate in the ALTENER II programme, which is a programme to promote the use of new sources of energy, and in the SAVE II programme, which concerns energy efficiency.
I am glad that the Council has responded positively to this question, specifically with regard to the countries of the Middle East.
I live in the Canary Islands, 100 kilometres from Tan Tan, a Moroccan location where the Moroccan Government has now begun a nuclear programme.
I would also remind everyone that in many EU countries nuclear power is used on a massive scale and, regarding my own country, Finland, I can state that we have two nuclear power stations with Russian-built reactors which, according to statistics, are among the world' s best in terms of efficiency and safety.
Each Member State must approve the accession of new Member States.
Any citizen of the Union, and any natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a Member State, shall have a right of access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents, subject to the principles and the conditions to be defined in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3. 2.
General principles and limits on grounds of public or private interest governing this right of access to documents shall be determined by the Council, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 within two years of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam. 3.
In his programme document on transparency, the chairman of the working party concerned with making information available presented the idea of an ad hoc group consisting specifically of experts on making documents available to the public.
As you said in your answer, 30 April 2001 is the last date for approving this.
You cannot find a compte rendu of what people actually said in the Council.
In answer to the last question, Mr President, you said that transparency was one of the great priorities of the Finnish Presidency.
The country to hold the Presidency in any case endorses this position, and I believe that the Council will do its utmost to make its work as open as possible.
He was arrested in October 1998.
The European Council furthermore reminded everyone that, in order to strengthen relations between Turkey and the EU, there would be a need for political and social reforms, such as respect and protection for minorities, the creation of satisfactory and stable relations between Greece and Turkey and support for the talks being conducted under UN protection on a political solution in Cyprus.
We are aware that decisions on enlargement taken at the European Council in Helsinki, which will be made with reference to the Commission' s annual report will have a powerful impact on relations between the EU and Turkey.
Improved relations between Greece and Turkey, not just as a result of the earthquakes, but as an issue in itself, and a discernible change in attitude in Turkey with regard to legal and constitutional reform, human rights and the Turkish Kurds are very welcome steps forward, as are also the commitments and recognition of realities contained in Bülent Ecevit' s letter to Chancellor Gerhard Schröder last May.
I expressed the Union' s clear position on the unsatisfactory situation we see regarding human rights there.
I firmly believe that if Turkey were accorded applicant status in Helsinki, it would increase Turkey' s willingness and its efforts to put its own house in order relatively quickly, especially with regard to human rights and the police.
Minister Sasi, perhaps you should have said that this was more of a political debate and that a conclusion would be reached in Helsinki.
I believe that it is realistic to say that Turkey still has a rather long way to go before concrete negotiations on membership can begin.
Mr President, I would like to say that Turkey certainly has implemented action this year to try and improve human rights, but the truth is that it obviously still has a long way to go in this area, and change does not come quickly in any society.
In addition, these restrictions do not accord with the basic principles of trade and free competition at sea based on integrity and commercialism as accepted by Turkey within the framework of the OECD.
Since Turkey has taken no direct action, it is in violation of international law, the rules of free navigation and the treaties of the European Union.
I would like to ask what response Turkey gave to the European Union' s remonstrations and if it gave no response at all, why then does it not take the matter to the International Court in the Hague?
Turkey' s justification for this has been foreign policy factors connected with Turkish security, meaning they have felt themselves entitled to take discriminatory action on the grounds of national security by virtue of Article 3 of the OECD regulations on transfers of capital.
The Union has been active in this affair, and immediately after the decision of 17 November 1997 we sent a letter to the Turkish permanent representative in the European Union.
After this, representatives of the Commission raised the matter at the joint committee meeting of the EC/Turkish Customs Union on 16 February 1998.
The next time the country to hold the Presidency of the Council raised the matter was in the other business of the agenda at the OECD' s MTC meeting on 23 - 24 April 1999.
The Turkish delegation did not agree to discuss the issue in an official meeting of the committee, as it was a matter of national security, and not an economic matter.
This being the case, the MTC held an informal meeting on 24 April 1999.
Furthermore, the Council can take up this matter in discussions with Turkey, but there will not be any negotiations as such with Turkey at the Helsinki Summit, so the matter will hardly be brought up there.
Question No 13 by (H-0578/99): Subject: Growing federalism in EU decision making Speaking in Strasbourg in July as a representative of the country currently holding the Presidency of the Council, Finland=s Foreign Minister stated one of Finland=s objectives as being to ensure that the Union had a common will, a common policy and a common voice.
Extending the scope of application of decisions based on a qualified majority in the Council is one of those issues to be discussed at the conference of the representatives of Member State governments, which is to convene at the beginning of 2000.
The European Council took a decision on the matter at its meeting at Cologne on 3 and 4 June 1999.
I mean the compromise by which it is understood that the vital national interests of a Member State will not be overruled by a majority vote in Council.
Question No 14 by (H-0583/99): Subject: Brominated flame retardants There have recently been alarming reports in Sweden of high levels of brominated flame retardants in fish in the Baltic.
This document ought to include an outline of a new strategy for improving the identification and assessment of all chemicals.
If required, the Commission will submit proposals concerning Community measures to reduce the risks to which these substances give rise.
Question No 15 by (H-0585/99): Subject: Ban on fuel supplies and looming humanitarian disaster in Yugoslavia The European Union=s opposition, expressed notably at the meeting of EU Foreign Ministers in Luxembourg, to providing fuel and emergency aid for the inhabitants of Yugoslavia to enable them to face the coming winter and the final decision to export heating oil B a plan called Energy for Democracy B to two Serb cities, Nis and Pirot, which are under opposition control, has provoked strong reactions.
The Council also reminded everyone of its readiness to continue to help destitute Serbs and of the humanitarian aid granted by the European Community and the Member States for this purpose.
The 'self-help aid' granted by ECHO to Serbia will total EUR 62 million, which the Council welcomed at its meeting.
Mr President, if I am not mistaken, the Council called its programme "Energy for Democracy" .
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, may I thank you for the clear opinion you have expressed.
The Council will take the floor to answer this supplementary question.
Question No 16 by (H-0586/99): Subject: Financial Instrument of the OCTs (Overseas Countries and Territories) One of the objectives set by the Amsterdam Conference for the Council was to increase the effectiveness of the financial instrument of the OCTs.
The Council will be debating the details of an improved financial instrument for OCDs once it has its possession, in the near future, the awaited Commission proposal on a definition of the new association system for OCDs to be applied on 1 March 2000.
Obviously, the Council will take account of the resolution passed by the European Parliament on 11 February 1999 when it debates this proposal.
What we are actually facing is the need to have a new association agreement that must come into force on 1 March 2000 and I am a little surprised that, at this stage, no decision has yet been taken on the three guidelines, on the three paths that have been sketched out.
Thank you very much, Mr Sasi.
Since the time allocated to Questions to the Council has elapsed, questions 19 to 41 will be replied to in writing.
