Madam President, there was a great deal of confusion and uncertainty yesterday surrounding the voting on amendment 11 to the Virrankoski report.
The EDD requested voting by roll call.
As such, the amended text has been brought to vote in a way unlike that which many Members could reasonably have expected.
The difference was 16 votes and I am quite sure that there are at least three others who voted in error.
I thank him for reacting in this way which I think is appropriate, but obviously the matter is not over because we must now have this directory withdrawn from circulation altogether.
Thank you Mr Berthu.
Then, the only eligible products are: deboned meat and a limited range of derived products, from animals between 6 and 30 months of age and born after the effective feed ban, that is born after 1 August 1996.
Preparatory meetings took place on 14 October and on 25 October in the framework of the ad hoc BSE group.
Madam President, the reason I believe France should immediately lift the ban on British beef is because Britain has met the requirements of the Florence agreement.
The key issue is no beef animal over 30 months old is allowed into the food chain in Britain.
The cost to British farmers is enormous.
On 1 August this year when the Commission lifted its ban, 12 out of 14 Member States to which Britain could export lifted their bans.
If France had new evidence as to the safety of British beef why did the French Government not bring this information to the Commission before the ban was lifted in August 1999 - why wait until now and delay and delay and delay?
People in Britain expect France to comply with European law and they also expect the European Commission to act decisively to end the illegal ban on British beef.
The single market is fundamental to the very existence of the European Union and the illegal action by France throws the whole single market into disrepute.
The Commission accepted British beef was safe on 1 August when it lifted the ban.
All of the evidence demonstrates that British beef is now the safest in Europe and, we believe, the safest in the world.
Hygiene standards prove that British beef is safe; the scientific evidence has proved that British beef is safe.
Other countries lifted the ban on 1 August.
There have been no cases of BSE in the relevant age group - 6 months to 30 months old - since 1996.
But now we are BSE-free in the 6 months to 30 months-old exports.
There is no scientific certainty that there is no risk of BSE either in Great Britain or in France or, for that matter, in other European countries.
This has been the case in Great Britain, England and Portugal.
Personally, I am delighted that the precautionary principle has taken precedence over free trade.
I think that the European Commission' s decision to lift the ban is more political than scientific, as the differences in interpretation and points of view within the European Scientific Committee demonstrate.
There will be more than 3,000 cases of mad cow disease in 1999, in spite of the measures that have been taken since the ban was declared in 1996.
The burden of scientific proof, which weighs heavily enough on those wishing to protect the health of their population, puts a brake on applying the precautionary principle or actually prevents it.
If we do this, Mr President, Commissioner, some good will have come out of this crisis.
Mr President, I understand the position of our British friends, just as I understand the position of our Portuguese friends who are also concerned, just as I understood the position of our Belgian friends in the dioxin affair and just as I understand even better the position of the French in the sewage sludge affair.
It is nevertheless true that there are 650 cases of BSE per million head of cattle.
That may be true, but the disease incubates for 15 or 20 years.
I must remind you that at the beginning of 1996, when five German states refused to accept British beef, the European Commission tried to bring a liability action against them when all that these states were trying to do was to protect their citizens.
They exported it to the Community until 1990, the date of the European ban on these products, and to other countries for a long time afterwards.
We have had 22 cases compared to several thousand in the United Kingdom.
It has to be said that this is another reason for the French not to feel particularly reassured any more.
All the evidence suggests that French consumers have no blanket, a priori prejudice against British meat: you only have to think of the great quantities of British beef to realise that this is the case.
Producers and consumers must realise that the current debate is primarily a debate among scientific experts, who must be allowed to make their case freely.
On the other hand, nobody will come out of a trade war unscathed, least of all the European Union.
It is so easy to use emotion, but let us not forget that it is entirely thanks to Europe that we are able to have a free market and actually trade our products.
The European Scientific Steering Committee must express its views on the relevance of the French arguments because, on Monday, the ad hoc group, which gathers together European prion disease specialists, was not able to reach a unanimous conclusion and passed the results of its study to the European Scientific Committee.
The Commission could propose complementary measures which would allow us to feel completely reassured.
All those who have led our countries into mad agricultural practises must be roundly condemned.
Mr President, it is regrettable that again today we are having this debate in the absence of a decision from the committee currently meeting in Brussels.
It is also regrettable that this debate has taken such a hysterical tone in certain parts of Europe, fuelled by some of the London-based media in particular.
Our consumers must be protected in relation to food safety, but consumers are also entitled and intelligent enough to make choices.
Mr President, I would first like to state that I am in favour of the precautionary principle in an area where consumers' health is under direct threat, but the discussion taking place here between the supporters of the ban and their opponents is nothing but hypocrisy.
Everyone knows that both the good and the bad arguments in favour of consumer protection are used above all as weapons in a trade war and as arguments in shady manoeuvres in domestic politics.
It is equally clear that Article 95 of our Treaty, in the way it has been reinforced since Amsterdam, says the opposite, out of an absurd desire for standardisation.
In this type of contradiction, the ultimate yardstick can only be the free choice of each nation; otherwise the whole European system will explode.
Only yesterday, Parliament' s Federalists found the means to set aside EUR 60 million - yes, EUR 60 million - for a unified statute for MEPs which would be completely useless and which, moreover, has not yet been decided.
But this kind of farming requires Community preference, which we should now go and fight for in Seattle.
I think that a positive outcome of today' s debate would be to reach agreement with the British in recognising that this must be one of our main priorities.
We can have a very emotional discussion here this morning on this subject of BSE, but this does nothing to help either British farmers or European consumers.
Mr President, like Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, who spoke earlier, I was a member of the special Committee of Investigation into BSE.
It was only then, after a three-year delay, that the beef ban was lifted in the strictly controlled terms that have been described by others in this debate.
It means strict precautions against the kind of illegal practice which the Commission very promptly discovered in the matter of the adulteration of the bovine food chain by human and animal waste, which has happened recently in some other countries.
The precautionary principle has to inform our policy but it must be on the basis of common principles, a hierarchy of standards which places health at the top.
The clash between two Member States over this unilateral ban could be disastrous.
This precautionary principle is, for us, a political line which must be followed in order to guarantee food safety itself.
Moreover, we have assumed our responsibilities towards the WTO and is the European Union not in the same situation in relation to the United States that France is facing today in relation to the European Union?
The basic problem is animal feed.
We are not, however, carrying out inspections only in Great Britain but in other countries as well so as to guarantee this at a European level too.
The debate is closed.
The Commission made a sound choice in concluding a protocol with only a one year duration because Angolan fish stocks have been exploited intensively over recent years, particularly by the Soviet fleet, which has led to a spectacular drop in catch levels.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to insist on the usefulness of the agreement, both for Angola and for the European Union, and we hope that the Commission will make the necessary effort so that this agreement may remain in force in the years to come.
In relation to the Cunha report on the conclusion of a new Protocol which defines the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the agreement with the Republic of Angola for the period from 3 May 1999 to 2 May 2000, I would like to point out that this is a classic Protocol, which allows for access to fishing resources during a certain period and sets a financial contribution.
Despite the fact that certain information and statistics must be borne in mind, and the Commission has promised to be very strict about this, and also bearing in mind the delicate situation that that country is in - it is in a state of war - we believe that the conclusion of this provisional Protocol is very positive, in the hope that it will be renewed for a year or that a new agreement will be reached.
But it must help in the best way possible for both parties: Angola, on the one hand, and the Member States of the European Union and the regions involved in fishing, on the other, with the control of this Parliament and in accordance with the amendments which the Committee on Fisheries has presented with regard to this important Agreement which has, as has just been pointed out here, a considerable political dimension, as well as economic and financial dimensions.
Therefore, Commissioner, on this question and with regard to fisheries agreements in general, as was demonstrated yesterday in the important debate which we held in relation to the fisheries agreement with Morocco, you will always enjoy the favourable, generally majority, opinion of the Committee on Fisheries, and I hope that you will continue to enjoy the favourable opinion of this Parliament.
Mr President, I am taking the floor in order to lend my support to the fisheries agreement between the European Union and Angola.
I am doing so for economic reasons, which have already been explained by several speakers in this Chamber but, as in yesterday' s debate on the fisheries agreement between the European Union and Morocco, also in order to help a country that is rich in natural resources, but which remains poor due to its political situation, and particularly its on-going civil war.
This is why I think it important to see this agreement, in addition to the economic benefits that it brings to one of our country' s industries, also as assisting the development of an economic sector, as well as the consolidation of peace in Angola.
It must also be emphasised, as a number of speakers have already said, that the Protocol is only valid for one year and more than half of this period has already lapsed in any case.
Commissioner, now that you have a new portfolio looking after fisheries you will discover that Parliament very often discusses fish on a Friday, but you have had a mixed menu this morning, for a change.
The debate is closed.
