Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez.
I could prove without a shadow of a doubt, however, that the Commission had already written about it in its communication of 3 April 1996.
The Conference of Presidents preferred to run the risk, knowing that this might happen, as unfortunately turned out to be the case.
However, in this case, we knew that we were running that risk.
European Council in Cardiff - activities during the British presidency The next item is the joint debate on: the report by the Council and the statement by the Commission on the Cardiff European Council of 15 and 16 June 1998; -the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council on the activities of the British presidency.The President-in-Office of the Council is arriving now and we will give him the floor as soon as he can join us in our work.
Mrs Malone, I think that the purpose of your speech has just been covered, since the President-in-Office of the Council is already in the Hemicycle.
So, since I am now aware of his presence, I am going to give him the floor immediately so that he can present his statement on the activities of the British presidency and his report on the Cardiff European Council.
I would like to begin, if I may, by putting on record today our gratitude to you for the cooperation which has marked relations between the Council and Parliament during our presidency.
For our part, we have worked hard to ensure that British Ministers have reported regularly and fully to you on the major dossiers and made every effort to take on board Parliament's views.
I would like to say a special word of thanks to José María Gil-Robles for his kindness, support and cooperation during our time as President of the European Union.
Our presidency was marked self-evidently by the launch of two historic events: monetary union and enlargement.
A single currency in Europe has the potential to create a force for stability in the world.
To work, a single currency must be accompanied by two things: the European Central Bank policy must be credible; monetary policy must be disciplined, and therefore the euro strong and not weak.
The single currency brings with it huge structural economic changes, change that is sometimes beneficial - necessary, even.
There are four elements to this programme of economic reform.
Member States have agreed to reform labour, product and capital markets and to reduce regulatory burdens on business.
With the help of this Parliament the European Union has made good progress in the last six months: new measures on financial services and biotechnology patents, new competition in telecoms markets, a new framework research programme to promote hi-tech research and development, and measures to safeguard the free movement of goods.
I hope that Parliament will give its formal agreement to the last two measures as quickly as possible.
Since December last year the so-called single market scoreboard shows that the proportion of measures which have been implemented in all Member States has increased from 73 % to 82 %, but we must go further and we must go faster.
The fourth element of economic reform was help for small businesses: the small business sector, those who are self-employed.
Many of those people are going to be the engines of growth and jobs in the future in the European Union.
New initiatives in all these areas were again endorsed at the Cardiff Summit.
Also, on enlargement, in the space of twenty days in March and again with this Parliament's help, we opened the European Conference, we launched the accession process and we began the accession negotiations for enlargement.
We have finally started a process that will erase the scars of a divided continent and bring huge advances in the prosperity and security of the whole of Europe.
We have launched those negotiations with six countries.
The opening of substantive negotiations will be the next stage.
I particularly hope too that the decisions taken at Cardiff mean that we can open a new and more productive chapter in relations between the EU and Turkey, including a resolution to the impasse over financing.
During the last few months detailed work has begun on the Commission's Agenda 2000 proposals.
They involve crucial issues for all Member States: the size and distribution of the budget, equitable reform of the Structural Funds, modernizing the common agricultural policy.
But we also have a responsibility to the new Member States, a responsibility to extend to them as soon as possible the benefits of the single market to allow them to join a viable, competitive common agricultural policy, to enable them to have their fair share of Structural Funds.
The Agenda 2000 negotiations, like the enlargement negotiations themselves, will be tough - such negotiations always are.
But we, the existing Members of the European Union, cannot on the one hand say that we support enlargement and then not will the means to achieve enlargement. (Applause from the left) In particular we cannot let individual vested interest stand in the way of our historic obligation to the former communist states of Eastern Europe.
We have worked with Parliament to ensure your full participation in this complex and important process, and we are committed to the successful negotiation of a new interinstitutional agreement during the lifetime of this Parliament.
Meanwhile, too, we have worked very closely with you in the important annual task of preparing the budget for 1999 and improving financial management, drawing on the work of the Court of Auditors.
In the view of the Council it was essential that there should be legal certainty and transparency in a budget process which involves taxpayers' money.
The European Court of Justice ruling recognizes that the Commission can still authorize spending without a specific legal base in certain circumstances, and contracts entered into will be respected.
At my request, however, presidency representatives will now meet Commission and Parliament representatives on 23 June to identify an early and satisfactory solution to this problem so that it can be resolved. (Applause) The purpose of this meeting will be to allow the Council and Parliament to ensure the rapid adoption of those programmes where Commission-proposed legal bases are on the table.
Last month Robin Cook set out to you the practical actions taken by the European Union since January towards this goal.
The crisis in Kosovo confronts Europe with a dangerous challenge, to establish a just solution for an autonomous Kosovo within the Federal Republic, while avoiding a repetition of Bosnia.
This time at least the European Union has moved fast to put in place measures to dissuade Belgrade from continuing the violence in Kosovo.
I have discussed our resolve to act with each of our Heads of Government colleagues.
No one could be in any doubt after our Cardiff statement of what the Union wants to see in our resolve to act with our allies in the wider international community, if our demands are not met.
I should say to you - controversial though it is in certain quarters - that military planning is well under way in NATO, with the full support of European Union Member States, in case diplomacy should fail.
But we cannot allow stability to decline and chaos to result in that part of the world: it will affect all of us. (Applause) In recent months, too, the European Union has secured a more prominent role in the Middle East peace process.
We support American efforts there but we now have a clear and distinctive position also for the European Union in helping drive the process forward.
The Union and its members have likewise responded quickly and effectively to other international problems, for example the Asian economic crisis, Indonesia, and the Indian and Pakistani nuclear tests.
Overall I believe the Union has created and accomplished a great deal in making for a cleaner Europe in these last six months.
I would like to pay particular tribute to my colleague, my own deputy Prime Minister, John Prescott, for his work both at Kyoto and yesterday in the Environment Council. (Applause) In addition, the Union has made good progress in the fight against crime: a new pact with applicant countries on cooperation against organized crime; movement towards closer cooperation between Member States in criminal matters; the core elements of a post-1999 European Union drugs strategy; a package of measures to ensure better coordination between police forces and judicial authorities to tackle cross-border crime; and an agreement to work for mutual recognition of court judgments.
We have worked hard to make the Council more transparent: this year's open debates have been better attended than ever before, and Member States have agreed now to establish a public register of Council documents.
We also welcomed at Cardiff the initiatives of the Commission and the Council to improve their effectiveness.
However, my presidency, and, indeed, any presidency, should not be known just for a catalogue of results but also for the sense of direction and feel about the European Union that it represents.
The days of the beef war - 14 against 1 - government positions ravaged by warring factions in the governing party are, I am pleased to say, over. (Applause from the left) I should like, very diplomatically, simply to say to those British Conservative Members of Parliament here who have organized dissent against the presidency in the European Parliament: thank you for your interest, but we remember when your party was in charge and we do not want those days back again. (Applause from the left) We also signed the social chapter with pride; we negotiated the Amsterdam Treaty with ease; and we have worked during our presidency with our colleagues as partners.
However, in conclusion, I wish to be frank with you and the citizens of Europe.
But the second strand is different: it can support the European Union but it worries about its directions and its actions.
I am pro-Europe - without any hesitation at all - but I am anti the status quo.
The third way, surely, is to recognize that government has a vital role to play but one that is enabling, empowering our people and business to prosper in a new global market.
The European social model should not, and will not, be abandoned. (Applause) But it should be reformed to provide for solidarity in today's world of international financial markets, industrial change and technological revolution.
We must think boldly about how we connect the European Union with its citizens, about its institutions at a national and European level.
Pro-Europe, pro-reform - that is where I am, it is where the European Council is and it is where our electorates and our people are.
This presidency has through its ministers and its officials responded to your own personal wish to develop good relations with Parliament and its President in a cooperative and friendly spirit.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen Members of this House, the President-in-Office of the Council, Prime Minister Tony Blair, has just presented us with his review of the British presidency.
For my part, I would simply like to expand upon some of the matters raised at the recent summit in Cardiff.
The Prime Minister placed his presidency under the banner of connecting with the citizens.
Growth is truly spread across the board, with a rate of 3.2 % in the first quarter of 1998.
We are back at the unemployment rates of 1993.
The Heads of State and government have stressed this forcefully during the discussion on national action plans for jobs.
Because of the historic progress made in recent time, the Heads of State and government have been able to engage in a genuine debate on the future of Europe with equanimity.
As you know, the Commission tabled an ambitious project covering the major macro-economic policy guidelines and, to be perfectly honest, some of our Member States found the text at times unpalatable.
The Ecofin Council, finally, although still a little caught up in its habits of old, unfortunately watered down our project, with each minister attempting to show his own country in the best light.
I raised this question with the Heads of State and government and found, to my great satisfaction, a very positive response to our comments which, incidentally, Mr Herman, were shared by your Parliament.
My colleagues in the European Council certainly did not wish to alter the guidelines for this year but, in their conclusions, they issued a very clear political message on the need to strengthen the exercise of guidelines in the future and make them a genuine instrument of coordination.
With regard to jobs, I think we can reasonably be satisfied with the progress we have made in the past year.
The method defined in Luxembourg for national guidelines and action plans is already common practice.
Since my arrival in 1995, I have made genuine implementation of the domestic market one of my priorities.
The incorporation of directives is improving continually and the Heads of State and government have expressly underlined the important role of the Commission in terms of inducing the need for compliance with the rules of the domestic market; this gladdens me.
I note too that deregulation, in the telecommunications field for example, has resulted in a growth rate of more than 8 % per annum in those sectors.
I might mention, by way of example, the very important matter of access to venture capital and, generally speaking, the systematic promotion of our small and medium-sized companies.
It is not enough, in itself, simply to incorporate this principle in the treaty; we should implement it positively in our day-to-day activities.
I am delighted by the fact that the European Council has explicitly asked the Commission and the Council, with Vienna in sight, to devise a plan of action with regard to the implementation of the Amsterdam Treaty provisions to create an area of freedom, security and justice.
As expected, the discussion in Cardiff concerning Agenda 2000 did not yield any significant advances.
This is not too serious at this point.
In my opinion, the main achievement in Cardiff was to obtain from the European Council a clear commitment to the timetable.
By planning a meeting devoted to this subject on 25 and 26 March, they have given us a clear signal.
I can record that in Cardiff the debate was open, constructive and that no animosity was expressed whatever.
The Heads of State and government realized that the Community method, its laws and the existence of strong institutions - especially a powerful Commission serving all citizens - are essential to enable Europe to progress. (Applause) We have raised three subjects; firstly, institutional questions, in respect of which the first priority is, of course, to ratify the Amsterdam Treaty.
But everyone acknowledged that a further institutional reform was necessary before the first enlargement.
I know that your Parliament attaches great importance to this and we will have the opportunity to discuss this further.
I think that each of our institutions should begin to examine its conscience and investigate its individual structures and operation in the light of these new requirements.
For my own part, I was able to refer to the work that the Commission has already begun to tackle with regard to its own future.
I am pleased to report that this issue is being debated - provided, of course, that it is conducted in a genuine community spirit with a scrupulous respect for Community law and on condition that we acknowledge that some citizens are sometimes appalled by an excess of Europe and that, at the same time, there are those who want more Europe.
I would like to repeat that the Heads of State and government have tackled all of these questions in a positive state of mind, with a view towards the future.
At this point, I would like to express my satisfaction with the climate of understanding and constructive cooperation that has prevailed in relations between this presidency and the Commission during the last six months.
It is a great pleasure to be the first MEP to speak in this debate and to warmly welcome the first British Labour Prime Minister to Europe's Parliament.
It is an added personal pleasure for me to be able to welcome him as my party leader and I very much do so.
These last six months have been important months in the political life of Britain and its relationship with the European Union.
We, here, all remember too well, for instance, the arrogant disregard of the previous Conservative ministers for the European Parliament and notably the refusal of the then Agriculture Minister, Douglas Hogg, to accept the invitation and come and explain his handling of the BSE crisis... (Applause from the left ) ...which has had and continues to have such disastrous consequences in Britain and throughout the rest of Europe.
By contrast, Jack Cunningham, your Minister of Agriculture, made his sixth visit in six months to the European Parliament on Tuesday of this week.
He has done a huge amount to explain, discuss and engender confidence that, despite the complex problems and formidable cost to Britain, your government would act in good faith to eliminate BSE from the British beef industry.
That change is clearly having an effect on attitudes in Britain and is instrumental in creating a better-balanced view of the European Union.
This presidency is remarkable because of the two outstanding events which occurred in March and May.
The launching of the enlargement process in March marked the opening of a new era in the evolution of the European Union.
On our side of the House, we support enlargement to ensure peace and stability on our wider continent.
You will forgive me, Prime Minister, if I say that the launching of the single currency on 2 and 3 May was not quite such a seamless operation, although all of us appreciate that you were seeking to reconcile seemingly irreconcilable positions, something we contend with in this House very often.
My group has been critical for many years of the way in which the Council deals with the appointments of the most important political and now, economic, positions in the Union.
Frankly, over the past five years we, here, have got somewhat fed up with the excess of words spoken about the need to help the 18 million plus unemployed in the European Union.
Prime Minister, I want to welcome, on behalf of this whole House, what you have just said about the issue which is causing a major problem for citizens and non-governmental organizations throughout the European Union.
This means, for example, budget lines for social exclusion, the elderly, sport in Europe, the fight against racism, support for the disabled, public health, anti-personnel mines and, of course, the work of NGOs in the developing world.
We can all see at a glance that these small but significant budget lines are ones which have been having a significant impact on the lives of some of the most needy citizens in our Union and those whom we seek to help beyond our borders.
I also understand the Council wants to look at the nature of the Union's institutions themselves, at subsidiarity and democratic legitimacy.
I have no doubt that the European Parliament will be making its views known to the heads of state before the informal meeting in October.
I must say as well that for the first time in the living memory of anyone in this House, the European Council has actually taken up our entreaties to deal with the general conditions governing the performance of the duties of Members of the European Parliament.
It is no easy task to bring together the parliamentary and political cultures of 15 different countries and create a single shared European culture in this respect.
Prime Minister, I recognize perhaps more than some others here just how much you have supported a pro-European policy in our party at home and a pro-European constructive policy for Britain in the European Union.
I thank you, as my party leader, as the Prime Minister of Britain and as the President-in-Office of the European Union. (Applause ) Mr President, Mr President of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen.
But we are pleased that an informal European Council will start work on the future of the institutions in October.
The foreign policy, Mr President of the Council, was not sufficiently clear.
We believe your presidency was too modest in respect of the Kosovo crisis, the tension between India and Pakistan and when restoring the failed troika in Algeria.
Economic convergence must be strengthened further, and we support your words and actions regarding the joint action against unemployment.
I hope you will be able to instigate initiatives to redeem the undesirable and negative consequences of the recent pronouncement by the Court of Justice.
European cooperation and the introduction of the euro are a considerable trump card for our economies, compared with the financial crisis in South East Asia and the problems in Russia and Japan.
I thank you on behalf of our group for your work in this respect. (Applause ) Mr President, on behalf of European Liberals let me welcome the United Kingdom's new approach to Europe, as eloquently outlined by the Prime Minister just now: pro-Europe and therefore pro-reform.
Firstly the introduction of a uniform election system based on proportional representation for the next European elections.
Secondly, an integral review of all internal reimbursements by the European Parliament, so that only actual expenses are reimbursed, and the introduction of a uniform charter for Members.
Thirdly, the introduction of a form of consultative referendum for the new Chairman of the European Commission, as advocated by Jacques Delors and others.
If Socialists, Christian Democrats, Liberals and Greens each nominate a candidate for the Chairmanship of the European Commission, then this might give the European elections a new dynamic impetus.
I wish to thank him and his colleagues for a very effective and efficient EU presidency.
I wish to thank the Prime Minister for his contribution here this morning.
I also wish to thank the President of the Commission for his contribution and to say that my group will strongly support the main thrust of what the Commission President said here today.
Nevertheless, an ambitious timetable has been set for reaching major agreements on the reform of the common agricultural policy, the regional and social funds and the budget.
The decisions will have a direct and immediate effect on the citizens of the Union, whether our farming and fishing communities, those in industry - large and small, rural and urban communities and those who live in the less-developed regions and islands.
However, with 18 million people in the Union affected by unemployment including the young and the long-term unemployed, this objective is not being met.
The conclusions on unemployment which are outlined in part 3 of the presidency's document are more an overview of what is being done at present than a new set of initiatives.
If we are to go along with the presidency's conclusions then the fifteen employment action plans submitted by the Member States represent a real effort to enhance the employability of young people, the long-term unemployed and women.
The negotiations which have begun on Agenda 2000 are among the most important ever to be undertaken by the Union.
Choices will have to be made about key policies which will have major long-term consequences for each of our countries.
Agenda 2000 is indeed of fundamental importance for the future development of the Union.
It not only has consequences for present Member States but also for the whole process of enlargement.
They must, for example, in the case of my country, be adequate in terms of the level and duration of funding in order to address our continuing significant development needs.
The reform of the common agricultural policy is very controversial.
Agenda 2000 must strengthen and not destroy the common agricultural policy.
Mr President, I would like to personally congratulate you on your own efforts and those of my Prime Minister Bertie Ahern with regard to the Northern Ireland peace agreement of 10 April.
I also wish to acknowledge and sincerely thank Members of this House for their support for the peace process.
My group warmly appreciates the further endorsement by the European Council of this historic agreement and its renewed commitment that the Union should continue to play an active part in promoting lasting peace and prosperity in Northern Ireland.
The Commission has always undertaken the duties and responsibilities it has been given in an even-handed and fair manner.
The Commission has consistently discharged its functions as guarantor of the European Treaties in an exemplary fashion.
Mr President, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, I would like to congratulate the Labour government, and particularly the Prime Minister, for the intelligence and courage they have shown in order to find a solution to the conflict in Northern Ireland.
This Parliament and public opinion throughout Europe are following with emotion the efforts being made to achieve peace and democratic normality in that European region.
We also thank the British presidency for the pro-European climate that it has been able to stamp on its term, a climate which would have been unthinkable among previous governments of the United Kingdom.
Maybe this is the best contribution of the British presidency because, and I say this very sincerely, the running of the presidency, even with the success of the birth of the euro and, in particular, the results of Cardiff, does not generate enthusiasm or excessive optimism at this extremely decisive stage for the construction of Europe.
On the one hand, almost all of the important decisions have been postponed until after the elections in Germany and, on the other hand, doubts and risks have appeared for the future of solidarity in the European Union.
But the European Council has not analysed the viability of those national plans which, in many cases, do not set out clear objectives or set aside financial resources for their implementation.
We are very concerned because the debate on Agenda 2000 is not global and balanced and because the Structural Funds and Cohesion Fund are being called into question.
As regards international cooperation, we support the initiatives to relaunch the negotiations between the Israelis and the Palestinians and we believe that additional pressure must be applied in order to ensure that Netanyahu's government respects the Oslo agreements and the United Nations resolutions.
The situation is scandalous, in view of its urgency, which is unavoidable because of enlargement, and the need for a reorientation of the construction of Europe with institutions which are capable of responding to their citizens' aspirations.
But we must tackle all of these problems seriously.
Mr President of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, as expected, Mr Blair has with much flair and feeling for public relations drawn attention to Europe at the start of the British Presidency, promising much.
We consider the initiative by Mr Kohl and Mr Chirac to be an attack on a future-oriented European political project.
Member States who have previously supported a common market with common rules of play should not complain afterwards about the fact that the Commission safeguards its concrete realization.
In fact, a fake battle of powers is induced between the Commission and the Member States, whereas these same Member States think nothing of quietly transferring large powers to multinational organizations such as the World Trade Organization.
The erosion of democracy is not categorized, whereas political decisions by our Union, such as our option for hormone-free meat and the special banana regime for ACP countries, are thrown over, while we stand powerless.
To us this means an important result in the British Presidency.
The change of government was welcomed right across Europe, not least in Scotland where the Conservatives suffered total wipe-out at the general election.
This Parliament appreciates the fact that we have had Ministers such as Robin Cook, Clare Short and many others addressing Parliament and attending its committee meetings.
That is very worthwhile.
The first was on 2 and 3 May when we assembled to welcome the launch of the single currency on behalf of 11 Member States.
A colleague, Mr Puerta, also mentioned the too-close association with the United States.
The citizens of Europe were not even informed until it had arrived.
Mr President, I too would like to add my words of welcome to the President of the Council to our Parliament.
You are very welcome as our Prime Minister.
I believe the UK presidency will be judged, in the long term, by what has been achieved.
I feel we are getting ourselves in a position, within the European Union, that every time a new presidency comes in, it tries to out-do the last one; it tries to be more outward looking and come forward with great new ideas.
I certainly believe that the creation of jobs and the development of economic growth throughout the European Union must be our number one priority.
I believe the most positive way forward to achieve this is to develop, as you said here this morning, our small- and mediumsized enterprises.
I note also your comments on achieving, by next March, an end to the Agenda 2000 negotiations.
I hope the Council and Commission will ensure that this Parliament and its committees are fully involved and informed of the whole situation.
I would also like to take the opportunity to appeal to you to tackle the real problem that agriculture is facing throughout Europe, and certainly within the United Kingdom, and the problem of the strong pound sterling in its relation to the green pound.
I should also like to take the opportunity to congratulate you very warmly, Mr President, for the time and energy that you invested in achieving the positive outcome of the referendum in my constituency of Northern Ireland.
I also want recorded in this House the important role played by my party leader.
The reality is that the European Union has peaked in unemployment in the industrialized world.
We have between 10 and 11 % unemployment in the European Union, compared with less than 5 % in the United States and less than 4 % in Japan.
But within the European continent there are two countries that have much lower unemployment levels, and I am speaking here of Switzerland with less than 4 % and Norway with less than 3 %.
These are two countries, two States whose peoples, through a referendum, have refused to enter the European Union.
In short, the cause of unemployment in Europe is the yoke imposed by the single market, single standards and the single currency.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, the British presidency has stood and continues to stand under the slogan 'The People's Europe' .
We also need freedom of movement for the citizens in the truest sense of the word, as you have already said today, and this should include all levels of our national spectrum, in Europe, at national and at regional level.
That is why we need greater coordination of economic policy, more security, fewer wars and fewer crises.
That is why we need as a minimum a European environmental policy and more democracy.
That is why we need more rights for this Parliament, that is so say more majority decisions at European level.
On 4 June at the inaugural meeting of the Euro-X Committee, Gordon Brown suffered the humiliation, in spite of his position as part of the UK presidency, of being obliged to withdraw from the room after delivering a short address to the assembled ministers.
The EU Treaties are emphatic in their proclamation of the need for a single European foreign and security policy.
Once again the UK was not exactly at the heart of Europe.
But with due respect to Labour's leaders, and their hardworking Foreign Office and other officials, these developments or something very close to them would have taken place whether the UK presidency had been conducted by Labour or Conservative ministers.
Mr Blair has relied on Robin Cook during this underpowered presidency.
He has depended on Robin Cook.
Positively: a presidency where Britain finally and officially came in from the cold and became mainstream.
There are too many commitments just carried forward to future presidencies but one Cardiff promise that I heartily welcome is the pledge to resolve the Agenda 2000 issues by spring of next year.
If the spring 1999 deadline is missed, in the structural funding area especially, we are faced with disruption of vital regional programmes across Europe.
If, on 1 January 2000, the money stops because the Council is unable to make decisions in time, then who is alienating the citizens from Europe?
Absolutely essential but, as I think you suggested yourself, what an irony that it is still the Council that is the most closed and secretive part of the European Union.
Where the summit has implicitly criticized this Parliament, and justifiably in certain areas, it is that same Council of Ministers that burdens the European taxpayer with some ECU 150 million a year by insisting that each month we meet here in Strasbourg as well as Brussels.
I have been readily received by many ministers over the last six months in my efforts to achieve Objective 1 status for Cornwall.
Of course, I refer to Eric Blair, better known as George Orwell.
Orwell described how the Europe of 1984 was governed by a Ministry of Truth in which spin doctors explained how the war being waged by the Ministry of Peace was always going well.
They seek a way between truth and falsehood, between right and wrong.
If Europe goes along this path it will be widening its fissures both vertically and horizontally and I hope very much that we shall consider carefully before embarking on this road.
This ghost wants to say a few things about the presidency.
Firstly, the general consensus amongst informed opinion in Brussels is that the British presidency has been a bit of a damp squib: it has promised much but achieved little; and the Cardiff Summit was summed up by the Financial Times as being 'long in words but short on action' .
Why, therefore, have you blocked major social programmes, like the extension of the reduction of working time directive, the consultation directive, and why has your government led a considerable weakening of the acquired rights directive, passed overwhelmingly by this House two weeks ago, which seriously threatens many workers across Europe?
Mr Presidents, the conclusions of the Cardiff summit remain deliberately vague regarding the future of European institutions after enlargement.
If strengthening democratic legitimacy means giving pride of place to a more distant European democracy and hence one that is less vibrant than any national democracy, if absorbing the principle of subsidiarity means giving monarchic jurisdiction to the Commission and leaving nations with the crumbs of power, then of course the citizens will be confused.
If, however, reinforcing democratic legitimacy means reassessing the role of national parliaments, submitting the decisions of the Court of Justice to a right of appeal by the people or exercising better control over the Commission, for example by not allowing it to vote on spending decisions without a legal basis, as we spoke about earlier, if applying the principle of subsidiarity means reinstating national control over Europe and making Brussels a complacent service provider, then I believe that the European Union will have reached adulthood.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Cardiff summit failed to give an official opinion regarding the joint letter from Chancellor Kohl and President Chirac on the matter of subsidiarity.
Mr President, ten days ago in Luxembourg the European Union's Finance Ministers actually rejected the commitments requested by the Commission for a major improvement in the financial situation and substantially watered down and emptied the Waigel Plan of all meaning, a plan approved a month ago at the Summit in Brussels.
In a word, economic and social policy has been forgotten.
Cardiff is an ambitionless Summit that only seeks to identify the problems without proposing any solutions.
The Kohl and Chirac initiative has reopened old issues on points of discord like the decentralization of Community decisions or even institutional reforms.
To us it seems paradoxical that, at a time when the euro is an important factor of integration and the European Parliament's role seems to be growing stronger, a lot of Member States want a pause for reflection, warning about excessive decision-making powers.
The National Alliance wants a Europe that is closer to its citizens, a Europe that is resolute in tackling the problem of reform.
But a Europe of 25 or 30 States requires a very strong political - I repeat, political - mechanism to offset the effect of number and the heterogeneity of its components, because the vaster the territory the more political cohesion will be necessary to give direction.
We have witnessed an unenlightening Presidency, if we consider the goals that it has achieved only for the framework programme for research and development and the liberalisation of the gas and electricity market; it was a Presidency that was downright unilluminating when it decided to step aside at the decisive moment of the advancement of European construction to the single currency, giving of course its endorsement but comfortably preparing itself to adhere only when all the consequences are known.
Mr President, it was not so long ago that Britain was on the political margins of the European Union, often ignored, frequently seen as irrelevant, always complaining and whingeing, never being constructive.
Under the British presidency, as many people have mentioned, two achievements of enormous significance stand out: the agreement to launch the single European currency and the beginning of negotiations to enlarge the European Union.
The single currency has been established on a firm basis.
There is no doubt in my mind that the euro will emerge as a sound and stable currency.
The European Union has never been inward-looking and short-sighted.
I welcome the recognition that enlargement is essential for the wellbeing, stability and prosperity of all of Europe, both East and West.
The quality of our European workforce will be the single most important factor in determining our future competitiveness and therefore our future prosperity.
Now that the British presidency is concluding, all of us have a responsibility to ensure that issues such as employability, adaptability, equal opportunities, life-long learning and entrepreneurship are all taken forward and acted upon by all Member States.
Finally, I was delighted that the Cardiff Summit was a positive conclusion to the British presidency.
The summit confirmed the real progress of the past six months and has pointed a way to a new kind of European partnership.
Last weekend the Cardiff Summit was a landmark in Europe's development - important for Europe, important for Britain, important for Wales as well.
Mr President-in-Office, in the light of past experience I would like emphatically to acknowledge the willingness of the Council presidency to enter into intense discussion with the European Parliament.
For me one of the highlights of the British presidency was Mr Gordon Brown's statement to the European Parliament on 2 May.
And that is why, Mr Santer, it should be noted from the discussion on the agenda that the Commission is not only the engine of integration, but also very much a party in this affair.
Mr President, Cardiff and the British presidency have clearly provided some justification for those who always thought that a Europe wanting to exercise less centralized control and leave more to the sovereign states is a better Europe - a Europe which will be better understood by its citizens and one which will also find greater acceptance.
If nothing was resolved in Cardiff, at least the European Council should have recognized that the limits of feasibility have been reached when some are paying less, others receiving a lot and all are having to finance enlargement jointly - and all this without increasing the budget ceiling.
The British presidency has prepared the way for the Austrian presidency to solve a series of problems that it could not solve itself and which the Austrian presidency cannot solve if it continues with the prearranged and present course of action.
Europe needs a new direction which can again give the Member States more weight.
I learn that some think of the old deus ex machina of a senate of national parliamentarians to offset the democratic deficit.
I therefore commend the wisdom of the European Council in Cardiff, which stressed that the first priority is to ratify the Amsterdam Treaty.
But, clearly, the European Union has a problem in terms of political visibility.
The citizens fail to grasp European policy, but that is not an institutional problem, it is a political problem, a policy-related problem.
If, for example, the President of the Commission, who holds a distinguished political position in Europe, is appointed by the European Council after a secret conclave, based on a complex alchemy without public debate, how do you imagine the citizens feel involved?
This approach would result in a greater cohesion of political forces, a more serious contemplation of the future political programme of the Commission and a genuine political dimension for Europe.
The Amsterdam Treaty and the Luxembourg Extraordinary Summit highlighted objectives and guidelines for action for which the debate and the assessment of results require time.
In terms of foreign policy, Mr President, we regret the failure of the troika mission to Algeria, a country which is very close to our southern borders and which deserves special attention, as the entire Mediterranean region does.
And we must welcome the agreement reached in the context of the Transatlantic Summit, particularly the agreement on the legislation on extraterritorial effects which, in the case of the Helms-Burton Act, is subordinate to the amendment by the United States Congress of Title IV of that Act, without the agreement changing, of course, the European Union's perception of the nature and scope of that Act.
An important issue is that of employment, which received a strong impulse at the Luxembourg Extraordinary Summit chaired by Mr Junker.
And if this is complemented by an effort on the part of businesses to reinvest profits and, in a climate of social dialogue, to adapt labour organization and the needs of the market, we will be taking steps to ensure that citizens are aware that political decisions are moving in the right direction.
Finally, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is no real convergence without employment and there is no economic and social cohesion without solidarity and without collective economic and social effort.
We want a European Union which is not in the form of "marketing' but in the form of a free and competitive internal market where our young people, our women and all those who have a desire to work may move with freedom throughout a common economic and social territory.
Mr President, I would like as a German Member of Parliament to thank the President-in-Office in his capacity as the British Prime Minister for his tremendous involvement in the peace process in Northern Ireland.
I do so as a German MEP because I love Ireland and consider it one of my favourite holiday destinations.
Secondly, I would like to thank the Presidency - and especially the British one - for its involvement in the final steps towards monetary union, and I say as a German MEP: We want Britain inside of the currency union!
Finally, you want the citizens to have a say in the matter.
If you were to do that, you would very quickly gain the support of all European citizens in promoting an open, democratic and integrated Europe, which we all aspire to.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate Great Britain on a well carried out Presidency, which should also be seen in the light of having completed a start for EMU and a strong and successful commitment to peace in Northern Ireland.
This is no doubt a good thing for Europe.
The action plan to combat organized crime is gradually being implemented.
However, there are deficiencies too.
Europe's citizens want Europol to commence its work against organized crime.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, as many of the previous speakers have remarked, I too am obliged to describe the Cardiff Summit as something of a disappointment.
Not least the informal special summit to be held in October of this year in Melk on the issues of transparency and subsidiarity must serve to ensure that a much-cited and almost as often misinterpreted concept like subsidiarity is finally given the correct substance.
Subsidiarity is neither an aid to self-help nor an exclusive relationship between the European Union and the Member States, but rather the political principle that the larger unit should never assume responsibilities which can be successfully dealt with by the smaller unit.
When I read in the President's concluding statements about a Union closer to the citizens, I ask myself why the Cardiff Summit has failed to implement sufficiently the European Parliament's report on information policy from May of this year.
Of course Turkey must be quite free to conduct its own policy within Turkey and on a bilateral basis with other countries.
But when we are talking about the possibility of Turkey becoming a Member of the European Union we are obliged to take a much closer interest at the way in which it conducts its affairs.
In regard to human rights, he made brief reference - and there was not much time - to the progress made with China and I salute that.
However, I do regret very much what appears to be the sniping which has been going on, on the part perhaps of the Foreign Secretary, against the European Parliament in respect of the many resolutions we have adopted which we think are soundly based on human rights.
It is all too easy to pay lip service to human rights.
I have an article here from the Financial Times about an Amnesty International report which says that far too little attention is being paid to human rights issues in the 142 countries with which Amnesty is concerned.
I think we really must give this a lift up the agenda.
I should also like to say a word of thanks for everyone's comments on Northern Ireland.
He will know that one of the strange aspects of our debate in Cardiff about the future of Europe was my insistence that, although I believe strongly in the principle of subsidiarity, as I indicated in my speech, I believe that there are significant changes needed in the European Union to bring it closer to people.
The bad reason is when the Commission does the job the Commission is actually supposed to do: in making sure, for example, that the single European market is driven through and there is progress and change in Europe.
I should like to extend to Jacques Santer my own personal thanks for the cooperation and work of him and his colleagues throughout our six-months presidency.
I have indicated how we intend to take this process forward and resolve the legal base following the European Court of Justice's judgment.
That willingness to accept that it is in everyone's interests to get these issues sorted out is something that is good for the European Union as a whole.
Let us make one thing quite clear: these national action plans are the first time that governments have actually put together employment programmes - action to tackle social exclusion and unemployment - and agreed a process whereby those are going to be reviewed, evaluated and then further steps taken.
Jobs are one area where we can learn from each other and where action is essential to tackle the fundamental problems of social exclusion and long-term unemployment in our countries today.
Can I say to our colleague from the Green Party, who made some kind remarks but criticized us on the environment, our achievement in the Environment Council, concluded yesterday, represents a very significant step forward.
We never aim for perfection but it is progress. (Applause ) Can I say very gently to our colleague from the Scottish Nationalist Party that I support devolution in Scotland and decentralization within the UK very strongly.
I would like to say - in response to some of those who asked whether there was enough substance in the presidency - that what I find strange about this is that we launched monetary union and the process of enlargement.
Those are probably two of the most significant steps Europe has taken in its recent history.
Finally, can I say to colleagues about the other areas - in relation to the European social model and reform and change within Europe - I hope and believe that ultimately there are three main things that we have tried to do and achieve.
The first is, as I stated, to have launched monetary union and enlargement.
The third achievement of our presidency has been the dramatic transformation in my own country's relations with the European Union.
I hope that these three achievements mark a significant result for the British presidency.
But I hope more than that: that we can take on the arguments that we have developed during these past few months with confidence for the future.
It is right and it is the way that we will convince a new generation of people - younger people, who were sitting up there at the beginning of our debate, listening to what was happening in this European Parliament.
We have to persuade them that Europe means something to them.
We have to persuade them that Europe offers them a better future.
Conservatives want to be in Europe but not run by Europe, and especially not run by Socialists.
All three amendments proposed are identical.
I think that only one vote is needed because consensus in this House on this extremely sensitive issue is very important.
Mr President, I just wish to say that I agree with the rapporteur on the necessity of one vote on Amendments Nos 5, 6 and 14.
Paragraph 18: Mr President, there has been a slight mishap in paragraph 18 due to the vote in the Committee and the drawing together of the various votes, with the result that the sentence has become totally illogical.
All other texts are wrong as well and we have already distributed notice of this for clarification.
This is what the oral amendment is concerned with. (Parliament approved the oral amendment) (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, there is actually a procedural problem with the compromise submitted on Cardiff.
The services told us that these were incompatible and therefore we signed a compromise in which paragraphs 16 and 17 did not appear.
Hence I would ask you to keep to the procedure and remove paragraphs 16 and 17 from this resolution.
I was not consulted and I am not prepared to give my name to something which in reality is different from that which was first presented to me.
We have the same problem.
And you should know that we do not support those paragraphs of the resolution.
As you know, we have two separate resolutions on those issues.
The deadlines for the resolutions that are concerned specifically with Kosovo and the Middle East were concluded before we had the conclusions for the Cardiff Summit.
It was only later that, I have to say with full respect to the services of this House, they thoroughly confused everything by saying that these two paragraphs could not be included, and they removed them against the will of the political groups.
I regret the confusion and the fact that we got engaged in bureaucratic politics when it was clear there are new issues on Kosovo and the Middle East in the Cardiff Conclusions that should have been addressed, and are rightly addressed in this resolution.
As a way of trying to rectify the misunderstanding, we will vote separately on paragraphs 16 and 17.
The first is an invitation to the Council, relating to the administrative regulations and the second is an invitation to us, since we are seeking to introduce a different set of rules regarding our allowances.
I know that my request reverts to a call for a split vote, but I would remind you that Article 125 of the regulations stipulates that when there are two separate provisions in a particular amendment, this normally produces two different amendments.
I therefore think it would be logical if you could conduct two consecutive votes.
You might therefore accept this request for a split vote after time.
On Tuesday evening Commissioner Van Miert confirmed to this House that he would pursue his action against a violation of European Union law, and this amendment seeks to support him. (Parliament adopted the joint resolution) Mr President, I should like to ask the Commission for its position on the amendments.
Mr President, the Commission is obliged, for legal and institutional reasons, to reject all the amendments relating to the Tomlinson report.
However, as Vice-President Marin stated yesterday, the Commission will invoke the spirit of these amendments in its second modification of the regulations, scheduled for October 1998.
Mr President, in view of the fact that the Commission accepts our amendments in theory but rejects them in practice, which is an offence to this House, could I move, under Rule 60(2), that this matter be referred back to committee? (Parliament decided to refer the matter back to committee) I am pleased to note that this compromise has incorporated the proposals put forward by the Europe of Nations Group, seeking to convene twelve sittings in the year, reduced to eleven on this occasion because of the elections.
However, in order to comply fully with the Edinburgh agreements, the draft Amsterdam Treaty and the decisions of the Court of Justice, this draft timetable should not have included the organization of mini-sittings in Brussels.
Cunha report (A4-0219/98) This report contains many good points of view, but basically, it expresses a disinclination towards reform of the common agricultural policy.
In the proposal to the report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development there is, for example, opposition to abolishing the system of intervention for beef and olive oil.
It is our opinion that a thorough reform and deregulation of the common agricultural policy will have to take place in 1999.
The budget for the agricultural policy is the largest in the European Union.
Consequently, it is quite normal and desirable that the European Parliament should contribute to it with respect to its major guidelines.
It is not a question of bringing to the fore the negative results following the implementation of the reform in 1992, but rather of establishing a consistent and clear framework regarding European policy guidelines for agriculture, within the context of Agenda 2000.
Our agriculture is a creature of diversity, it is also a vital trump card, not only when we are confronted with outside competition, but even more to protect and preserve a balanced environment.
It seems to me to be important to take account of this latter factor in the future system of Community financing.
In the interest of future generations, we must be able to allow two different types of agriculture to co-exist and it is essential that the Commission should make allowance in its regulations for these two aspects of country life.
However, we cannot adopt high principles of a generous nature indefinitely and, as has often been the case, leave it at that.
I would like to indicate my total opposition to the proposals in Agenda 2000 relating to the reform of the CAP.
Furthermore, the proposed price cuts without full compensation would have a devastating impact on Irish farming in particular and the Irish economy in general.
Nonetheless I welcome the rapporteur's support for the principles of Community preference, financial solidarity and a single market, and his warnings about price cuts.
Our vote is based on the following principles: Agricultural prices in the EU should and must come closer to prices in the world market.
This report, as presented to us today, following the vote by the Committee on Agriculture, is not particularly notable for its consistency.
An initial raft of amendments tabled by our group therefore raises yet again the fact that the Commission proposal, in its Agenda 2000 report, is inadmissible, not only because of the unacceptable nature of a price reduction across the board, but also because of the risks of a distorted sense of competition that would follow from a rampant re-nationalization of the CAP, fervently sought by many Member States, and from a suicidal anticipation of the results of future WTO negotiations, which begin in December 1999, at the instigation of the United States and the Cairns Group.
The other amendments we have tabled remind us of the fact that agriculture has an economic purpose and it is the linchpin around which the rural world is organized.
We must at all cost brush aside the fads and fantasies of those who envisage a rural world in which agriculture plays only a marginal role.
This is why we need to upgrade products in the production areas themselves, so as to support economic activity in our regions.
A general lowering of agricultural production would bring about a de facto drop in business, both upstream and downstream of the agricultural sector.
I am glad to see that the arguments of the British presidency for reform of the common agricultural policy are echoed in these Commission proposals.
The new rural policy ideas which accompany this proposal are a step in this Green direction.
In other words, I consider it important that the primary sector should benefit from European support as part of the effort to safeguard regional planning and the rural world, rejecting ideas, that are frequent, of abandoning farming in numerous regions.
The policy of reducing prices with a view to stimulating competitiveness and expanding external outlets in addition to increasing the involvement of European agriculture in the development of the world market must be offset by an increase in direct aid in order to safeguard producers' income.
The expected growth in world demand for agri-food products, if approached in the right way, could actually mean for European regions that are primarily agricultural - mainly concentrated in the South - an increase in their power to control the internal and external market, with considerable effects on employment.
In this respect, I consider it fundamental that we develop a more decentralized model that enables Member States and, when necessary, the local authorities, to solve most of their problems independently, in the light of the specific local features that distinguish the European agricultural economy.
The future of European farmers and the safeguarding of their interests will depend on the will of those at the top to develop an agriculture that takes account of differences in production, environment and landscape and that ensures the continuation of living and active rural communities able to generate sustainable employment compatible with their area's needs.
Schroedter report (A4-0210/98) Unfortunately the Berend amendment to the Cañete report attempted to establish a link between EMU participation and eligibility under the Cohesion Fund.
The vote on this amendment was surrounded by a fair amount of confusion in part created by the Chair.
For these reasons I have supported Amendment Nos 5, 6, 14 and 25.
The English language text mistranslates this to GDP.
It is for this reason that I approve of the rapporteur's implicit wish to incorporate the objectives of the Treaty in the Structural Funds reform (on-going development, jobs, support for SMEs, innovation, the use of new technologies, welfare protection, equal opportunities and the environment).
The Structural Funds must remain a European capital gain for the Member States.
As regards the rest, I support our rapporteur and the compromise amendments that secured a unanimous vote to adopt the report from the Committee on Regional Policy and I would remind you that Parliament has already expressed its opinion on economic and social cohesion within the context of Agenda 2000 when adopting Mrs Izquierdo's report.
I fully agree with the report's conclusions on the continuation of priority aid to regions covered by Objective 1, and the splitting of Objective 2 into an urban/industrial and rural/fishing category; the extension of the staging period envisaged for Objectives 1 and 2, Objective 5b and, finally, the reservations expressed regarding the viability of the 10 % reservation system.
Finally, I am pleased to note that the European Parliament continues to remind us, both during this legislative session and again in the report, of the importance of the role of the regions in generating, managing and implementing the Structural Funds.
As members of the European Parliament, we should also seek to make a more active contribution to the deployment of the Structural Funds in our region (for example, through mandatory participation in the monitoring committees and in future management committees of the members of the European Parliament).
I have voted in favour of the report.
The Structural Funds, planned for the period 2000-2006, will be organized around three objectives.
The first two objectives are quite different from the third.
They will concentrate their actions on less-privileged areas where economic and social development is appreciably below the average for other areas of Europe, either because they are disadvantaged, or because they require redevelopment.
Clearly, Objective 3 supports the actions decided at the summits in Luxembourg and Cardiff (national plans).
The development of human resources must play a central role in the European and national strategies to promote jobs.
Unfortunately Agenda 2000 does not satisfy the demands of the people of Europe for growth, full employment, improvement in living standards and real convergence.
However, it is certain that the people of Europe, both in the EU Member States and in the enlargement States, will build their own resistance front and will reject these plans.
Negotiations between national governments and the European Commission are under way with regard to the breakdown of the next round of EU Structural Funds for the period 2000-2006.
Figures published from the Central Statistics Office have reinforced the arguments that I am making today as these figures clearly demonstrate that the average standard of living in the border county region and the west of Ireland is below 75 % of the EU average.
Objective 1 status entitles regions to the maximum amount of EU regional, social, agricultural and fisheries funds and it plays a very constructive and positive role in redressing regional imbalances and ensures that economic performance increases within regions in the EU which are lagging behind the rest of Europe in terms of their standards of living.
If the EU is serious about promoting the principle of economic and social cohesion within the EU then the border county region and the west of Ireland will be given Objective 1 status post-1999.
I welcome the main lines of the Schroedter report on economic and social cohesion in the context of the Agenda 2000 proposals.
The Structural Funds have been one of the success stories of the European Union.
I very much welcome the Commissioner's proposal to renew the Cohesion Fund for the four countries - Spain, Portugal, Greece and Ireland - that currently benefit from this facility.
The continuation of the Cohesion Fund is essential to Ireland and the other cohesion countries in the pursuit of this aim.
Finally, I hope the Commission will come forward soon with its detailed proposals on the revision of the Structural Funds.
The Schroedter report, which we support, is a first step towards meeting the challenges Europe will be facing in the next ten years, chief among which are those of economic and social cohesion and enlargement.
These are two fundamental objectives for the European Union, which cannot be mutually contradictory or prejudicial.
Enlargement will bring in nations which are historically European and will strengthen the European Union's position in the world; but failure to achieve economic and social cohesion may cause cracks that will jeopardize the whole process of European construction.
Structural Funds for cohesion countries are not merely a matter of philanthropy, but are also in the interests of the richer countries.
In Portugal, according to some studies, approximately 60 % of Structural Funds return to the richer countries of Europe in the form of services, technology and equipment.
In our opinion it would be unfair if Objective 1 countries which meet the convergence criteria can be penalized for the enormous effort they have made.
It is important to remember that those countries are a long way from achieving the real thing - genuine convergence.
We have abstained from voting on the report on Economic and Social Cohesion pursuant to Agenda 2000.
A reform of the Structural Funds is essential.
This report has been much improved upon through amendment in committee although I still think it could have been further improved before reaching the plenary session.
Nevertheless, it is a reasonable contribution to the EU's work to ensure that all regions enjoy the potential to develop socially and economically.
It is difficult to tell constituents in Northern Ireland, for example, that the EU is determined to bring all regions up to the same level, while also having to explain that the Commission thinks that a fundamental part of the financial support to achieve this should be removed.
I again urge reconsideration of the rigid adherence to the 75 % of GDP criteria.
We think it inconsistent, to say the least, to continue to discuss economic and social cohesion, whether for a 15-nation European Union or for an enlarged Union, without first keeping in mind the need to ensure that the Community budget is provided with the necessary and sufficient funds to satisfy in full the requirements of real convergence, that is to say that it should make a genuine contribution to economic and social cohesion.
We therefore consider it of fundamental importance that some alternatives should be presented that would give the report on the chapter on economic and social cohesion in Agenda 2000 the consistency required by some of its proposals in favour of cohesion, which, without the necessary clarification and financial framework, are at risk of becoming mere figures of speech.
That wording insists on rules that are even more timid than the text of Agenda 2000; once again it imposes rules that postpone decision-making and prevent discussion and clarification (by the complete subordination of the EP to the will of the present and future German Parliament); it imposes rules which, objectively speaking, are only in the interests of those who do not want to renew the Cohesion Fund in its present form but, on the contrary, are trying to relegate economic and social cohesion to a secondary role, totally subordinate to the domination of financial interests.
The future of economic and social cohesion between the regions and the countries of the European Union may depend on the future we want to provide for the Cohesion Fund.
Therefore, like the European Commission, we are in favour of maintaining the Cohesion Fund for those countries which form part of Economic and Monetary Union and which fulfill the requirements demanded in this respect by the Treaty.
Doing away with the Cohesion Fund from the year 2000 for those countries which form part of the euro group would only serve to harm, cancel or invalidate all the efforts and progress which have been made over the years, for the sake of a convergence which is not only nominal but real, thus endangering the Stability and Growth Pact.
I believe that these reasons are more than sufficient for us to continue to respect solidarity and the spirit contained in the Treaty and to support the maintenance of a Cohesion Fund which provides nothing more than a common advantage for everyone, and hence an advantage for the entire European Union.
In addition, the rapporteur exaggerates the "cornerstone' contribution of the structural policy in terms of combatting unemployment.
We have in the end voted against the Schroedter report.
The risk of Member States being forced to increase their budget expenditure is obvious.
The solution rests primarily in transferring decisions on regional and structural policies to the national level.
I back the aims of the Commission in their plans for regional funding after the EU takes in new member countries from the East.
Better targeting towards the poorest regions, cuts in red tape faced by local authorities in applying for European money and taking more decisions at national and regional level are all welcome reforms.
Regions as such are neither wealthy nor poor - individual people and local areas are and people's needs should be the basis for funding.
Cardiff European Council In paragraph 3 the intention is expressed that the Union be brought closer to its citizens.
The joint Franco-German letter addressed to the President of the European Council, on the eve of the summit in Cardiff, which was intended to raise the problem of subsidiarity in view of an imminent reform of the European institutions, is often presented by the federalists as a side-effect of the electoral rhetoric of Chancellor Kohl.
This principle would sidestep the risk of a "centrally-organized' Europe and allow us to "respect the spirit of local, regional or national needs in decisionmaking' .
The AFP communique of 15 June, reporting on the resolutions of the French delegation to Cardiff, sums up the situation neatly by revealing that subsidiarity is a decentralizing philosophy.
Similarly, we appreciate the fact that the European institutions are considerate enough, when they make decisions, to allow for our "local, regional or national needs' , but we would be even more delighted if we could make our own decisions, either directly or in our national representative bodies.
In our view, it is certainly not Brussels that "decentralizes' powers for the benefit of individual nation states.
Any attempt to have fundamental decisions made at the remotest point, that is, Brussels, actually means removing powers from a near and living democracy in order to transfer them to an artificial, distant democracy.
In reality, it is an outrageous attack on democracy.
The letter from Chancellor Kohl and President Chirac shows that the hard core of Europe wants to mark time: no further steps on the way to a federal Europe.
In addition, the powers of the European Commission must be curbed in order to close the gap between the citizens and the EU.
Nevertheless, we have voted for the joint resolution, as we had no sufficient reason to vote against the little it contained.
So, the question of unemployment has virtually disappeared, body and soul, and, because the issue was not debated, our leaders failed to reach agreement on all but what had been agreed before.
We might also question the risks inherent in enlargement under existing conditions and the first steps forward which have been made in this direction.
In common with all presidencies, the UK presidency has had its successes and its failures.
The UK needs the European Union and the European Union needs the UK.
Furthermore, it is vitally important for Anglo-Irish relations that both Ireland and the UK pursue common European objectives.
Finally, I would also like to record my support for Amendment No 7 tabled by the ELDR.
I have, therefore, voted against it in the final vote.
I have voted against the Amendment on a common statute for Members of the European Parliament.
The FPÖ is voting against paragraph 1 since rapid enlargement of the Union does not seem expedient given the current state of preparation.
As regards Amendment No 7 (new paragraph 19a), this amendment puts forward the right idea, the essential idea of ending discrimination on the basis of nationality.
By changing camp, by reversing the traditional British position, by betraying your own fishermen and those of other Member States, bar one, by aligning yourself as an accomplice in a monopolistic thrust, by flouting the principles of the common fisheries policy, by ridiculing the principle of fair play, you have committed a crime and assumed a historic responsibility.
Of course, the problem of driftnets is not central in terms of the future of Europe.
But the manner in which it has been dealt with reveals the particular way in which the construction of Europe is conceived: a way that our fellow citizens wholly reject, because it is building a Europe that is hostile to Europeans.
Certainly when you consider that the interests of commercialization prevail over the interests of the protection of the public health in both a physical and a mental sense.
The approved amendment to point 6 is a political signal to the Commission to consider separate legislation to guarantee that the above mentioned points are covered.
Camisón Asensio report (A4-0221/98) I am pleased to note the speed at which our European institutions have reacted to a dossier of "high strategic value' .
Needless to say, I support the amendments which recognize not only the lesser-populated regions but also the total compatibility between the GSM and the UMTS systems.
However, I believe we still have a long way to go in improving our position in the field of new information technologies, especially with regard to high-speed Internet connections.
It would be ideal if we could "mobilize' ourselves in the same way on other subjects.
The success of the GSM mobile phone system over the past few years can be partially attributed to the rapid response of Europe in implementing an early policy of standardization.
By acting in a similar fashion with the third generation of mobile phones, the promotion of common rules and standards can once again ensure a speedy deployment of networks and services with the new UMTS system.
While the UMTS system will not be readily available until the beginning of the next century, prior planning and a Europewide coordination of policies such as licensing procedures can help smooth the transition from the GSM system to this new technology.
The Commission's proposal and report are in the main good.
The new system, UMTS, must be given better coverage in rural areas.
I would also hope that in future the Commission would also address the problem of the significant difference in the price of cars throughout the different Member States.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted against the Watson report.
We oppose the Commission's proposal for the following reasons: The Commission's proposal implies, inter alia, that a citizen of one Member State who resides in another Member State for more than six months may bring a vehicle home without having to pay a registration fee in the home country if he or she has paid the registration fee required for the vehicle in the country in which it was acquired.
The proposal would put a great deal of pressure on EU countries that have a registration fee.
Parliament voted today on a proposed Directive on governing the tax treatment of private motor vehicles moved permanently to another Member State in connection with a transfer of residence or used temporarily in a Member State other than that in which they are registered.
This proposal is of particular significance for Finland and Denmark, two countries with high charges before cars are allowed to be brought into use.
That is why the Commission has submitted an official complaint to Finland for offending against Article 95 in the Basic Treaty, which ultimately can lead to Finland being brought before the European Court of Justice.
I know that people have in the past been encouraged to get on their bike and look for work, but if you are going to work in another country you should be able to drive your own motor vehicle there without being taxed a second time.
Our answer must not be in the same Pavlovian vein.
The regional security situation and the bilateral problems in the two countries should become the subject of an international conference.
Mr President, on behalf of my group I should like to say that the nuclear tests carried out by India and Pakistan in May are a serious threat to regional and global security.
While more needs to be done to implement the terms of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty by existing nuclear states, further nuclear tests can only lead to global insecurity and the risk of nuclear war.
The European Union and the United States have rightly applied political and limited economic sanctions against India and Pakistan.
Nor should India and Pakistan export nuclear technology or continue to develop and deploy nuclear weapons.
EU Member States should ensure that neither country's nuclear programme is assisted by European equipment or know-how.
This problem has persisted for too long and lies at the heart of the hostility and suspicion between New Delhi and Islamabad.
There is an urgent need for confidence-building measures between India and Pakistan and for jaw-jaw, not war-war.
Mr President, we all have to totally condemn the nuclear testing by both Pakistan and India, but we also have to look to ourselves - the responsibilities that the European Union holds and the fact that France, not so very long ago, carried out its nuclear tests despite opposition from right round the world.
All of the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council have to accept responsibility for the present situation.
The nuclear five blocked all agreement on even small moves on nuclear disarmament at the NPT Treaty Prepcom meeting in Geneva.
Also, bearing mind that our own Irish Minister, David Andrews, has launched a campaign for a nuclear-weaponsfree world, backed by one other Member State of the European Union, it is also important that other Member States of the European Union back David Andrews on this initiative to get rid of nuclear weapons totally.
The UN General Assembly meeting back in January 1946, in its first resolution, unanimously called for a commission to make proposals for the elimination from national armaments of atomic weapons and all major weapons of mass destruction.
Two Member States within the European Union - Britain and France - bear a huge amount of the responsibility for that.
It is about time that they, along with other countries throughout the world, got rid of their nuclear arsenals.
Madam Commissioner, Mr President, Pakistan wasted no time in responding to the Indian nuclear tests, thereby reviving the spectre of atomic war.
Of course the risks for Asia are immense, but they are too for the security of the world as a whole.
To prevent other States with a similar capability following the example of these countries, we must take urgent steps to ban tests totally once and for all - including laboratory tests, which some nuclear powers continue to conduct - and to eliminate all nuclear arms and weapons of mass destruction.
In order to promote the success of this campaign, I support the proposal of the Japanese government to create an international forum which, for obvious symbolic reasons, would hold its first meeting in Hiroshima and which would seek to define ways of ridding the planet of all nuclear weapons forever.
Mr President, I want to say to the Commission that, in my view, any talk of imposition of sanctions on the peoples of the Indian sub-continent in response to the recent testing of nuclear weapons would be wrong.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, five underground nuclear tests by the Indians in Rajastan were answered by six nuclear tests by the Pakistanis in Baluchistan.
But China, too, should adopt a more conciliatory attitude in this particularly vulnerable region.
Every effort must be made to re-establish dialogue and it is for this reason that I commend the initiative of the Council in organizing a regional summit on security in Asia.
The Union earnestly urges India and Pakistan to sign and ratify the nuclear test ban treaty and the non-proliferation treaty unconditionally.
Mr President, one cannot but lament the inconceivable - that eleven nuclear tests have been detonated in India and Pakistan.
In Southern India military expenditure has increased by 25 per cent in the last ten years.
Moreover, the new Government in India has now proposed an increased budget expenditure of 100 % over the next five years.
It seems to me that all these war scenarios are old hat, outdated, congruent with the Cold War.
There is a problem of national pride - Pakistan's Prime Minister said that he had to give in to public opinion - and there is perhaps also the problem of dissuasion.
It is, of course, scandalous that the present nuclear powers have not done enough to reduce their own arms manufacture and their own stock of arms.
This leads other countries to believe that the possession of nuclear arms means an important increase in status.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of this House, the nuclear escalation in Southern Asia has major political and geo-strategic consequences which some of you have already outlined.
It revives the question of the non-proliferation policy and the risk of contamination for other countries.
The objectives of the European Union are, firstly, to restore the credibility of the non-proliferation system, to obtain the ratification by India and Pakistan of the non-proliferation pact and the CTBT, in other words the Complete Test Ban Treaty , in order to re-establish a substantial dialogue between India and Pakistan and especially to find an acceptable solution to the Kashmir problem, which represents an explosive situation in Indo-Pakistan rivalry.
In this regard India, which until today had been on the point of opening up dialogue on the conflict, committed a major error.
We should then support the creation of regional security procedures which, until now, unlike other regions in the world -and I am thinking here of the ASEAN - have been sadly deficient.
We need to set up a positive dynamic enabling not only these countries but also the international community to escape the treadmill.
The European Commission is ready to contribute to the international community's efforts to seek and implement initiatives aimed at increasing regional stability and halting nuclear proliferation.
No, as I just said, there is no question of sanctions, we must simply continue the dialogue with these countries in the most effective way possible.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
A military solution cannot be a durable one.
Mr President, I was in Ethiopia and Eritrea just a few weeks ago, and I met both the Prime Minister of Ethiopia and the President of Eritrea, along with many other politicians and people.
I find it absolutely unbelievable that these two countries could find themselves in this particular border conflict.
When you consider that, of the 175 countries in the world on the UN index of human development, both Ethiopia and Eritrea are in the bottom five, and that this conflict will lead not only to much greater poverty in both countries but to far greater instability in the entire region, we have to call on both countries to pull back from the brink of war and engage in talks.
I call on the European Union to do everything in its power to make sure that we see a peaceful resolution to what I have described as both a tragic and a pointless conflict.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, the President of Eritrea recently replied, when asked about the reasons behind what had happened, with a very simple statement: "It is very difficult to give an easy answer' .
And one of the points in our motion for a resolution underlines the fact that the Council has limited itself to uttering fine words of condemnation and has not even taken part in the efforts aimed at negotiation which should bring an end to the hostilities.
As we know, it is the United States, Rwanda and the OAU which have intervened.
Mr President, this conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea has surprised and disturbed us all.
Those affected are first and foremost the people in this region.
Border conflicts of this kind are often the expression of internal political conflicts and differences, in both Ethiopia and Eritrea.
We talk about the peace plans in paragraph 1, we talk about the OAU and the Council of this Union in paragraph 3, and in paragraph 5 we ask that the resolution be transmitted to Rwanda and the United States.
The eagle-eyed amongst you might wonder: why these two countries?
The parties, too, have accepted the mediation put forward by these two countries and agreed by the OAU and I think that this House would want to support that, to get a speedy end to the conflict.
Mr President, as has already been said, this conflict is serious not only because of the military and civilian victims and the destruction in what are already poor countries but because it has damaged a relationship of collaboration and friendship between two States that seemed strong and weakened a relationship that could have become a model in Africa of stability and cooperation without fanaticism.
The European Union must demonstrate here too that it wants an international role and that it wants a foreign and security policy.
Mr President, along with Tony Cunningham, I recently had the opportunity to visit both of these countries.
I hope that we can amend a resolution orally to bring it up to date and to make sure the Council and Commission continue to exert pressure on the two potential combatants.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen Members of this House, the Commission is extremely preoccupied by the recent military confrontations which have occurred on the border between Eritrea and Ethiopia.
It strongly urges the two countries not to resort to violence, to cease all hostilities and to resume negotiations.
It stresses the need to resolve the conflict peacefully.
It commends and encourages the efforts of the United States, Rwanda and Italy and, indeed, any other national or regional organization seeking to ease the situation and offering a conciliation procedure with a view to finding a peaceful solution to the current crisis.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Moratorium on the death penalty Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank all the other groups, without exception, who have supported this resolution - which is not the umpteenth resolution on the question of the death penalty, I think it is important to stress this.
The resolution has a quite precise goal: it urges the Council to assign to the future presidency - the Austrian presidency - the responsibility for coordinating Union initiatives within the United Nations General Assembly to ensure that the question of the moratorium is finally put on the agenda with some chance of success.
The resolution seeks to encompass an objective in international law that many Members of the European Parliament have shared for a long time, in other words the abolition of the death penalty and, at all events, an initial step towards the final abolition of capital punishment.
Approximately 90 states have already shown themselves to be in favour of a yes to the moratorium through the votes submitted to the Council, to the Committee on Human Rights last year and again, this year, in Geneva.
I think that Parliament, by extending a specific invitation to the Council and the Commission to take this cause, might, yet again, provide the finishing touches which could well be decisive.
While Great Britain was governed by the Tories, there was opposition to capital punishment becoming a joint concern for the European Union.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, the European Convention on Human Rights with the protocol abolishing the death penalty belongs to the legal bases of the European Union.
A genuine life sentence is in most cases surely the more humane solution, while also the stiffer penalty.
That is why I am very happy that this resolution will hopefully be adopted today by the European Parliament without amendment and without any fuss.
This is very much in keeping with the activities of our Parliament, even though I would be especially pleased if we could finally address the question of the death penalty on the basis of a clearly defined moratorium without the customary deviousness so often found.
Even if only one innocent person had been executed, this universal moratorium and the abolition of the death penalty would still be worth fighting for.
However, dozens of innocent people have been executed and so it is unacceptable that at the end of this century the death penalty has still not been abolished.
We are going to go on to discuss Guinea and the 15 people there who are condemned to death and who have not had the remotest possibility of having an adequate defence.
We therefore support the position of our colleague, Mr Manisco, who has resigned from the Delegation for relations with the United States due to the fact that the next meeting will take place in Texas, a state which has the dubious honour of having executed 10 people since March.
The problem in our continent, in Europe, is, of course, not the death penalty, rather the problem is the reverse.
We might say, perhaps controversially - but accurately, that the death penalty for these multiple recidivist monsters might have saved the lives of many children.
But we cannot limit ourselves to a passive condemnation; instead we must adopt an active attitude faced with these facts and faced, in particular, with these death sentences.
Therefore, we must also use all our authority to request that the death sentences be commuted and that in this connection a fair retrial be staged.
It is only in this way, by responding vigorously to the government of Equatorial Guinea, that we will help the people of that country to regain their freedom and their dignity and the European Union to regain its own credibility in the eyes of the world.
In this connection, an accusation has also been made against the members of the Bubi ethnic minority, who live in one part of the territory of Equatorial Guinea.
This process which has taken place in Equatorial Guinea has not had minimum guarantees, and the proof of this is that certain Western journalists have been expelled from the country because possibly the information they were providing did not satisfy those in power.
Mr President, unfortunately this is not the first time that Parliament has had to give its opinion concerning events in Equatorial Guinea.
Not long ago, this very Parliament also denounced similar situations involving a lack of democracy and respect for human rights, and the European Union's cooperation with this country was suspended.
However, it is also true that the Malabo regime has always been very good at making false promises and, on many occasions, at convincing Western authorities with its fallacies.
It even managed to convince the French government of its desire for democracy and to convince Commissioner Pinheiro and President Santer himself to show signs of comprehension by lifting the sanctions which this Parliament had promoted.
Now we see that the actions of the Commissioner and the President of the Commission were somewhat hasty in that they were not supported by this House.
We are now witnessing a Kafkaesque situation where 16 people have been condemned to death; fortunately, the sentences have not been carried out, but the accused are left like hostages of that very regime.
Mr President, immediately after demanding a moratorium on executions, we are faced with yet another reason to deplore capital punishment, in the form of the 15 death sentences that have just been pronounced in Equatorial Guinea.
But, on reflection, is it enough simply to protest from a sort of moral standpoint, or even to suspend a meagre allocation of development aid for that country?
Mr President, the people of Equatorial Guinea have been suffering under dictatorships for 30 years.
In fact, the European Union has introduced the democratic clause as an important instrument in its relations with all other countries in order to give an example, in comparison to other powers, of our unmistakable desire to help establish a different international order.
In a farcical trial, 15 people have been sentenced to death in Equatorial Guinea and 117 people have been judged and also given varying sentences, in addition to being tortured.
The European Union can still carry out actions and make gestures to save the lives of these people and to help ensure that a regime which provides all democratic guarantees is established in Equatorial Guinea.
So, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I ask that we support this resolution which will help to save these lives and establish democracy in Equatorial Guinea.
But there are governments which should adopt a positive attitude to counteract the multinational economic interests present in Equatorial Guinea, which are those that, at the moment, form the foundation of the dictator President Teodor Obiang's position.
Because we are convinced that we must continue and persist in making sure that the defence of one of the most enduring and difficult of causes, that of democracy and human rights, is not forgotten, in order to provide an indisputable political basis of international solidarity to find a peaceful solution to the problem of East Timor.
For that reason, because everything can still be resolved democratically and without further unnecessary violence, the signatories to all the motions acknowledge that the first condition for resolving the problem is the release of the historic Timorean leader, Xanana Gusmão.
The new President of Indonesia has begun to release political prisoners and, for the first time, the Government of Indonesia is prepared to accept a solution for Timor within a framework and laws that respect Timor's interests.
The international community, and especially the United States, are including Timor in their political agenda, and I am delighted to say that the Cardiff European Council Summit touched on the subject of Timor, taking a position by declaring that a just and internationally acceptable solution must be found.
Xanana Gusmão is a political prisoner who must be released, and his release would be an important political signal.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Portugal and the Portuguese Members of the European Parliament are under a political and moral obligation, for both historical and current reasons, to insist that the European Parliament call for full compliance with United Nation resolutions, and the observance of international law and human rights in East Timor.
We are delighted with the position adopted by the Council in Cardiff in relation to the problem of East Timor and we ask the European Parliament to confirm that position of condemnation of the present Indonesian Government.
Madam President, the heroic resistance of the people of East Timor against military occupation has become one with the Indonesian people's fight against dictatorship.
The dictator has fallen.
For our part, we need only maintain that pressure which has forced the European Parliament to exert pressure of its own.
Where we have respect for international law and the right to self-determination which is, and continues to be, the central issue.
Madam President, probably nowhere else in the world since 1965 has a greater proportion of the population been killed or suffered flagrant human rights violations at the hands of the authorities than in some of the territories under Indonesian rule.
It is vital for the President to take immediate action to resolve issues which could trigger off clashes, perhaps directed against the Chinese, who have already been victims.
This means immediately releasing all political prisoners, especially Xanana Gusmão in East Timor, and recognizing the right of the East Timorese people to self-determination.
In the dire economic crisis the dangers of an appalling catastrophe are considerable, but without extensive political change they will be much greater.
Madam President, finally there is a chance for renewal and democratization in Indonesia.
The present release of fifteen East Timor political prisoners sends another positive signal.
We now have an opportunity to arrive at a durable solution to this lingering conflict in East Timor.
The promises of the new President, Mr Habibie, in regard of a special charter for East Timor are welcome but they do not go far enough.
Madam President, the democratic forces in Indonesia have managed to oust the dictator Suharto.
But this political breakthrough remains limited and the freeing of political prisoners is relative, since it does not include the communist prisoners condemned to death in 1965 by Suharto and those who have been sentenced for their opposition to the occupation of East Timor.
Our group offers its total support for the democratic forces in their fight for genuine economic and political change, fragmenting the economic and financial power of the Suharto clan and responding to the needs of the people.
We also demand the organization of free, democratic elections and the release of all political prisoners, without exception, especially those who have been in death row for 32 years and who originate from East Timor, such as Gusmão.
I am pleased to see that this proposal from our group has been incorporated in the joint resolution and by the European Council on 15 and 16 June in Cardiff, calling for the release of all political prisoners.
Madam President, the people of East Timor have had the unreserved support of the European Parliament.
Madam President, it is clear that the real objective here is the removal of the Indonesians from the occupied territory of East Timor and the East Timorese right to self-determination.
But the East Timorese resistance leaders are still in prison.
It is quite clear that they were wrongfully imprisoned in the first place: they were fighting for self-determination, their human rights have been abused over and over again, and they have to be released, because they have spent a long time in prison for no real reason other than asserting the right to self-determination.
But it is clear that considerable problems have been created in certain regions in Chad, as it would seem that whole villages are displaced by this project and people are losing their place of residence.
Madam President, we have often debated human rights violations in Chad.
This year, in March, 100 civilians or village elders were massacred by the military.
A member of the Chad Parliament was supposed to deliver a speech on the oil project in Dobabecken at 9.30 a.m.
He has been in custody since 3 June simply because he criticized this project.
The project provides for 300 oil wells in the south of Chad, a 170 km long pipeline in Chad and a 700 km pipeline in Cameroon.
The World Bank has earmarked some 55 million US dollars for Chad and 58 million for Cameroon and claims it is creating jobs. 4, 000 jobs in a region where 28, 000 live off a subsistence economy cannot be real jobs for the region.
We ask both the World Bank and the EU, along with Shell, Exxon and Elf, to reconsider this project and only to continue with it once a situation which respects human beings is guaranteed.
We must use the facilities provided by the Lomé Convention and all the means of pressure that can be exerted by the Commission, and also by our international audience, to demand that the government of Chad release those imprisoned and obtain from the companies involved a commitment to subject their projects to a genuinely democratic inspection.
Madam President, over a year ago I spoke in this House to expose the flagrant disregard for human rights in Chad, a country marked by thirty years of war and aggression.
The opposition member Yorongar has been arrested for the same reasons.
The government of Chad must realize that it cannot pursue this policy of repression with impunity.
It must also stop military activities in the south.
Pakistan would like to be respected as a modern nation, yet seems to ignore elementary rules of law.
But the Muslims who demonstrated in favour of the law were left in peace, while the Christians who protested against the law strangely enough were manhandled by the riot police.
The Pakistan government should ensure in any case that all citizens in their country are granted a fair judicial process.
The cooperation agreement between the European Union and Pakistan, which is presently under preparation by the European Commission, speaks of respect for human rights and democratic principles as the basis for the agreement.
Cooperation between the European Union and Pakistan can continue if Pakistan meets these conditions.
The European Commission must not maintain good relations with a country where religious minorities are systematically oppressed and discriminated against.
Madam President, I would like to endorse this.
The evil is not just caused by state religions, but also by a misunderstood fundamentalism, which for example takes advantage of a blasphemy law that is fiercely applied.
In Pakistan this evil is virulent and has become apparent through the death of the Catholic bishop John Joseph, but the situation in Pakistan was also the subject of a working party at the Conference of the German Catholic Church last week, and without anyone suspecting what would happen.
We would like to express to the Pakistan government our grave concern, before the currently postponed, yet still imminent consultation of the European Parliament on the cooperation agreement.
We would like to support all efforts to create the laws in such a way that human rights, democratic endeavour and law and order are guaranteed and religious freedom is provided for all who want to live in peace in their country.
Might I also remind you that the founder of Pakistan, Mohammed Ali Jinnah, supported the idea of equality for all religions.
I hope that modern Pakistan will take this to heart.
Madam President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to welcome this resolution.
I know that my colleague Anita Pollack, under the auspices of the South-east Asia Delegation, has raised this issue on a number of occasions during visits and delegation meetings with officials from and in Pakistan.
His reply then was, ' Look, we have this vast population, several million people, and you are only able to bring up six cases' .
But over the last 12 months it has become abundantly clear that Section 295© of the Pakistan penal code, which provides for the death penalty, is being misused: often to settle family feuds; often on very dubious legal bases with just four witnesses; and it is often being used to persecute not just the Christians but the other minority groups in Pakistan.
Some of the reports of what happens when these cases are brought to court are quite horrifying.
So we face a serious situation.
Next month we will be looking at the Oostlander report on Muslim fundamentalism.
I would hope that, when this Parliament looks at those two reports, we act in a sensitive manner and make sure that we do not pass any resolution or any proclamation that can be used as evidence that here, in the European Union, we are anything other than an example, a shining beacon to the world of religious tolerance.
Madam President, since the blasphemy law of 1986, religious minorities in Pakistan, such as the Christians and Amadi Muslims, have had their civil rights curtailed.
The Sharia law of 1991 only applies to Muslims and justifies attacks on dissenters, while women - and here it is particularly non-Muslim women who are badly affected by fundamentalist politics - are completely ostracized socially.
We expect from Pakistan that it finds its way back to the vision of its founding father, Mohammed Ali Jinnah, and finally makes human rights a reality.
Guinea-Bissau: Madam President, a conflict has lasted ten days and nobody knows how many deaths have occurred on either side.
But, like Janus, poverty is two-faced.
Of course, decent living conditions do not entirely eradicate the traffic of evil - we need only consider the healthy state of drug trafficking in Europe, as well as other black markets - but at least they partially drain the bogs in which they proliferate.
Our Parliament must apply its moral authority and political weight to persuade a regional institution such as the Organization of African Unity to intervene in this conflict and bring about a cease-fire and maintain peace.
Madam President, Guinea-Bissau was already one of the poorest countries on earth, and has therefore sometimes made an ideal subject for documentaries on Third World misery.
For twelve years, against a sound background consisting of the rockets and machine-guns of a military rebellion against the constitutional Government and its allies from neighbouring countries, Senegal and Guinea-Conakry, Guinea-Bissau has been front-page news for the world's media.
The results could not be more devastating: the country's capital well nigh destroyed, massive flights of refugees into neighbouring countries - we hear of six thousand having fled to Dakar, while Lisbon and Cape Verde are still receiving refugees - the drastic lack of food and medicine, hundreds of civilians and an unknown number of soldiers killed.
But a conflict between Africans ought to be resolved between Africans, and hence the OAU seems the organization in the best position to do so.
Stability in West Africa depends on the restoration of the constitutional order, the principal figurehead of which is President Nino Vieira.
The European Parliament calls for the re-establishment of constitutional order, for arms to be laid down and for a peaceful solution to a serious internal and regional conflict, the establishment of democratic constitutional order within the framework of Guinea-Bissau's political institutions and respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of that country.
Hence the reference in the resolution to the role of the OAU and the United Nations.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to mention the immediate willingness of the Commission to provide humanitarian aid and to underline the part played by Portugal, in co-operation with Senegal and Cape Verde, in the repatriation of foreign refugees, most of whom come from Member States of the Union.
Those refugees, and the Guinean people, are after all the main reason for our concern.
Madam President, anyone familiar with Guinea-Bissau in the past is aware of the reasons for the present crisis.
That is the price that has been paid for government without conscience - the present one has been much better, but up to now it has had to settle the bill.
I would not wish to offer an opinion on the internal political problems of Guinea-Bissau, nor to comment on the participation of the Senegalese and Guinea-Conakry armies in this conflict, their legitimacy or any territorial claims they may have on Guinea-Bissau.
I would like to remind the House at this point how quickly the European Union has provided aid, releasing funds for refugees, and I would ask the European Union to go on giving attention to this problem, not only from the political but also from the humanitarian point of view.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, although we do not yet have sufficient information to enable us to make a detailed and objective analysis of the recent situation in Guinea-Bissau, nevertheless we would wish at this point to express our sadness at the serious events that have been taking place in that country, and especially the high number of deaths that have resulted from those events.
In the meantime, we are delighted that it has been possible to repatriate many foreign citizens at the appropriate time, particularly Portuguese citizens whose lives were in danger.
Currently, the Union, which deems the abolition of the death penalty to be an integral part of its policy in support of human rights, is continuing its work with a view to adopting guidelines on the procedures to adopt with regard to other countries.
The Commission is most concerned about the way the situation has developed in this country.
Following an armed attack against a number of military installations on the island of Bioko in Equatorial Guinea on 21 January 1998, 117 people were detained, accused of rebellion and tried by a military tribunal in session from 25 to 29 May at Malabo.
The military tribunal reached its verdict on 1 June.
It condemned 15 of the accused to death, as you yourself stated, and several others were given prison sentences of between 6 and 26 years.
The Commission will continue to follow developments closely, in collaboration with the Member States in situ, and will maintain the dialogue with national authorities to prevent violations of human rights and to advance and consolidate the fragile democratic process in the country.
The Commission is standing by the conditions imposed for the gradual resumption of cooperation with Equatorial Guinea, especially the use of resources from the seventh EDF.
These conditions call for genuine progress with regard to respect for human rights, democratic principles and the de facto State, in accordance with Article 5 of the fourth Lomé Convention.
The Commission commends the decisions taken by President Habibie, seeking to reform the political landscape of Indonesia and hold elections in 1999.
I attach particular importance to the openness which the Indonesian government seems to show with regard to the question of East Timor.
I hope that this demonstration of openness will soon result in a just, overall solution that is acceptable internationally.
The Commission has always participated fully in the work of the CFSP in the search for a solution to the question of East Timor.
In particular, it has supported the endeavours of the Secretary General of the United Nations and his special envoy, Ambassador Marker.
The Commission has also supported the call from the "General Affairs' Council held on 8 and 9 June, demanding the release of Xanana Gusmão and all other political prisoners, a visit by the troika to East Timor and an immediate resumption of the discussions under the auspices of the United Nations.
The Commission is following with some concern developments in the human rights situation in that country.
More generally, the Commission is investigating the possibility of planning and implementing specific actions to promote respect for human rights in this country.
In addition, with regard to concerns about security problems in the south of the country, according to our information, following the agreement reached between the parties early last May, there was nothing serious to report.
Hence, military activities seem to have been suspended while negotiations continue.
The Commission is aware of the problems of harassment that the devotees of other faiths impose regularly on Christian religious minorities in particular.
The Commission, through the mediation of its delegation in Islamabad, and the Member States represented in Pakistan are examining these matters close at hand and investigating particular incidents with the responsible authorities in that country.
Freedom of worship is guaranteed by Article 20 of the Pakistani constitution and by Article 1 of the cooperation agreement between the European Community and Pakistan, which was signed on 22 April 1998 and contains the following statement: "the respect for democratic principles and human rights, as defined in the universal declaration on human rights, underlies the domestic and foreign policies of the Community and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and constitute a vital element of this agreement' .
The Commission will continue to maintain vigilance regarding all matters relating to human rights.
Through its development aid programmes it will provide aid for the poorest and most underprivileged populations in Pakistan.
The European Commission shares the comments contained in the motions for resolution tabled by the European Parliament.
The Commission is monitoring attentively developments in Guinea Bissau and is aware of the difficulties confronted by the civilian population at the moment, due to the lack of food, medicine and water.
The European Commission supports the mediation efforts initiated by individual Member States and regional leaders and appeals to the parties in conflict to negotiate a final cease-fire.
Thank you, Commissioner Cresson.
The joint debate is closed.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, I have here a card which affords me admission, as a member of the delegation from Senegal, to the FAO buildings where the diplomatic conference is being held concerning the institution of the International Court of Justice.
However, neither the Commission nor the Council have allowed observers to attend this conference, other than those from this Parliament.
Apparently, I am told, the Council of Ministers, at the instigation of the Commission, would not have allowed us to sit for three days in Rome to witness the commitment which this Parliament continually trumpets in favour of the Court: we adopted a resolution three months ago; there is a group known as the Amici Curiae with a fellowship of more than 60 members; we have drawn up budget headings; we have always supported the efforts of the Commission and the Council.
Well, it seems, we cannot go to Rome, the capital of a Member State, because the issue relates to the second and third pillars!
I hope that this Parliament will be able to take this into account during the three-way discussions and all our negotiations and inter-institutional contacts, because this seems to me to be a very, very serious precedent in which, I believe, the Commission has played no small part.
Madam President, the preamble to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, approved 50 years ago, stated amongst other things that disregard and contempt for human rights have resulted in acts which have outraged the conscience of mankind.
The international community has taken up the challenge of completing its legal system by providing an institutional channel for a universal conscience which revolves around human rights.
The results of the ad hoc tribunals for Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia are not satisfactory.
The reality of what has happened in Cambodia, Argentina and Chile for example, and what is happening in Kosovo at the moment, clearly demonstrates for us the need to establish a permanent and effective criminal jurisdiction which will overcome the errors made in the past.
The 800 NGOs represented in Rome keep the flame of civil society lit; its mere presence serves to make the authorities aware that they are defending, on the basis of populism and demagogy, a concept of national sovereignty which at times is obsolete, one that does not have the support of its people.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, since the Nuremberg Tribunal first began its work it has been clear that, as part of the new international legal system which had to be created after the two World Wars, there was also a need for a court where the offences of state criminals could be prosecuted, tried and if need be punished.
However, it is only now that we have taken steps to turn this court from an ad-hoc initiative into a permanent institution.
Let us hope that this initiative on the part of this House may help to make this century not just the century of state crime, of the destruction of law organized and executed by organs of the state, but also a century of legal regeneration.
Madam President, I believe that from now on we should support primarily the international coalition of more than 800 non-governmental organizations which, in a true exercise of civic diplomacy, has managed to ensure that the governments sit down to negotiate the creation of an International Criminal Court.
Therefore, it is fitting that this Parliament let its voice be heard once more, calling, on this occasion, on the Member States of the European Union and on the Commission to support the approaches that this Parliament has repeatedly defended.
Mr President, the National Alliance Group will vote in favour of the proposal for a joint resolution to appoint an International Tribunal for War Crimes.
It is our hope that the diplomatic Conference in Rome, convened with the purpose of appointing an International Tribunal for War Crimes, will be the last step towards this fundamental, albeit late, achievement.
It is also our hope that the appointment of the Criminal Tribunal, while representing an effective integration of national legal systems, can be part of a new political context where Europe finally has its own foreign, defence and security policy.
If this priority objective had been pursued with the same tenacity as with the single currency, Europe certainly would have seen, right here on its doorstep, many fewer victims these past few years.
And I am referring to those same innocent victims who are now asking the European Parliament for justice, not revenge.
Ladies and gentlemen Members of this House, the diplomatic conference in Rome is due to close and approve a convention seeking to set up the International Criminal Court.
Since the conference opened just three days ago it is difficult to comment on any of its results.
As you know, the diplomatic conference will continue through to 17 July.
The Member States of the European Union are participating actively in the negotiations to ensure that a convention is adopted that will establish an independent and powerful Court.
I think we can safely say that this first step which has been taken - and which has been insisted on by a large number of NGOs - is a very important one.
I have taken note of the words expressed by Mr Dell'Alba and I shall not fail to pass this on to the Commissioner responsible, but it is true that we could doubtless conceive of procedures in which better information and greater transparency might be brought into play.
Thank you, Commissioner Cresson.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Madam President, maintaining the status quo in Cambodia is not in the interest of anyone.
The European Parliament demands that Cambodia comply with the Paris agreements, in other words the conditions which that country has itself endorsed: no more, no less.
The same comment applies with regard to support in the democratic process, in other words the free elections scheduled for this year.
It is this factor that we in this House have to recognize; and we, as part of the international community - the European Union - have been asked to lend the essential support that election needs.
Eighty per cent of voters have already registered and fifteen long-term observers are already in place.
Further observers offering technical assistance will come from other states.
As Derek Fatchett, Minister of State at the Foreign Office, said last week in the UK parliament: it will be a fine judgement we will have to make, and one that the EU must be prepared to make.
They are no doubt interested, like us, in a genuine democratic process, and I think in this case we should collaborate with them and agree a common position.
The elections on 26 July can only be recognised if a minimum number of conditions are met.
The action in support of the electoral process, decided by joint agreement between the Commission and Member States and amounting to ECU 10.4m, seeks - subject to strict conditions - to provide the Cambodian government with the resources required to institute successfully an electoral process which, on this occasion, will be implemented under the sole responsibility of the Cambodian people, with the support of the international community.
If the conditions of freedom and impartiality required are not complied with, the European Commission reserves the right to suspend its aid after formal consultation with the Member States, based on the terms of the financing agreement signed in Phnom Penh on 16 January 1998.
The diplomatic action by the European Union, initiated in conjunction with the initiatives launched by the countries in the "Friends of Cambodia' group, the ANSEA troika and the United Nations, especially with regard to the observance of human rights, will continue to concentrate on the most appropriate methods of bringing about pluralistic participation in the elections.
Long and short-term observation is guaranteed through the provision of 95 observers.
The Member States will appoint, on a bilateral basis, more observers operating under the auspices of the European Union observation device.
Thank you, Commissioner Cresson.
The joint debate is closed.
Parliament in its infinite wisdom has defined a new border in Europe.
This report deals with the development of renewable sources of energy in far too detailed a manner.
We therefore vote against this report.
My vote in favour of the Rothe report on renewable energy is based on a national and regional reference framework, which I take the opportunity to emphasize.
It will only be possible in practice to achieve the reduction in CO2 emissions fixed at the Rio Summit, and to comply with the obligations we assumed at Kyoto, if every Member State operates a rational energy management scheme and encourages the production of renewable energy, which in the European Union represents only 1.3 % of the total energy produced (5.3 % if we add hydro-electric power) with figures of 6 % and 15.7 % (with hydro-electric power) respectively for Portugal.
The European Union proposes to increase its overall percentage of renewable energy, including hydro-electric power, from 5.3 % to 15 % by 2010.
This target will only be achieved with new support schemes for renewable solar, wind, bio-mass and photovoltaic energy sources - hence the importance of the support fund called for by the majority of Members of the European Parliament.
In the Algarve region, with solar radiation between 1782 KwH/m² (Sagres) and 1896 KwH/m² (Tavira) and an annual sunshine total of 2800 to 3100 hours, a privileged area for wind-generated power - between Rogil and Sagres - and enormous potential for biomass production, particularly associated with pig-farming and forestry, in the case of Monchique, renewable energy sources represent a policy option that should be exploited.
Hence the importance of the initiatives in that direction that have been launched by the European Union, the Government, local authorities and the community in general.
May I first of all commend my colleague Mechtild Rothe for the quality of her work and her sense of realism.
I also share the concern of my colleague on the subject of the efforts we need to make in the field of solar energy and agricultural-based alternative energy sources.
So, in view of the urgency of the situation, both in environmental terms and with regard to the increasing scarcity in the medium and long term of renewable energy sources, we need to envisage steps that encourage the participation of public and private operators engaged in this essential and vital sector.
Finally, I will close my address regarding the political nature of this proposal by saying that in terms of political ecology, the European Union should also establish itself as a model for the rest of the world.
Both Member State governments and other groups within the EU have raised questions concerning the continued availability of fossil fuels and the finite nature of the supply of resources such as oil.
The proposal to double the rate of total energy consumption from renewables by the year 2010 can have a considerable impact on the future direction of EU energy policy.
The more our dependence on non-renewable energy sources such as fossil fuels is diminished, the closer we are to creating a sustainable and environmentally friendly energy programme.
Therefore, I welcome this proposal to increase our investment in renewable energy.
The need to steer economic development onto a path that does not endanger future generations is becoming more and more apparent to everyone.
Whence the importance of promoting renewable energy sources by lending all the support necessary to assist their breakthrough into the market, in the context of what the White Paper calls the "lift-off campaign' .
From this standpoint, I am pleased to point out that despite its incompatibility with the proposed reforms of the CAP in Agenda 2000, the notion of tripling the use of biomass energy sources is intended to provide some sort of response to those European farmers who are worried about their future and are now thinking about possible reconversion.
With regard to the possible exploitation of the biomass, there is certainly one path we should explore further, since it lies at the crossroads between a number of priority concerns within the European Union: stable development, the common agricultural policy and enlargement.
I therefore unreservedly declare my support for the White Paper, as amended by the motion for resolution as tabled.
I am urging the European Commission and the European Council to coordinate their efforts in a structured and streamlined manner so that a long-term energy policy can be formed which enhances Irish and European agricultural and rural development policies.
This should be brought to fruition as negotiations take place between the national Member States and the EU on the future of the common agricultural policy post-2000.
It is clear that renewable energies continue to play a more direct role in many businesses and industries in our society.
This should come about as the inevitable reform of the common agricultural policy highlights the importance of producing non-food crops.
If we are serious about enhancing rural development measures and protecting the maximum number of family farms on our land then we must put in place a coordinated renewable energy policy which will assist in enhancing Irish agriculture and creating employment in rural areas.
It is stated that a positive impact of introducing comprehensive renewable energy programmes is the reduction of CO2 emissions, which should fall by 402 million tonnes per year.
The solution the report outlines with regard to the internal market is an energy-related tax model set by the EU.
Supporting, encouraging and being concerned about the development of the peace process in the Middle East is not a sufficient reason to manipulate the facts or to "put one's own interests first' .
Many of us and many others too need to reflect on the road we have travelled, on the reasons for the backward movement and on the apparent incompatibility and autism of those currently in power.
Consideration must also be given to the tangible result of the financial support provided by the European Union, the status of Palestine, and the democratic control of its institutions and of the use made of the economic aid received.
I already declared this when President Rabin came to Brussels.
What we see in operation is the crude logic of the system the Commission joined in Marrakech and which it helped to develop.
My group has supported most of the amendments which emphasized the need to defend regional commercial preferences as instruments of development.
My group has also supported the various amendments which denounce the leniency of the policies adopted by Community institutions within the WTO, making concession after concession without any significant returns.
Secchi report (A4-0228/98) Madam President, as crucial as it is to insist on common principles of taxation in a single market, it is as vital, however, to adopt a clear position against the dominant tendency in the States of the European Union towards creeping tax increases.
We have countries in the present Union where the level of taxation is approaching the 50 % mark.
In this context one should recollect the American economist Arthur Laffer, who proved that above a taxation level of 25 % concealment of income increases progressively.
Madam President, I want to point out that this report basically accepts the whole idea of globalization, the internal market, absolute free trade and the free movement of capital.
The results have been clearly beneficial.
So if free competition is beneficial in these other fields, why should it be harmful in tax?
Some Member States complain about the low level of Irish Corporation Tax, about the lack of a Withholding Tax in Luxembourg and about the zero social charges (taxes on jobs) in Denmark.
Some even complain about the unfairness of the relatively low level of income tax in the UK (they overlook the increased tax burden on UK citizens since the election of a Labour Government).
Competition that might harm the economic development of Member States is in total opposition to the notion of European solidarity and cohesion.
In our society, the weakest citizens have been the first victims of the delays and errors which have been committed.
The motion for resolution we now have to discuss raises a fundamental question regarding the future of the single market and, more generally, the European Union as a whole.
Introduction of the euro on 1 January 1999, in eleven of the fifteen Member States, actually calls for greater coordination of policies, including those relating to taxation.
It is therefore with some satisfaction that we note the adoption by the Council of a resolution on a good conduct code in terms of company taxation and we have carefully observed the series of proposals formulated by the Commission in terms of tax harmonization.
It must be said that the proposal by the Commission and the agreement reached within the Ecofin Council on a community solution governing the matter of taxation on savings income paid by the Member States to individuals living in another State are particularly heartening for a Belgian politician like myself.
This is especially so in the area of indirect taxation, but also with regard to the taxation of non-renewable energy sources or, indeed, to tax definitions.
Clearly, tax harmonization should be one of the main objectives for those who wish to proceed on the path towards a federal Europe that is economically prosperous and socially just.
The report states - rightly, in my opinion - that it is important to harmonize certain elements in our taxation systems.
Two arguments militate in favour of improved coordination of our taxation systems: firstly, the distortions that might arise in different taxation systems concerning the optimum allocation of funds and investment, whether from financial or production sources, within the European fold; secondly, the drying up of some tax revenues, which could pose very serious budgetary problems for certain Member States.
If a degree of tax competition is to be maintained - because this is useful in order to impose certain disciplines on states - it must be conducted within the framework of the tax rules, especially with regard to taxation on savings and cross-border taxation.
However, it is perhaps regrettable that the Commission and the Secchi report do not seem to have put forward any proposal regarding certain elements of direct corporate taxation, such as the way the rate for corporate taxation is calculated.
I am also pleased to note the measures designed to eliminate deductions at source on cross-border payments of interest and dues to companies which create distortions that are harmful to growth and jobs.
In the field of relations within a group of companies, we should also go even further, especially in terms of calculating corporate tax in a consolidated way at European level.
For all the reasons set out above, I therefore vote for Mr Secchi's report.
Luxembourg was of the opinion that this should be a binding commitment imposed by a Community directive: tax dumping can only harm European companies and create all types of distortion in the Common Market.
With regard to the range of tax systems prevailing in individual Member States, there is no reason to change it now.
In truth, tax competition can be an asset when it is practised between tax systems: some are more efficient and lower tax rates can be applied, whereas others must offset a lesser degree of efficiency by imposing higher taxes.
The Commission proposals regarding corporate taxation signal an initial step forward in the right direction towards better coordination of tax policies.
The scope for action remains huge and there is still a great deal to be done before taxation is no longer a barrier to the four freedoms.
The Secchi report encourages Member States to work towards the scrapping of the tax havens that exist within the Union.
Hence any future harmonization of tax policies should encompass all Member States and their dependencies, as well as an immense panoply of tax domains.
We have, therefore, voted against the report in the final ballot.
I am in fact firmly convinced that the current distortions and differences in tax systems could thwart the efforts made to achieve economic and monetary union, eliminating the potential advantages and opportunities that the single market can offer in terms of economic development and the gradual reduction of today's structural unemployment.
Situation in Kosovo It is a matter of the greatest urgency that the European Union not only condemns Serbia's actions in Kosovo, but also employs the economic, political and diplomatic methods the Union has at its disposal.
Yet again this House has adopted a resolution on Kosovo.
We should also point out that this resolution, like its predecessors, is typified by its absurd dualism, by a frenzied attack on the Yugoslav Federation and Serb Republic, by a single lack of historical perspective in its assessment of the situation in Kosovo and by a serious lack of regard for the local, regional and international consequences of the lavish inducements extended to the Kosovan breakaway militia.
Guided by the dictates of American diplomacy, under the influence of two EU Member States and under pressure from a powerful parliamentary lobby yearning for the old style of political organization in the Balkans, the European Parliament has, for eight years, declared a sort of political and legal war against one of the signatory States of the United Nations Charter, which should have guaranteed the integrity of its borders.
In total contradiction to that guarantee, we have encouraged the dismantling of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; we have urged the "friendly' federated republics to align themselves individually with the European Union; we have begun the accession process with Slovenia, thereby rewarding its leaders for their self-aggrandizing conduct; we have raised all those who crafted the partition of Yugoslavia to the rank of allies of the European Union and "democrats' , sometimes in defiance of the evidence; we have multiplied sanctions, blockades and embargo procedures and military threats against the Srpska Republic, which stands accused of all the evils committed during the events taking place in that region.
This encouragement has been so excessive and lacking in political intelligence that it has resulted in the marginalization of the moderate leaders of Kosovo who were looking for an even-handed solution in the Yugoslav Federation, for the benefit of the ALK extremists who, weapons in hand, are today struggling for the independence of Kosovo and tomorrow will push for its return to Albania.
The European Union has encouraged Croatian independence, an independence that all Croatian communities have paid for in Vukovar or Knin.
It "guaranteed' the independence of Bosnia and secured the partition of that region, together with the massacres at Mostar, Ilidza and Srebrenica.
It fuelled the flames in Kosovo and provoked the terrorism of the independenceseekers, resulting in its inevitable and probably disproportionate repression.
Through its accumulated errors, the European Union has turned its back on its own history, misunderstood its culture and visited an outrage on its future.
We still have time to avoid committing the irredeemable sin and to reintegrate the Serbian people in the European Community to which it belongs because of its great contribution to the freedom of all peoples in its region.
The transport of dangerous waste is a difficult problem which cannot be lightly dismissed.
In this respect, I am in favour of many of the excellent points contained in the common resolution on which we have expressed an opinion.
Prevention and increased supervision and control are in fact necessary in the Member States.
But national political authorities must first of all shoulder their responsibilities, so that progress can be made in the right direction.
We have therefore voted against the whole of this resolution.
Madam President, my report concerns an issue that has been the subject of much public controversy.
Industrial fishing represents a major line of business.
The industry handles over 30 million tonnes of fish, which corresponds to 30 % of the world catch, at a value of ECU 3 billion.
Fish oil is used in aquaculture, though you will also find fish oil in margarine and cooking fats.
Under the Acts of Accession, Finland and Sweden were allowed to catch herring in their waters for industrial purposes since this is the traditional activity there, and without today's report these two countries would have to discontinue this activity.
The proposal is a means of allowing industrial fishing in the Baltic to continue, while maintaining the ban on the industrial fishing of herring in all other Community waters.
I am in agreement with these two basic principles.
Germany, for example, used only 13 % of its quota.
The regulation should not have unlimited validity, as is being proposed.
By 2003 we will need to review the effects of the regulation and adjust things if need be.
I would like to touch on the actual administration of resources in the Baltic Sea.
In one particular country, Sweden, there is a tourism factor involved, since it is felt that salmon should be caught in the rivers for the benefit of the tourists.
Regarding herring fishing in the Baltic, I am not in favour of fishing in the Baltic for herring destined for use in fish meal because herring stocks are not particularly plentiful in the Baltic; thus, fishing there for this purpose should be avoided.
This factor contributes to the problems of fish stocks in the Baltic.
Finally, I must mention that the ecological balance in the Baltic has not been studied.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, the Committee on Fisheries, on whose behalf I have drawn up the present report, deemed it necessary to address the issue of industrial fishing in an initiative report.
Target species are usually fish which do not serve direct human consumption or are only used to a limited degree for this purpose.
This type of fishery is very important in the North Sea, which is why the report concentrates on this region.
Industrial fishing's share of the total North Sea catch has stood at almost 60 % over the last few years.
The Committee on Fisheries has taken the clear view that fishing for industrial purposes is only justifiable if it observes the principle of sustainability and if, in cases of conflict, priority is given to fishing for human consumption.
The report states that in the past, especially with mixed fishing and sprat fishing, there has been a very serious problem with monitoring compliance with Community law.
The high mortality rate for herring in the North Sea, which caused the Council to introduce emergency measures in the summer of 1996, has no doubt been partly caused by the large by-catch of herring landed through industrial fishing, where the proportion of herring is sometimes predominant.
This measure has proved to be very effective, especially since the Danish fisheries authority, in whose jurisdiction most ports of landing used by industrial fisheries are to be found, introduced in the same year a comprehensive monitoring system with a high degree of intensive sampling.
Initial figures available for 1997 indicate a drastic reduction in the herring by-catch.
Council and Commission have taken the course of setting maximum permissible limits to reduce the by-catches.
The new Danish monitoring system might satisfy these conditions.
We therefore advise caution and consider that it is still too early to relax the other conservation measures, as the Council and the Commission are intending to do by raising the permitted share of the herring by-catch in sprat fishing from the current 10 % to 20 %.
This would give the Member States engaged in industrial fishing the opportunity to solve within their own fishing industry the conflict between industrial fishing and fishing for consumption, which has seen a shift to Community level.
We consider this proposal the neatest and easiest solution to implement.
I have particular concerns about the taking of herring for industrial purposes.
His proposals for tackling the problem of large by-catches in sprat fisheries by rigorous controls of landings and closure of fisheries when the by-catch limit is reached are also positive ways forward to ensure the survival and revival of herring stocks.
In the European Union we land something like 10 % of the world's industrial catches, and it is sold for approximately 30 % of the value of fish that is caught for human consumption.
In circumstances where fish is scarce and expensive, as it is in the European Union, it is very wasteful to use any fish for industrial purposes if it can be processed for human consumption.
I do not believe that this gives us a case to convert stocks of fish suitable for human consumption to animal and fish feed.
If we catch 3 million tonnes of fish for industrial purposes in the European Union annually, with 7.5 % to 8 % of that being by-catches of edible fish, then that represents a quarter of a million tonnes of a commodity that is scarce in the European Union, when we are only 48 % self-sufficient.
Yet, in the case of the North Sea, which is subject to extreme environmental and ecological pressure, the figure is up to 60 %.
However, we have to change our priorities.
Mr President, this has been a fascinating debate.
I do not see why the European Union should impose one regime on the whole of Europe.
Mr President, industrial fishing, not least at its present scale, seriously threatens fish stocks and the ecosystem.
Unfortunately, I note that this principle is often demoted when the Council makes decisions.
In conclusion, the treatment of the Commission proposal on the industrial fishing of herring in the Baltic comes too late.
Mr President, we are dealing with three excellent reports here.
The third theme which runs through the reports is the need for conservation of stocks.
There is an area called 'the wee bankie' , where some Danish and Scottish fishermen almost came to blows at the end of last year over the fishing activities that were going on there.
Mr Kindermann talked about salmon.
It is important that we see what the impact of industrial fishing is in this area.
I congratulate the three rapporteurs for doing an excellent job.
The livelihood of the people in these areas is often dependent on this one occupation.
Finland's and Sweden's herring fishing industry must therefore be allowed to continue.
With reference to Mr Kofoed's report, I wonder why the Commission gave its international recommendation to the members of the Baltic Fishing Commission so late that the deadline for filing a protest had already passed.
Particularly threatened is the very rare natural salmon, which is to be found almost exclusively in Sweden, but which also exists in Finland.
But we are still far removed from this, particularly when we consider the issue of industrial fishing.
The fishing of Baltic herring for purposes other than direct human consumption makes up 80 per cent of the total Finnish catch; the main part of it goes to fodder for fur farms.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to deal with the three reports together - they are directly related to one another - and to tell you how pleased I am that on a topic as controversial as industrial fishing, whose different opinions are echoed in this House and in today's debate, the Parliament, although it has had a few subsequent suggestions, shares the Commission's point of view, especially on the need to give this type of fisheries a rational direction that takes into consideration for each fisheries activity the actual state of stocks, by-catches and the problems of monitoring.
Indeed, beyond the approaches or values everyone has, I believe it important to say in concrete terms that the situation of the herring stock in the Baltic Sea is good.
I believe that a distinction between the two areas is legitimate, not only as far as the situation of the stock is concerned but also for the problems of by-catches.
For this reason the Commission cannot accept the amendments, particularly Nos 1 and 4, precisely because they would only impose constraints on Community fishermen.
Finally, the Commission accepts Amendment No 2.
Thank you, Mrs Bonino.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
Mr President, the Commission Communication on the future for the market in fisheries products implicitly recognizes a number of shortcomings in the present policies.
Firstly, several phenomena on the market in fisheries products run counter to the efforts to conserve fish stocks, on which the future of the whole fishing industry is dependent.
Imports represent an increasing challenge and outside competitors may benefit sometimes from better fishing grounds, very low labour costs and sometimes government subsidies and, indeed, a failure to control them properly.
A system of designated ports - ports which are designated for the landing of fish and fish may be landed only at these ports - is an idea that the committee certainly also supports.
The Community should not abandon the possibility of intervening in case of serious disturbance of the market.
Furthermore, the Community should endeavour to counteract the distortions of competition that may follow from very low labour costs or irresponsible fishing by vessels flying flags of convenience.
But we have a consensus in the Fisheries Committee that there is tremendous potential there for peripheral regions to supply high-quality food to consumers in the Union while, at the same time, not neglecting environmental considerations, the health of the waters and the health of wild fish stocks, which can sometimes be affected if we go into this industry without having done proper research, as we have sometimes in the past.
But I am sure they will understand if I concentrate today on my own report because, among other reasons, it is not often that we have reports relating to the fish product processing industry.
The Community policy on raw material supplies should be implemented in relation to the actual needs of the Community industry and new quotas should be opened only when they are strictly necessary.
Mr President, I believe that a plan is beginning to emerge to reform the common fisheries policy even if, as usual, it is a policy that particularly affects Europe, deals with the problems of territorial waters and succeeds with difficulty in defining a different relationship with third countries.
Shipowners are currently paying tuna 40 lira a kilo: a ridiculous figure.
I say this because I am convinced that we need to harmonise not only the common fisheries policy but also our relationship with third countries.
We need to transmit this culture too, a culture that involves respect for the sea, a balance between resources that can be caught.
We will be able to continue this debate with the documents that will be presented to reform fisheries after 2002.
I am referring to a point to which I draw your particular attention and to which I am sure you are sensitive: the use of dolphins in military experiments.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, the Community market for fisheries products finds itself in a very strange situation.
Whether with regard to agreements such as the generalized system of preferences or in the context of cooperation or other types of agreements, the Commission accepts provisions involving a total or partial withdrawal of tariffs for fisheries products; this leaves the Community industry increasingly vulnerable.
I am not denying that they may be justified in certain cases, however, we must prevent the continuation of situations - which I would even describe as ridiculous - such as those that force, for example, Community producers of tinned tuna to export to the United States with a tariff of 35 % while the United States exports to the European Union with a tariff of 24 %.
I am sure you will realize that this is certainly not a case where poverty or the need to promote the development of a country justifies a tariff preference of 11 %.
The Commission has finally presented this document which, we presume, puts forward the guidelines from its imminent legislative proposal, which it has promised to submit before the end of the year.
But let us not forget that 80 % of these imports already benefit from a preferential tariff system, many are even duty-free.
The common fisheries policy must not repeat the tragic mistakes of the common agricultural policy.
The Commission proposals for a reduction in fisheries production and partial compensation for lost income in the form of other subsidies will have the same negative results as in agriculture, that is, a reduction in employment and an increase in imports from third countries, disintegration of the social fabric, and depopulation of coastal and island regions.
It is very important that the market for fish in the EU is reformed and consolidated.
It could be argued that some of the stocks in the EU are in such desperate straits that it would be negligent or even worse to promote their consumption.
Mr President, I congratulate both rapporteurs on the work they have put into these very interesting reports.
We have a whole series of interlocking problems with the whole question of a free market and the idea of protecting the interests of those who are dependent on fisheries in a particular area.
I have already mentioned - and I think the Commission took note of it - the whole question of the possible regionalization of the common fisheries policy.
Some people, like our rapporteur, want us to adopt a totally liberal policy.
Others, including myself, prefer a policy that seeks to devote more attention to the interests of the producers by implementing the principle of Community preference more rigorously, by upgrading the fresh foods market, organizing the sector in a more effective way, maintaining market intervention facilities and incorporating them in some kind of specialist discipline.
Whilst it is clear that imports from developing countries are necessary nowadays to meet a structural demand from the European market, which falls well short of the requirements we seek in terms of sea-food products, we must nevertheless ensure that such exchanges with the developing countries take place in an atmosphere of fair competition.
This is why a strengthening of import controls seems to me to be very urgent, especially those relating to source and hygiene, which should take priority in the controls procedure, at both Community and national level.
The 15 amendments tabled by our group relate mainly to this objective of upgrading fresh foods of Community origin, principally through product identification and a suitable quality improvement policy, whilst at the same time enhancing the fisheries product sector by extending the role of producers' organizations and by according greater recognition to inter-trade organizations.
Mr President, we welcome the Commission initiative to present and, more especially, to discuss its ideas on the future of the market in fisheries products in the European Union.
Fish is, and will continue to be, a scarce resource both inside and outside the European Union if some 50 % of the fish and fish products supplied in the EU originate from imports.
In conclusion, I wish to thank the two rapporteurs for their very good reports, and I hope that we can continue to work with these excellent documents in the Committee on Fisheries.
It is essential to find a balance between the needs of the fishing industry, the management of resources and the needs of the people who make their living from fishing and its associated industries.
We must bear in mind that the European Union imports 52 % of its total fish consumption from third countries.
I believe that aquaculture can provide part of the solution to restoring the balance between imports and fish produced within the EU.
Aquaculture is a valuable source of employment and can cushion the hardship of the areas affected by the decline in fishing.
Furthermore we should seek balanced agreements with our partners in developing countries where we are fishing at present and combine this with expansion in aquaculture, thereby protecting their fishing resources and providing new sources of production within the EU.
The CFP needs to combine all aspects of the fishing industry in order to provide a viable future for our fishing communities.
I believe the report covers all the fundamental problems in this sector.
Firstly, the absence of a suitable framework of support measures for existing industries could threaten their survival.
It will be difficult, if not impossible, to compete with products from non-EU countries whose final-product costs are much lower than the Union's, either because of lower levels of technical and health requirements, or because of very different labour costs in those countries.
Secondly, we consider that the European Union should reinforce its quality control policy for its products, stimulate industrial effort by means of quality awards, records and labels, and hold promotional campaigns publicizing the quality and the European origin of the product.
We do not have the abolition of customs duties in new international agreements, in which the interests of the industry have been destroyed without even securing mutual guarantees.
In the report, as now amended - many of our recommendations have been adopted, and we hope it will be further improved as a result of this Plenary debate - the Commission will find, if it so wishes, sufficient ideas for revising the present Common Organization of the fisheries market without endangering the sustainability of the sector.
Mr President, this evening's sitting on fisheries presents a gloomy picture.
I am going to refer primarily to the Commission communication on the future for the market in fisheries products in the European Union.
I think that it is a good report, that is a report drawn up with great sincerity and honesty and one which also fulfils its role.
It is a preliminary report and the Commission has set itself a deadline of 30 June of this year.
I believe that the report is very honest and reveals the problems facing the sector.
The basic problem, which has been highlighted by various speakers before me, is that 60 % of Community consumption of fisheries products comes from imports - the Community only supplies 40 % of its own needs - and that possibly - and this is a trend that can be seen clearly - our entire Community consumption will eventually come from imports.
We sometimes receive good news but that good news is usually accompanied by some bad news.
For example, the agreement reached on 8 June by the Fisheries Council establishes the ban on drift gillnets but postpones it until 31 December 2001.
I would also refer the Commissioner to paragraphs 14, 15, 16, 17 and 21.
Secondly, paragraph 21 talks about joint ventures - joint ventures with Community capital - as a possible solution in cases where fisheries agreements have terminated; this is an issue which could certainly be developed.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the five rapporteurs and I am going to concentrate primarily on Mr McCartin's report on the market for fisheries products.
We must search for measures in this connection so that, while fulfilling international commitments, the Commission can protect our sector as far as possible.
Paragraph 16 is also very important in that, as regards those competing with us, we must demand minimum social guarantees of them within the context of the measures required by the ILO: respect for the environment in fishing for resources and, in addition, minimum conditions in terms of health and quality which can be compared to our products.
I will simply conclude by saying that we must also focus on the need to avoid fraud in the market and I will end by giving two advance warnings regarding "loin' fillets of tuna from countries involved in the generalized system of preferences and the possibility of the Community market for cod being affected by fraud from Russia, for example, through agreements with other countries.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think the method the Commission has chosen is the right one: by opening this communication to discussion, it allows Parliament, the various sectors and the Council to make their contributions to what will become the subsequent legislation.
On reading the Commission document, therefore, I would like to insist on a few measures which I consider to be important.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the topics covered in the Varela report, which I refer to in particular, are many and on the whole have been dealt with properly, with solutions that I consider positive in most cases.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the debate we have conducted here underlines yet again the complexity of this sector and the many interconnections between its individual elements.
For example, many of you, during this debate, have told me that it would be beneficial to develop aquaculture not only in our own area, but also in the developing countries and therefore in line with our bilateral agreements.
This common factor relates to the need for a greater commitment on the part of the public authorities in favour not only of the transition to a more responsible fisheries policy, but also with respect to aid for the sector to enable it to adapt to new economic, commercial and health criteria.
And I would inform this House that it is already difficult enough for us to apply the regulations on minimum size in a credible way.
Some Members have urged the Commission to conduct further research, fresh analyses and so forth.
I would simply like to point out that this debate has been running since 1996, that we have held two seminars with Parliament, at Quimper and La Haye, that work with the departments concerned has continued in close concert with Parliament, that we have listened to the opinions of everybody, that there have also been a number of regional meetings with representatives of the sector and that, therefore, the time has arrived for the Commission to draw its own conclusions and to debate a legislative text designed to clarify a significant number of issues.
As you know, in principle, the budgetary allocation does not come within my domain.
Moreover, it is quite clear that there are problems with regard to the developing countries, to which several speakers have alluded.
So I would call for a little more order and discipline when the Commission is the sole arbiter in negotiations concerning fishing agreements.
During the debate, I detected two particular persuasions which are typical and traditional, and two objectives that are occasionally contradictory.
The Commission has a duty, before the end of the year, to settle any disputes and to submit a proposal which, I am certain, will not please everybody.
One further word on the own-initiative report of Mr Varela.
While we are on the subject, I would also remind you that there are only five or six Community health inspectors.
But, beyond these points of common interest, there are also analyses and proposals concerning the canning industry that seem to me, Mr Varela, to be overly dramatic or pessimistic.
In addition, I feel obliged to point out that the Commission has already introduced marketing standards for canned sardines and tuna, to guarantee the transparency of commercial transactions in this sector, all for the benefit of the consumer.
I must therefore remind you that this sector has already benefited from significant financial support from the Community as compared with others.
It is also the case that in 1995 the Member States themselves decided not to extend the procedure for awarding carry-over payments in favour of the sardine industry, precisely because the operators and the Member States no longer wished to favour this sector over others, in view of everything that had been done already.
Member States may, at their own level, give precedence to this sector if they consider it to be of prime importance in their own country, by relying, of course, on the Structural Funds which fall within their jurisdiction.
Thank you, Mrs Bonino.
Thank you, Mr Varela.
I hereby declare the debate closed, having considerably overrun the time allocated, and I am sure that you all join with me in thanking Parliament's services and the interpreters for this extra work which we have burdened them with on a day that was already extremely busy.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 8.55 p.m.)
