Nobody can censure another Member nor can they take legal action either in Italy or any other country over something said in this Chamber.
Speakers can only express their views on the basis of the debate.
Preparation for the European Council of 16/17 June 1997 The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the preparatory work for the meeting of the European Council on 16/17 June 1997 in Amsterdam, including the Commission's action plan for the internal market.
As you all know, this Summit is taking place against a fairly troubled background in respect of the euro and because of new elections.
Other crucial issues are on the agenda such as employment, EMU, the action plan to fight organized crime and the action plan for the internal market.
I am thinking in particular of the Middle East peace process, the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo and the peace process in former Yugoslavia.
I shall begin by taking a very brief look at the questions of employment and EMU before examining in more detail the conclusion of the IGC negotiations.
Promoting employment has been and still is of capital importance.
Initially, the IGC paid special attention to this subject.
The next European summit will look at the regular six-monthly report by the Social Affairs Council, the ECOFIN Council and the Commission on the employment situation within the European Union.
Thirdly, the European Council is invited to respond to the agreement reached in the ECOFIN Council on the euro's legal status.
The European Union must also prepare institutionally to welcome new Member States.
Negotiations indicate that the IGC will result in a strengthening of the principles of the democratic rule of law and fundamental rights within the European Union.
Furthermore, the IGC is determined to include in the Treaty a provision of non-discrimination in the broadest sense.
Furthermore, the democratic and legal legitimacy of Schengen cooperation might also be improved by copying the institutional framework of the European Union, in particular the European Parliament, the Commission and the Court of Justice.
Now I am coming to the European Union and the public.
We should also refer to the insertion of a new chapter on employment.
Employment policy is still a priority responsibility of the Member States themselves but the Union can play a role, acting as a stimulus in this respect by strengthening, for example, coordination and exchanges of experiences between the Member States.
I am satisfied to note the broad support given to a proposal allowing the public to gain access to documents issued by the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament.
Another important aspect of the IGC is achieving a common foreign and security policy.
In other words, it will be necessary to prove twice or three times to colleagues that the concept of national interest is being applied in absolute honesty.
On this point, let us emphasize that the Union is making effective progress and many of you - as well as many of the Member States - hope that we are, in this way, going to achieve a more effective way of introducing qualified majority voting.
As for financing the CFSP activities, you have certainly found out about the intention to conclude an interinstitutional agreement on this subject between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
It is less than before but far more than the Council originally had any intention of giving you.
It is, at this point in time, difficult to predict how integration of WEU into the European Union is going to take place.
A small group of countries wants to limit this to cooperation between the two institutions and a much larger group, eight Member States, would like a total merger.
These points of view are absolutely unreconcilable in that one group would like to convince the other to adopt its position.
Finally, as for the European Union's external economic policy, I should like to tell you of our efforts aimed at reaching a situation where the Union adopts a common position in terms of services and intellectual property.
The debate has intensified especially since the informal European Council in Noordwijk.
The strengthening of the position of the President of the Commission has led to growing support.
However that may be, if the proposal to strengthen the position of the President of the Commission does succeed it will imply a strengthening of the position of the European Parliament, which intervenes twice in the process of forming the Commission.
The first when the Presidentdesignate, appointed by the Council, is presented to you, and you hold talks with him before approving his appointment, and the second when he has taken on the Commissioners, in conjunction with the Member States, and he presents the whole team to you - and you have to give your agreement to that.
On the other hand, the weighting of votes will also have to be reviewed as, when we have more than 20 Member States, we are going to have to proceed to a structural reform of the whole of the system.
I do know, however, that 'the devil is in the detail' , because that really is what it is about: how to revise the weighting of votes, etc.
Flexibility seems above all to offer opportunities within the JAI pillar, such that its intergovernmental character is preserved.
I am thinking in particular of the simplification of the codecision procedure, which strengthens the effectiveness and democratic character of the decision-making process.
Without forgetting the introduction of the codecision procedure where the cooperation procedure still applies.
In my view this change is a vital strengthening of the European Parliament's position and I have already mentioned your growing influence on the formation of the Commission.
Following this very comprehensive consideration of the IGC, you are now aware of the fact that this Presidency is quite determined to make sure that the Amsterdam negotiations will be a success.
It is all very well to have a new kitchen, but the most important is the dishes which are prepared in it.
Mr President, public acceptance of the new Treaty will depend partly on you.
The Presidency is putting much hope in other important questions.
I already referred to EMU, employment, the internal market and the fight against crime.
The Presidency hopes that, at the end of the month, it will be able to announce to you the positive, concrete results of the Amsterdam meeting. (Applause) Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in less than a week's time, the Amsterdam European Council will have to overcome the final obstacles to the reform of the treaty.
We shall then see whether the IGC has met its triple challenge: to narrow the gap between the European project and the citizens, find the resources to exist in the international arena and review the institutions in order to bring about enlargement in good conditions.
The current text drafted by the Dutch Presidency is a point of balance and, I hope, a meeting-point too.
The new treaty offers the chance to create a genuine area of freedom, security and justice.
In this area, the accomplished work is remarkable and the text of this Presidency ambitious.
We can only welcome the broad communitarization envisaged for the third pillar.
After a three-year transitional period, we should now switch to qualified majority voting and the Commission's exclusive right of initiative.
Let us find specific solutions for them, but not at the cost of blocking real progress as a whole.
But we must seize the opportunity offered to us to improve it and strengthen its provisions, or we shall run the risk of replacing an already difficult action for fourteen countries with an impossible one for fifteen.
Mr President, the second main aim of the IGC can be summed up in five words: existing in the international arena.
There is a time to regret our collective powerlessness, but there is also a time to react and I should like Amsterdam to be the opportunity for a quantum leap in political will.
The arrangements proposed by the Presidency are an important step forward.
I also welcome the agreement on the funding of CFSP.
One final word on CFSP, ladies and gentlemen, I do not see how Europe can claim to become a major actor without a military role.
That means that it should set a deadline for integrating the WEU into the European Union, as six of the Member States have proposed in a joint position. (Applause) In modern life, the economic, financial and monetary factors are playing a growing role in external relations.
It is a simple position of common sense, common sense that sometimes disappears in the diplomatic jousting and bureaucratic reactions.
I say this clearly: refusing to make progress on services and intellectual property, the defence of the Union's interests, the Member States and companies run an acute risk of going backwards. (Applause) Everyone must take their responsibilities.
The text proposed by the Dutch Presidency is a progress, since it provides for an extension, albeit limited, of Article 113 to services.
But there are delegations which want to water it down or add to it, even in other articles, supplementary conditions, at the risk of emptying this progress of all substance, even ending up in a step backwards compared with the current situation.
I now come to the institutional questions, which are vital as they condition not only the support of Europeans but also the future of the Union itself, just before its enlargement.
The Presidency's text provides, as the Commission has always demanded, for a strengthening of the European Parliament's role as co-legislator.
Only the European Parliament can ensure the democratic controls that the European Union needs at the stage of development that it has reached.
I think that this is a vital factor for strengthening the legitimacy of the Community institutional system. (Applause) As for the functioning of the Council, the vital point is that of extending voting by qualified majority.
The Presidency has dealt with this question with the necessary openness, which means inroads into the second and current thirds pillars and a consolidation in Community areas.
It is a shame, because unanimity in a European Union of more than fifteen Member States will only lead to hold-ups and even paralysis.
As for the reweighting of votes, the Commission is open to alternative proposals by the Presidency, provided that the final solution does not make decision-taking more difficult and that it opens the way to more qualified majority voting.
The solution that will be found will probably be not that far removed from the one we proposed for preparing our institution for enlargement.
The appointed President will have to be approved by the European Parliament.
If we can improve it, let us do so, but let us not call into question the level of the project by making last-minute demands that would change the balance already struck.
It will be even harder after enlargement.
The setting up of a stable macro-economic framework has progressed a lot in recent times.
If the monetary aspect is clearly defined, we still need to make an effort to use all the potential of the procedures provided for in Article 103 of the Treaty and aimed at coordinating economic policies.
An ambitious monetary policy only makes sense if it goes hand in hand with a policy for higher employment that everyone can understand. (Applause) I should once again like to emphasize that the stability pact, as its new name implies, is also a growth pact, therefore a job-creating pact.
All the Member States wanted that.
The potential of the internal market for competitiveness, growth and employment, is huge.
The action plan proposed by the Commission defines four main areas for maximizing that potential: strengthening the effectiveness of the rules, ending distortions to competition or fiscal distortions, ending sectoral obstacles and putting the single market to the service of all citizens.
The role of the social partners is especially important here.
I therefore welcome the agreement signed at the end of the last social dialogue summit, last Friday in The Hague, on part-time work.
The very positive reaction of the Member States, all the Member States, to the idea of territorial pacts for jobs is another reason for satisfaction.
A new form of partnership is being forged on the ground and will be turned into a practicality by the launch of some 90 pacts, which will be hotbeds for job creation.
A good agreement on the IGC will give Europe a new boost and enable it to meet the EMU deadlines and handle enlargement in good conditions.
I delivered this message with great clarity to the congress of my political party, the Party of European Socialists, last week meeting in Malmö and, in particular, to the nine prime ministers within the Council who are from our political family and who were all present in Malmö.
But we want more and we will be looking to see how much more can even be gained in the final few hours of Amsterdam.
Our three priorities are as follows: firstly, we want to see the strengthening of the draft employment title in the Treaty on European Union.
Secondly, we want to see included in the Treaty fundamental social rights and the strengthening of the social chapter, not just the incorporation of social policy into the Treaty.
Mr Van Mierlo mentioned the anti-discrimination clause.
Finally, we made clear in our group that what we want to see is that those issues to be transferred, as we hope they will be, from the third to the first pillar must also be subject to QMV and co-decision as Mr Santer has already made clear for the Commission.
The intergovernmental conference has been working for more than 18 months now.
The European Single Act needed only five months of preparation and the Maastricht Treaty one year.
You mentioned, Minister, the troubled circumstances and we are not hiding our heads in the sand for we will have to deal in Amsterdam with a political problem which I shall be tackling as a priority, despite the meeting of six heads of government from the European Popular Party, which took place yesterday in Strasbourg.
The French government is insisting that we set up an assessment period for the stability pact and is calling into question the time allowed after the signature in Amsterdam.
What is our position? 'Pacta sunt servanda' , the Dublin commitment to the stability pact must be stuck to.
The reduction in inflation below the 2 % level, reduction in budgetary deficits.
It must be complemented and Jacques Delors recently emphasized that Article 103 of the Treaty authorizes this.
We would therefore insist on this point and we hope that, in these circumstances, the stability pact will be signed in Amsterdam just as the PPE heads of government decided to do yesterday.
The Dutch Presidency's proposals make up a remarkable document in our view.
Fourth point: amending Article 113 of the Treaty, on services and intellectual property; then the institutions.
I am fully behind what the President of the Commission has just said: I understand the enormous difficulties which you have to deal with but I also note a strong political will in that the head of the Dutch Presidency is determined not to allow the European Union to collapse but is set on seizing the challenge - historic challenge - of enlargement to 20 or even perhaps 25 members.
Mr Van Mierlo, in order to have a good car you need a good garage.
That means, in our view, that majority decision taking in the Council and the codecision of the European Parliament in this area are capital.
For 12 years I opposed this with many others in the European Council.
We cannot tolerate the opportunist decision by the Swedish government which did not ask for opting out in the framework of the monetary union and which for opportunistic reasons, because the single currency is unpopular in Sweden, has decided not to take part in it.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the next Amsterdam Summit will be the first of a series of meetings that will fashion the architecture of 21st century Europe.
It must therefore be seen as one step in a long journey and not as an end in itself.
Those who rightly refuse a bureaucratic and undemocratic Europe must give it the means to acquire its political legitimacy.
by inclusion in the treaty of an improved social protocol, as the French Government demanded in March 1996 in a memorandum on the European social model and by the inclusion of a chapter or a new title making employment of all one of the main aims of European construction, along with the guarantee of our internal and external security, without which there cannot be a genuine democracy.
If we want European construction to continue to make progress, let us retain the pragmatism and flexibility that have enabled it, so far, to develop and which will be all the more necessary in a Europe extended across the continent.
If Europe now arouses fears among a growing number of our fellow citizens, it is because its institutions have not sufficiently borne in mind their worries about a seemingly uncertain and menacing future.
It is in that spirit that strong institutions and rules were created to enable the States to live together, to acquire a common spirit and guarantee effectiveness.
Referring to those principles, which are still fundamental for the Union's progress, I should like to speak about the draft treaty in three areas.
As far as employment and social affairs are concerned, the draft text prepared by the Dutch Presidency takes into account the demand of European citizens by introducing into the treaty the fight against unemployment, the creation of new jobs, the maintenance of a system of social security that is in keeping with the European model.
The result on a common foreign and security policy is quite different - something else seen by citizens as a manifestation of Europe's existence.
I am pragmatic and am not asking for the moon, but I think that we could do better and that we should try to do so, before the single currency and enlargement both of which are necessary in my personal view.
If we do not make enough progress in another week, let us work another two or three months over the summer so that three or four vital questions can be resolved; a more serious treaty could then be signed.
The French initiative for setting new conditions of growth and employment, without of course refusing the challenges of competitiveness and stability, is timely and courageous.
To that end, the decision on certain fiscal, financial or industrial questions must no longer be blocked by unanimous voting; if each State can veto decisions, there will never be a common growth and employment policy.
Secondly, the democratization of the institutions calls for more efforts and on this point I approve of the European Parliament's proposals on codecision, controls over the executive authority and transparency in particular.
Each State is sticking to its prerogatives.
Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to congratulate the Committee on Institutional Affairs on its work under the leadership of Mr Biagio de Giovanni.
That was in 1787.
Today, 210 years later, Prince Potemkin and the Russian Empire are long gone, but Potemkin-style villages are still being built.
The biggest ever is to be inaugurated next week in Amsterdam with the Maastricht II Treaty!
Maastricht II needs to make the necessary corrections to make the European Union viable for a pan-European future, for democracy and social ecology.
Instead of finally establishing the Union on a foundation of civil law, where security means legal certainty and not law and order!
We are not the star witnesses of the latter-day Prince Potemkin, whether his name be Helmut Kohl or Jacques or Hans van Mierlo or whatever.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office - I congratulate you on your frankness - Mr President of the Commission, the variety of political changes in Europe and the short time between now and the Amsterdam Summit make the exercise especially difficult to achieve.
For our Group, it is clear that nothing should thwart the process of European integration and the need to take into account social demands and employment should not be a brake on that integration but on the contrary a further argument in favour of strengthening the Union.
As for the issues on the Summit agenda, apart from the reform of the institutions proper, our Group supports the compromise resolution to be voted on later, be it for economic and monetary union, social issues or employment, the single market, the action plan proposed by the Commission, or other issues.
A word on the stability pact, now the subject of discussion for several days.
We feel that this pact is the corollary of the creation of the single currency and that its adoption should not be delayed, otherwise we would run the risk of delaying the introduction of the euro, which would be a serious political error.
However, we understand the need to add to this pact economic and social provisions, with jobs as the target.
For that, it is perhaps not vital for these economic and social provisions to be included in the pact.
We are therefore forced to give an opinion on a proposals made by our Committee on Institutional Affairs.
The second version presented by the Commission itself is more optimistic and less demanding.
For our part, we regret this development since we want the Summit to go as far as possible in the reform of the institutions and on the road to integration, be it the voting arrangements in the Council, the membership, role and strengthening of the Commission, the European Parliament's prerogatives, such as generalization of codecision, the piloting of a genuine CFSP, or the elaboration and implementation of the Union's economic and social policy, what some call the Union's economic government, alongside the future Central Bank.
The European Parliament has been saying this for two years.
Madam President, the preparation of the Amsterdam European Council is being dominated by an artificial polemic about the stability pact, which will end up masking the meeting's real challenges.
It is also an artificial polemic because the single currency, since there is no optimum monetary zone in Europe, can only work against employment and, alongside that great reality, all the rest is nothing but political hot-air or window-dressing.
And it is also artificial polemic because the first and real employment policy at European level was the common trade policy, which Europe buried when it launched itself into all-out free trading.
But this artificial polemic on the stability pact is distracting attention away from what is really at stake at Amsterdam.
First of all, the very strong progress towards federalism in the draft treaty, which is going to subordinate nations still further and worsen the democratic deficit.
The absence of political union means that economic and monetary union is causing our countries immense and innumerable difficulties because, just as a new house is built from its foundations, so economic union should be completed by monetary union as the direct result of political union, and not vice versa.
The gap between the candidate countries and the 15 Union countries is vast, and in some sectors it seems downright unbridgeable.
For this reason, as well as justifiable concern about the operational effectiveness of the future Union, it seems absolutely indispensable to have a transitional period for serious discussions within the scope of the negotiations.
Madam President, I welcome the progress in drawing up the new European Treaty and the agreement that has been reached, which is roughly along the lines suggested.
But even at this relatively late stage I would urge the Dutch Presidency to do everything possible to strengthen the text, particularly with regard to the employment chapter and selective areas of qualified majority voting.
There are 18 million people unemployed in Europe today, 21 % youth unemployment.
We need a growth and stability pact.
I believe that if this is done, the Amsterdam Summit will be seen as an historic landmark in the development of Europe, not only because of the new European Treaty but also because it puts jobs at the top of Europe's agenda.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, thank you very much for your words.
I think that they augur well for the outcome of the Amsterdam European Council.
I think that we should also find an appropriate role for the European Parliament.
I think, Mr Van Mierlo, that if you look at the motion for a resolution that we are going to vote on, you will see that it changes the role of the European Parliament.
Since the Treaty on European Union the European Parliament has taken on deciding powers in certain fields.
I think that the motion we are to vote on today demonstrates this new role for the European Parliament: a parliament that decides, a parliament that looks, at all times, for the direction in which the Community should head.
Undoubtedly, the best social policy, the best employment policy, is a good national economic policy - I am happy to say that and I think that my Government in Spain is in a splendid situation - but I think that we must also send a clear signal to our fellow citizens that the European Union does deal with those matters too.
The current negotiations on a revision of the European Treaties are taking place in parallel with the preparation of the creation of a single currency.
Nevertheless, the IGC and the new Treaty which will emerge from these negotiations could have an even more significant impact on the lives of our citizens, provided that the Member State governments keep those negotiations firmly focused on tackling issues which are of most concern to the general public.
The elections which have recently been held in a number of Member States should ensure this is the case.
Security of employment in the future for those who are fortunate to have employment at present is an equally important issue.
Finally, we must aggressively defend our interests on the international marketplace by basing our trading policy on the premise that overseas companies will only have access to our markets provided that we have equally good access to their home markets.
The Intergovernmental Conference should address the job-creation and job-security issues by ensuring that the proposals for revising the Treaty include specific commitments to give increased priority to measures to improve the competitive position of EU industry in the international market.
Madam President, the Intergovernmental Conference which is now in its final stages is of particular interest to the new Member States.
It is now that we will be able to see whether membership of the EU is what it was made out to be and what it was promised to be by those who recommended it.
But now a number of steps have been taken towards a common defence system.
Even so, I believe that this Intergovernmental Conference will have to be measured in terms of that historic aspect.
But this Europe has already built on that very idea in the case of coal and steel, the idea of unity without military force and unity through peace.
And if we are agreed that this European house is being built not for a political elite but for Europe's own citizens, then I ask you this: where are the citizens to find any spark of enthusiasm for Europe when they consider the results of this Intergovernmental Conference?
If Parliament is to represent the citizens for whom this European house is being built, then it must act energetically today to counter the timidity and pragmatism of this conference.
Madam President, allow me to deal with a point that seems to me to be essential for the European model that we are building on the eve of the 21st century - the parliamentary and democratic control of the institutions.
I think I am right in saying that the Union's powers are to be strengthened by the IGC, concerning the fight against organized crime and terrorism, the ability to conduct trade negotiations with our partners, the fight against all forms of discrimination, public health and the defence of consumers.
Certain proposals contained in the 30 May draft treaty are very significant.
This is a dangerous drift which risks not only provoking a considerable imbalance in the Union to the benefit of the Council and the Commission, but also of putting ordinary people off, as they will see European construction as something vague, remote and intangible, even uncontrollable.
Because we believe in Europe, because we are convinced that our future depends on the future of the Union that we are building, please do not offer Europe's detractors a treaty on a silver platter that could be regarded as a step backwards in terms of democracy and judicial controls.
Madam President, I have listened this morning with great interest, in the hope that a realistic response to the concerns of the citizens of Europe would come forward.
Madam President, the draft of an amended Treaty must be assessed in the light of the European Parliament's positions.
The proposals made by the Dutch presidency are, as a whole, important steps in the direction the European Parliament wants to follow.
May I remind you that the Spinelli draft constitution was the essential precursor of the Single European Act of 1986, that the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 was itself influenced by important proposals made by this House, and that two Members of the European Parliament are now involved in the present discussions.
Even today, there is no denying the fact that many of the proposals on the negotiating table were born in the European Parliament.
Madam President, giving the European Union the ability to act, and hence the ability to expand, was one of the primary tasks of this Intergovernmental Conference, and the Dutch presidency - like its predecessors - did its very best to make progress in those areas.
The employment and social protocol is being incorporated.
We have also heard Mr Van Mierlo commend the IGC for achieving democracy and openness and meeting the demands of the people through the chapter on employment but unfortunately this is just a cosmetic solution.
But a Member State wishing to maintain or introduce tighter environmental requirements must notify their reasons to the Commission who can then reject these on the grounds that they form a barrier to trade.
We might just as well delete the issues of sustainable development and environmental improvements.
I am, above all, obliged to the President-in-Office of the Council for having succeeded in a very difficult period in finding the time to justify himself because I think that this is the only place where he could do so.
Perhaps ordinary people are not interested in the building of the kitchen but nonetheless would like to know whether the new Europe is going to become closer to them.
However, I am particularly interested in the overall situation of parliamentary democracy in respect of the draft Treaty.
I am particularly referring to the openness of administration, the democratic nature of the European Union, foreign policy and the weighting of votes.
That is important for the public, for national parliaments and for us.
When I see, in the file on internal security and the file on foreign policy, that national parliaments are losing powers which are not being transferred to the European Parliament, I ask myself if we are not actually going backwards.
If we cannot manage the budget problem or the budget as a whole - it is not always the case for 50 billion ECU - we still cannot say that we have filled in the democratic vacuum.
I have noted in the proposals that the sum total of the points for big countries is larger than that of small countries.
I think that the compromise adopted in the days of Ioannina was an excellent one and I wonder whether it might not be wise to retain the same ratio in the framework of the new weighting of votes.
Madam President, the new draft treaty, despite its imperfections, contains many novelties.
We should therefore welcome the Commission's insistence, under President Santer, and that of the French and other Governments, to ensure that this aspect of the growth and stability pact goes through.
The new Article 7D is still fairly vague.
We should not go on dismantling the public service while spouting fine words about their social value.
It should be made more specific, as the European Parliament demands.
I have just left a meeting - that is why I was not here before and I apologize - with Commissioner Oreja, on the institutional provisions concerning the veterinary field and public health.
This crisis could, unless the Commission and the Council take stiff action, lead to a major institutional crisis.
There too we want more precise and more practical proposals.
As Chairman Martens has said, we have already lost 10 years.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, surely there is still a rather serious void in the draft treaty of 30 May.
All the European balances which are being drawn up will be no use, and a new equilibrium between monetary union and economic and social union cannot be established, without that profound institutional transformation which is needed and which was, moreover, in the mandate of the Intergovernmental Conference.
If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to make a final point about article 113.
It is true that article 113 has increased the powers of the Community, but at the same time it has reduced the powers of Parliament, and reducing the powers of Parliament in this respect strikes us as rather dangerous.
Madam President, three years ago almost to the day, on 12 June 1994, we held a referendum in Austria on our country's accession to the European Union.
Not all our citizens were satisfied with all the details at the time, and indeed not all our citizens were even told about all the details of that accession.
Even so, the citizens voted 'yes' in principle to the European project, and did so in the awareness that no ready-made, communal Europe exists as yet and that we would all have to continue working to advance the progress of deeper and wider European union.
Today, it is up to the European Parliament to make its contribution to the Intergovernmental Conference.
The question which Elmar Brok wanted to put to the President-in-Office was as follows: if Amsterdam really is not sufficient to allow full expansion by another eleven States, will there at least be a new Article N as a result of this Intergovernmental Conference?
In my view that is the main objective of this IGC.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the Netherlands Presidency on its constructive work.
That is perhaps one of the reasons why, in the course of this IGC three governments have already fallen, even though they were achieving good results in the economic field.
The progress already made in the Intergovernmental Conference meets these objectives.
Finally, we cannot have a Europe which is united monetarily and economically yet divided in all other spheres, in particular on internal and external security, on which economic confidence itself depends in the first place.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make two requests for the Council and the Commission to take with them as they leave for Amsterdam.
The present draft Treaty provides for a step backward in terms of freedom of movement.
I therefore ask that the Conference should not lose sight of the approach adopted in the previous treaty and should ensure the implementation of that freedom of movement which was, in fact, guaranteed in the previous Treaty of 1 January 1993.
We would have liked to have more time for this debate - starting with myself.
We have spoken of employment but, unable to pursue an employment policy, we decide to introduce an employment chapter in the treaty.
It is preference for the nominal, as economists say.
We have spoken about a foreign policy, but our Byzantine procedures are such that even the President-inOffice of the Council, this morning, felt that the procedures were too complicated to be intelligible even for a forum as specialized as our own.
We have spoken of a defence policy, but are exposed to the contradiction of affirming that we want to have a Community defence policy, that we have people who are in NATO and people who are not, but that it is in NATO that we shall pursue that Community policy.
We have also heard of enlargement, but the matching measures, the necessary institutional reforms have not been forthcoming with the necessary vigour and, in particular, n the Commission problem remains intact.
The Commission is the great source of coherence in the Union.
I am afraid that the Commission, divided, broken up, weighed down, losing its second Commissioner for the big intergovernmentalized States will be the big loser in the system.
Madam President, I want to address the section on the CFSP.
Let me come straight to my most important point: my Group attaches great importance to the interinstitutional agreement on financing the CFSP.
If it is not, I suspect that my Group will find it very difficult to support the conclusions of the Amsterdam Summit.
I hope the presidency can take that message to any Member States which have doubts about that area.
Reservations are clearly that Parliament has almost no role in CFSP.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, certainly the product counts and there is no doubt that how the European Union functions does not matter so much to people as seeing their own lives improve with the progress of the European Union, in terms of own welfare, personal and collective security, the opportunity to work, social security, the extension of freedom, of expression, of movement, of initiative and so on.
Here I too find it positive that there is unanimous consensus about including the social protocol and new provisions on employment in the treaty.
Perhaps this will make it possible to relaunch, in a different institutional context and with a different perspective, the stability pact which President Santer proposed in Florence, but without finding the consensus he was hoping for.
The European Parliament has only a right to be consulted.
The national parliaments are being cut out, but they are not being replaced by the European Parliament.
However, there is one positive point I should make: the new provisions, especially in Article 119 on equality for women, are much better regulated in the present draft Treaty than they were in the Dutch presidency's first draft.
I must say to President Santer and the President-in-Office that we had an exceptionally fruitful dialogue on this matter.
This rule is already enshrined in the constitutions of some Member States, whereas in others that is not yet the case.
Those Member States whose constitutions include this rule are currently experiencing certain difficulties with it, which shows that it is a strict rule.
I do not know whether the Council, in its search for the legal basis, has yet succeeded in finding a solution outside the European budget.
This should be the case in the Commission too.
If the small Member States are deprived of the opportunity to have their own Commissioner, the credibility of the EU will fall in the citizens' eyes.
Tightening cooperation between the WEU and the EU is appropriate when seeking to improve the efficiency of the common foreign and security policy.
Military neutrality and credible defence have a longer and from Finland's viewpoint just as successful history as military alliances.
The first is that we are very often in touch with the citizens and I think that what has been said here reflects what they want.
The second reason is that, while we have no ratification powers for the IGC, we have to deliver our opinion on enlargement.
Furthermore, national parliaments will also have to ratify the enlargements.
For these two reasons, I think that this final European Parliament should be very useful for you.
We are profoundly attached to democracy and the powers of the European Parliament.
Quiet frankly if, when I stand for reelection, the voters had the impression that I had a real legislative power and genuine influence on European decisions, I would not have asked to speak here today.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate I should like to make it clear, on behalf of the French socialists, that we are attached to European construction, we want to see Amsterdam give it a new lease of life, and we hope that all of our efforts will make it possible to stick to the original timetables.
It is absolutely vital to send a loud and clear signal to the people of Europe, indispensable to include a social chapter in the Treaty, indispensable to set an immediate priority for employment and against unemployment.
It is also indispensable to strike a balance between monetary stability and economic growth.
For that to happen we need to abandon our idolatry of market omnipotence and to restore a balance between the market and state intervention.
Madam President, it is clear that there will be a need to negotiate another treaty in the next five years.
The major problems still remain unsolved.
The idea of entrusting power in this field to the Secretary General of the Council is not only an anti-democratic solution - at least the Secretary General of the United Nations answers to the General Assembly - but it is also unlikely to be effective.
I would like to close on a note of optimism: good news seems to be coming from social Europe, to judge from the demonstrations in progress in the last few days.
Madam President, I would like to propose inviting the Managing Director of Renault to Amsterdam because, unlike this Parliament, he succeeded in getting the provisions of the social agreement into the treaty.
I have told you what I wanted to tell you and you have told me what was on your mind.
Of course, the European Parliament wants more.
I myself have been a member of parliament for 30 years and it is precisely the role of the European Parliament to demonstrate a certain professional dissatisfaction vis-à-vis the progress made in the process of forming Europe.
Thank God, you have the magnanimity to recognize that progress has been made but you must also be dissatisfied because we are in a process of integration and we need the European Parliament's pressure in order to bring down the difficult frontiers which separate the Member States, of which today I have the honour of being President - but I am sometimes fenced in by existing frontiers.
Communitarization has to be achieved gradually by challenging the history of our states and that is a task in which the European Parliament plays a vital role, not only today.
I must also mention the role of your President and your two delegates who have followed the process almost constantly and who have been of precious help to us during the debates.
I can perhaps once again repeat that the emphasis of EMU has really been placed on the monetary aspect but it is obvious - and I should like once again to recall this - that, when we opened the debate on employment, two years ago, more than half the Member States thought it was ridiculous that Europe should even consider pursuing a genuine employment policy.
It would be a serious mistake to think that the European Community is responsible for the high level of unemployment in Europe.
Here the term 'crisis' means the ability to resolve one's own problems and I am not referring to all of the problems which cross our frontiers.
Nonetheless we have to add a counterweight to employment in the measures which means that it should not be regarded as an isolated fact but as a measure which is linked to the stability pact.
If it is not, then we still cannot say that the Summit is a disaster because we still have six months to play with.
Everyone will have access to the documents in accordance with the rules worked out by the Council and the European Parliament.
Then a lady said that the second pillar and the majority decision process do not come before the European Parliament.
But in the second pillar there is still the possibility of using the right of veto both in the European Council and the General Council, and failure to use the vote of veto may be submitted to Parliamentary criticism and debate.
Whereas the third pillar is inclining towards the first, with asylum, immigration and visas, a transitional situation provides initially for national parliaments and consensus - and then a drift towards the European Parliament, in the second period, during which decisions are taken on the subject by means of a majority decision process.
I also noted, in the European Parliament's resolutions and in what people have said here, that most of the factors of its position match the position taken by the Commission in its opinion back in February 1996.
First of all questions concerning EMU and employment.
I said this morning in my introduction that EMU, Economic and Monetary Union, has two aspects as the term suggests: monetary and economic.
It is important for EMU to walk on both these legs.
Mr Wilfried Martens and, earlier, the President-in-Office rightly said: pacta sunt servanda .
The stability and growth pact was essentially adopted, substantially, at the last European Council in Dublin.
It was therefore the arrangements, not only aims, but the arrangements and the substance of the stability pact that were adopted.
There is therefore no question of changing that stability pact.
That would lead to a problem of credibility and confidence, and would have serious effects on confidence between Member States and, no doubt, on international financial markets.
On the other hand, the economic aspect must be decentralized.
Of course, the running of economic policies remains with the Member States, but they are committed to coordinating their economic policies in the Council, on the basis of Articles 102A and 103 of the Treaty and, no doubt, it can and should be regretted that that has not yet been implemented, just like the monetary aspect or the coordination of our economic policies.
The instrument that is Article 103 should be fully implemented, as the Commission demonstrated in its report on Europe as an economic entity after the Rasmussen initiative.
The potential of growth of the European economic and its huge internal market should be better exploited.
The Council will have to make full use of the possibility of addressing specific recommendations to the Member States.
Economic policies should be focused on our main priority and you have all, without exception, stressed this morning that that is the aim of the whole policy.
If we manage to add to the growth and stability pact a new dimension, without modifying its substance, but alongside what was done on the basis of Article 102A and 103 of the Treaty, then we will have a complete instrument and EMU will then be able to function properly.
Including the 'employment' chapter in the Treaty should not be under-estimated provided, of course, that it provides for the necessary instruments for defining and implementing a common strategy for jobs.
Of course, I have said this to you many times before: social policy is still the competence of the Member States.
It is in that spirit that I launched, on the basis of and as a complement to, Jacques Delors' 1993 White Paper, the pact of confidence for employment, and I am now happy to note that all the Member States, without any exception at present, take the line I took.
A year ago, on, 31 January 1996, when I appeared in this Chamber, I had the very distinct impression that the fight had to be fought on two fronts: the EMU front, which is not an end in itself - the single currency is only an instrument for developing an economic and social policy - and on the other hand, the employment front, against unemployment.
We have to realize that enlargement to the countries of central and eastern Europe is a unique opportunity and I said as much this morning - an historic chance, for reconciling, for the first time for over 500 years, the whole of our continent with itself, in peace and freedom.
I can tell you today, the Commission will be ready to present to you, on 15 or 16 July next, all of the necessary documentation, the opinions on the different Member States, the financial prospects after 1999, the necessary reform of policies: CAP, structural funds, Cohesion Fund, and their repercussions on the future enlargement.
Thank you very much, Mr Santer.
Amendment No 47 that you have just called a vote on refers not to Recital C but to Paragraph 4(c), if I have seen the texts properly.
Mr fabre-Aubrespy, I am sorry but it was very carefully checked that this amendment did not refer to the paragraph in the heading but another amendment.
We found it in time thanks to you just giving us a few seconds to do that.
Amendment No 50 by the Socialist Group seeks to weaken our call for a common electoral system.
Every member of the British Labour Party in this House is aware of the policy of the Labour Party.
Mr President, in the House of Commons the day before Mr Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, and therefore responsible for electoral rules, said that there was no manifesto commitment to introduce PR or the regional list system by the 1999 European elections.
The European Parliament must give its opinion, today, at second reading, on the common position on the eighth directive on summer-time.
It is an important act for our fellow citizens, proof of practical construction of a Europe of citizens.
To assess the wisdom of this measure, in particular in the perspective of enlargement of the European Union eastward, to be accompanied by an enlargement of time zones, it is urgent to draft a detailed report, in consultation with all the interested parties.
All aspects must be fully analysed in the light of experience.
We are examining the Belleré report on summer-time at second reading.
The Commission advances as an argument the difficulty of envisaging a single market where time would vary from State to State.
Since today the Commission tell us that the European Union must have a single time and that numerous expert reports have shown that the advantages of the switch to summer-time are marginal and the disadvantages substantial, I call on the Commission and the Council to think about simply abolishing summer-time in the European Union completely.
European Council Point 4 c of the Amsterdam resolution was passed relatively quickly.
The two main subjects of the Amsterdam European Council, the stability pact for the single currency and the draft treaty emerging from the IGC, concern different areas but tally perfectly in the search for the same objective: subordinating the nations, muzzling their parliaments, turning States into mere local authorities.
All of these federalist measures just listed belong to a logic of coherence, on which President Santer insisted this morning: ever more coherence, ever more convergence, ever more unity, so that Europe can be stronger.
This appeal for coherence is logical, but it is a dramatically partial logic, because it does not take into account the realities of our countries, their diversity, which is exactly what makes them strong, without any need for all these mechanisms of bureaucratic alignment that is being imposed on them.
The Intergovernmental Conference has demonstrated that the EU majority is not interested in real every day issues - the EU ideologues are more interested in turning the EU into an instrument of power politics.
But this right is then withdrawn because it will be up to each EU institution to determine which documents shall be available and to whom.
So, we will vote against the resolution as a whole and will urge the Swedish people not to ratify the results of the Intergovernmental Conference.
The resolution contains a number of proposals which increase the power of the EU to the detriment of national parliaments.
At a period when there are 18.5 million people unemployed in the European Union, the Member States must accept a common European responsibility to create more employment.
We Christian Democrats, in particular, as supporters of the social market economy, cannot allow social progress to be impeded, any more than sustainable economic progress.
One of the most essential elements of the Maastricht II Treaty, then, will be the employment chapter.
It must point the way out of the Community-wide employment crisis, without changing the principle that the Member States retain the primary responsibility for combating unemployment and changing structures in the regions.
An essential requirement for success is that the Member States should agree to secure a high level of employment and be willing to undertake regular evaluations of progress towards this common objective.
The European Council itself has laid the foundations for the joint approach to combating unemployment.
At the Essen summit it adopted a comprehensive strategy for co-operation between the Member States on labour market policy.
It comprises a political commitment by all Member States to a long-term investment in Europe's most important resource - its human resources.
Mr President, I have voted against because this text of the Dutch Presidency on which the Amsterdam Council will have the final say is a construct which leaves the people of Europe out in the cold.
According to Eurostat, only about 2 % of the people really know what is going on.
The representatives of the Council and the Commission have paid homage to employment a hundred times, but they have only just managed to insert some form of protocol, some form of provision, on unemployment in the Treaty.
Mr President, I voted against this text because it offers no prospect or contribution to a democratic Europe, favouring an authoritarian centralized state.
The text of the Maastricht Treaty constantly refers to an area of freedom, safety and justice.
Faced with the draft Treaty presented at the Amsterdam European Council, the European Parliament is pretending to be sorry that the text is not sufficiently federalist.
This is the exactly the case we are facing here.
Let us, for example, take the proposals in the draft treaty in the areas of security, justice and immigration.
The European Parliament's resolution declares that the draft treaty is not enough as it does not provide for the possibility of referral to the Court of Justice by individuals.
These proposals would represent an extraordinary federalist leap since, in future, for example, immigration issues would be decided in Brussels.
The French people could no longer decide for themselves their own policy in that area, and the parties could simply delete the 'immigration' chapter from their manifestos, with a view to national general elections.
In order to make this huge pill easier to swallow, the Dutch Presidency is using a perfectly hypocritical strategy, but it has often turned out to be expensive in the past: a principle is inscribed in the Treaty, by application is deferred for some years to give citizens the impression that they might, in the meantime, benefit from the right to repent, which in reality is absolutely no the case.
The current draft text provides that the Council, for matters of circulation, asylum and immigration which would be communitarized, would continue to decide unanimously, for three years after the Treaty comes into force; personal controls at borders will be maintained, but for a maximum of five years; Europol would receive operational powers on the territories of the Member States but only after five years have lapsed.
Recital C and paragraphs 1(c) and 12 read as though some would like to postpone enlargement, but we favour the timetable adopted.
We vote against paragraph 5, because it is affected by a Danish reservation.
Despite this we vote for the resolution, because it supports the areas that are most important to us, namely openness, democracy, human rights, the environment, consumer protection and employment, and because we do not have a wholly negative attitude to a transformation of the EU that patently sets out to achieve transparency in so many areas.
I voted against because the unanimity rule should not be abolished and Parliament should not be involved in deciding where the seat should be, since things should stay as they are.
The Amsterdam Treaty does not mark a step towards a European democracy.
Quite the reverse: the revision of the Maastricht Treaty provides for a proliferation of procedures conducted between the Member States without adequate parliamentary or judicial control.
The Treaty does not introduce openness of legislation, nor is the EP being given rights of codetermination and control in key areas of integration, such as monetary union.
The new Treaty does not create equilibrium between the Union's political and economic integration.
Maastricht II offers no guarantee that Member States will retain or be able to introduce higher environmental standards.
No mention is made in the draft Treaty of the introduction of eco-taxes.
The employment chapter is verbose and empty.
The Amsterdam Treaty provides no financial or institutional instruments for carrying out an active employment policy at EU level.
The European Union must listen to its members and respond to the demand for employment dignity for all.
The European Union must be able to intervene in order to maintain peace and security both inside and outside its borders.
The Council shares this opinion and that is why we are aiming at a structural improvement of the functioning of the CFSP and that this on the agenda of the IGC.
As you know, the Maastricht Treaty threw down the bases of a common foreign and security policy for the European Union.
A strong CFSP can be forged thanks to the feeling of proximity of the Member States of the European Union.
In certain areas this awareness is stronger than in others but a process of gradual evolution is clearly emerging here.
This evolution is reflected in institutional terms in the growth of European political cooperation from 25 years ago until implementation of the CFSP following Maastricht.
Moreover, we are working on lasting relations with our neighbouring countries in eastern Europe and around the Mediterranean basin.
That does not mean that the Union can advance or impose short-term solutions, but that it exercises an influence in terms of foreign policy in the respect of its own interests but also in the light of the importance of its economic relations with the countries in question.
It is obvious that the rehabilitation and promotion of political and economic stability go hand in hand with this and are of major importance for the Union and its Member States.
To this effect, tools such as the pre-adhesion strategy, PHARE and TACIS are very important.
Recently the European Union has also been very active in the field of relations with other neighbouring countries.
The process begun at the Barcelona Conference has led to a system of closer economic links and a more intense political dialogue of strategic interest for the Union, its Member States and our neighbours to the south.
In fact, at that moment, and following the very specific manoeuvres of the Presidency, it was recognized for the first time that Europe can play not only an economic role but also a political role in the peace process in the Middle East.
In my view, we have exploited this point carefully and harmoniously.
That was also important in the framework of the unfortunate story of a common resolution in terms of human rights policy over China but, as far as Europe and the United States are concerned, there was excellent cooperation.
Closer cooperation in the field of political dialogue has just complemented our economic relations with the countries of Latin America as well as our main Asian partners.
That is why it is all the more important that we exchange ideas and try to reach an agreement on the external political challenges to be met by the European Union and in the framework of the Council, but also dialogue with you, representatives of the peoples of the Union.
The structures can, of course, help us in this process.
Madam President, I thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his comments.
I am always happy to oblige the presidency in the hope that we will see both the Dutch presidency and other presidencies perhaps a little more frequently in front of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy.
As this is the third such debate, I have this year provided comparative tables showing the trends - and in some cases the lack of trends - in the instruments of the policy.
The third part of my report represents, for the first time, this data on a geographic basis, spiralling out from countries in the rest of Europe and nearby to every other region of the world.
Sadly we are not yet in that happy position so the second part of my report lists, once again, our criticisms of how the CFSP has failed to develop as was anticipated at Maastricht.
Ten years ago we felt guilty about our failure.
Five years ago we had developed aspirations and rhetoric but had neither institutions nor ground rules.
I am most worried by the impact of this failure on our public and in particular, the impact of that failure, both political and technical, in the wars of Yugoslav succession, where our public expected us to save lives and we failed.
My report contains a section, again for the first time, on the role of this Parliament, its President, its committees and its delegations.
I am an unapologetic enthusiast for parliamentary involvement, both national and European in the CFSP.
This approach seems to be based on theories about the primacy of the Crown in foreign affairs, an argument which was rejected by the US Senate from the very early years of that great republic.
I echo President Santer's concerns this morning about attempts to restrict the coherence of the Commission's role in negotiating on behalf of the Union under Articles 113 and 238.
For any power, but especially for a predominantly civilian superpower such as this Union, foreign policy must be a mixture of trade and economics, of environment and development, of security and human rights.
It is at least as much about what goes on in Kyoto and Geneva as what goes on in Moscow and Washington.
My gratitude also goes to the Minister, Mr Van Mierlo, for his detailed apology of the CFSP in 1996.
Furthermore, as has already been said, the United States have interfered on several occasions in situations that we ought to have been able to solve alone.
The Spencer report clearly tackles those aspects which need to be changed.
We need to create better institutional conditions for the European Union's foreign policy, especially when it comes to conflict prevention.
But that will only have any meaning and will only function if the Member States also demonstrate more ambition when it comes to collaborating over foreign affairs.
Madam President-in-Office, I very much welcome the publication of this report.
It highlights the ineffectiveness of the European Union's policy in this particular area.
I find it somewhat ironic that we refer to the common foreign and security policy.
It talks about the failure to respond to the continuing problems in Bosnia-Herzegovina or taking any initiative on Kosovo, the lack of effective response to the continuing problem of Cyprus and our relations with Turkey and the absence of a long-term policy for the Middle East or Africa.
Madam President, as everyone is aware the CFSP is a bone of great contention in the European Union; not because of its existence, but rather because of its absence.
The Union's inability to implement a real common foreign and security policy, which has been lamented very often in this Chamber, means that while it is always willing do its share of the paying it cannot act effectively in the international arena.
The crisis in former Yugoslavia revealed the European Union's inability to act.
For the lack of a genuine common foreign and security policy, Europe cannot play the role that should be its, including that of restoring peace.
The IGC must put that right by strengthening the principle of political solidarity, while enabling the Member States not to take part actively in certain common actions.
Since the failure of the European Defence Community in 1954, for the first time, the basic conditions for the emergence of a European security policy now seem to be in place.
Madam President, the record of the CFSP this year shows, as on previous occasions, that the European Union's international activities are marked by a lack of political will, the non-existence of common aims and an insufficiency of institutional mechanisms.
Madam President, I should like to stress an aspect which seems to have been slightly overlooked.
We already all know - and I disagree with my colleague and friend Anne André-Léonard over this - that nothing will be done over the CFSP in Amsterdam.
We have this report which proposes some very clear things.
Madam President, the annual report on the progress of CFSP, as my group deplores, is unfortunately more of an occasion for a ritual celebration of integrationist fundamentalism than a far-reaching examination aimed at confronting aims and realities.
This report, despite its undeniable documentary quality and the wealth of its facts and figures, is no exception to that rule.
It takes the same ideological approach as last year's, developing a conception of the CFSP that would set out to absorb all of all our nations' external means of action, constantly conceived in opposition to national diplomacies, as if a successful initiative by one or more Member States could not, by its very nature, benefit Europe as a whole.
On the contrary, the competent and efficient national diplomatic services on which such actions rely are presented as an obstacle to the development of the CFSP and, during the debates, serious consideration has been given to their recycling, not to say their re-education.
The CFSP will only be effective if it plays a complementary role and not that of replacing national diplomacies.
The CFSP process can then make it possible, by means of concertation, to reconcile to the maximum the diversity of our approaches.
But we also have to recognize the existence of divergent policies linked, in certain vital areas, to the protection of vital national interests that are perfectly legitimate and respond to citizens' wishes.
I regret that the Spencer report has not taken the realistic approach to the CFSP which is a necessary condition for its success.
That is why our group will not be able to vote for its adoption.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, every year since the Maastricht Treaty entered into force on 1 November 1993, our Parliament has produced a report on the progress achieved in the elaboration of the common foreign and security policy, defined in Article J7 of the Treaty.
According to its author, the beginnings of the CFSP are still unconvincing in the eyes of European citizens.
Reviewing the crises in 1996, the report regrets in particular the absence of common proposals and initiatives by the Union for former Yugoslavia, the enlargement of NATO, and relations with Russia, its ineffectiveness in Albania, its diplomatic weakness over Cyprus and Turkey and its divisions over China.
Curiously, the report offers a positive appraisal of the action by the Union's special envoy to the Middle East and thinks that there are still possibilities to be exploited in central Africa, Zaire, or the Great Lakes region.
The measures proposed, as usual, to remedy these gaps are the following: integration of the WEU into the European Union, inclusion in the Community budget of CFSP operational non-compulsory expenditure, enabling the European Parliament to exert controls, and systematic consultation of the European Parliament by the Council before the adoption of common positions.
Madame Chairman, when three new Member States joined the EU at the beginning of 1995 the tradition of military neutrality in the Union was strongly reinforced.
We wish to support and strengthen the European Union's common foreign and security policy.
We do, however, wish to remain militarily neutral because this informed choice, in our opinion and according to our experience can best secure stability and peaceful development in northern Europe.
Against this background, we have followed with some concern the calls for the unification of the EU with the WEU.
We respect these solutions.
We are very concerned about the timid progress made in this matter and, I repeat, about the timid progress proposed in this matter proposed for the Intergovernmental Conference.
Without these structural conditions the European Union will continue to lack prestige as regards external policy - it is a hard truth - and it will not in the medium term provide the appropriate support for the development of economic and financial policies and the relevant social progress.
And I want to say, once again, that a common foreign policy is needed, but the reality is we are not going to do anything concrete to achieve that objective.
I ask myself - and I ask you - whether anyone still cherishes the illusion that, as Mr Spencer rightly mentions in his report, the old nation states can play a leading role in a strongly and sharply evolving international scenario.
I ask myself whether Europe, which certainly has a role at the highest level on the world scene, prefers to continue in the role of fifteen political dwarves, fifteen political gnomes who continue to argue about every important foreign policy issue which arises at international level.
So I believe a specific and strong position should be taken after this debate through a specific intervention by Parliament.
Indeed, if we look around we can see economically weak countries investing economic resources in totally disproportionate armaments -resources that they urgently need elsewhere.
We saw that in the essentially neutral stance taken by the European Union during the crisis over the Imia islands in 1996, even though one of its member countries was involved.
In view of its history during the present century, Europe has a special responsibility to adopt an active security policy.
These spots are still present in points 15 and 19.
After the historic events of 1989 it should have become the dominant concern of our Union, but still, today, on the eve of the revision of the Treaty, it remains a distant dream - albeit an undesirable one for some people here.
If we want find the root cause of this inability we have to look back to the thing that in recent years we have been sedulously keeping quiet about: the abandonment of the federal idea.
I agree with him that progress on the common foreign and security policy has been disappointing.
I particularly welcome his reference to the analysis unit, which would assist the EU in drawing up a more effective common foreign and security policy and help with conflict prevention.
As Mr Lambrias said, the common foreign and security policy has clearly failed in certain areas, such as former Yugoslavia, Albania and other areas of the world.
However important it may be to give our citizens the feeling that they live in an area of freedom and internal security, which includes social security and the right to work, external security is a necessity too.
Particularly for countries like Austria, which are frontier states of the EU, it is important that the European Union should carry weight in its foreign and security policy and so become a stabilizing factor in Europe.
The Spencer report makes this painfully clear.
This makes it all the more important to us that, with regard to the CFSP as elsewhere, majority decisions should make it easier for the European Union to act.
While uncertainties remain regarding the CFSP, it is an easy way out to take refuge in neutrality, which has lost its meaning as a result of the changed political scenario in Europe and should be replaced by solidarity in favour of a common security policy.
What may be less customary is that in congratulating Mr Spencer I actually mean it, because previous chairmen of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy have produced the annual report on a very absolutist basis: they have talked about the world they would like to see rather than the world that exists.
After all we have a common foreign and security policy not because we want some sort of status symbol to prove to the rest of the world we have grown up as an organization, but because we believe that our economic and political strength can, through CFSP, produce benefits not only to EU citizens but to citizens of the broader Europe and, indeed, of the world, and it is on providing those positive benefits that we have to be judged.
At the moment the CFSP is very piecemeal: it owes more to the inspiration of Heath Robinson than to the modern, computer-driven technological age.
You cannot even begin to attack the problem.
While national governments are still briefing their civil servants, we cannot have a common foreign security policy.
The IGC will address some of these issues.
The Council of Ministers betrayed him because of a lack of political will.
We have to improve Parliament's role in a common foreign and security policy.
In this sense and following this morning's debate on the intergovernmental conference, it might be said that there is a consensus emerging on possible improvements to the tools of the common foreign policy.
On this score, we are also very anxiously awaiting, along with this institution, the outcome of the Amsterdam Summit and we will then see to what extent the Treaty really has given us instruments and improvements to procedures and structures which might possibly enable us to reach a truly more effective and more dynamic common security and foreign policy, as has been demanded by so many speakers this afternoon.
Without wishing to undermine the just criticism of the common foreign policy, I should also like to issue a warning against the possible tendency to attribute, in some way or another, all of the international conflicts currently raging and all of the suffering still present in the world to the European Union's inaction or the lack of means enabling us to bring them to an end within a reasonable time.
Unfortunately, there are still many examples of big countries, world powers still with considerable diplomatic, military and economic capacities, but unable to find an immediate solution to any conflict, be it the Middle East conflict or the wars raging in Central Africa.
As for the global strategic environment, Eastern Europe, the former Soviet Union, the Mediterranean and the Middle East, we have reviewed our individual relations with each of these countries and strengthened our links with them.
The same goes for a country which arouses so much controversy in the European Parliament, namely Turkey, with which we concluded a customs union, two years ago, and with which we are still trying to strengthen links; it needs to take clear and practical measures rather than condemning to 21 years in prison a political activist who did nothing more than lower a flag.
I think that it would be beneficial if all our Member States conscientiously re-read the existing Union Treaties in terms of a common foreign and security policy and that they echoed the words of the President of the Commission, Mr Santer, namely pacta sunt servanda .
They should remember that, in 1991, in Maastricht, all of them declared that they should not only aspire to a common foreign policy but also to a security policy and, in the end, a common defence policy and all of the necessary tools for that purpose; their remarks made on this subject on strengthening WEU and the acquisition of tools which might also be used or exert pressure when diplomacy looks like failing - that all of subjects - also ought to retain our attention.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Given their status as elected representatives of the Union's peoples, the national parliaments and the European Parliament play a key role in the exercise of democratic control over activities, in particular the legislative activities, of the European Union.
The quality of the relationship between the European Parliament and national parliaments is therefore of crucial interest for the democratic nature of the European Union.
That, ladies and gentlemen, was the thought that I have had throughout the year since I was appointed as Rapporteur on relations between our Parliament and the national parliaments.
Consequently, my resolution contains fundamental demands, in the run up to the closure of the IGC - firstly: integration into the Treaty of openness and transparency as a general principle, valid for all of the European Union's institutions.
Secondly: strengthening the European Parliament's powers and introducing codecision into all Council decisions taken by a qualified majority.
Thirdly: an obligation under the Treaty to indicate all pre-legislative and legislative texts in due time to the national parliaments so that they have at least four weeks to express their opinion before the Council takes its decision.
Fourthly: strengthening cooperation between the Union's parliaments by means of a better definition of the COSAC, by means of communicating in due time the Commission's legislative programme to the national parliaments, allocating reciprocal facilities and organizing multilateral electronic communications.
The IGC's current proposals respond partly to this demand.
I am also aware of the fact, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that my report and resolution are only one cog in a relationship between our Parliament and the national parliaments, because they will still have some difficulties.
We have had excellent collaboration in committee, and the Socialist Group will be supporting her motion for a resolution when it comes to the vote.
The role of national parliaments and of the European Parliament are, and must be, complementary.
But however good it is - be it the Scandinavian model whereby the minister appears before the relevant parliamentary committee on his or her way to the airport when going to a Council meeting and on his or her way back from the airport when returning from a Council meeting, a very intense form of scrutiny - or one of the other methods which have been developed, the fact remains that, however good that national parliamentary scrutiny is, it remains separate scrutiny by fifteen different national parliaments, each over one member of the Council.
The two roles are therefore complementary, and care should be taken in the Treaty to distinguish these two roles.
We can support the compromises that seem to be emerging in the IGC to take measures that would facilitate the national control that national parliaments must exercise through better time limits and better circulation of documents giving them the time to get stuck into issues.
More important than that in the IGC is a related matter, that of extending qualified majority voting.
There will be nothing for national parliaments nor for the European Parliament to deal with because there will be paralysis.
Unless we extend qualified majority voting in the new Treaty throughout the whole realm of Community legislation at the very least, then there will be no point in discussing the best ways to carry out national or European parliamentary scrutiny.
This report, which mentions the support of national parliaments - as the COSAC also recognized at its Dublin meeting - for extending European Parliament codecision to legislative acts, heads in the right direction.
The rapporteur also makes practical proposals on how the controls exercised by the European Parliament could be improved and finally on cooperation between the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
The rapporteur recognizes in her report, Madam President, that the proposals are not spectacular.
I also wish to congratulate the rapporteur on her splendid work, her practical proposals in which the wishes of the national parliaments are reflected, as they were expressed at the hearing held in Brussels a few weeks ago.
Madam President, the proposal we are analyzing today is certainly not intended to transfer responsibilities or powers from the national parliaments to the European Parliament, far from it!
The European Parliament is ready to work directly with the national parliaments.
It must be noted that the national parliaments are very much excluded from European legislative procedures, including in areas within their remits originating in constituent powers, which sometimes causes serious problems in an atmosphere of defiance against the cause of European integration prevailing in most Member States.
My intention is therefore to propose what in German is called 'ein Vorschlag zur Güte ' , an idea that can cut corners, to counter the feeling of frustration and powerlessness that national parliamentarians often feel towards European construction.
It is therefore essentially to avoid the undesirable inflation of a blank cheque that I am proposing that the national parliaments should become parties to the European Union's jurisdictional system, alongside national governments and the Union's institutions.
Madam President, we too appreciate the work carried out for the preparation of this report and we agree with much of what has been said up to now.
There should be a strengthening of the role of the national parliaments, not only in fields where there is executive control, but also at the legislative level.
Although strengthening national parliamentary controls over European legislation is up to the parliaments themselves, a certain number of measures could be taken at European level in order to increase their involvement.
We welcome the fact that proposals such as improving the information of national parliaments in terms of European matters should be taken up in the protocol on the role of national parliaments presented by the Dutch Presidency, with a view to the Amsterdam Summit.
We also note that the report does not sufficiently take into account the lack of democratic legitimacy of the European Parliament.
I note, for example, in my country, Flanders, that all the political parties in the Flemish parliament are opposed to introducing the right of vote to all Europeans.
That is why I recommend in particular maintaining all Member States' right to veto in the hope that my country, Flanders, can as quickly as possible become a Member State of the European Union in its own right.
Madam President, there is, we know, a kind of ill-feeling between the national parliaments and the European Parliament.
Having sat in my national parliament before becoming an MEP, I can testify to the difficulty faced by national parliaments in committing themselves to European politics.
All that could facilitate the work of national parliaments should be done, but I should like to put people on their guard against a recent trend in certain countries, in certain national parliaments, which consists in wanting to create a new institution out of the national parliaments.
Adding to the number of assemblies has always been a democratic retreat rather than an advance, as each assembly tends to develop its own lease of life and wants to assert itself to the detriment of the others.
Precisely in such a context it is important to highlight the role of the national parliaments: quite simply, they need to discover Europe.
Dear liberal colleague, dear compatriot, you know that it is pathetic to speak about the democratic deficit these days.
Only an increase in democratic control, and especially a working involvement of the national parliaments, can ensure that the European idea is put across to the citizens of the various Member States.
The role of national parliaments is important primarily because they have to ratify any changes made to the Treaty and they also have to approve the main decisions taken by the Council.
Secondly, the national parliaments can help to reduce the democratic deficit by exercising democratic controls over their own governments.
That is important in areas where the decision-making process is still essentially an intergovernmental matter, such as the common foreign and security policy, as well as justice and internal affairs where, like the European Commission, I feel that the European Parliament's role is still too limited.
Well-informed national parliaments can play a major and useful role in the current decisive debate on European integration.
It seems that the role of the national parliaments is to be extended by means of a protocol on two major aspects.
This structure must be strengthened, in particular in terms of subsidiarity, justice and internal affairs.
The debate is closed.
Thte vote will take place at noon tomorrow.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, these two oral questions follow on from the knowledge obtained during the hearing in April on the legal protection of the EU budget and therefore of its tax revenue.
At the same time, they constitute an urgent appeal to the Intergovernmental Conference to adopt effective measures to combat the problem of fraud.
First, there are already a number of instruments to deal with fraud, corruption and international organized crime.
Examples include the convention for the protection of the Community's financial interests, with its first protocol on the corruption of EU officials and second protocol on money laundering.
Other proposals are on the table, such as the high-level expert group on international organized crime and the planned joint action by the Commission against organized crime and corruption in general.
I would remind the House of the reports by the Member States on national legislation to combat fraud, and also of the notable study of a corpus juris on criminal law and criminal law procedures, which was produced at Parliament's initiative.
The convention I mentioned earlier, signed as long ago as 1995, and the two associated protocols have still not yet been ratified.
Indeed, I fear that it is becoming more and more improbable that they ever will be ratified by all Member States.
Thirdly, the Intergovernmental Conference should, as previously agreed in Dublin, reinforce Article 209a of the EC Treaty to give Parliament the right of codecision.
Fourthly, the text of the corpus juris should enable the Commission to phase in proposals on criminal law and the law of criminal procedure, having due regard to aspects of constitutional law in the Member States.
We are not a Parliament which just complains, we are also a Parliament which believes it has practical proposals to make on these issues.
The Council and European Parliament support each other in the fight against fraud and crime.
The Council therefore thinks it is important to ensure a permanent exchange of ideas between the Council and the European Parliament.
I have had the privilege of discussing on several occasions with the responsible committees in the European Parliament the subject of progress made in negotiations within the third pillar, and also on the ground, in the fight against fraud.
I am, therefore, happy to be able to discuss this issue with you here today.
In my reply, I shall deal with the decisions taken under the Dutch Presidency and the Council in the field of fighting organized crime in general.
Organized crime really is a growing threat to our societies.
It is becoming harder and harder to maintain the values that we all find so important.
The free movement of persons, services and goods means that Member States need to work out better methods to combat growing transfrontier crimes.
This action plan will be subjected to the approval of the European Council in Amsterdam.
At this Council meeting, I told my colleagues of the importance of proper parliamentary and judicial controls when measures aimed at combating organized crime are being worked out.
It is now for the Council to urge action on working out particular points in consultation with the European Parliament.
As you know, the action plan contains a large number of measures which should jointly help us to fight organized crime in Europe effectively.
The Member States ought, of course, to be assisted in this matter by an effective Europol.
The questions put to the Council refer specifically to the fight against fraud in terms of Community funds.
For many years now the Council has been taking a great interest in the creation of effective tools.
This interest is reflected in particular in the multiannual work programme on cooperation in the field of justice and internal affairs.
It is a great advantage for the judicial practice and relevant services of the Member States.
On this score, the Member States are consequently urged to speed up the ratification of the Treaty on the protection of the Community's financial interests by means of the first protocol.
The Council has answered this expectation by going along in full with the recommendations which emerged from this action plan.
It is stipulated in practical terms that these instruments must come into force by mid-1998 at the latest.
The second protocol to the Treaty was examined at the meeting of the Justice and Internal Affairs Council of 26 and 27 May.
The second protocol I refer to contains regulations on the liability of corporations, criminal or administrative sanctions for corruption or fraud, sanctions applied to money laundering, the seizure and confiscation of advantages illegally obtained by means of fraud corruption and also encouraging cooperation between the Commission and the Council in this field of action.
The Council shares this vision which emerges from the action plan.
Various detailed reports have also been drafted, for example on the Treaty on the protection of the Community's financial interests and the agreement on extradition, which should in any case make it possible to speed up ratification procedures.
Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal of work has been undertaken in recent years to improve the protection of European Union financial interests.
The agreements which have been concluded in recent years must be viewed as a big step forward in this area.
After all, two years have passed since it was signed.
As you know the slow process of ratification is a problem in other areas as well.
So far only Great Britain and Denmark have ratified the Europol Convention and only Great Britain has ratified the Extradition Convention.
Everyone is aware that both of these instruments will have an important role to play in the future in the fight against internationally organised crime in Europe.
Furthermore, co-operation on those areas which remain in the Third Pillar must be made considerably more effective.
I expect and hope, just as you do in this House, that the summit meeting in Amsterdam next week really will give us the tools we need.
This latter protocol was agreed, as Minister Sorgdrager said, at the meeting of the Home and Justice Ministers on the 26-27 May.
This would mean that the Commission, for the first time, would have a role to play in criminal law proceedings.
Although this is only a limited role I still see this as a big step forward.
As far as the Commission is concerned, we will of course continue to develop those instruments required to protect the EU's financial interests in the best possible way.
The 1996 report on fraud to the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament clearly shows how difficult it is to legally examine cases of cross border fraud.
There is an obvious risk that the lack of proper co-ordination, both at a national level and between Member States will lead to such divisions that a legal trial would be impossible in practice or in any case would not give a result.
Commissioner, you need have no fear.
The European Commission's 1997-98 anti-fraud programme uses a very cautious formula to describe the study of a European legal framework, a corpus juris , that has been called for by the European Parliament, saying that it will examine what concrete conclusions can be drawn from this initiative for co-operation with the judicial authorities.
It cannot be right that, as stated in this report, that people responsible for large-scale fraud - the sum involved here was £ 8 million - cannot be brought to justice because there are no arrangements for the mutual recognition of evidence.
Nor, probably, can they imagine that, in a common internal market at the end of the twentieth century, attempts are being made to protect the interests of the market players, and of the tax-payers, which, when charges are preferred, involve requests for judicial assistance being circulated back and forth through diplomatic channels as they were a century ago.
In the past, I think, the Member States of the European Union have stood idly by and watched as the European single market developed into a single market for fraud as well.
Today, when that single market is to be consecrated by the introduction of a single currency, those same Member States seem surprised that our fellow citizens are less and less inclined to trust the problem-solving abilities of the European institutions.
Mr President, in terms of effective organization, the European Community's efforts to combat organized subsidy fraud is roughly equivalent to Michael Schumacher trying to win a Formula I race in a horse-drawn cart.
This is not the fault of the European Parliament.
Billions of ECU, in any case, which stray every year from the European Union budget.
It is sometimes hard to establish responsibilities, which lie in many quarters, but one fact seems significant to me.
The European Convention on the protection of the Community's financial interests, signed in July 1995, has still to be ratified by the Member States' parliaments.
The real difficulty is the absence of political will in the Council.
It is the Member States which see to the execution on their territory of nearly 80 % of Community expenditure and they should recognize that the Union's institutions, the Commission in particular, have genuine, undeniable rights to control and intervene in the running of the Union's own resources, given that Community money is going missing.
Mr President, this debate is getting to be a wearisome business - after all, it is nothing new.
It shows a lack of respect for what they themselves joined together in deciding.
This conduct is in my view disappointing, and, as things look now, when the Intergovernmental Conference is still in progress, we do not even see any signs that the governments seriously plan to do something in this area.
My colleagues have already asked the vital questions.
Mr President, the proposals under discussion today prefigure the inclusion in the treaty of a legal base for anti-fraud regulations, to give shape and effectiveness to the political will to fight against fraud, which is damaging the Community budget in a truly impressive way.
Since the beginning of this pillar's implementation, in other words barely three or four years ago, we have made some progress.
What makes me angry is to see that a majority of the over 200 decisions that we have taken have not yet come into force.
Of course, this is a problem that cannot go on in Europe.
The same goes - I am not going to repeat to this here but I did refer to it in my introduction - for mutual judicial assistance in criminal cases.
I would remind him that scandals causing great popular outcry in other sectors, for example the Dutroux case in Belgium, have produced intense acceleration of the process of agreement and understanding at European level in the fight against paedophilia or the trade in human beings.
Thank you very much, Minister.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at noon tomorrow.
Question time (Council) The next item is Question Time (B4-0170/97).
Does the Council agree that we have to resist the Chinese attempts to get the arms embargo lifted?
Here is my answer to these two questions.
At the meeting of the United Nations Committee on Human Rights in Geneva, the European Union will submit to a far-reaching examination its current information sources concerning the human rights situation in China in order to adopt a coherent approach in the framework of future policy, thereby taking on board the various points of view of the Member States.
This process of evaluation of policy will take place over the coming weeks and months in the appropriate fora of the European Union's Council of Ministers, such as the Council regional working group, the Council working group of human rights, the Political Committee and so forth.
I think that that emphasis was already laid in the first part of my answer.
I have a question I should like to put to the representative of the Council: is the plan you have put forward, for a serious study of the human rights situation, an area where you will introduce general principles that apply equally to all?
That report includes an analysis of the social and economic situation of the market in question and the outcome of the reform of this regulation which took place in 1992.
It declared that it would study these remarks with all the necessary attention in the framework of preparations for its formal proposal.
To conclude, the Council urged the Commission to introduce these proposals as quickly as possible, as soon as it had all of the necessary information and data, including the European Parliament's point of view on the report.
Once these proposals have been made, the Council would obviously then have to take due account of the European Parliament's opinion on this matter.
Madam President-in-Office, your answer was most improper.
It is improper for the Council to answer in this bureaucratic, descriptive way to a question not referring to the report presented by the Commission but a question about jobs .
I appreciate the member's heartfelt arguments in favour of this cause, which does indeed deserve all of the European Union's attention and I hope that the European Union will recognize this later on, when the IGC discusses the matter.
I think that an employment policy does not always have to be approached as an item in itself but should also be dealt with as a whole - otherwise, arguments are always put forward when we are dealing with the agricultural policy, to examine the available resources but also the corresponding market and labour possibilities, in the limited framework of the local and current causes of a strong competitive position and the difficult position of competitors on the market in terms of prices.
We think that the solution is to reject measures to abandon tobacco-growing, for the simple reason that it would not lead to a drop in tobacco consumption but an increase in tobacco imports, with perverse consequences and increased joblessness in European tobacco producing areas.
However, it would be more proper to increase the percentage for research funds from 1 to 2 %.
I have already said that the Council has urged the Commission to put forward proposals as quickly as possible in order to take note of the necessary information, and once those proposals have been introduced to take into account the European Parliament's opinion on this subject.
I do not think it is a good idea therefore to describe in detail what I have already mentioned in my reply, in accordance with the usual and precise procedure.
Madam President-in-Office, in my Autonomous Community of Extremadura, tobacco has been of considerable economic and social importance for more than half a century.
Question No 5 by Jan Andersson (H-0400/97) Subject: Regional policy aid and the relocation of industry The workers at the Ericsson factory are justifiably uneasy about their jobs since the undertaking has planned to shift the manufacture of printed circuits to Scotland.
More generally speaking I would like to tell you that the Danish delegation has sent a memorandum to the Council asking it to take a closer interest in the effects of the structural policy and regional public support, in order to monitor competition within the European Community.
This question was therefore on the agenda of the Industry Council of 24 April 1997.
I would like to know why we cannot get a proper answer on whether companies in Scotland have received regional political aid or other aid from the EU.
If it is the case that regional political aid has been paid to a company in Europe which has then attracted workers to it but which at the same time has led to unemployment elsewhere then I would like a general answer to a general question: does the Council think this is wrong and how will the Council attempt to prevent something similar from happening in the future?
It is a good thing that the question is now on the agenda but this hardly helps the employees in Norrköping - a town which has experienced major structural change and has a high level of unemployment - if they cannot get an answer to the question which they have asked us and which we have tried to get an answer to, namely whether regional political aid has been paid out in this case.
I happen to know that companies in Scotland have previously received regional political aid of 10 million during 1994 from RSA, Regional Selective Assistance.
It is far more interesting to know to what extent analyses enable us to conclude that competition really has been upset in this sector and in what specific location.
What I am concerned about is, while Commissioners Flynn and Wulf-Mathies are fiddling with the rules, the dole queues in Sweden and elsewhere are getting longer and longer.
I already emphasized in my first reply that it was too early to condemn the structural policy.
I find the Industry Council's approach far more balanced, in other words carrying out a serious inquiry on the basis of a signal that you have given and on the possible presence of elements which can distort competition and their origin, including subsidies.
But we all know in this Parliament that any kind of subsidy, whether it is structural funds or state subsidy funds, cannot last indefinitely in the near future.
Perhaps we should not consider the effects of these relocations solely in a European framework but also in the light of globalization.
That is precisely the reason and I am also referring to the Commission's policy for which the choice of regions is so often submitted to a very strict evaluation based on certain criteria, including unemployment and a weak economic structure.
It is in three parts, as follows.
We wish to act internationally and 7 million ECU have been earmarked for this and should be paid by the end of 1997.
Just a few more words on the European contribution to the elimination of mines in an international context.
It has been agreed to earmark 2.07 million out of this to a regional initiative on mines launched by the Southern Africa Development Community.
As far as the Member States' obligations to fulfilling common action are concerned, members of European Parliament will know that Article J.3 of the Treaty of the European Union, in particular, stipulates that Community action is binding on Member States which must adopt positions and pursue the action undertaken.
I am pleased that you have again emphasized the urgency of this problem and its consequences.
The European Union believes that international efforts made in the light of the Ottawa declaration within the conference on disarmament must be complementary.
Also, I have recently read that Dasa Dornier, a subsidiary of the armaments giant Daimler Benz, which produces mines, is currently benefiting, together with the French arms company Thomson CSF, receiving from the Commission of the European Union a contract worth DM 100 million for research into new military direction-finding and radar systems.
Madam President-in-Office, it would be a good thing if the Council were to turn to China in respect of the production of mines and their international trade.
I hope that the Council will be more sensitive this year for the 1998 budget, at least your colleague in the Finance Ministry.
I will begin by thanking the President-in-Office for her answer.
I hope that this is not going to be a bottleneck causing the Ottawa Convention to fail at the end of this year.
Question No 10 by Mr Arthur Newens (H-0392/97) Subject: The EU banana regime Would the Council make a statement about the future of the Banana Regime in the light of the latest developments?
Of course, this is a matter of the main elements of the banana import policy, set out in the market regulation, while bearing in mind the European Union's specific obligations towards the countries which signed the Lomé Convention and, of course, the Member States of the WTO.
In this respect, we should remember that the Commission has already put two proposals to the Council.
Secondly, the proposal of 6 April 1995 which enables the ACP banana producing countries to make provisional transfers of traditional category bananas and others between ACP states within the same geographical region.
This means - and here I am addressing in particular those who are not familiar with this jargon - that quotas can be modified.
We quite rightly set up the WTO panel to deal with differences of interest, and I am not only referring to the interests of big countries but also to those of small countries such as Honduras, Guatemala, Mexico or Ecuador, in this case - so that they can have a reference in order to be able to react to any disturbance to their markets, in particular in order to face up to the bigger countries.
This matter is of important economic and social value.
That will play a role in the case of bananas but also, increasingly, in the case of all products which are still protected throughout the world in the light of the agreements reached in Marrakesh on the ending of subsidies, quotas and other limits and forthcoming negotiations on new tariff reductions in a whole series of areas.
Finally, I would also like to ask you whether you think it would be appropriate, now that apparently the appeal has gone in, for the ACP also to put in a parallel appeal and for the European Union to provide funding, resources and support for them in order that they can make their appeal as effective as possible.
On 17 June 1996, the Council adopted the negotiation mandate enabling the Commission to open, on the European Community's behalf, negotiations with the United States on air traffic.
One of the basic principles of these negotiations is the idea of a common air traffic area between the European Community and the United States, and this agreement should ultimately replace the current system of bilateral relations between isolated European Union members and the United States.
Since 1995, the United States has contacted several Member States of the European Union in order to reach so-called 'open skies agreements' , and some of those Member States have reached agreements with the United States while others are still being negotiated.
The European Community's new approach, however, implies the organisation of structured negotiations with the United States which should in due time lead to an agreement aimed at setting up a common air traffic area.
In this framework, the Community, represented by the Commission, and the United States held talks on 30 and 31 October in Washington and 3 April in Brussels.
At the Transport Council meeting on 17 June, the Commission reported on the results of the discussions which had been held so far.
Once again we see the overriding need for union in our European Community - which you have begun and which I urge you to continue.
It is obvious that if the 15 Member States united their forces, the agreement would be a better one and strike a perfect balance between the United States and the European Union, with neither winners nor losers.
First of all, we need a certain dynamism in order to reach a good result on the basis of a 100 % win situation.
As the authors are not present, Questions Nos 12, 13 and 14 lapse.
Recently, the General Affairs Council, meeting in June, expressed its satisfaction on receiving the declaration by the Albanian authorities on the holding of elections on 29 June, calling all parties to take part in those elections with the promise of respecting the outcome of the ballot.
The European Union fully supports the efforts of the Council of Europe on this score, in particular the framework of the common position adopted by the Council on 2 June on the basis of Article J2 of the Treaty on European Union.
In it, the Council urged the international community to support the electoral process in Albania by supplying the necessary number of observers.
If the electoral process were to be threatened by a policy of internal pressure in Albania, the European Union and the international community should review their position in respect of that country without any question.
There was almost a civil war in the country.
I think that Mr Wibe is warning us against being excessively or glibly optimistic about this process.
That is why I gave a positive response, but I was also careful in pointing out in my first sentence - I might even say that it was the safety net of my pessimism - what you have just commented on.
Mr President, the written question is, in my view, not a question at all but a horror story.
You might interpret that as a question, but what you are describing is our concern and yours that the electoral process should be carried out correctly and everything that is related to that.
Mr President, this evening we are discussing a document produced by the Commission - a communication on EU relations with China in the long term.
The European Parliament has taken a close interest in China and over a number of years has adopted many resolutions, almost all of them highly critical of China in many respects.
So it was, for the first time, we gave the delegation from the National People's Congress, which visited Brussels in April, the opportunity to discuss in detail the draft report.
The Commission is involved in the promotion of democracy in China, through the village democracy programme.
We would like to see a new trade and cooperation treaty replacing that of 1985 and including the standard human rights clause.
But, above all, I have tried to indicate in my report that there is a great deficit in China: the so-called internal market does not function - indeed never has.
The Commission has a great deal to offer the Chinese in the experience we have had in creating the single market in Europe and in converting the economies of the former Soviet Union to market economies.
We look at the experience we have had in operating the CFSP: the failure, for example, of the European Union in Geneva this April.
We would like to see added to that a six-monthly report, not just on human rights, but also on the economic aspects of our relations, to look in particular at the approach of China towards WTO and OECD membership.
These are all aspects which are covered in the report.
I am grateful for all the help I have had from academics, business people, colleagues in the European Parliament, the Commission and Parliament's staff in the production of this report.
Mr President, as we debate in this Parliament, the American Congress is debating too.
I want to highlight the symbolism of this coincidence: perhaps the Conference of Presidents of our Parliament has not really understood the importance of this strategic definition of relations between the European Union and China, probably the most important political and economic issue affecting development and stability in the world at this time.
This means we still have a long way to go before our parties, this Parliament and indeed the European Union, achieve full awareness of the importance of defining a long term relationship with China which is effective and useful for peace, stability, cooperation and development.
Today, with this report, Parliament has the opportunity to start pointing the way forward for a comprehensive organic policy which is long term and does not consist merely of occasional though often justified denunciations but which fail to take account of the whole range of issues involved in relations with such a large country.
China is necessary to peace, stability and economic growth.
The right line is not to isolate China, a position which would anyway be virtually unachievable, given the size and, now, the international relations of that country.
Action must follow this and not accusations about differences, because I actually think intensification of relations and development of economic cooperation will contribute to shifting opinion even amongst the Chinese leadership and lead to political changes which are already partly in progress.
All our plans for the evening have been put to flight by this important subject, but the important subject itself causes us deep concern.
And the topics of foreign policy and foreign trade policy, which create so much debate in the European Parliament, also include topics connected with China, with China's role in the world, and especially matters relating to those regions that are politically and/or culturally connected with China.
The attitude of the European Union is becoming a test case here, not just as regards a common policy towards China but also as regards its attitude in future negotiations with other countries.
The McMillan-Scott report imposes requirements in the human rights areas that make our principles clear.
In this sensitive area, especially, we should not become entangled in contradictions and so weaken the demands we make on other countries.
I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott that a framework agreement, for example, should be reached on economic and trade cooperation, because I also feel sure that human rights tend to be better understood and protected in societies open to free trade and free movement of investment, persons and ideas.
Well, we cannot keep quiet about it, or we would be false to ourselves, just as we cannot keep quiet about the fact that Hong Kong will provide concrete proof of whether the intentions of the Chinese government are good.
We cannot relax our vigilance over the maintenance of the provisions in force on freedom of expression, of the press, of association and of the right to hold demonstrations.
Mr President, the Liberal Group is satisfied in general terms with Mr MacMillan-Scott's report.
We are pleased that human rights issues have a central place in the report.
In addition, I am proposing a new wording for paragraph 9.
Mr President, the first paragraph of the resolution on long term relations with China rightly points out that they should be based on cooperation rather than confrontation.
The starting point for any cooperation consists in considering the partner country as a sovereign state.
Without giving ground on the concept of human rights, which the European Parliament upholds, it would have been possible - and, I think, far more useful - to deal with this matter in such a way as to contribute to a positive evolution in China in this field, rather than make demands of it which are not even always respected by the European Union's Member States or allies.
I think that this report makes it clear that we are laying the foundation for constructive co-operation, that we have noticed the small but nevertheless real improvements which have taken place in China while at the same time we openly and without reservation level the necessary criticism, which is absolutely justified, against the very serious shortcomings in the Chinese system when it comes to democracy and human rights.
Our work as parliament is therefore to define a policy that helps to bring about democracy in China as quickly as possible.
This report is, I think, a first important step in that direction.
It will also enable us to harass Commissioner Brittan, but that is only a tiny part of the problem.
I think that we all remember the serious events that have occurred in terms of defining a common European police for external matters, and the respect of human rights in China.
What I mean to say is that what we are doing here is very important but we have to be very hard on the Council in the coming months - the Council announced earlier that it is redefining its policy on China.
Instead a more pragmatic approach is needed, the one our rapporteur has adopted, which takes account of the different history and the different objective conditions of a country with one billion two hundred million inhabitants, the weight of its tradition and of its enormous contradictions.
The policy of the Chinese government - one country, two systems - will demonstrate the superiority of the market, but at the same time the cultural influence of the values of western civilization will convince the Chinese people to take the road of freedom.
As it happens, I do not think there is a conflict of objectives, as some have suggested.
I do not see that conflict because we are talking about an extremely large and important country, as many speakers in the debate have said.
I do not think one can be entirely consistent because the way of achieving results in China will be very different from achieving results in other countries, which are smaller and perhaps at different stages of development.
I have no doubt at all that the best way of achieving these common objectives is to develop the closest links with China economically and politically, to assist its development, particularly in the areas of special interest, but also to be forthright in our views on human rights.
In the long run the most likely prospect of improving the human rights situation is for China to develop economically and for us to encourage China in that development, not only internally, but towards the outside world through, for example, participation in the World Trade Organization; not a meaningless participation as if it were a club which we just wanted to give them the prize of entry to, but participation on the basis of acceptance of the rules of the WTO which, on the one hand require China to open up and become a more liberal economy, recognizing its difficulties and its stage of development, while on the other hand, giving China access to the rest of the world.
In the long term economic and political freedom cannot be divided.
The growth of economic freedom in China is the most certain, long-term way to achieving political freedom as well.
We have a programme which encourages, as has been said, support at village level for reform in the right direction.
There too we have much to offer China and China is interested in taking what we have to offer in terms of environmental programmes, training key environmental planners, supporting pilot projects involving technology transfer and assisting environmental planning and management in China.
In addition to trade and cooperation there is the question of human rights.
That has been central also in the most direct sense, and not just in the indirect way that I have described, to our policy toward China which is comprehensive and coherent.
The Commission has never hesitated to express our criticisms, both publicly and privately, of China's lapses on human rights.
I agree with those who have said, or implied, that the inability of the European Union to reach a common view to put that view forward in Geneva at the Commission on Human Rights, is a great failing and a great weakness.
I very much hope that the Intergovernmental Conference, in reinforcing our capacity to create a foreign policy, will enable us in future on this issue, as in others, to present a rather more impressive picture to the outside world and advance our interests in a more effective way.
Hong Kong is important.
We are witnessing a unique experiment, an experiment to create one country with the two systems of Hong Kong and China proper.
There is a common European interest, not only because of our economic interests in Hong Kong, but also because Hong Kong itself can set an example, not as a base for subversion, but as an example which can lead people elsewhere in China and in the whole region to believe the route of economic freedom and political freedom is the right route forward, not just in Western Europe or in countries with a common tradition, but also in other parts of the world which have different backgrounds but where human values ultimately must prevail.
I commend the report and believe that the policy that we are pursuing towards China is comprehensive and pragmatic, recognizing the importance of trade and economic development both for its own sake and as a point of entry towards the creation of a more liberal society in China, but bolstering that up with cooperation programmes pointing in the same direction and a robust expression of our views when human rights are violated in China as elsewhere in the world.
Thank you, Sir Leon.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
It is therefore especially important that, before membership negotiations begin, the Commission adopts the principle that new members will be accepted by order of merit , in other words, that objective qualifications will be the deciding factor.
If other countries feel that, even if they put more effort in than others and are really successful, they will still be left out, the desire to introduce reforms will be weakened, even if they should continue with the changes for their own sakes.
The political leaders who have been particularly involved in pursuing these changes will be compromised if successful reforms do not meet with an appropriate response during the membership negotiations.
They have applied for membership of both the EU and NATO.
This can be a difficult area but, in fact, the Baltic countries have managed to establish a relationship between citizen and immigrant which, in many respects, is better than that in many EU countries, even despite the fact that the minority is so much bigger here than in any other country.
Co-operation in the Baltic Sea region as a whole can yield important results in a number of particular areas.
The introduction of democracy in Russia and economic reforms there would make the whole of the Baltic Sea region a new peaceful source of strength in Europe, and this is what we have set our sights on.
Mr President, the accession of Finland and Sweden and the association of Poland and the Baltic States have meant that the Baltic has become almost a European Union lake.
We are particularly glad that our suggestions have been incorporated in full.
Thirdly, co-operation between governments in the Baltic region needs to be supplemented by a continuous parliamentary dialogue between the European Union and the parliaments of the Baltic States.
Mr President, the initiative for the Baltic Sea region which was taken by the Commission before the Baltic Sea Council's summit meeting in Visby was an important one.
The Region is currently a unique platform for political dialogue and for the co-ordination of measures to promote democracy in Europe.
Russia must be integrated closely in the co-operation on the Baltic Sea region.
Currently existing co-operation instruments must be used to the optimum to strengthen democracy, political stability and economic development in this region.
Economic and security cooperation in the Baltic must stress the varied nature of security in the area.
The political, economic and social situation of the states in the region varies, for there are both EU Member States and future Member States there, and the region is also an EU border region.
Baltic cooperation considers not only the integration process, - common regional needs, - but also the northern dimension.
A policy for the north ought also to be a part of the Baltic strategy, because there are in Baltic policy more multiplier effects and elements increasing cohesion than in what is generally termed, 'Nordic policy'.
It is easy to endorse the principles of the Kalmar action programme, namely citizen participation, sustainable development and environmental cooperation in the region.
The Commission should also decide soon whether it will act on Parliament's demands to begin negotiations simultaneously with the applicant countries, for the clock is ticking inexorably on towards July.
Mr President, just as membership of the European Union has meant increased security for Sweden and Finland, it will also mean increased security for our neighbours along the Baltic Sea, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland the day they become members of the European Union.
Not only will their security be enhanced but also the security of Europe which makes it extremely important for us all that these countries become members as quickly as possible.
It is in the interests of the security of Europe that we open our arms to these countries.
It is a truly high quality report well in line with that which his predecessor from the Moderate Coalition Party, Margaretha af Ugglas gave to Parliament on the same subject.
Mr President, it is important that the Union gives its full support to regional cooperation in the Baltic region, because it will create prosperity and stability for the whole continent.
The Commission's role in Baltic cooperation is currently too modest.
The Agenda 21 programme for sustainable development is currently under preparation in the Baltic region, as the report mentions.
Mr President, Parliament should promote the conclusion of a border agreement between Russia and Estonia, because it is a precondition for the development of cooperation among the states of the Baltic region.
What is needed here is a second stability pact to follow on from the one adopted in 1993, with a programme adapted to the new situation which will develop the Baltic region as a model of stability, democracy and disarmament, and so provide an effective response to the security needs of the states of central and eastern Europe, especially such small countries as the Baltic States.
The European Council meets in Madrid and decides that an approach be adopted to the preparations for EU enlargement guaranteeing that the applicant countries will be treated on an equal footing.
It is very important from the point of view of stability in the applicant countries that we do not start making pronouncements on which ones are more eligible than others and are more deserving of EU membership.
Cooperation in the Baltic Sea region could be strengthened by a specific Baltic Sea Programme.
The Council of the Baltic Sea States could be the focal point for such cooperation and could participate in the political process as a responsible partner.
In paragraph 1, the rapporteur calls upon the institutions to promote the full ratification of the Europe Agreements with Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
So the rapporteur is more than justified in calling for ratification, and it is also in the interests of the European Parliament.
Because, after ratification by all Member States and the Council, the existing delegations can be reconstituted as joint parliamentary committees, which is not just a formality but secures binding participation in a structured dialogue.
In addition, all the Member States of the Barents Sea Council are also members of the Council of Baltic States and the Commission is involved in both on the same terms.
Meanwhile we, of course, proceed on the basis of the free trade agreements, but it would be very much better to proceed on the fuller basis of the Europe agreements which have been awaiting ratification for so long.
The encouragement of the reform process in the Russian Federation and the development of close relations with Russia is an imperative.
Thirdly, I have great sympathy for many of the things that have been said about the criteria that need to be applied in considering the applications of the Baltic States, as of other countries, for membership of the European Union.
We must be quite clear, as a number of speakers have said, that each country should be considered on its merits, that no country should be included in or excluded from the process of negotiation of membership because it is in any particular part of Europe.
Of course the determination of the countries concerned to act together is decisive for success, but nonetheless the Commission, through its participation in the various meetings that have taken place, has stimulated that cooperation and has shown a readiness to assist it in a practical way by using the PHARE and TACIS programmes, as well as other Community programmes, associating it with loans from the European Investment Bank and in that way encouraging a large number of programmes and projects in the areas identified in the initiative; democracy and civil security, economic cooperation, environmental and regional cooperation.
Thank you, Sir Leon.
The debate is closed.
Twenty years after the 1975 Directive was adopted, it can be noted - as Mrs Colombo does and the European Union's own statistics bear out - that there is still a 20-30 % wage differential between women and men doing work of the same value.
We believe that the public sector would probably give a good example to private initiative if it adopted measures to continue to reduce pay differentials.
We must raise awareness of social partners and inform them, and disseminate the Code, not only in large companies, not only among the social partners, not only among governments, but also among the SMEs which create more than 85 % of jobs in the European Union.
Mr President, the Committee on Women's Rights has obviously taken an interest in this report and thanks the rapporteur for having accepted a large number of its proposed amendments.
So it is paradoxical that while it has served as the basis for greater equality in other fields and other rights, both social and political, equal pay for equal work is still not properly applied in our countries.
Just recently, at a trade union conference, it was confirmed that women are earning 20 per cent less on average in Europe, and averages, as we know, very modestly conceal disparities which are even more serious in reality.
As these unequal conditions are persisting despite the existence of laws on formal equality, while the Committee on Women's Rights recognizes that the code is certainly a weak instrument, it nevertheless feels it may prove strong enough to reveal the mechanisms which conceal the disparities and thus help identify systems which could become more binding in the future.
Can I first of all also thank the rapporteur and the rapporteur from the Women's Rights Committee, and indeed the Commission, for the work that they have done on this important issue.
There certainly is a great deal more work to be done because despite the fact that equal opportunity legislation on men and women in employment has been in force in the European Union for over twenty years, women still earn less than men.
For example in 1996 in the United Kingdom, women who worked full-time earned only 72 % of men's average weekly wage.
The pay gap between men and women full-time workers has narrowed in the last twenty years, but only very slowly.
Secondly, we want the implementation or non-implementation of the code by employers to be seen as part of the burden of proof in cases of discrimination based on sex: we want the implementation of this code to be taken account of in tribunals.
Mr President, Commissioner, the report we are considering relates to the Commission's proposal for a code of practice on the implementation of the principle of equal pay for work of equal value for women and men.
It is a good report.
The only reference to equality, in the European Union Treaty is Article 119, which in fact is specifically confined to questions of pay.
Well, the code of practice can fulfil this need precisely and help bring about a genuine improvement in the pay principle.
From the start, we have been very reliant on good co-operation from the social partners, without whose active participation the code of practice on equal pay is doomed to be yet another failure.
This ought to be taken as read now that we are approaching the year 2000, but it isn't.
Unemployment affects women more than men.
According to the Commission's annual report on equal opportunities, dating back to 1966, only countries that systematically and strictly applied systems to correct inequalities manage to eliminate those differences.
I would ask you to pledge that, in accordance with paragraph 16 of the motion for a resolution, if in three years' time the Code has still failed to achieve the desired results, it will be transformed into a genuinely binding legal instrument.
I have a little less confidence in the Council, as I said earlier.
There are few things that affect the dignity of individuals and offend people as much as these.
It is for the European Parliament to demand equal opportunities and I think that this is an interesting subject for us to follow up.
Certainly, we can agree on the fact that there exists a considerable legal corpus in the European Union on the issue of equal opportunities and equal pay: article 119 of the treaty, which we all hope will be improved in the next treaty, article 6 of the social protocol, numerous directives and judgements of the Court of Justice.
We also hope that the Council will quickly approve, on the basis of Parliament's recommendations, the directive on the burden of proof, which provides a precise definition of indirect discrimination for the first time.
Finally, we have a series of relevant programmes financed from the Union budget, which the member countries as a whole have promoted and contributed to, making the application of the right to equal pay and equal opportunities a general given.
But I have this sense of bitterness because, despite all this, the code of practice we are discussing tonight is important because the fact is, women's pay is still lower than men's in Europe by an average of about 30 per cent.
Mr President, Commissioner, the principle of equal pay for work of equal value, as between men and women, exists only on paper.
The Commission has adopted the suggestions made by the European Parliament in producing a code of practice as a basis for eliminating sex discrimination from the working world.
The action plan is to be produced by stages, in co-operation with the social partners.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are happy to have this occasion to discuss this excellent report just before what we hope is going to be the conclusion of the final text of the new European Amsterdam Treaty.
The code of conduct on equal pay for equal work will certainly gain importance thanks to the rewording of Article 119 which finally takes into account the Court of Justice's case-law and recognizes the right to equal pay for equal work.
In my country, the minister intends to impose employment assessment on labour regulations.
Even in my homeland, Sweden, which often congratulates itself on having made more progress than other countries in improving the participation of women in working life and reducing wage differentials, even here there are differences between the situation for men and women.
These differences have tended to increase during the recession which we have experienced in recent years.
The labour market needs to change.
Currently it is women who have the low paid jobs, who work within the public sector, who have part time jobs and atypical work patterns.
Mr President, the communication is good because it draws attention to the fact that women have qualifications to bring to the labour market.
If it is now made absolutely clear that these qualifications are indispensable and worth paying for, perhaps we can move a step further and release women from rigid pay structures.
Only a committed male chauvinist or a bad employer can accept that.
We hope that the Commission communication may help to promote development in the right direction.
I am very pleased at the very strong support that has been expressed in the House this evening in support of the code of conduct.
The present report clearly demonstrates the interest which the Members of the House attach to the issue of equal pay for women and men, a principle which has been enshrined in Community legislation right from the beginning.
However, as you are all aware, despite the fact that all Member States have transposed the principle into national legislation, statistics still show that women in manual jobs earn between 69 and 90 % of men's average pay.
For non-manual workers the difference in earnings between women and men is even greater.
It is of the utmost importance that we give a very clear and simple answer to the one central question: what does the concept of equal pay for work of equal value actually mean?
It is for this reason that we have adopted the code aiming at providing practical guidance on how to secure the implementation of the principle of equal pay in all aspects of the pay package.
The code proposes a two-pronged approach when dealing with the issue of equal pay for work of equal value.
It will include elements such as hours of work, basis of calculating overtime, pay structures and so on.
This led us to consult very thoroughly the social partners which have been mentioned centrally here on the whole draft code, before its final adoption, since our objection was to ensure that its application and practice met all the needs of the users.
The code is ambitious.
Since equal pay is a cornerstone of equal opportunities for women and men, the proper implementation of the code will be the test case for the European Community's strong commitment to women's full and fair integration into the labour market.
That is why we should not forget that these aims are already enshrined in Article 119, which constituted the legal base for action on equality issues in the labour market.
One or two Member States have already done this by having Equality Officers appointed.
The Directive on Burden of Proof, which you particularly mentioned, if adopted, covers the Directive of 1975 on Equal Pay which is the basis for having adopted this particular code.
There is, as you know, the Commissioners' Group set up on all equality issues and an interservice group is operating now to deal with the whole equality dimension in all of the activities of the Union.
Arrangements have been made to have it distributed in every Member State, in all the outlets available to us.
I can inform the House that eight women and six men took part in the debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
This committee attaches considerable importance to the development of the information and communication technology sector in Europe.
The economic sectors opening the most promising prospects for the coming years lie in the electronics industry, information technology and the services linked to these sectors.
Europe is rapidly losing ground in the world ICT market.
Europe is stuck in the middle , that is the conclusion of an assessment carried out under the Dutch Presidency on the European ICT industries' competitive capacities.
Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot leave everything to the market.
This may not sound very liberal but, to begin with, the authorities must become good users of electronic services and products.
In the perspective of the fifth framework programme, we must analyze the contribution of these programmes to the Europe's economic well-being.
We have own-initiative reports because we wish to highlight issues often to do with forthcoming legislation.
Mrs Plooij warns us very starkly that our competitiveness is falling.
The United States, as a free market capitalist society, is very keen on intervention to help its industries.
This is the lives of our citizens.
The whole field of information and communications technology is vital to our lifestyle and economy.
I realized that in a very practical way this week: the television monitor in my office was not working when I arrived.
Opening up the telecoms market to competition has contributed a great impetus to growth and innovation in the UK and will do the same for Europe as a whole from next year.
In this report there are calls for Member States to coordinate their policies better, as well as calls for the Commission to develop a new ICT policy.
It is better perhaps to focus public resources on identifiable challenges, such as planning for the enormous change and cost of introducing the single currency, or, even more important, finding a solution to the so-called millennium time-bomb of computers that will not recognize the year 2000 and then crash.
The EPP Group supports the main line of this report.
Yet, Mr van Velzen misses one thing in the Plooij-van Gorsel report: coordination.
If we can organize our ICT policies well, this could give us an important competitive advantage because we will have integrated European information and communication technologies.
The gap is increasing because of the language problem, and it now seems difficult to surf the Internet without knowing English.
European schools are not giving our young people the best opportunities in this emerging world of telecommunications, and I fear this will prove an important strategic disadvantage.
First, IT must be used more in the peripheral regions of the EU.
Seventh and last, the European Parliament must set a good example.
Mr President, this report deals with a deeply interesting and fascinating subject.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this European Parliament owninitiative report comes at a particularly timely moment for recalling the acceleration of the information and communication technologies, in particular concerning the economic and social dimension of their impact.
First of all, recent communications on the information society and the action plan, now in its second version.
We have made a lot of progress on this over the last two years.
The tools provided by the information and communication technologies, such as Multimedia and the Internet, are to play a vital role in daily life.
In all our programmes, especially the local development ones, we are giving enormous help to local authorities using these arrangements in order, for example, to facilitate access to employment, and disseminating information needed by our fellow citizens.
The fifth framework programme of research and technological development was transmitted at the end of April 1997.
For that, we must stick to the codecision timetable for the fifth framework programme and the 'Research Council' must reach its common position by its November meeting at the latest.
Research plays a vital role in advanced technology and industrial competitiveness.
Piloting programmes and actions, in accordance with their economic and social impact, are inscribed in the very structure of the proposal relating to the fifth framework programme.
The European Parliament's message in its report is a clear one.
The approach to ICTs must be comprehensive and it must be adequately effective.
The Commission shares this view point.
The development of an information society, far from creating a two-speed society, can provide the means for narrowing the gap between different social groups or between developed and less favoured regions.
Those are exactly our aims and you have taken the words out of our mouths.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Secondly, the fact that, despite all the declarations of good intentions, development in Europe and the world is that of growing consumption of energy resources and prime materials and growing pollution and a subsequent exhaustion of natural resources.
It cannot be claimed that a miraculous technical discovery or a fiscal measure will solve the problem.
For those reasons, the report analyses the Commission's concerns at the consequences of the current model of economic growth and makes 13 practical proposals in three main blocs.
First of all, in relation to the need to conceive the transition to the model of sustainable development from the current social and economic model of unsustainable growth, it is felt that that transition will only be possible thanks to a broad social consensus, which in its time brought about the creation of the welfare state.
In that sense, research can contribute by analysing the interconnections between social and economic processes and new forms of using resources, energy sources, etc.
Secondly, in relation to the revision of the Treaty on Union, incorporating the aims of sustainable development decisively into all significant areas: convergence criteria, functioning of European institutions, the relevant chapters and articles (VI, XV and XVI).
Thirdly, in the research and development policy - the fifth framework programme - through the following points: First, proposals to promote research teams in the areas of production, distribution and eco-sufficient consumption, in various countries.
That, of course, is inherent in the philosophy contained within the concept of sustainable development, a philosophy which calls on us to view all our actions and political decisions in the particular context of their future complex effects and side effects.
The rapporteur provides some of this service by rightly identifying the present economic model as detrimental to sustainable development.
I thank the rapporteur for facing up to this responsibility.
Mr President, Commissioner, a development intended to provide sustainable security for social and ecological needs is to be welcomed.
This report, of course, goes far beyond matters of R &amp; D, representing an unworldly attempt to replace the Western social market economy with a green planned economy in which the European Parliament would have the necessary powers of implementation and control.
The report postulates a dichotomy between technological progress and sustainable development.
Moreover, the rapporteur must acknowledge that the change of model for which the report calls is already taking place, though through a process of reform rather than radical action.
The report also fails to take account of the fact that environmental protection measures can only be financed by a functioning economy.
Another point that seems important to me: for the countries of the EU and other industrialized States, the concept of sustainable development encompasses economic and social aspects as well as ecological ones.
But jobs can be created only where a policy of sustainability can be pursued without sacrificing economy.
Insufficient account is taken of the global character of science, technology, economics and environmental protection, and many of the proposals, if implemented, could actually be significantly disadvantageous to the EU without achieving that sustainable development at which we are all aiming.
Consequently, our group cannot vote for the report in its present form.
This approach finds wide support amongst public opinion and in the European Parliament.
Some passages in the report are balanced and we support them, but we oppose a certain number of passages, and only if these fall will we be able to vote for the report.
I agree with the report on the interconnection between social factors and the environment, where it is difficult to act on one point without influencing another.
If I may digress for a moment, that view from space of the earth as a ship always remains with me, a Noah's Ark on a voyage through the cosmos where all the onboard systems must remain in equilibrium, including those which produce oxygen and those which produce carbon dioxide.
Mr President, the rapporteur rightly emphasizes the importance of a European sustainable research and development policy.
Europe's R&amp;D policy must not only be based on economic growth but must also be based on ecologically and socially desirable principles.
The Liberal Group therefore applauds this own initiative report on this subject.
But, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear, we owe our well-being in the European Union above all to the market economy.
My Group attaches considerable importance to the conclusion of this report.
Now that we want sustainable development to be given a leading place in the new Treaty, there will be a legal base for the purpose of this report: research serving sustainability.
It is therefore useful to anticipate it.
It is necessary to increase research in fields such as recycling, climatic change and ocean pollution.
The rapporteur offers a reasonable representation and it is quite clear.
But in my view, he is basing himself on an excessively positive image of mankind and society and expects too much of the authorities.
As far as I am concerned, I fully agree with some of the practical recommendations made in the report, but I do not share its optimistic views.
Like the previous report, this is a very timely reminder to us as we consider the fifth framework programme of the rationale for doing research in the European Union.
It is sometimes forgotten that although the main justification for research is to become more competitive at international level, even in the current Treaty we are told that we must promote all the research activities deemed necessary by the other chapters.
Those include the chapter on social and economic cohesion and the chapter on the environment.
It is optimistic and it shows us the way in which we can make sure our work in research meets the requirements of sustainable development.
It looks as though the Commission, in its suggestions, is aware of the need to include the sustainable development dimension.
It is not enough to develop technology.
I must emphasize that we certainly support the tenor of this report and consider it to be extremely important in the opinion-forming necessary before the fifth framework programme.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by deciding last year to dedicate an own-initiative report to the issue of research and sustainable development, the Committee on Research sent an important message to the European institutions and the scientific community.
Mr Marset Campos has prepared a report and I would like to make three remarks on it.
The first will be to emphasize the Commission's full support for the idea of the need to take the demands of sustainable development very much into consideration when defining the European Union's research policy.
Research and technological development can and must play a decisive role.
It gives us the means to devise and implement economic development that does not harm the quality of the environment or life, today and in the future.
My second remark puts the first slightly into perspective.
The European Union must face many other challenges.
Far from being opposed, these two aims mutually strengthen each other.
It must also carve itself a niche in the rapidly expanding market of environmental technologies.
It consists in supporting the approach developed in the proposal for a fifth framework programme and to ensure that it can be quickly adopted during the first quarter of 1998 and implemented on time, i.e.
Thanks to his report we can bear in mind the fact that the research and technological development policy must first and foremost be of service to ordinary Europeans, those of today and tomorrow alike.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Finally I shall refer to the question of the indigenous people and the line taken by Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan.
The answer would be yes provided we had a good agreement.
In the point on fatal traps the European experts proposed on behalf of the Commission a time of 30 seconds to kill the animal.
The agreement sets a time of 5 minutes.
But the great problem with this agreement is that it is not selective enough in the classification of traps in relation to the standards laid down.
I do not want now to go into the type of standards, which in some cases I regard as fairly low.
To define a criterion for the approval of each type of trap - as this report does, as a function of the results, not for 80 % of all animals trapped, but merely for 80 % of the animals of the species targeted by the said trap - is an insult to the intelligence.
We are going to buy the Russians for ECU 30 million.
If the United States had not signed this agreement and took Europe to the WTO, what would we do?
The Commission, at the instigation of Sir Leon Brittan, blocked the adoption in 1995 of the regulations implementing Regulation No 91.
In 1996 a new version was submitted which Parliament rejected on first reading.
The Council never re-submitted it.
In January 1997 an attempt was made at a Council meeting to pass a list of countries, including Canada and Russia, when there was no international agreement and these countries had not banned jaw leghold retaining traps, in clear violation of the European legislation.
The Council quite rightly rejected this kind of approach.
I draw the Commission's attention to the debate in this House on 21 February this year when a great deal of passion was expended on the issue.
I suggest that Sir Leon Brittan reads that debate since everything we said on that night still holds true.
We have before us the draft of an agreement which is supposed to prescribe humane trapping standards at international level.
Anyone who knows me will know that I have always taken these arguments particularly seriously.
Animal welfare, in my view, is not incompatible with sustaining the way of life and livelihood of many indigenous peoples - indeed, I believe they are mutually complementary.
Our common aim must be to strike a balance between the needs of animal welfare and the justified interests of indigenous peoples.
Finding a substitute for leghold traps is the main task that will confront us in the coming years, even without a framework agreement.
The Commission has therefore restarted the negotiations and has drawn up a new proposal for an agreement which will be presented to the Council of Environment Ministers of the European Union on 19 and 20 June.
I can remember sitting here six, seven and eight years ago, talking about these issues.
Today, in June 1997, the Commission is asking the Council to endorse a very inadequate and unsatisfactory agreement with Canada and Russia and nothing at all with the United States.
Death need only occur within 300 seconds - 5 long minutes of mortal fear, death agony, appalling pain!
We have a great deal to do, not just in Canada but in Europe too.
If the Council of Environment Ministers does the same on 19 and 20 June, then we shall have won.
If it doesn't, that will not be the failure of this House, but the failure of the Environment Ministers.
Mr President, we all understand the depth of feeling on this issue that has existed for many years.
In the absence of any agreement on trapping standards, obviously, the implementation of the fur embargo was provided.
We do not have an agreement with the United States and, therefore, what we are talking about now is the agreement with Canada and Russia.
Although that is not in any way reflected in the Pimenta report, which does not in any way give any credit to the fact that after the Council of Ministers asked us to do so we continued negotiating and obtained significant improvements in the agreement with Canada and the Russian Federation.
The Commission reported the revised agreement to the General Affairs Council of 2 June, which welcomed the improvements achieved.
The revised agreement has now been formally transmitted to the Council for its approval, along with a list of third countries eligible to export furs into the European Community, which includes Canada and the Russian Federation, but does not include the United States.
The European Parliament will of course, as procedures provide, be formally consulted on this revised agreement before its final ratification.
The agreement will now apply to all mechanical restraining or killing traps used for the trapping of 19 species for any purpose.
It will relieve animal suffering, both in the Union and in third countries to a much larger extent than would be the case if a ban was imposed.
The standards have been set at a high level for the protection of animals, taking into account the scientific and empirical evidence that is currently available.
Reference has been made to the killing time limit of 300 seconds.
Moreover, the agreement foresees that this 300 second limit shall be reviewed within 3 years in order to be lowered to 180 seconds.
A first revision of the standards is scheduled three years after the entry into force of the agreement, which will take into account research carried out by the parties.
It therefore represents a first and ambitious step to establish internationally scientifically-based performance standards which currently do not exist.
Derogations for indigenous populations have also been clarified and their scope further limited.
For the remaining 5 Canadian species, the use of conventional steel-jaw leghold restraining traps will be forbidden at the end of the third trapping season after conclusion of the agreement by the Community, in other words, by 31 March 2000, if the Council approves the agreement before 1 October 1997.
For the Russian Federation, conventional steel-jaw leghold restraining traps, which are the only type of leghold trap that is used in Russia, will be forbidden for Russian species by 31 December 1999 if adequate financial assistance is provided to replace existing traps.
I hope that Parliament, concerned as it is about these matters, will use its influence to help us obtain the finance to do that.
The key question when assessing this agreement should be: what is really the best option for improving the welfare of trapped animals in Canada and Russia?
For us there is no doubt that the approval of the agreement is the option that will substantially improve the welfare of animals and preserve the wider interests of the European Union.
There is no conflict between trade and animal welfare.
This agreement is one which advances animal welfare while, at the same time, protecting legitimate trade.
For the first time ever an international agreement will establish binding rules to control trade on the grounds of animal welfare.
This is literally the first time that an international agreement will establish such binding rules on the grounds of animal welfare.
An embargo on furs would achieve nothing, and certainly have negative economic, social and political consequences both within the third countries and in the European Union affecting indigenous communities, but not only indigenous communities.
We do not yet have an agreement with them.
I have no doubt that the best way of securing that, and therefore the welfare of animals in the United States, would be to obtain the approval of this agreement with Canada and Russia.
It is reasonable to place this issue in the wider context of our policy on international trade, the environment and animal welfare.
I urge the European Parliament to take the latest text into account when expressing its view on this delicate and important issue.
When the House voted on this issue in February this year, the vote was 85 to 3.
If we adopt this tomorrow by more than 75 % of those present, will you accept that we have the legitimate democratic right to disagree with your opinion?
And even if you believe every word you said, would you, if we - the representatives of 15 countries of Europe, from all political parties - reject your opinion by a huge majority, have the humility to accept that you are not the only soul on this earth and that you could be wrong?
Mr President, many thanks for giving me the opportunity to pass on a brief bit of information.
I know that this position may be a minority one even within my own group, but I should like to point out that in giving our support to the Commission yesterday we acted with the best of intentions.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 00.25 a.m.)
