Mr President, under Item 19 of the Minutes on the discharge, it mentions that I had a report on the EDF but when you look at the speakers' list you will see that I did not speak.
Mr President, Item 18 of the Minutes - the debate on the European Fraud Investigation Office - is mentioned only very briefly; neither the Council president nor the Members who spoke are mentioned.
In Item 8 (Documents received), point (ab) mentions a draft decision by the European Parliament on the Members' Statute; it also gives a C-number.
Thank you, Mr Mulder.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time in just under a month that I have been given the opportunity to address you.
Out of regard for the fairly formal style of these meetings - a style I feel is totally appropriate - I must return to the speech I made on 13 April, when I spoke of a vision for the European project, and promised my commitment, and that of the next Commission, to embarking on a period of major reforms and change.
The meeting with the Heads of State and Government on 14 April revealed that there is a definite desire to continue working towards a comprehensive reform of the Commission and, at the same time, to strengthen our common policies, particularly in relation to the common foreign and security policy and Europe's profile on the international stage; policies to create an area of freedom, security and justice within the European Union; and policies to stimulate economic growth in Europe and to combat unemployment.
There are two problems which must be addressed regarding the reshaping of the role of the Commission: firstly, the definition of the institutional role of the Commission in relation to the Council and Parliament; and secondly, a clearer definition of the relationship between politics and administration in the workings of the Commission.
While respecting the Treaties and the powers of Parliament and the Council, the Commission needs to produce a major political programme, focusing above all on certain key priorities.
Over the last few days, I have been considering organisational methods of improving coordination and cooperation between the team of Commissioners, and how the Commission can operate efficiently as a unit with a structure consisting of 20 members.
Once we have increased the Commission team's capacity to provide political direction, we will be able to set about increasing the transparency, efficiency and accountability of their departments, as required by the Treaty of Amsterdam and demanded by European public opinion.
I am aware that this Parliament has voiced a feeling which is widespread among the people of Europe and expects significant steps to be taken in this direction.
I also know that a people's Europe is built on transparency and the opening-up of the institutions, and I will make these areas top priorities.
The second reason for enhancing the international dimension of the EU's activities is born of the need to restore equilibrium to the development of Europe as an economic entity by means of Europe as a political entity.
A common defence of the European Union will be a basic condition for maintaining peace and stability, as was recently repeated at the Washington NATO summit.
The third and final reason for fulfilling Europe's political calling swiftly is unfortunately there for all to see.
However painful, the involvement of the international community is necessary because, at least in the part of Europe which has signed up to standards of behaviour set out in the Helsinki Final Act and the Charter of Paris, the systematic use of an army against a civilian population is intolerable and must be severely punished.
But the Union's role in the former Yugoslavia goes beyond finding a solution to the current military crisis.
Applause I have already touched on the need for a method for resolving all the conflicts of the former Yugoslavia within a single and broader framework, and I have evoked the idea of a plan to stabilise the whole region completely and permanently in a European context.
I wonder whether it is not necessary to convene a major international conference on the Balkans.
I think that the position and vocation of the European Union mean that it is well placed to play a key role in this process, especially once the arms and the violence give way to reason and the Yugoslav Federation returns to the family of European nations.
On 14 October 1999, at an extraordinary meeting in Tampere, the European Council - as agreed with Parliament - will have to set out the objectives for the plan for an area of freedom, security and justice, which will become the European Union's legislative programme for the next five years, completing the first action plan set out in Vienna last December.
As regards the method, I believe it is essential for there to be a close synergy between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, national governments and parliaments, and the representatives of society as a whole.
The Treaty of Amsterdam provides us with the instruments to respond to the ever louder calls for security and justice in the light of Europe's political, economic and social development of the last ten years.
If Europe has been able to give up national sovereignty in relation to the single currency and common external borders, it must - and surely can - meet the challenge of developing a common sword to maintain its security and common scales of justice.
We must be proud that in the last few months we have succeeded in developing the shared management of European monetary policy, but this is a success with enormous implications for our activities which we must understand.
All the national governments are aware that genuine convergence must be attained by means of the total liberalisation of the markets in goods and services and complete integration.
To encourage the mobility of labour and come close to a common method of combining efficiency and solidarity, interventions in social expenditure will at least need to be based on common principles, such as greater reliance on insurance for social services.
This range of measures must above all include an extra special effort in the area of training for all types of human resources; stepping up investment in research and development; and the development of the information society.
But the Community has several forms of experience behind it which could serve as an example and be a help in building the future.
Europe has already opted for sustainable development; it is clearly indicated in the Treaty of Amsterdam and Agenda 2000 and confirmed by the European Council in Cardiff and Vienna.
The role of merchant banks and suppliers of venture capital in the development of American firms and advanced technology is rightly underlined by observers.
Establishment of a European company will enable firms in the Member States to set up a holding company or branch in other Member States without being subject to the legal and practical constraints of 15 national systems.
Ladies and gentlemen, by the time my term of office ends, in 2005, the single currency will have been a reality in people's pockets for more than three years; the completion of the last stage of the Uruguay Round will have further opened up our economy to international trade; national monopolies will to a large extent have disappeared; there will be greater competition, not least in financial and other services, and European consumers will already have reaped the fruits in many different respects.
But we have seen a new consciousness emerge over time, which has formed the basis for the integration and the genuine and lasting peace of the past 50 years.
Loud applause Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the appointment of a new European Commission has always been an act of great consequence in European politics.
Thirdly, for the first time since it entered into force a few days ago on 1 May, the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam are now applicable.
The opportunities for deep-seated reform that are presented by this new beginning can only be exploited fully if the three institutions involved - the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission - work closely together on a basis of trust.
The nomination procedure is underway and could be concluded before the summer break.
All those involved - Parliament, Council and Commission - have a common interest in ensuring that the new Commission is formed and the appointments confirmed quickly.
It was intended from the outset - and this was confirmed by the Heads of State and Government in Berlin - that the new provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam would be applied to the appointment procedure.
The Treaty has now entered into force and this means above all that the future Commission President and the European Parliament have a greater role in the appointment of the Commission.
In this context the programme of reform presented by President Santer - ' The Commission of Tomorrow', including the components MAP 2000 and SEM 2000 - is of particular importance.
The Council and the European Parliament must also help to remedy negative developments and irregularities.
If we want a Commission that has strength, the ability to act and integrity, we must also provide it with the resources it needs to deal with its new tasks, for example in the area of enlargement or humanitarian missions.
The events surrounding the resignation of the Commission have shown that a truly European public is beginning to develop.
However, some of the decision-making procedures are very complicated and difficult to understand.
However, the European Parliament still needs to be strengthened further.
Applause This means that whenever the Council passes legislation by a majority vote - and we want to make majority voting the rule - the European Parliament must have an equal say and equal weight in the decision-making.
Applause The European Union is currently facing some enormous challenges: the implementation of the Treaty of Amsterdam, enlargement negotiations, the expansion of the euro zone, the WTO round of negotiations, improvement of common policy in the field of justice and home affairs, and in particular strengthening the Union's profile in foreign affairs.
In order to cope with these tasks we need a strong Commission that is capable of action and has integrity; we must now work together to ensure that the conditions for this are in place.
That we are here today looking at the ratification of a new President of the Commission, six months before it was due according to the timetable, is a reflection of the changing roles and expectations of the European Union.
We have seen the EU dealing in areas and working on issues which now affect the lives of the citizens of the European Union in a very direct way: the launching of the euro, soon not to be just a tool for banks and institutions but also the coins and notes in the pockets of our citizens and, this week, the coming into being of the Amsterdam Treaty with its changing emphasis towards policies that affect people and in particular job creation.
When you are talking about jobs and the money in people's pockets, you are talking about issues that very clearly affect the lives of every citizen of the European Union.
The next Commission must reflect a new approach to structure and responsibility, not for the sake of form.
If I may say so, we do not want a Commission with structures and portfolios that simply reflect a division of the spoils between twenty Commissioners for whom the President must find a role and must find a job in order to make them look as if they are all important.
After today, Mr Prodi, you and what you will do will be scrutinised as never before.
I was glad that today you concentrated very much on the broader approach to your political thinking and programme for the European Union.
Your emphasis on the competence of Commissioners and their ability and willingness to act as a team is very much to be welcomed.
Your emphasis on structuring the portfolios on the basis of delivering policies and your undertaking on transparency and openness are also very welcome.
Your speech today talked very little of people.
You mentioned employment but you did not talk much about the need for the fight against social exclusion, the struggle for a fair and just Europe for all our citizens, the need to support Member States in the eradication of poverty, in particular amongst the young and the old in our societies, the need for equal opportunities for men and women, for black and white citizens of the European Union.
Your commitment to peace on this continent is to be commended.
By way of conclusion, for me, as a Londoner, this weekend the importance of support for a Europe of fairness and justice for all our citizens, the need for us to be committed to the fight against intolerance, racism and hatred, against those concepts, was brought very graphically and tragically to our minds.
This European Union is about a vision for the future.
The big issue for our continent, for our economy, is also about people.
Applause Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prodi, on behalf of our group I should like to reiterate what I said on 13 April.
You have to reform the Commission, its cabinets and its administration.
So as the present Commission has said, a new European political and administrative culture is required.
But political reforms are needed too, which have been very clearly set out in a number of reports and documents of this Parliament.
Our group is very much in favour of interinstitutional cooperation.
New agreements have been concluded, and the new arrangement should be adopted under optimum conditions and approved before the new Commission takes up its duties.
In another report, by Elmar Brok, Parliament argues that members of the Commission should possess appropriate expertise and above all be independent.
After your ratification by Parliament, Mr Prodi, you will be able to demonstrate your political leadership in the appointment of the new Commissioners.
You wish to give new momentum to the European Union.
It is an important fact, Mr Prodi, that where Europe - as embodied in the European Union, in European countries and regions - is not present, where there is no solidarity within the European Union, war in Europe is still possible.
We must show vision and generosity to lay the foundation for reconstruction and development in the Balkans in the spirit of the Marshall Plan, which in 1947 gave our countries the strength to reorganise themselves and recover.
The second major area in which you have to deliver is the Union's ability to pursue a true foreign and security policy.
The future construction of Europe: now that we have the euro, you want to give political union a chance.
In this House there have been majority or consensus votes in favour of a constitution establishing clear relationships between the Union, the Member States and the rights of European citizens.
Parliament has suggested that the Commission, in consultation with the European Parliament and, for example, on the basis of opinions prepared by leading experts and in consultation with the national parliaments, might make it possible to revive this institutional dynamic.
In your first address on 13 April and again now, you have argued for a Europe not just of markets and banks, but a Europe which includes its cultural and spiritual dimension.
You are undoubtedly in favour of that, and you will undoubtedly seek with your new Commission to further that, just as you will undoubtedly bring about political union and give Europe the means, the capacity, to play a proper role in Europe and the world through its common foreign and defence policy.
The full definition of the Prodi project properly should await the new parliamentary mandate and the nomination of the new Commission.
He reminded us of the words of another politician from Eastern Europe, saying that since 1989 they have been told in Central and Eastern Europe that enlargement is always just five years away.
We must draw a line under that and we must make sure that during the lifetime of the next Parliament and during the mandate of the Prodi Commission we actually bring about the reality of the first enlargement to the East.
For my group that would be a serious and significant priority.
The aim here is not to finalise a project which is always evolving, but to help clarify for citizens in a meaningful way the whole complex of the documents we have produced in treaty form, the kinds of priorities that we have for the Union and the limits - because some of course also worry about the excesses of the Union.
I would also emphasise that we expect to see political balance, that is a balance of political philosophies and views and also a certain balance that reflects the role of the main political forces in this Parliament.
I do not wish, Mr Prodi, to anticipate the hearings of Parliament but I do have a question: in the event that Parliament decided that one ro more of the nominee Commissioners was not acceptable, what would you propose to do, given the powers you have under the Treaty of Amsterdam?
We urge you, both in choice of your Commissioners and in such an eventuality, to use your fullest powers under that Treaty and to demonstrate that indeed you are your own man.
If I understood correctly, Mr Verheugen, you urged us to complete this procedure of nominating and putting in place the new Commission by the end of July.
I respect politically why you say that but it shows scant regard and little understanding for the due process in this Parliament.
Mr President, in accordance with the Treaty of Amsterdam, Parliament is now able to exercise the great responsibility of voting to approve the appointment of the President of the Commission for the first time.
As far as the broad outlines of the candidate's programme are concerned, we feel bound to express the anxieties raised within our group by some of the statements he made today and on 13 April.
The Commission's implementing powers, particularly in the area of competition and state aid, are considerable and must be exercised independently but also with absolute transparency.
This has not always been the case in the past and the trade dispute on banana imports from ACP countries has left a bitter taste in our mouths.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Prodi, ladies and gentlemen, the resignation of the outgoing Commission showed above all that a more democratic balance of power was needed between Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
It is not just a question of more power for Parliament; our peoples have to be involved more actively in this process and must know and feel themselves to be citizens of the Union.
As you know, Mr Prodi, Parliament wants a convincing reform of the Commission.
We need a transparent Commission, with ready public access to documents, and that requires swift implementation of Article 255 of the Amsterdam Treaty.
The individual responsibility of Commissioners remains a central factor in the relationship between the Commission and Parliament.
The Amsterdam Treaty gives you the opportunity to intervene if there are problems with the work of individual Commissioners.
If the new Commission only includes representatives of the largest partner in the government and the largest opposition partner, there will be little political innovation in the Commission.
We want you, Mr Prodi, to argue for political diversity in the new Commission.
In this spirit and in the expectation that you will take our concerns on board, my group is planning to support your candidacy.
This coincidence, which was not planned, is giving this debate and the subsequent vote a rather dramatic nature as, to a certain extent, it represents the political legacy of the first European Parliament that had the ability to apply enough pressure on the outgoing Commission to force it to resign.
Our expectations of you are high, Mr Prodi, and they involve so many and such a variety of issues that you will no doubt find us very demanding, although your introductory speeches have already highlighted many of these points.
In particular, Mr Prodi, in terms of practical politics, Parliament expects enough vision and inspiration from you to meet the challenges facing Europe.
In saying this, I am not just thinking of the programmes planned for future years, such as the implementation of Agenda 2000 or the institutional reforms the Union needs in order to complete the Amsterdam Treaty, but also the problems which go beyond these elements.
We must find a new balance between the social and political Europe and the economic and monetary Europe, and we must counterbalance liberalism to some degree.
Similarly, in view of the war in Kosovo and the fragility of Europe revealed by this war, we firmly hope that the European Union can stop considering the future of our continent - including Central and Eastern Europe, Russia and the Mediterranean - in such a cautious manner to the extent that this approach becomes constrained and ultimately foolhardy.
In view of these threats, we would ask you to reaffirm the fundamental values of Europe and to give the EU a clear foreign and security policy and firm social priorities.
A Commissioner should be paid the same as a minister in the country he represents, and should pay tax so that at least in that respect he loses his status as an expatriate eurocrat.
We must at last have a reform that produces openness, whereby documents in the Commission will at least also be available to Parliament as soon as the Commission has delivered them to a committee, an undertaking, a country, a journalist or another external party.
in meeting room 2 here in the Palais building.
Like every modern business, the Union must focus on what it can do better than others, or in other words leave alone tasks which others can do better or more cheaply, concentrate on cross-border cooperation and allow other matters to return to the Member States.
We would rather unite Europe in a Europe of the democracies.
But if the Council has finally realised that it is one of the three components of Europe and must show due respect to the Parliament and Commission, we are pleased with this new discovery and hope that our future work will benefit.
We are opposed to any reduction in the Commission's political role, and we regard the political balance between Commission, Parliament and Council as a cornerstone of European democracy.
This also applies to the Balkans.
If you leave me alone to pursue these objectives, I assure you that the consequence will be an increase in unemployment in Europe, because the instruments available to me will undoubtedly lead to new social problems.
We are now feeling the effects on Europe's economic equilibrium of the economic slowdown in France, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands, countries which account for 80 % of our GDP.
Another major challenge is the war in Kosovo.
Not only NATO but also many countries, as well as Europe - which previously had always excelled at providing humanitarian aid - are incapable of meeting the challenges resulting from this war.
Mr Prodi, you were nominated by the European Council within hours of NATO attacking Yugoslavia on the instructions of not only the United States President but also many EU heads of government - your electorate.
You, Mr Prodi, will be assuming the presidency of the Commission at a very challenging time for the European Union.
That has been the main foundation for the success of the European Economic Community and now the European Union over the last 40 years.
The Maastricht Treaty put in place the European currency and has also proved to be an innovative act of political foresight on behalf of the Union itself.
My own constituency of Connacht-Ulster in the west of Ireland and the border counties has a strong case for long-term regional and social funds during the next Community support framework and thereafter.
It is also clear that a framework must be put in place to permit new Member States from Eastern and Central Europe to join the European Union.
This is known as the implementation of the EU acquis and is also important in the context of giving opportunities to Irish and European businesses to start up their operations in these countries.
In conclusion, the addition of an extra 70 million people to the Union must be viewed positively.
This is good news for the broadening of the trade relations with all Member States of the Union itself.
There are five women in the present Commission, and it would certainly be a massive leap backwards if we were not to aim for a larger number of female Members of the Commission.
In your statement you mentioned almost all the key words for the next five years: agriculture and towns, competition and social affairs, youth, the elderly, public limited companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, consumer protection and liberalisation, enlargement and relations with the USA.
However, Mr Prodi, I would have liked to see rather less pointillism and rather more constructivism in the picture you painted of the new Commission's work.
We expect you to use this political authority in forming the new Commission and in your political leadership of the new Commission over the next five years.
Like Klaus Hänsch, I too would like to say that as a result of your great achievements, Mr Prodi, you will have our vote of confidence and our hopes will rest on you.
I believe that in the knowledge of what happened with the former Commission you will undertake the necessary institutional reforms; furthermore, you will tackle the issues of personal accountability, internal controls and financial control, increased efficiency and the related right of control of the European Parliament over the Commission.
You also said that because of this certain basic conditions must be created in the area of environmental policy, social policy, consumer policy, and safeguarding competition through controls on competition and on financial aid, so that the single market can function as a single market for the whole of Europe and not in small sections.
But I have another particular problem with this, and in my view we need to solve a legitimation issue here.
As regards vision, you commented on the need for foreign representation and on our ability to use enlargement to extend the peace that we have achieved within the Union to the whole of Europe, including the Balkans, for example.
Mr Prodi, you demonstrate the fact that we are, in my view, returning to a Europe of values.
What distinguishes us in our values and our cultures is not something divisive but a plus, a diversity and an additional wealth.
If in this discussion of the fundamental issue of values we can present the kind of Europe once called for in this House by Václav Havel, then we will once again be in a position to find favour with our citizens, who want more than just a single market.
However, Mr Prodi, I remain confused about your approach to the economy and the environment.
One need only think of the confrontation between the United States and Europe over trade in the furs of animals captured by cruel methods, over trade in bananas and hormone-treated meat, and above all over genetically modified organisms, particularly since the collapse of the Cartagena summit on bio-security due to US intransigence.
The report by the Committee of Independent Experts should help you in this, and Parliament's assistance is assured.
The major conflict we are confronted with at the moment is of course in the Balkans, which are at the crossroads between Central and Eastern Europe and southern Europe.
They represent a fault line running across Europe which may well give rise to further problems.
We must therefore also give consideration to Mediterranean Europe, along with Europe's involvement in the Maghreb and the Mashreq, the Middle East and even those countries in southern Africa awaiting our cooperation, the ACP countries and the countries of Latin America.
Focusing on a different aspect, I feel that the results of the Berlin European Council have been unduly influenced by economic and technocratic considerations to the detriment perhaps of more fundamental political considerations.
Mr President, Mr Prodi, ladies and gentlemen, May 1999 will go down in history as one of Europe's best and worst months politically speaking.
Clearly this is because of who you are, as many of us have already said and written, but also and particularly because of the conditions of your arrival.
Modern democracy aims to be like a temple with foundations of human rights and two pillars of universal suffrage and the principle of responsibility.
And just look at our Europe.
Look at our European Community celebrating twenty years of its Parliament being elected by the people.
Thanks to this Parliament, and within it the European Socialists led by Mrs Green, the previous Commission was overturned.
Your speech this morning on full economic liberalisation offends us as Socialists.
You could and you must repeat this phrase today so that our confidence in you will be renewed and our Europe will be renewed.
Mr President, Mr President-designate, at the last full part-session of the European Parliament, we are facing a worried electorate in a continent at war.
You will be facing a more assertive and more confident European Parliament which has expectations of you.
We need you to be able to communicate with us and with the citizens of the European Union.
You are therefore being called upon to produce a new outline in order to create a new European social and ecological model.
You will be required, Mr Prodi, to put an end to this scandal and see to it that the European Union becomes a Europe for all.
The reformist approach you are setting out will require a majority in favour of progress.
Parliament, which cannot be sanctioned in this institutional system, cannot constantly change the majority or use the motion of censure, except in cases of extreme political danger.
It creates a relationship of mutual trust and cooperation between the Commission and those who represent the people of Europe.
Mr Prodi, you are the second President of the Commission I will be involved in selecting.
I am glad that the environment, consumers and employment were included in your speech.
The other thing I would like to mention today is your task of reforming the Commission's work and working methods - the new business culture.
I hope that the institutions, in other words the Council, Parliament and the Commission, can cooperate on this in future.
I have one question: do you share my view that a new start is synonymous with having new Commissioners in all positions?
I admit, Mr Prodi, that you have stated clearly today for the first time, as far as I know, that you also want to combat and prevent the causes and sources of unemployment.
But we must also be aware that the market can only function in our model if there is as little unemployment as possible and as few social weaknesses as possible in our society, as otherwise the people of Europe will not come along with us.
Mr President, Mr Prodi, I agree with Mr Swoboda's negative outlook and I want to emphasise it somewhat.
You naturally spoke about employment but you said nothing about European social dialogue.
And although you again announced that the Commission would be developing the liberalisation of the market in goods and services, I heard nothing about public services and the services of general economic interest which now clearly appear in Article 7d of the Amsterdam Treaty.
Next, I am grateful to you for having reminded me of the delicate relationship which will exist between the Commission and the Council, on the one hand, and between the Commission and Parliament on the other.
Let us be quite clear: if we put these two terms in contradiction with each other, we shall ruin commercial Europe as well as social Europe.
Let us remember that, if we are to give hope to the third world, for which we bear enormous responsibility - indeed, we cannot forget that Europe is the largest economic body in the world; I repeat, the largest economic body in the world - then clearly we must also guarantee a world economic order.
If we really do close our doors, then from the point of view of both peace and development in this world of ours, we shall cause the most serious problems.
These documents are vital in shaping our ideas, in organising our thoughts.
I wish to say in this respect that there is no list of Commissioners, not even a provisional one.
It is absolutely untrue that the new model of growth will inevitably be harmful to sustainable development and the environment.
This applies not only here; we must make a total, general commitment to this effect because it is part of our overall objectives.
I would however stress that our responsibility towards the Mediterranean countries is immense.
It is immense because the situation confronting us is becoming increasingly difficult and almost untenable socially, economically and especially in regard to the organisation of government structures.
I merely wished to recall these points over and above what I said in my previous speech, in view of your objections and suggestions, for which I am most grateful.
Let us remember that the political, social and economic reconstruction of the Balkans will to a large extent, if not exclusively, fall to Europe.
Let us remember that we must provide an institutional framework enabling these peoples to feel secure and allowing them not only to maintain their own structures but also to step up their relations with Europe, so as to have their own prospects for the future.
If I have understood correctly, I am being asked whether or not the new Commission will include any Commissioners from the old one.
VOTES Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to a long list of votes which contains a new element.
For it to be adopted, it requires an absolute majority of 314 votes.
Mr Herman, there is a difference between the provisions in the annex to the Rules of Procedure which refer to discharge and those in the annex to the Rules of Procedure which relate to other votes.
Mr President, I had asked to speak before this amendment was put to the vote as I am not sure that it was admissible.
Parliament adopted the resolution We have voted in favour of the Council regulation, because the European Parliament's amendments on the subject have been incorporated into the text.
Teverson report (A4-0192/99) Without tackling in any way the question of penalties, their harmonisation or fairness in their application, the Commission is proposing a list of serious infringements of the common fisheries policy based, in effect, on the rules defined in the context of the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organisation (NAFO).
Tatarella report (A4-0197/99) I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a fine report.
This region was handed over to Indonesia in 1963, with the stipulation that a referendum on the country's future was to be held by 1969 at the latest.
There must be a sensible balance between public health and the development of a competitive European industry.
In general, what I consider to be particularly important for the future is a balanced relationship between the role of national agencies - and therefore also of the non-centralised procedure - and that of an appropriate centralised structure.
As can be seen from a new publication, in the last few months an ad hoc working party has done some outstanding work and clarified certain important points about this medication in the European Union.
Lannoye report (A4-0401/97) Mr President, I deeply regretted the haste with which the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection voted for compromise amendments to Mr Lannoye's report on the proposal for a directive on honey.
Finally, I must state that in order to improve honey production and marketing, as referred to in my report on an ad hoc regulation and for which we have obtained EUR 15 million per year - although I had asked for EUR 65 million - stringent requirements are needed on the quality, control and labelling of honey.
I am hopeful that during the next parliamentary term we will be heard, as my struggle on behalf of honey producers and their high-quality products in Europe and the Community will continue inside or outside Parliament.
We have therefore decided not to participate in the decision.
A simple administrative inquiry would have shown that not only was I in order with the social security authorities but that the first payment of an amount in excess of BEF 200 000 has never been entered into the accounts of this body and must be returned to me.
Fayot report (A4-0216/99) Mr President, I abstained during the final vote on Mr Fayot's report on the amendment of Annex V to the Rules of Procedure.
There is no difference in the nature of these annexes.
It is solely for the sake of convenience that these texts have been made into annexes to the Rules of Procedure because they would take up too much room in the main body of the Rules.
However, in both cases the provisions are important and must be adopted under the same conditions as the main text itself.
We therefore voted on the Elles report without knowing exactly what we were voting on.
The Rules of Procedure allow quicker application than that normally anticipated, namely in the part-session following their adoption, but immediate entry into force does not seem appropriate.
As regards your other comment, you should in my view have raised this point before the clarifications introduced by the new Rules, which make things very much clearer.
But that can be discussed.
This proposal to amend the directive is therefore heading in the right direction by offering Member States a positive option, which they will certainly use in a fairly general manner.
However, the I-EDN Group voted against Amendment No 4 by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which was adopted by 423 votes to 61.
This would seriously impinge on the right of each Member State to fix and collect tax.
This situation quite clearly contrasts with the promise accompanying monetary unification that a new era of growth and employment would begin in Europe.
Of course, you could say that the euro has only really been in use for four months and that it is therefore too early to come to any definite conclusions about this.
Neither the euro nor the European management in general can therefore be easily exonerated of all responsibility.
We are particularly conscious that growth is weaker in the countries at the centre of the euro system which contribute to the Structural Funds and stronger in the more peripheral countries or those which benefit from European aid.
I will vote for the Fourçans report on the broad guidelines of the economic policies of the Member States and the Community.
The report is right to emphasise the need to establish closer coordination between broad economic policy guidelines and the employment policy guidelines, taking into account the need for a coherent strategy for employment, growth, stability and economic reforms and for improved procedure with regard to their content, their timing and the relationship between the Council committees involved.
We voted against the report for the following reasons: 1.The idea of a common economic policy is flawed in principle.
As Wim Duisenberg said a few days ago, the current exchange rate between the euro and the dollar is due to a strong dollar and not a weak euro.
Conversely, Europe's economy is heading towards a recovery in the second half of 1999.
This is due to the disappearance of exchange rate risks for companies, the lowest interest rates this century, an increase in trade within the Community and greater coordination of economic and monetary policies between the Member States.
The main challenge now facing Europe is to develop a new policy mix which firmly links the creation of stable jobs with lasting and sustainable economic growth.
This will require a European stability and growth pact to be established which fully involves the social partners and a strong political will on the part of the Member States to introduce the necessary structural reforms, to move towards a European information society and to remain determined in striving for greater tax harmonisation.
The fact that, year after year, millions of people are out of work is detrimental to the credibility of both society and democracy.
The Menrad report on the European Parliament's contribution to the European Employment Pact is an important contribution to the strengthening of employment in Europe.
The report also puts forward further demands, such as a relieving of the tax burden on companies' incomes and investments and a reduction in payroll taxes.
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of a report on the European Employment Pact.
Solving unemployment is the greatest challenge facing the European Union today.
It cannot be accepted that 18 million Europeans are unable to find work.
The European Employment Pact will not of itself solve this problem but it can make a contribution and it is a welcome recognition by the Member States that more can be achieved through cooperation than by individual countries acting alone.
I will vote for this report and trust the Cologne Council will give its contents serious consideration.
The European Parliamentary Labour Party believes that the following paragraphs in the above report are a matter of subsidiarity and, therefore, cannot support them: Paragraph 13 - European-wide minimum wage; -Paragraph 14 - Convergence of corporation tax.
It is not by chance that the countries that are to be 'congratulated' in this regard by the European Union are those countries which were the first to move towards general reforms in this direction in the labour market, increasing in particular part-time and other forms of flexible employment.
The objective of full employment has been abandoned.
We want to express our concern because, the more measures are taken to reduce the income and the rights of workers, the more pressures for further reforms increase.
Elles report (A4-0196/99) Mr President, I must firstly congratulate the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations on being the group with the most representatives in the House at the moment.
We have therefore approved a text against which I fought as hard as I could.
In my opinion, the rule of law cannot be separated from democracy.
You will of course appreciate, as we do, that the House decides in all its wisdom.
We approved this report particularly because of its first paragraph - please stay Mr Dell'Alba, just for a few more moments - and although I agree that this paragraph is not entirely realistic, its political significance is very clear in our opinion.
For the first time, a majority of the Members of this House said very clearly that discharge could not be granted to the Commission in respect of the 1996 financial year.
For the first time, it was clear that we would refuse to grant discharge when, on 17 December, we rejected a motion in favour of granting discharge tabled by the Socialist Group which had been adopted in extremis by a very small majority in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
We have also adopted and annexed to our report the reasons for the decision of 17 December 1998.
I believe that this amendment tabled by the Socialist Group demonstrates the hypocrisy which some have been attempting to lead us towards since 17 December.
If we had adopted the Socialist Group's amendment, as 212 of our colleagues unfortunately did, there would have been no mention of the refusal of discharge and these comments which, I must repeat, condemned the Commission, would have had no legal value.
The political consequences of the debate surrounding Parliament's refusal to grant discharge to the Commission in respect of the 1996 financial year are widely known.
But to a certain extent, the Council and Parliament must also accept some responsibility for this crisis.
Having said this, I agree with the rapporteur that it is technically important for the time being to note the accounts of the EC budget for the 1996 financial year in order to proceed with work on the accounts of later years.
Brinkhorst report (A4-0201/99) I voted in favour of the Brinkhorst report postponing the discharge.
It would be paradoxical for Parliament to approve this discharge before the end of its term when not all the information is available, when the second report by the Committee of Independent Experts is expected in the autumn and when the conditions for us to definitively approve this discharge are not therefore satisfied.
However, I must underline the extraordinary nature of the vote in this House.
Three amendments - Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 7 - tabled not by us but by the Green Group were rejected by a very large majority, with roughly 400 against and 115 for.
Amendment No 2 recalled that, under Article 276 of the Treaty, the Commission must submit any necessary information to the European Parliament at its request.
Amendment No 3 recalled what happened with the ECHO dossier.
Amendment No 7 simply recalled what happened with regard to the external staff hired by different companies.
This is particularly true given that it is difficult not to examine the implementation of the general budget for the 1997 financial year from the direct perspective of the previous budget.
This is why I believe that the examination of the discharge for the 1997 financial year by a newly elected Parliament, in cooperation with a Commission free of the errors and faults of the past, will ensure a less stormy atmosphere in which to determine the real responsibilities of each of the outgoing Commissioners.
Fabra Vallés report (A4-0199/99) We did not vote in favour of what the Elles report proposed because it fails to mention many issues regarding Parliament's budget.
In Amendment No 3 we asked the Secretary-General to provide the Committee on Budgetary Control with a report on the reasons and circumstances which led to the decision to divide up the Directorate-General for Personnel, the Budget and Finance, on the effects of this decision and on the efficiency of the budget management and staff policy.
Amendment No 9 recalled the conditions which should have led us to postpone the granting of discharge.
Just as Parliament must monitor the correct implementation of the Community budget, it must also check that its own budget is correctly implemented by the Secretary-General and all the officials whose honesty and qualities are not in question.
Clearly we have questions about the 1997 financial year.
The Court of Auditors can and must help us in this task.
On a more general note, I support the rapporteur in all his conclusions, including the need to postpone the decision to grant discharge to the Economic and Social Committee for the 1997 financial year.
In this case, it seems that the combined attention of our rapporteur and the Court of Auditors is finding a real will within the Foundation to respond to the remarks made.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from a humanitarian point of view the situation in Kosovo is still, in our opinion, an out-and-out disaster.
We now have such a disastrous situation in Albania and Macedonia that there is no longer any question about whether the people should remain in the region or be taken in by third countries.
Macedonia in particular needs urgent help here.
We also have a political interest in ensuring that Macedonia remains stable.
It is also clear that it is very much in the interest of all the countries bordering on Kosovo, of all neighbouring countries, whether directly or indirectly affected, that lasting stability should be restored in the southern Balkans.
We - the West, the European Union - must use this stability pact to bring this region of Europe closer to our Europe of integration.
The war in Kosovo makes one thing clear, and here I would like to quote the last speech made by François Mitterrand in this House: nationalism means war, that is Europe's experience.
All neighbouring countries, all countries bordering on Kosovo, with the exception of Milosevic, want three things: they want internal democracy, and they want to secure this by means of external security within NATO and by means of economic development within the European Union.
This is the first element: stability and security in the region.
The first element will be guaranteed principally by NATO, the second by the European Union.
He will not create a Greater Serbia but a rump Serbia, if he is allowed to proceed.
The five points formulated by the European Union, NATO and the UN Secretary-General do not mean all-out war against Serbia; instead they allow security and stability for everyone in Kosovo while at the same time guaranteeing security and stability in the region and allowing these to blossom.
The political process has taken on new momentum following the NATO summit.
It is also clear that the notion that NATO - be it only for a limited area, but one that goes beyond Europe - could be an alternative to the United Nations has proved to be a fallacy, as I always believed.
The war in Kosovo makes one thing clear to all of us, and I would like here to come back to François Mitterrand, but I could also quote Helmut Kohl, who said: Europe is about war and peace, it is not just about the economy, market regulations and intervention prices, important though all these may be.
Applause But at the same time it shows how important it is that Europe and its partners understand the need for closer cooperation.
I would like to emphasise this once again, and I am pleased that we have finally succeeded not only in stepping up EU sanctions against Yugoslavia but in upholding the EU oil embargo.
I see this as an important step towards drafting a Chapter VII resolution in the Security Council, and I would like to take this opportunity to call upon the permanent members of the Security Council to take on an active role in drafting such a resolution.
Involving Russia means above all that Russia will stop blocking decisions in the Security Council so that we can arrive at a Chapter VII resolution clearly based on international law and a decision of the Security Council as the sole holder of power in the international political system.
Once this is settled, of course, everything will then head in the direction of a stability pact, and I have already discussed the rest.
I hope that we will be able to achieve a substantial breakthrough in the course of this month.
Applause Mr President, the deportation and ethnic cleansing mean that the exodus continues.
We owe that not only to the victims but also to ourselves if we want to stand for a Europe with full respect for basic values.
We hope Russia will agree with the need for a credible international peacekeeping force in Kosovo within the framework of a political settlement.
If that agreement could be reached with Russia, it would considerably increase the pressure on Milosevic, possibly through a United Nations Security Council resolution.
In the meantime, the Commission remains active in helping to alleviate the consequences of the tragedy by different means.
Furthermore, by assisting the governments of the countries of the region most affected by the massive influx of refugees.
The price for a durable and just peace and stability in the Balkans will be high but, at the same time, is imperative both in terms of finance and human resources.
That is why I take this opportunity, on behalf of the Commission, to call on Parliament and the Council to provide the Commission in due course with the instruments and funds needed to meet our share of this tremendous challenge which we will have to face together.
We look forward to the discussions in the General Affairs Council, scheduled for the end of this month, to fill in certain elements of these big projects which are aimed at contributing substantially to a more durable and stable western Balkans in the next century.
I was also very pleased, Mr President-in-Office, to hear the remarks you made concerning the fundamental relationship between NATO and the UN.
Some people believe that NATO could become the new world or regional police force, and perhaps see a basis for this in the text of NATO's Washington declaration.
It must and can only play this role if it can act effectively.
We need the United Nations forces to be deployed effectively.
Furthermore, even in this House some people have said that we could maintain or achieve peace in Europe without Russia, perhaps even if Russia were snubbed.
We must bring Russia back on board and we must succeed in persuading Russia to return to a cooperative approach.
Winter comes more quickly than we think.
I do not know whether everyone is well prepared, whether coordination between the individual institutions functions properly.
I believe in the regional approach, but ours was too weak, with too few positive incentives for these countries to cooperate.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go into detail on all the issues that concern us in every debate on Kosovo.
Unlike all the governments, we in this Parliament correctly assessed the explosive nature of the Kosovo conflict from the beginning.
Now we are having to use military means to solve the problem.
What annoys me about the whole story is that we are only now talking about economic sanctions and possibly implementing them.
Yet we in the European People's Party take the view that NATO must undertake further military attacks in order to make the aggressor give way.
It is important to have well-organised reception facilities for refugees in the region, but unfortunately it will also be necessary for a while to accommodate refugees outside the region.
You have our full support if you continue to work towards stabilising the region.
Mr President, the EU and NATO have agreed on some of the basic requirements for a political solution to the Kosovo crisis.
The vast majority of the European Parliament has given its wholehearted support to those conditions.
The Liberals would like to see the EU and NATO preparing for such an action.
We also have a right to demand that Kosovo never acts in a way which constitutes a threat to the security and territorial integrity of Macedonia, Montenegro or Bosnia.
However, we were opposed to the use of bombing as the means to resolve this terrible crisis.
The humanitarian tragedy which the military intervention was intended to prevent is at its peak.
The destabilisation of the region which NATO's plans were intended to prevent is now becoming a reality in Montenegro, Macedonia and Albania, while concern is increasing in Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania and beyond.
Under these conditions, the only military victory possible would risk being a Pyrrhic victory, far removed from the fair and lasting peace we are currently seeking.
I urgently call on Europe to seize these opportunities and face up to its responsibilities.
Serbian leaders such as Draskovic and Djindjic are openly looking for the route to the EU.
The problem that we all have is that we want everything at once, in the longstanding tradition of some of our groups.
But I also believe that we must seize every opportunity to create diplomatic opportunities to bring the war in Kosovo to an end.
Mr President, the offensive currently being conducted against Serbia is quite clearly contrary to international law and is also politically reprehensible.
There have been many other infamies and many have been committed on the initiative of the US Government.
Mr President, in view of the last speech it is worth reminding this House that ethnic cleansing has gone on in Kosovo for ten years and that refugees were being driven out of their homes long before the NATO bombing.
I have been a Member of this Chamber for ten years and we seem to have spent most of those ten years debating events in former Yugoslavia.
And that must be the message that comes from this House in this debate and from the European Union.
The Socialist Group has always made it clear that we believe that Russia should be fully involved and I fully support its latest peace mission.
There must be an enforceable peace based on an international force which has NATO as its core.
We must in future learn from what has happened in Bosnia where there is still no peace but only an absence of war.
We must learn from the mistakes we have made to ensure that we can get effective international cooperation in putting the whole of the region back together again.
The greatest fear has to be long-term destabilisation, not just in Montenegro, not just in Macedonia, but further abroad, including the effect on Greece and Italy for example.
There has to be a long-term plan but I would remind the Council that the stability pact was something Parliament called for two years ago.
I would hope that in light of the Amsterdam Treaty coming into effect, the Council and the Commission start listening a bit more carefully to Parliament.
On many of the issues about former Yugoslavia we have led the Council and the Commission.
Mr President, the killings and ethnic cleansing are continuing in Kosovo.
In this context, we welcome the proposals to conclude a special kind of association agreement with the two countries most affected, Albania and Macedonia.
Mr President, it is now six weeks since NATO's aerial bombardment of Yugoslavia was begun, with the aim of saving the Kosovo Albanians from the barbaric treatment inflicted on them by the Milosevic regime.
Perhaps it is as the Hungarian writer György Konrád wrote the other day in the Frankfurter Allgemeine , that Europeans have learned from history, but they have learned the wrong things.
There is a Serbian opposition which is making itself visible today in an article in Libération .
I was in Tirana from 21 to 23 April, and I realised there the need to make the presence of the European Parliament felt, as we do not so far appear to have arranged for an official presence in the region, although that would have been the right thing to do.
The situation is extremely serious and only armed intervention - unless Milosevic gives way beforehand on the conditions laid down by NATO and the European Union - can in some way relieve the situation and create a safe area, paving the way to the zone of peace and security we have talked about.
The European Parliament must act immediately to restore the kind of democratic conditions that apply in our countries, because representatives and militants of the opposition party are still in prison and some members of the Albanian Parliament have been deprived of their parliamentary immunity.
This conflict must not go on for too long, because the damage done increases with every day that passes.
I am very concerned about stability in the surrounding countries.
The cost is already put at some 70 million dollars per month.
Bulgaria cannot wait for a stability pact, a plan for the Balkans, it needs help now.
Today, 4 May, is a day on which the Netherlands commemorates the victims of World War Two.
Mr President, forty days after NATO violated international law, the consequences are clear.
This means that none of the arguments put forward by NATO for this offensive have been validated and none of its initial objectives have been achieved.
European integration, the origins of which also lie in war in Europe, as I well remember, is now in a situation where Community institutions are defending and excusing NATO and its armed interventions.
Meanwhile, this same NATO is altering its strategic basis in order to turn itself into a world police force, without the governments showing any willingness to explain this to the public and without this House being able to discuss this.
Had we in Europe had this discussion on the integration of the Balkans ten years ago, we might not have had on our conscience the 200 000 dead of the war in Bosnia and Milosevic's war against Croatia and so on.
So we ought to be able to turn this vision of ours to good account, and then what you said earlier - that 'May could be a month of hope' - could also provide a more reassuring message for our future and, above all, for the future of peace and justice in the Balkans.
It is time to put forward a political solution to what is a political problem.
As a former prime minister of Sweden, Olof Palme, once said: 'One cannot establish democracy by bombing the villages one should be preserving'.
It is time for the EU to make an active contribution to establishing the right conditions for a political solution to the war in Kosovo.
The war has taught us that the EU needs to develop without delay an instrument for conflict resolution, peacekeeping, mediation, reconciliation and confidence building.
In my view there are two very different aspects to the NATO response.
I support the majority in this Parliament which has warmly approved the military intervention.
Serbia is certainly being weakened, but not really Milosevic.
Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro have become weaker and the prospects are not good.
Now that this war has been started, we must win it.
Mr President, for too long the international community has allowed Milosevic to do as he pleases, without trying all possible sanctions such as an oil embargo.
Some of our Heads of State and Government and, Mr Fischer, your colleagues should blush with shame when we see where refugees have been taken in and where they have not.
The problem of refugees and human misery cannot be solved by throwing ECU 250 million at it.
Let me begin with you, Mr Rocard.
I do not know what level of information the Member States of the Union or those who sit on the North Atlantic Council have.
These are not the kind of refugees we are used to, they are actually deportees, human time bombs to be used if, when and where Milosevic so decides.
But I would venture to say better late than never.
It probably is late - too late, I agree - but just think of the case-file from Osiek to Vukovar, Srebrenica to Sarajevo, Bihac to Tuzla and so many other shameful crimes, to which we failed to respond.
If we look at the debate - and in this respect it resembles all the other debates we have heard in recent weeks - we can see that there are a lot of good individual arguments that we have all thought of from time to time.
Applause a political solution must bring about the return of those who have been displaced and it must in particular ensure that we do not have another ten years of nationalist madness in the Balkans with hundreds of thousands of more deaths.
Applause a political solution is not an end in itself, so we must talk about the substance of our policy.
Applause We must not confuse cause and effect here!
Applause We are trying to implement a political solution that uses force on the basis of respect for human rights, common security and the return of all refugees, on the basis of the international community.
I consider it imperative that we achieve a political solution and a cease-fire on this basis.
Therefore, of all the good arguments I have heard, the only possible alternative is a political solution that renounces the use of force, respects human rights and ensures the return of refugees.
Applause Thank you, Mr President-in-Office.
The debate is closed.
Under our Rules of Procedure we will invite the successful candidate to speak to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy on 21 June so that we may put a recommendation of approval to the July plenary.
We want to see a strong High Representative, a strong policy planning and early warning unit, a strong Commission structure with a coherent team of Commissioners dealing with external relations.
Of all the instruments at our disposal the common strategies should be the most powerful.
I am not convinced that the text that the Council is currently considering is yet good enough.
To prepare it in a hurry without the help of the High Representative and without either the reality or the structure of consultation with Parliament is, in my view, hubris.
Far from seeking to send a negative message to Moscow by proposing in paragraph 4 that the Council delay the adoption of the common strategy until the Helsinki Summit, we were seeking to ensure that the urgent did not drive out the important.
I am therefore happy to recommend to the House the adoption of Amendment No 2 from the Socialist Group.
Europe and our relations with Russia and with America will not be the same after the war.
Washington, it seems to me, is currently torn between a view of itself as the centre of a unipolar world of American hegemony and the more realistic recognition that it is a super-power that operates most effectively when it exercises its power in tandem with Europe.
Nowhere, Mr President, are the new realities more apparent than in the Balkans.
It is in the Balkans that Europe will be tested in the next five years.
It is central to our relationship with Russia, it is central to NATO's credibility, it is central to Europe's role inside NATO.
I believe passionately that we need a coherent European initiative in the Balkans using all our instruments.
We must stop seeing the Balkans as the repository of all that we are most frightened of in ourselves.
We have to make a real effort to understand our joint destiny as Europeans.
The lack of trust in Western Europe goes that far back into our history and it urgently needs to be remedied.
The war with Serbia must be the last of Europe's civil wars.
This is the moment when Europe grows up in its external relations.
Four days ago the Treaty of Amsterdam entered into force.
The first of these will concern Russia, and further strategies concerning the Ukraine, the western Balkans and the Mediterranean region will follow as soon as possible.
In recent months we have been able to reach a considerable degree of agreement on the substance and structure of our strategy on Russia.
I am therefore confident and take a different view from the previous speaker, because although I fully understand some of your arguments, particularly concerning the procedure and the interests of the committee and of Parliament, in the present circumstances postponing this strategy on Russia would have a negative knock-on effect.
Bear in mind that this is not just about Kosovo but Russia's overall economic and social instability.
The aim of the Russia strategy is to help to promote democracy and the rule of law and to integrate this important neighbour into the European Economic and Social Area; it is also to strengthen relations in general and to establish a basis for future relations.
The Kosovo crisis shows only too clearly how urgently we need Russia's constructive cooperation for peace in Europe.
One of the West's priority tasks is to ensure that the barbaric war in Kosovo does not also lead to any sort of reversal in our relations with Russia, but that we continue to build on our partnership.
Our close cooperation with Moscow in the search for a political solution in Kosovo shows that Russia takes the same view.
It is important that in doing so we ensure a careful balance between the regions, as stability to the south is just as important for Europe as stability to the east.
Mr Spencer, you dealt with this aspect in great detail in your speech.
During the German Presidency the EU's relations with other regions of the world have been accorded considerable importance.
He or she must be given a powerful role in order to be able to promote a European foreign policy that is as operational as possible and to serve as a point of progression in foreign policy but also in domestic relations.
The High Representative should therefore ideally play an active role as adviser in internal consensus-building.
A further important topic in this six-month period is European security and defence policy.
The Kosovo conflict has illustrated once again that the collaboration and presence of the USA remain indispensable for the defence of our fundamental values of peace, human rights and democracy in Europe.
However, the USA's predominance in both the military and political handling of the Kosovo conflict has also shown how urgent it is that we in Europe strengthen our ability to act in foreign and security policy if we ourselves are to be capable of effective crisis management in future.
Tony Blair's initiative in Pörtschach and the Franco-British meeting in St Malo have provided us with a good model, and it has been a vital concern of the German Presidency to use this new dynamism.
The presidency is preparing a report for the European Council in Cologne which will establish the basic consensus that is emerging for the guidelines we presented and a decision on the integration of the WEU into the EU in accordance with Article 17 of the EU Treaty, including a target date in the foreseeable future.
In my statement of 12 January I highlighted the prospects for the further development of European integration, and I would like to do this today for the CFSP.
For the first time, therefore, on a German-British initiative it is to draw up its own human rights report this year, which should increase the transparency of EU human rights policy and deal with both subject-related and country-related issues.
For Europe it has been a fundamental experience to discover how important the work of human rights groups was in the former Warsaw Pact area and how crucial Part 3 of the Helsinki Agreement was for the end of Communist dictatorship in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
This parallel nature of political dialogue, economic openness and defence of human rights is a legacy for Europe that must inform its human rights policy in other regions of the world too.
For this reason the EU clearly expressed its criticism of the human rights situation in China to the Geneva-based Commission on Human Rights on several occasions, most recently in the EU declaration on the Chinese no-action motion.
The EU must also, within its own borders, show greater support for the observance of human rights.
Human rights, democracy and the rule of law are stated clearly in the Treaty of Amsterdam as conditions of membership, and if they are not observed membership rights may be restricted.
Secondly, the EU must offer the states of south-eastern Europe a political and economic perspective that goes beyond the Kosovo crisis, a far-sighted vision and all-embracing concept for peace and integration.
The German Presidency therefore wants to include the extension of the European Parliament's rights on the agenda for the next intergovernmental conference on institutional reform, for which we intend to draw up a timetable in Cologne in June.
Fourthly, in the long term we will only be able to strengthen the common foreign and security policy by presenting a united front in the G8, in international financial institutions and particularly in the United Nations, and by extending the use of majority voting.
During the German Presidency we have succeeded in maintaining or even increasing the EU's unity and ability to act in many difficult foreign policy issues in relation to Kosovo, China, the Middle East and many other areas.
This is a success for all of us, and we must continue down this road.
We must succeed in the next few years in realising a Europe that is capable of political action, as it is only in this way that the European Union will be able to defend its interests and values adequately in the multipolar world of the 21st century.
To return to the debate, I have to say that there have been times in the last few years when I have felt that the initials CFSP have not stood for common foreign and security policy but for coreless, fudge and sclerotic posturing.
The policy planning unit is going to be very important, but it must link in with other organisations, like the conflict prevention network, which Parliament was instrumental in setting up.
I should like to see us focus on the longer-term strategic questions, such as the role of water supply in conflict prevention.
Obviously the High Representative will be very important but what is crucial is that this appointment should not be a fudge and that we appoint somebody who we know can do the job and whom the Council is prepared to allow to do the job.
Parliament, for its part, must stop demanding the impossible.
At least three crises - those of Kosovo, Russia and the Middle East - demonstrate that the superpower that is Europe could have handled these issues much better.
Mr President, as the previous speaker said, our annual debate on the Union's role in the world is taking place at a special point in time.
One of the biggest changes in foreign policy will be the new instrument of common strategies.
For these reasons, a future High Representative will need to appear before Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy to seek its endorsement.
Only in this way, I believe, can a close link be forged between this representative and the European Parliament.
Finally, Mr President, this is my last speech to the House on a report, and I am especially pleased that it is a report by my friend and colleague Tom Spencer.
The EUR 400 million in food aid granted by the EU is a big mistake, as it is counterproductive and destroying markets.
The Western community has cast aside the peace principle in view of the massive human rights violations and ethnic expulsions in Kosovo.
However, in my opinion it is a mistake whose consequences will set us back for a long time in our attempt to develop a common security strategy in Europe.
The process allowing Georgia to become a member of the European Union must be accelerated.
The cooperation agreement must be signed immediately and an association agreement must be rapidly concluded.
We must have a 'Voice of Europe' to fight against dictators before these tragedies occur, as in Kosovo.
As I come from a town on the Danube I would like to thank him for his statement today and for emphasising the importance of this strip of Europe that has very often been an area of crisis and war but could also be an area of peace and cooperation, linking western and central Europe with the Balkans and also with Russia, Ukraine and finally also Turkey, as he mentioned.
However, in my opinion it is essential that, in the pain and confusion that surrounds us, we send a clear message and that we acknowledge the role that Russia can and must play without delay in order to avert the visible dangers: the military entanglements; the broader destabilisation of the region; the revival of cold-war rivalries.
The report on the northern dimension declines, for its part, to take a position on Russia, as that was seen to be more relevant to the report on Russia.
The northern dimension must be seen as an essential part of both the EU's external relations and the decision-making process that impacts on its internal development.
The EU has to develop its institutions so that it can broaden its scope to cover the whole of Europe.
The Union, in principle, must also be open to Russian membership, although this seems a long way off at present.
Mr President, the Russian Federation is struggling with enormous social, economic and political problems.
For these reasons and also because we must continue to improve our relations with Russia in light of the serious crisis in Kosovo, we support the decision taken on 26 April by the Council to adopt a proposal for a common strategy towards Russia.
This common strategy sets out the need for democracy, the rule of law in public institutions and the integration of Russia into a European social and economic area as well as the common challenges which are facing the European continent.
On a social and economic level, there are various areas of action: restructuring businesses, public finances, the banking system or access to international financial markets, standards and certification, competition policy, access to the market, cooperation on technology and the development of agricultural reform and social dialogue.
Other challenges include the protection of the environment, nuclear safety and the fight against organised crime through regional or transborder actions.
We also believe that this common strategy towards Russia must be adopted at the next meeting of the European Council in Cologne.
I very much welcome the fact that the Council firstly wants to adopt a common strategy with Russia.
According to the Treaty of Amsterdam a common strategy requires the consultation of the European Parliament.
The European Union's policy towards the Russian Federation has not always been exemplary to date, but I would hope that the combination of a comprehensive strategy and the new TACIS regulation that is due to enter into force in the year 2000 will lead to a significant improvement in decision-making and implementation in the European Union's policy on Russia.
I believe these questions must be answered so that we can tackle the issue methodically and in accordance with our objectives.
I always reply that I cannot imagine it today but that I cannot say whether I might be able to imagine it in 30, 40 or 50 years' time.
Russia itself continues to have a great many serious problems.
I can only say that it is also our duty as the European Union and as a party in negotiation with them to do our best to make it easier for them to tackle and resolve many of these home-made problems.
Russia is indeed the most important problem in our foreign policy.
Russia will join Europe one day, but I am convinced that this will only be possible when it has been decolonised, since we do not want to be dragged into any new colonial wars with the countries of the Far East, which is a very real danger.
But the rapporteur is correct in calling for the common strategy to have real substance and the means for implementing it.
But there must be political will on the Russian side to eliminate the 'robber baron' style of capitalism which has developed since 1991.
With the resurgence of nationalism in Russia and the growing social deprivation of the majority of the Russian people, it is both our duty and in our interest for Europe to work with Russia to enhance democracy, security and prosperity for all our citizens.
Mr President, 1 May was the day on which the Amsterdam Treaty and the common foreign and security policy became a reality.
Mr President, it is good that the issues of the northern dimension are seen in the report as being an essential part of policy on Russia.
The same can be said of the contractual and therefore structural ties, including political dialogues, which we have developed with Russia, Ukraine and in fact with all the countries of the former Soviet Union.
And, last but not least, I am thinking of the policy and ties we have developed with so many countries in the third world, developing countries, as part of the ACP process.
The Kosovo crisis on the one hand and the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty on the other, which gives us a number of new instruments which may further improve our capacity for crisis management, are two events which to my mind represent a dramatic coinciding of circumstances.
The new instruments of the Amsterdam Treaty can never replace the political will of the Member States, of course.
But I think there is some cause for optimism and, saddened as we are by the tragedy of Kosovo, Kosovo has given a boost to the political will of the Member States to make a collective stand against reprehensible political actions in our continent.
If the Commission can do more to help - once again, I should say, because in the past it has already done so two or three times in a number of communications - I am confident that the new Commission will be more than happy to do that.
I hope the new Parliament will make that voice heard more loudly and more often, because the tragedy currently unfolding in the Balkans is proof enough that there can never be too many words of warning and incitements to action, not least on the part of a democratically elected forum like the European Parliament.
So could I say very gently to Mr Truscott and other colleagues that if they had listened to my speech at the beginning, by accepting Amendment No 2 on the Russian recommendation - which is a Socialist Group amendment - it deletes the reference to 'delay' in the adoption of the common strategy with Russia and replaces it with what I feel is a very valid statement of what that recommendation should contain.
I want to make it absolutely clear to the House that I am completely comfortable with my report on the recommendation as I trust it will be amended tomorrow.
He did the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy of Parliament the courtesy of engaging in intelligent debate.
The High Representatives may be part of the mouthpiece of the Council but it is good debate between all three institutions which holds out the best hope for the future.
Mr President, I did indeed listen to Mr Spencer's speech from my office.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 3 December the European Parliament adopted by a qualified majority a draft Statute that was moderate, balanced, clearly reasonable, simple and practical and certainly also had a certain intellectual charm.
I therefore believe that it makes more sense to follow the recommendation of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and to say that we confirm Parliament's resolution of 3 December 1998.
The Statute can enter into force on 1 November, 1 December or 1 January.
But today - and I will conclude here - we must say a clear no to all attempts to change Parliament's text of 3 December 1998.
Applause Mr President, a great many accusations could be levelled against Members of the European Parliament, but they could never be accused of putting their own interests first, because on the occasion of a debate on their own rights, privileges, interests and immunities, the House is practically deserted, as you can see.
I have to say however that I do not share the apocalyptic vision presented by my colleague and good friend Willi Rothley on what has happened to relations between Parliament and the Council.
The adoption procedure referred to in Article 190 is not the assent procedure.
The assent procedure is used in connection with international treaties, because once the text of the treaty has been agreed, it cannot be changed by Parliament.
In essence, what is at issue is a principle established by the case-law of the Court of Justice: the principle of loyal collaboration between the institutions.
Mr Medina referred to the law of treaties.
As I conclude my final speech of this parliamentary term, replying to Mr Rothley on behalf of the European People's Party, I am put in mind of a splendid speech made in the Spanish constituent assembly which drafted our 1812 constitution.
If the Liberals had not forced the pace of the discussions in the Legal Affairs Committee, there would have been no report on 3 December.
If we had not driven it home in all the capital cities of the Member States that we should speed up the deliberations in the Council, then I do not think this would have materialised.
Most of the points in the amendment refer to aspects that have already been approved by Parliament.
Finally, I should like to put a question to the rapporteur: what is there in our compromise proposal that he is unable to approve?
The first is formal in nature: as the rapporteur stated, the Council has infringed Article 190(5) of the Treaty.
Further, its adoption must entail collaboration between both institutions, Parliament and the Council.
My group is willing to do that.
But we are very keen to do absolutely everything possible to reach a solution this week and to adopt a statute this week.
If we do not manage it, if we do not get a statute this week or in the very near future, I wish all Members of the House good luck as they confront a public opinion which will justifiably wonder whether there is anyone at all in the European Parliament who has the slightest sense of responsibility.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Italy we have a saying that the hunter should beware lest he himself ends up the hunted.
I hope that we do not accept it; I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that although we all want a statute, we reiterate tomorrow what we said on 3 December.
I do not see why what was acceptable on 3 December, when some of those principles were affirmed, should not be voted for tomorrow.
A common statute turns us into the EU's representatives in the Member States instead of the countries' representatives in the EU.
Mr President, Mr Rothley's report rightly points to a number of shortcomings, imperfections and even errors in the draft Statute for Members of the European Parliament which the Council of Ministers has put before us.
More to the point, it is precisely because Parliament has never succeeded in putting its own house in order that we were firstly, and rightly, held to account by public opinion and secondly, equally rightly, that we are being treated like children by the Council of Ministers.
It is totally inappropriate to invoke the subsidiarity principle in this report for our own ends, when we never apply that same subsidiarity principle when the interests of the people in our Member States are at stake.
I would add that I am against the Europeanisation of our mandate, because I am in this Chamber to represent Flanders and not some kind of European superstate, because I am opposed to the tax advantages inherent in that Euro-statute, and I therefore remain in favour of a national tax regime which taxes us in exactly the same way as our voters.
Mr President, there are four basic reasons why the text as adjusted by the Council is not acceptable, in my view.
In the first place, it seriously prejudices and curtails Parliament's autonomy, just when the Treaty of Amsterdam accords us prime responsibility - albeit within the framework of an appropriate interinstitutional agreement in which the Commission and the Council participate in full - for drawing up our Members' Statute, along with clear rules governing their material conditions of work.
I therefore agree with the position taken by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights that the discussion should be continued in a constructive way and a text rapidly established which is satisfactory to all.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what the Council has presented us with in the last week is in my view a double distortion of the content of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The other 14 pages are different.
Moreover, many of the provisions in the Council draft are impractical and unusable.
The text presented here by the Liberals as an amendment is in my view already inadmissible because it changes the whole text and therefore contravenes Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure.
But the European tax of up to 40 % does not allow the offsetting of items such as relief on mortgage interest.
It is simply not fulfilling its Treaty obligations and is ignoring the decision approved by Parliament on 3 December 1998 by an overwhelming majority.
So let us continue along the right path that has been outlined for us by our rapporteur Willy Rothley, a path which Parliament has already agreed on.
Today there are MEPs who are earning four times more or four times less.
Even our European Parliament text contained inequalities, because we worked out a transitional arrangement for the salary for a parliamentary term, and we worked out the same thing for the supplementary pension.
Mr President, I believe that we must insist today that there has to be a common statute for MEPs, and that this issue must be addressed this week.
We need to have talks with the Council, and I agree that these talks will be worthwhile in order to achieve results and settle a few fairly minor details that are seen as problematic.
As you are aware, we have participated in the relevant procedures agreed at the Vienna European Council last December.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
As parliamentarians we are particularly aware that political subject matter is only as good as the scope for communicating it through the process of public debate.
So we will have to ensure that the new powers conferred on us by the Treaty of Amsterdam a few days ago are underpinned by our collective credibility.
In the expectation that a decision to this effect will be taken this year, the Budgets Committee has therefore included an amount of EUR 60 million in the reserve and has created a staff reserve to cover the additional administrative requirements expected.
This means we can finally dispense with special pots of money such as the two special pension funds for Members, which have repeatedly been the subject of public criticism of Parliament.
The target of not spending more than 20 % of the entire administrative expenditure category for the Parliament is one which we ourselves have observed for years, and the Budgets Committee believes, as do I, that this target must definitely be respected.
At the same time, improvements in Parliament's administrative efficiency are both necessary and achievable.
For the coming budget year, this means that the decision taken to completely clear the promotion backlog will lead to upgradings for 26.5 % of staff with scope for promotion.
Furthermore, this system will help to put a stop to the practice of party-political or nationally motivated promotions through several grades at a time.
A problem that I have come across in relation to ad personam promotions is that I as rapporteur am supposed to approve individual promotions which I assume are justified, but for which I cannot really take responsibility.
And one last point: I am firmly convinced - and I have to say that my views have moved on in this respect - that we need more efficient simultaneous self-regulation by the House itself, particularly in relation to the Bureau.
Our group wants a Members' statute and an assistants' statute.
Having said that, we could actually take two courses of action which would help us considerably and would be a sign of good faith to the Council to show that we are serious.
There is nothing to stop this Parliament as from 20 July having assistants paid directly by Parliament, rather than being paid by the Members.
On the other proposal which the Council has been asking for, namely the audits of our general office allowances, there is no reason why on 20 July, if we do not have an agreement on the Members' Statute we should not say there will be an annual audit of the general office allowance which must be submitted to Parliament, carried out by bona fide auditors and must be submitted to Parliament for Members to receive their annual allowance.
National parliaments do not work in three places of work.
If we did that we would save a considerable amount of money.
Madam President, I should like to thank Edith Müller who, despite the low turnout, personally presented her report.
The problem is simply a lack of resources.
Now that the new interinstitutional agreement has been reached, financial resources are quite limited, but nevertheless the number of staff working in this institution should be increased.
This will be the first year of the new millennium, and a new Parliament will of course have to implement this budget.
If we do not accept the interinstitutional agreement this Thursday, that is if we cannot summon up 314 votes for it, then the additional EUR 155 million provided for Category 5 will not be available.
That would mean that the additional 20 % which would in turn be available to the European Parliament from the EUR 155 million would not after all be available.
As a consequence, with continuing expenditure we would exceed the 20 % ceiling.
The decision we have taken in committee and recommended to Parliament involves promoting around 20 % of all staff with scope for promotion.
I would like to make one final and very personal comment.
I would therefore recommend that the new Parliament should return to this subject, as things have been at a standstill for two years now while we have been dealing with other issues, but we must come back to this point if our assistants are to work well.
Considering that the European Parliament aspires to purge the European Union of abuses as a responsible wielder of budgetary power, I personally have problems with the fact that the European Parliament is promoting 490 of its officials in the year 2000.
I myself know that over the period 1995-1996, when I worked here in Parliament, the practice and bases for promotion were not always fair.
Our role in the European Parliament is to keep to a tight budget for ourselves as well.
I hope that Mr Priestley will find a way to keep MEPs informed about progress made in positive administrative reforms.
The payment rates will, however, grow substantially due to the backlog, in particular for structural funds but also for research and external relations.
For agriculture, if the interinstitutional agreement is accepted, it means that the new budget structure makes it possible to distinguish clearly between, on the one hand, the traditional market expenditure on income support which will be obligatory and, on the other hand, the new rural development expenditure which would be non-obligatory expenditure.
We must say today that, on the basis of the current estimates, the ceiling on market expenditure adopted in Berlin provides a new and immediately effective element of budget discipline.
With regard to structural expenditure, BDP for the year 2000 is based on the decisions of Berlin.
At first glance the budget appears to indicate a radical reduction - 16 % - in commitments from 1999.
But the fact is that rebudgeting in 1999 and the transfer of rural structural expenditure to Category I distorts the picture.
All things considered, the reduction of structural commitments is more modest, closer to 6 %.
The margin for manoeuvre for internal policies is more limited than Agenda 2000 had hoped for but if the interinstitutional agreement is accepted, it will provide a welcome extra breathing space.
The Commission has proposed continuing the efforts of recent years to focus the internal policies on growth and employment-related expenditure, in particular research and technical development, trans-European networks, education and training, and on the small- and medium-sized enterprises, which has been a parliamentary initiative.
The budget proposal for 2000 has been prepared in full application of the 1998 agreement on the legal bases.
It distinguishes autonomous pilot and preparatory actions and thus provides a reliable base for the decisions of the budgetary authority and for uncontested execution of the 2000 budget.
We must note that the situation in the Balkans may require a substantial addition of financial resources from the Community budget.
The institutions have already, for that reason, agreed to review the situation in the light of developments.
Finally, administrative expenditure, which was discussed for Parliament a while ago: given the growth in pension expenditure the ceiling set in Berlin is just about sufficient to finance the status quo in terms of personnel.
The preliminary draft budget therefore had to postpone the question of possible new staff and its pre-allocation until the margins which will possibly become available under the new institutional agreement have become clear and until the new Commission has had a chance to define its requirements.
The question of staff policy will be a key question in the autumn.
But still, let us not forget that human resources will always be scarce and measures of redeployment, retraining and flexibility will lose none of their importance for the future.
Further work is required by Parliament, particularly as it debates and votes on Agenda 2000, and by the next Commission and Parliament to complete the Community budget for the year 2000.
But today's BDP already gives the first hint that the new financial framework will work for the Union, that a balance has been found between the rigour prevailing throughout Europe and the financial requirements for the key policies of the Union.
But very much depends on decisions this week.
The reduction in commitments, which you mentioned, seems to us to make sense and we are not worried by that.
The debate is closed.
Charging of heavy goods vehicles The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0245/99), on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the common position adopted by the Council (13651/3/98 - C4-0037/99-96/0182(COD)) with a view to adopting a Council Directive on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures (Rapporteur: Mr Jarzembowski).
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I beg for your attention on certain legal and factual issues.
Mr Secretary-General, I would be grateful if you just stay here for a minute, because this is important.
Madam President, I believe that a vote tomorrow on my report would be erroneous in law, illegal and impossible.
I would like to give my reasons for this statement and to call on Parliament and the Bureau to use their authority to postpone tomorrow's vote on my report.
This morning we quite rightly resumed the procedure during first reading and we repeated Parliament's position from the previous first reading.
The committee services have now published a report numbered A-0000, which is a corrected version of my report A-0245, which is on the agenda.
Secondly, in the procedural page of a report that I have never signed, it says that today, during the sitting on 4 May, the President of the European Parliament has confirmed the common position and has referred the common position to the Committee on Transport and Tourism as the committee responsible.
So I do not know how it is possible to complete the second reading of a report in the Committee on Transport in a procedurally correct manner, if this report is to be voted on tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
I attach particularly great importance to this because we are looking at a report on road user charges, and the European Court of Justice declared the first directive to be void because of a legal error, namely inadequate consultation of Parliament, and declared that it would only remain in effect until the renewed decision-making process had been completed.
In my second reading report, we simply reiterated the reservations we had at the first reading.
I have never understood the Socialists, who are calling for a great hike in road user charges in principle, but whose demands fall short of the level Parliament judged to be correct by a large majority in 1997, which was higher than the Council has proposed now.
So I hope that we can still achieve a reasonable form of consultation at second reading.
The central issue is that in recent years transport policy proposals have been blocked, for two reasons.
The second reason was that Switzerland opted for a solution which although it might be understandable from its own point of view, was not a solution that sat well alongside European integration.
But he has also got a good political head on his shoulders, thank goodness, because we need Commissioners who can think in political terms, whilst respecting the law, and who want to make progress.
Commissioner Kinnock has achieved progress, and on behalf of my group I would particularly like to thank him on the occasion of this last transport policy debate.
He has some splendid achievements to his credit in recent years, in this field as well as in others, and that should not go unrecorded.
Even this proposal can be improved.
As Mr Jarzembowski reminded us, it is nearly four years since the European Court annulled the first and only directive on road charging.
This new piece of legislation is both necessary and significant.
It will fulfil the Community's legal obligation to adopt a new directive to replace the annulled directive and, most important as far as I am concerned, it is a vital step towards a common framework for differentiated charging systems in the whole of the European Union.
Honourable Members may take some satisfaction from the fact that, whilst it differs in a number of points from the Commission's original proposal, the directive, as it turns out, is closer to the opinion of Parliament in several respects.
The Commission feels that this directive as it now exists represents a useful first move towards fair and efficient pricing in road truck haulage, and we welcome the willingness of Parliament and the Council to make that advance while, at the same time, we continue to emphasise the need for further work on quantifying external costs for all modes.
Meanwhile, as the House will know, the main features of the common position reached on the current directive are the setting of minimum vehicle tax rates at the levels of the existing directive and without differentiation according to Euroclass, the maintenance of certain transitional measures on vehicle taxes, the establishment of maximum rates of user charges with a differentiated structure as proposed by the Council, the provision for an enabling power so that toll rates can be differentiated according to the emission class of the vehicle and the time of day when the road is used, provision for Austria to apply an infrastructure cost-related toll on the motorway section between Kufstein and Brenner, and provision for a 50 % reduction in user charges for vehicles registered in Greece.
As the House will know, the Commission proposed Article 75 as the legal base for this measure since we maintain that it is appropriate for developing the common transport policy even when legislation contains some elements relating to fiscal provisions.
The Council disagreed and it added Article 99 of the Treaty as a legal base as a result of ministers' view that the provisions on annual vehicle taxes in Chapter 2 make it a substantial fiscal measure.
It maintains progress in the common transport policy and it is consistent with the purposes pursued by at least the substantial majority in this House over several years.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my dear Neil, it is a great honour for me, as we reach the conclusion of the transport debates over recent years, once again to express my group's appreciation for the excellent cooperation we have achieved.
The debate is closed.
The vote is scheduled for tomorrow.
If I worked in financial services, I might now scratch my head and wonder if it might not have been better then to lobby in a different direction.
I would acknowledge that the proposal now before us contains a number of provisions which take particular account of the specific nature of financial services.
If the provider has to hold a price for 14 days, that means unacceptably high financial risks which are certainly not in the consumer's interest either.
A number of amendments have been tabled, and overall my view as rapporteur is that Amendment No 47, tabled by my group, is actually the best one.
The right of withdrawal, Article 4 of the Commission proposal, is subject to a number of very complicated conditions.
The period of 14 days which I see the PPE Group is suggesting seems to me to get the balance right.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I should first of all like to point to the numerous advantages which the distance marketing of financial services can offer.
Using the Internet, the provider can offer his services to clients across national borders without extra cost, and the consumer, without moving from his chair, can compare the services of different providers in both his own country and in others.
In the great debate that occupies us tonight between minimum and maximum harmonisation, those who are arguing, as the Environment Committee did, for minimum harmonisation, are doing so not because they wish to stall the proceedings of the Internet but because they do not want to see in individual Member States consumer protection significantly diminished, as it might be, by the levels of information provided in the directive as it stands.
It seems to me, therefore, that the onus is on those who wish to see maximum harmonisation to put this case not merely in terms of what is good for the market and the single market but in terms of how the levels of information and protection can be raised in the subsequent stages of discussion of this proposed directive before it comes back for second reading.
I have to say that to my own Member State government and to others who have taken that view.
We believe that consumer protection is critical.
It is not some ancillary add-on element in this.
Having listened to those who sell car insurance over the telephone, Amendment No 38 takes into account the fact that such a transaction must take place before the formal exchange of the durable contract.
They may, in translation, be a rather more solid profession than lawyers are in my country.
This report is an important one, since it reinforces the internal market in financial services.
The extra costs which this directive may create, if it becomes too complex and bureaucratic, will in the end always be imposed on the consumer.
I support the main thrust of this directive as we must strike a balance between promoting commercial enterprise and protecting European consumers at all times.
This is something which the European Central Bank, in cooperation with the central bank in each Member State, should urgently examine.
The main provisions of this directive include the following: the consumer will have a 14-day period before concluding a contract which will give that person time to compare various proposals and study the contract in detail before giving a final agreement; the consumer will have a 14-day withdrawal period, 30 days for mortgage loans, life insurance and pensions, to renounce the contract without penalties and without giving reasons.
This right may be exercised in only two cases: if the contract was signed before the consumer knew the contractual terms and conditions and if he was subject to unfair pressure during the reflection period.
An amendment has been tabled calling for the directive to be transposed into national law by 13 June 2001, instead of the Commission's own proposal of 2002.
I support this as a policy objective because one of the criticisms of European legislation in general is that it is just not implemented in time.
Greater effort must be made by the European Commission, Parliament and the Council to implement European Union directives and regulations in as streamlined a manner as possible.
The maximum harmonisation presented initially by the rapporteur is not consistent with previous legislative proposals of the European Union.
Directive 97/1 on general distance selling opts for minimum harmonisation.
Directive 97/1 does not deal with the selling of financial services, but with distance selling.
I shall firstly refer to Amendment No 21 to Article 3.
Therefore, given that here the form is ad substantiam , it is not possible to talk in terms of mortgages, contracts or even credit.
It states that in order for consumers to play their new role in Community policies to the full, they must understand the interdependency of their interests and other interests that also need to be protected.
This is very positive, because we have come a long way and, as you will all remember, not everybody was convinced that there was a need for a directive on financial services.
The people who are concerned with the consumers' interests will remember the distance selling debate in this House and whatever divisions still exist - and there is still time and room to find some convergence - we have made good progress in establishing some basic rights for consumers.
There are amendments which introduce an approach of limited harmonisation of the provision introduced by this directive, leaving Member States scope for maintaining or introducing more stringent provisions.
So there are amendments which call for minimum harmonisation.
The Commission has proposed that the provisions of the directive should be fully harmonised.
This is set out clearly in recital 9 so, from this point of view, Amendment No 57 can be considered superfluous but, nevertheless, it reiterates the point.
But our proposal seems to us to be to the benefit of both business and consumers because both parties would know which rules apply and both parties can be confident that the same marketing rules apply, no matter where the services come from.
That is a very important point for confidence-building, which can be profitable for both consumers and business.
One is information in advance and the other the general right of withdrawal.
As far as information in advance is concerned, the amendments concern information to consumers in advance of concluding a contract and the amendments reject the concept of a right of reflection based on a draft contract as introduced by the proposal for a directive.
The Commission can accept the principle established in Amendment No 21 of providing to the consumers in advance of the conclusion of a contract additional or summarising information as a cover of the full contractual terms and conditions.
However, this principle must take into account the interaction between this horizontal directive and the vertical directives on financial services that include provision of information.
In particular, we must stress that the principle of information in advance must be applied so that information offered provides added value to the information provision already foreseen in the vertical directives.
Secondly it must avoid overlaps with the existing information provision and, finally, it must be clear beyond doubt which provisions apply or prevail in case of similarities between provisions in this directive and provisions in the vertical directive.
So Amendment No 61, which introduces a right to waive the right to obtain information in advance means the Commission, must reject Article 11 as it establishes that consumers may not waive the rights conferred on them by the directive.
Finally, on the general right of withdrawal.
If we reject the right of reflection, that leads naturally to putting the emphasis on a general right of withdrawal as provided for in these amendments.
The guiding principle of this amendment is to align this proposal with the rules of the general directive.
I just wish to mention two questions which remain open at this stage: the duration as well as the scope and extent of any exemption.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
In line with the compromise achieved, the deadline for transposition of the directive into national law is now to be 1 January 2002 at the latest, rather than in three year's time.
The guarantee directive will be included in the list of actions for restraint to protect the interest of the consumers, and in order to make purchases within the internal market simpler for the consumer, a recommendation will be made to manufacturers whose goods are sold in several Member States that they should provide consumers with a list including at least one contact address in each country where the goods are marketed.
If a repair or a replacement product are out of the question as a remedy, the purchaser still has the option of an appropriate price reduction or the termination of the contract.
The directive provides for clear conditions, which is also important for commercial guarantees, that is to say guarantees voluntarily provided by manufacturers or sellers.
In order to ensure that consumers are not misled, guarantees must contain precise and transparent information, including a statement that a given guarantee does not affect the statutory rights of the consumer.
Unfortunately, I believe that the directive has at least one weak point.
Even if only one Member State were to introduce this time limit, this would run counter to the philosophy of the directive, which is to achieve minimum harmonisation.
Nevertheless, as we stand at the end of the end of this Parliament's legislative term, we have once again succeeded in giving Europe's citizens more rights as consumers, and I would like to thank all the Members of Parliament, the Commission and the Council for achieving this.
This has been a significant success for Parliament and also for both the Commission and the Member States in Council.
I wish I could say that these procedures always go so swiftly but in this case we have a model where many of the reservations that were stated at the outset, many of the fears of commercial interests, many of the fears of parliamentarians, were set at rest by the way in which these procedures went.
As a result we now have a situation in which there is adequate protection for the consumer both when dealing with the issue of goods that may turn out to be faulty even if those are in part manufactured by the consumers themselves.
You can show that although second-hand goods are, by definition, different from those that are purchased new, a different period of reflection and remedy suffices.
I wish we had more like here and I wish those outside knew the work that really goes on in the interstices of this Parliament.
It is as well to remember that in June 1996 the Commission submitted a proposal for a directive of guarantees for consumer goods and after-sales services.
The simple aim of the proposal is to ensure that wherever consumers shop in the European Union, they will enjoy minium levels of guarantees and will be able to seek redress in their home countries.
It will be recommended to the producers of consumer goods to attach to their product a list giving at least one contact address in every Member State where the product is marketed.
There is also a strong recommendation to provide consumers with manufacturers' contact addresses where goods are sold in several Member States.
In conclusion, the four-year consumer protection programme for 1999-2003 is worth over £91m and if requests are made for further increases in this budget, I am confident that Parliament would support such recommendations in the future.
Mr President, I do not take the floor to repeat the content of this piece of legislation but to commend the good work of Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
If we look at the timing I am particularly pleased that I am speaking on the final point of this directive at the last part-session of our Parliament - which for me is also the last session, at least on consumer matters.
The Commission introduced this piece of legislation in June 1996.
However, at the end of the day we managed to come forward with a good piece of legislation which will produce better protection for consumers.
In fact, in the three years we have been able to work together in such a way that finally this directive is approved.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
Last week our group met in Madeira where we had the opportunity to visit several isolated communities.
We believe that we must continue to defend the European Parliament's policy regarding these committees.
The Committee on the Environment has accepted the amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgets on cooperation with the countries participating in the PHARE, TACIS and MEDA programmes, that is, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean, although as rapporteur I had my doubts.
We are not against such cooperation, but we are concerned that a small budget of EUR 2 million also has to cover cooperation projects with these countries.
Nonetheless, these amendments by the Committee on Budgets were approved by the Committee on the Environment and I must defend them here.
The Committee on Budgets is also concerned that 25 % of the cost of this programme is taken up by administrative expenditure.
As you know, and as has also been mentioned, the purpose of this proposal is to ensure the continuation of the current action programme in the field of civil protection, which is based on the Council Decision of 1998 which expires on 31 December 1999.
I also think that this programme, which is aimed at supporting and supplementing the efforts of the Member States in the area of civil protection, is an important one, and it is important to make it as effective as possible.
These are Amendments Nos 6, 7, 8, 12, 13, 16, 17, 20, 21 and 24.
I recognise that some of them attempt to improve cooperation with countries participating in the PHARE, TACIS and MEDA programmes.
That is of course an objective which commands a great deal of sympathy, but where civil protection is concerned, such cooperation is organised outside our action programme.
I would also like to draw attention to the second part of Amendment No 20, because there it says that, if isolated regions are involved, the maximum financial contribution for pilot projects should be up to 100 %, instead of the 50 % proposed by the Commission.
In my department, we are currently in the process of examining this question, and it is of course important to ensure that these administrative costs are kept to a minimum when the programme is implemented.
Finally, I hope that through its cooperation, Parliament will help to ensure that the proposal now before the House is adopted quickly, so as to ensure continuity between the Community's current action programme and the proposed programme, which is due to enter into force on 1 January 2000.
The debate is closed.
So this proposal for a directive on action to be taken against pollutants from engines for tractors follows the lines of the 1997 directive on emissions from engines in off-road mobile machinery.
It seeks to offer a compromise between having uniform requirements on the one hand and facilitating European Union access to world markets by aligning European Union industrial specifications to the broader requirements set out in the 1995 United Nations Regulation of the Economic Committee for Europe.
I would ask you to support this report.
I should like to thank the members of the Environment Committee for the support they have already given to my report in committee.
The Environment Committee has made its presence felt in the increasingly important area of environmental legislation and I know we will continue to do so.
I hope my report on pollution by agricultural and forestry tractors, with Parliament's support, will make a further positive contribution to a cleaner and safer environment.
Nor does it make sense any more, as the present Commission proposal very precisely adopts both Stage 1 and Stage 2 of Directive 97/68 on emissions from the engines of mobile machinery and equipment.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
For us to be able to define a food as intended for a particular nutritional use, it should fulfil particular nutritional needs for certain categories of persons who cannot eat ordinary food, either because there is something wrong with their digestion or metabolism, or because in a particular physiological condition they can derive particular benefit from the controlled intake of certain substances in their food.
The long conciliation procedure we have been through has had a decisive influence on the fact that the maximum level for pesticides in baby food has been set at 0.01 mg/kg, which means in practice pesticide-free baby food, because it is not possible to measure any lower levels.
I am very satisfied with the outcome of the conciliation procedure - as is my group - since this principle was adopted in the course of the conciliation procedure, obviously not as part of the conciliation procedure, but politically as part of the negotiations.
We can now only hope that the manufacturers of baby foods in the EU make the necessary adjustments quickly, since it is clear that baby foods must be free of all poisonous substances.
We have not managed to do this now because we have two more, but at least we have achieved a certain degree of clarification.
But I do not believe that it would be right to reject the outcome of conciliation on this issue or on account of this issue.
On the question of pesticide residues in baby foods, the Commission has taken a very clear position which corresponds exactly to the one we eventually adopted on this.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
It is quite well known now that the Amsterdam Treaty extends the codecision procedure from some 15 articles to 38 articles under the Treaty, so that most non-agricultural legislation will be subject to codecision.
The Treaty of Amsterdam also changes the procedure itself, and that is less well known, to provide for absolute equality between Parliament and the Council throughout the procedure.
I had the privilege of working with you in those days on that.
The first drafts were made of a possible future codecision procedure, always envisaging equality between Parliament and the Council.
It must be acceptable to a majority of the elected governments sitting in the Council and a majority of the directly elected MEPs in Parliament.
After all, in Parliament you have not just government ministers coming from their national capitals but also elected representatives from all the regions of all the Member States, from governing and opposition parties in their full diversity and plurality.
Imagine for one moment the European system without the European Parliament.
Recognising that now by giving Parliament equal status with the Council in the codecision procedure, is a tremendous step forward for the European Union.
The changes which were made to the old procedure are threefold: the elimination of the so-called negative version of the third reading, whereby if there was no agreement in conciliation the Council could go ahead and adopt its own text and challenge Parliament to reject that by an absolute majority within six weeks.
Nonetheless, it was an unhealthy part of the procedure.
Simple rejection by Parliament when we are opposed to a text instead of a two-phased rejection is now possible under the Amsterdam Treaty - simpler, easier and puts Parliament in a stronger position.
These changes, as I said, put us in a position of equality but they also necessitated a revision of the 1993 agreement on the operation of the procedure.
It is a good text: practical and flexible.
Let us not forget that most codecisions result in agreement without needing the Conciliation Committee, so it is very important that has been brought into the text.
It recognises the practice that the negotiations do not take place 15 plus 15 but in a smaller group: the committee chair and rapporteur with the Council President and the Commission, then reporting back to the full Conciliation Committee.
It allows for first-reading agreements and it tries to draw the Council into a dialogue with us in the first reading, as we have recently done in our new Rules of Procedure as well to encourage that sort of dialogue at an early stage.
All this recognises the equality of the two institutions and, as I said earlier, sets up this new era where we are two parts of a bicameral legislative authority at European level.
Moreover, it should be mentioned that our Member States still consider it unreasonable to subject agricultural policy to a decision by Parliament, particularly in the area of the budget, and our power of codecision is still very much underdeveloped when it comes to amending the Treaty.
We want a strong European Union with a strong Commission and Parliament, since this is what guarantees a democratic European Union.
First, they offer the institutions the opportunity to conclude any legislative codecision procedure at first reading, as provided for in the Treaty, provided they have reached an agreement, as is only logical.
It is precisely during this first stage that the institutions can fully exercise their powers.
Second, the Commission participates fully throughout the procedure and, in particular, can play an important role as mediator during the conciliation phase.
In my view, its responsibility in this area should be enhanced in the future.
And lastly, I believe that the key to success in developing the legislative procedure lies in close and flexible interinstitutional cooperation.
Moreover, with the application of the new Treaty, this agreement marks the end of what could be termed a test or trial period for the codecision procedure and Parliament's role as a co-legislator.
The success of the codecision procedure in the first years of its application was a clear signal to the last Intergovernmental Conference that it should be extended to cover almost all the main legislative activities.
I think we should be pleased in this respect because democracy has, in fact, been strengthened as a result.
As regards the codecision procedure in the Amsterdam Treaty, we should firstly look at the possibility of concluding the legislative procedure at first reading in a positive light.
Sometimes the European Parliament works even faster.
This confirms the European Parliament's responsibility and prevents totally futile disputes between the two institutions.
In this way, we also wanted to put an end to the lack of confidence surrounding the European Parliament's decision-making abilities, which centred mainly on bureaucracy.
Finally, the end of small-scale conciliation is absolutely vital to the process of simplification.
Similarly, the possibility of inviting the European Parliament to hold a debate before finally rejecting a proposal is no longer essential given that the political debate among the political groups and the institutions can begin at first reading.
What is vital in my view is to accept the Commission's proposal that states that no legislative act can be adopted in the Community without the European Parliament's approval.
At the same time, the political debate is being stepped up and this should increase the public's confidence in the institutions, which is essential at this moment in time.
Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I would ask you to agree to this declaration.
On behalf of the House I should like to place on record my thanks to you for the work you have done both as a Member of this House and as Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
