Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 3 December 1998.
Mr President, I want to speak on pages 6 and 7 of the Minutes.
So I imagine it was a mistake that Recital g), which received 270 votes, was declared adopted, and likewise Amendment No 84 to the Annex, with 264 votes, Article 1(1) of the Annex, with 251 votes for the first part and 212 for the second, Article 2 of the Annex, with 279 votes for the first part and 288 for the second, Article 8(1) of the Annex, with 311 votes, and, finally, Article 5 of the Annex, with 297 votes.
These provisions appear in the Draft Statute which was adopted.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, you will remember that you raised this question when the text came to be approved in the form in which its various parts had been adopted.
I also told you that I would refer the matter to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
You wrote me a letter which I shall forward to the Rules Committee in order to have a definitive interpretation.
For the moment, these parts of the text are deemed to have been adopted in accordance with my interpretation of the vote at the time, right or wrong.
The text has been forwarded to the Council, which moreover has just taken note of it at the European Council meeting in Vienna.
Thank you very much, Mrs van Putten.
However, a report on fisheries is slotted in between one of the Economic Committee reports and my own, which is then followed by another report on fisheries.
In terms of time management for both Members and Commissioners, this does not make much sense.
As this concerns the second reading, I would like my report to be taken before the Souchet report.
I would gladly do that, Mrs Lulling, but you know that amendments to the agenda must be proposed by a political group or 29 Members one hour before the opening of the sitting.
The Committee on Budgetary Control considered the report the other day and the essential paragraph, which grants discharge, was passed by 14 votes to 13, when there had already been a vote on this issue.
The same applies to Article 5, for example, and to several others in the decision.
If the members of the Committee on Budgetary Control, especially the rapporteur, had known that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure was taking this position, I doubt if the proposal put to the Committee on Budgetary Control would have been worded in the same way.
The proposal actually left the Committee on Budgetary Control free to decide whether to grant or refuse discharge.
Mr President, I must admit that events in the last few days have been totally unpredictable so far as the 1996 discharge report is concerned.
You will receive a letter from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure explaining its viewpoint.
However, I should also like to say that as I have understood it, the Treaty ought nevertheless to take precedence.
It will be explained to you how far these matters are or are not compatible.
I do not want to talk about discharge or refusal of discharge at the present time, even though Lord Tomlinson dwelled on this matter.
My question to the President is about when the members of the Committee on Budgetary Control will have the opportunity to reflect upon the findings of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
A certain insecurity did of course prevail when we pronounced our opinion.
Mrs Müller, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure will put forward an interpretation, which is what the Committee on Budgetary Control requested.
I would ask that in future we should be provided with the documents or reports we need before we are asked to decide on anything.
Mr Martens, we did not vote on the decision by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but on a request for referral back to committee, which is something quite different.
The Rules Committee will give its interpretation, which will be announced to the House.
Whether the announcement is made this evening or at 9 a.m.
The Conference of Presidents is not competent in this area.
I think we have spent enough time on this point and everything has been decided.
I think that everything is settled, but it is no bad thing for Members to be able to express their views on such an important issue.
If neither the Treaty nor the Rules of Procedure are clear about how we are to proceed, then it is your duty to resolve the matter in good time, before the Committee on Budgetary Control meets and not after.
The Committee on the Rules of Procedure met as soon as it could.
Mr President, I will be brief because this is a very simple matter.
The two reports are very closely linked because one deals with the procedure and the other with the substance, so it would be absurd to have two separate debates on two reports given that the connection between them is so obvious.
Mr President, I support what Mr Cot has said.
If we debate that in two and a half minutes, it means that Parliament is gaining ECU 60m a minute during this debate for capital purchases towards our buildings.
The resolution adopted by the Committee on Budgets is explicit that the Council has included this sum of ECU 150m for the buildings of Parliament so that we will be able to continue the policy of purchasing its buildings where the conditions are appropriate.
This policy has been so successful that perhaps Members of Parliament do not know that we already own what was known as the D1 and the D2 parts of our Brussels building and a substantial part of D3.
If we continue with the process of ramassage , we will be able to do the same not only here in Strasbourg with the IPE IV building but also for some of Parliament's buildings in Luxembourg.
As rapporteur, I believe I can say that yes, this is a good result from the point of view of Parliament.
A further point which was very important for us, although it may not have met with much of a response in the public discussion, is that we are living in a time of rapid change and great flexibility.
A third point that we were very concerned about was that small and medium-sized enterprises are taken into consideration in the framework research programme.
I now come to a very pleasant part of my statement, which is to thank the Commission for its constant cooperation and our very fruitful discussions.
I can only say that this solidarity should form a precedent in this House where all of us - the elected representatives of the citizens - are involved.
Once again, we were aware of the fact that the Council had already reached broad agreement on these specific programmes.
As rapporteur I am happy, and I shall be looking forward to a unanimous vote tomorrow in favour of the result of the conciliation. (Applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by heartily congratulating the rapporteur on the result achieved in the conciliation procedure.
The fifth framework programme for research is the first small step in the right direction.
Nevertheless, I think it is highly regrettable that no serious approach to this forward-looking policy can be discerned in the proposal for Agenda 2000.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we had already introduced a multitude of amendments for the Committee on Transport and Tourism at first reading.
We noted once again during this latest conciliation on the fifth framework programme that the various delegations, speaking on behalf of their respective countries, stressed how arduous it had been to arrive at the common position, regarding that in itself as an extremely difficult compromise to achieve, almost as if Parliament should then simply decide whether to take it or leave it, rather than embarking on fresh negotiations to reach a further compromise.
In order to have social innovation you must have research, research in high-tech areas such as biotechnology, research applied to industry and also research in the social and economic areas.
The fifth RTD framework programme has acquired coherence throughout the debate with its three readings and long conciliation process and is now presented to us as a balanced programme deserving of broad support.
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their cooperation, and my group wholeheartedly supports the results we have achieved.
Starting with the substance of the programme, my group is delighted that the Council even at first reading agreed with Parliament's proposal that we should choose four research areas for the next four years.
The ECU 14 billion that the Council originally proposed was not even as much as the budget for the fourth framework programme.
The policy pursued by a number of Member States is designed to reduce their contribution to the European Union.
But sitting up until all hours of the morning on three occasions haggling over ECU 40 million spread over four years is really going a little too far.
The principle of a mid-term review ensures that developments in the financial perspective are taken into account, along with progress made in science and technology.
Parliament also won the day on five important points: maintaining a 10 % rate for financing research by small and medium-sized enterprises, research concerning biological and chemical disarmament, no funding of cloning for purposes of human reproduction, taking account of research into ageing and disability and, finally, the establishment of a René Descartes Prize for talented and promising researchers.
I want to highlight two areas in the fifth framework programme which will have direct consequences on daily life in Europe.
Similarly, I think it is essential to pursue and extend research into the safety of nuclear fission, with a view to perfecting ever safer reactors, such as the EPR, in collaboration with several European countries, but also with a view to better management of the end of the nuclear fuel cycle.
We must continue research into high-temperature reactors in industrial enterprises and research must be done on experimental modules for hybrid reactors; the necessary technologies need to be validated.
In conclusion, under these conditions the fifth framework programme for research and development will make it possible to identify the skills of European researchers and laboratories as well as to look for complementarity between them right across the European Union.
It will take us from a Europe of researchers to a Europe of research.
I have to say that the devil is in the detail and I want to make some comments on the secrecy and lack of transparency of the Euratom research programme in particular.
There is a similar lack of openness in the so-called independent review of submitted projects to this programme in Euratom.
The increase of EUR 1.7 billion in the fifth framework research programme compared to its predecessor, which was obtained by Parliament, seems at first sight to be a considerable amount.
However, what must be understood is that it is only about 4 % more than the increase to allow for inflation in relation to the previous programme.
That is regrettable and in this regard the fifth framework research programme will be a compromise, many sections of which can only be accepted by Parliament because otherwise the continuity which we have now achieved in European research funding would be jeopardised, and this would be painful for all involved.
Ultimately there was nothing else for it, because this programme in principle suffers from a congenital defect, as has been said repeatedly, namely that Parliament decides in accordance with democratic rules by a majority vote while Council decides unanimously.
This becomes even more important as more countries participate in the fifth framework research programme.
That means that if management is not streamlined - of course after taking on board the rules arising from the financial and budgetary checks - then we will be dealing with a more complicated system than in the past.
We do not just want to search, we also want to find.
However, I would like to mention a report that I read a short while ago in Le Monde , in which the Americans referred to the existence of new problems in the field of atomic, biological and chemical weapons, or weapons of mass destruction.
I think that the conclusion of the conciliation procedure for the fifth framework research programme lays a very important foundation stone for tackling employment issues in Europe in a different and more forward-looking manner than has perhaps been the case for a long time.
In our discussion on the fifth framework research programme in particular, we should be considering the mid-term evaluation and orientation of the programme to be at least as important as a final point which I should like to turn to now.
I very much hope that this bulldozing behaviour will not be typical of the Council in future.
We are concerned with the integration of research into European policy to create more employment and thus of course with the matter of how research fits into the social context.
The final agreement which is to be ratified by you tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, and by the Council on 22 December, is a compromise like all agreements, and I would like to make four points concerning it.
However, I would stress that the budget for the fifth framework programme will be 4.6 % higher in real terms than that for the fourth framework programme.
Thirdly, thanks to the Austrian Presidency's spirit of openness, Parliament has broadly succeeded in having its views on the fifth framework programme taken into account in the final decision.
The key actions will introduce a new approach to research.
Through the external advisory group just established by the Commission, the programmes will be implemented in close association with the scientific community, industry and users of the research.
They will be managed in a more flexible and effective way.
So the combined efforts of the three institutions have succeeded in endowing the Union with a powerful instrument to exploit its scientific potential and industrial resources in the service of Europeans.
This new framework programme can be implemented in the spirit which presided over its conception.
So I will conclude by thanking Parliament in advance for its contribution to this great enterprise.
The debate is closed.
There is going to be an increase in funding compared to the fourth framework programme, in fact a considerable increase of 42 %.
European life sciences and technologies have already had successes over the last few years.
Most significantly, the number of employees and firms in the EU has risen considerably in 1996 and 1997, by over 40 %.
Mr President, I wish to speak on the second thematic programme, the one concerning a user-friendly information society or IST, information society technologies.
Following the conciliation procedure, this programme has been allocated a budget of ECU 3 600 million, which is lower than the allocation accorded to the ACTS, Esprit, RACE and Telecommunications programmes combined.
One case in point is the networking of all the European research establishments, which accounts for 3 % of the thematic programme; here I have put forward amendments stressing the need for involvement in the coordination of every thematic programme, so that this ambitious networking scheme can be taken forward in a coherent way.
Whereas I can certainly agree with the ideas behind the amendments from the Committee on Women's Rights, some of these, in particular Amendment No 8, strike me as impracticable.
I believe above all that Parliament must keep an eye on the Commission in this respect.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since we have reached agreement on the fifth framework research programme in the Conciliation Committee, we can also discuss the specific programmes today.
Allow me to make four general comments on this programme which should be taken into account when it comes to selecting the research partners.
Secondly, and this is an important point which we have discussed again and again in this House, I think that the Commission's publications should also be made available in accessible forms, for example electronically.
The knowledge that has been acquired through the research programmes should be analysed and made available, and should also lead to new processes and products.
I think it is extremely positive that we in the European Union are for the first time making a separate priority of the field of aeronautics and space flight, because the business news of the past few weeks has shown in quite a dramatic way that this is the way to do justice to the European dimension of the sector.
Nevertheless, for it to succeed, become more efficient and play the part it should on the market, what is required is more research, more innovation and fewer subsidies.
Firstly, I should like to congratulate the Commission and thank it for including, as a key action, everything concerned with research into technology relating to the management of water resources.
There are no less than 130 priorities in this specific programme.
I am opposed to Amendment No 9, because it means that 42 % of the budget would be devoted to demonstration projects, in particular to those involving renewable energy.
Renewable energy will never make headway if you allocate 42 % of this budget to subsidising small projects concerned with solar panels, biomass, renewable energy and so on.
I should also like to mention Amendments Nos 25 and 27, and I hope the Commission will include them, because they refer to gas.
Our fifth aim is to ensure a greater role for the European Parliament in this area, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The first paragraph concerns providing equal opportunities for both sexes with regard both to objectives and also to methodology and specific measures.
Of the 17 million firms in Europe, a good 99 % are small and medium-sized businesses accounting for more than 70 % of Europe's jobs, 50 % of its investment and 60 % of its wealth.
Almost 15 million firms have nine workers or less and just over one million firms employ between 10 and 99 people.
This specific programme must help to optimise the effort devoted to promoting innovation and encouraging SMEs to take part in the framework programme.
It is merely a coordinating instrument designed to support the thematic programmes, and therefore has a small budget of ECU 363 million.
For example, small firms lack information about new ideas developed by universities and research institutes, the possibilities for technology transfer and, as I said earlier, access to assistance programmes.
When I entered the European Parliament four years ago, in the first report I wrote I stressed the importance of disseminating information for SMEs.
This was why the technology rating institute was set up in the Netherlands in 1995 to try to make it easier to fund promising technological innovations in SMEs.
National networks of knowledge centres must learn from each other, set a good example to each other and contribute to cluster formation in Europe.
To make the procedures and conditions for taking part in the framework programme clear for SMEs, all the thematic programmes must define and apply specific measures for SMEs such as exploratory awards, feasibility studies and CRAFT in the same way.
They must also be accessible via a single central contact point in the Commission.
For example, the proposed work programme for the ICT programme makes no reference to CRAFT.
I should like now to move on to my second task, which is to deliver the opinion of the Committee on External Economic Relations on a number of specific programmes under the fifth framework programme.
The Committee on External Economic Relations was therefore delighted with the agreement signed a year ago between the European Union and the United States on scientific and technological cooperation.
The European Union and the USA are each other's main investors, and the quality of this relationship has a major effect on world trade.
These disputes arise from our differing views on the human and environmental consequences of these new technologies, and differences in consumer behaviour within the Union and in the USA.
It is however more relevant than ever, because of course our social development is moulded by many different factors, together making up what we call the European development model.
To that extent, it is crucially important with respect to our future development for us to ask at this point what really holds our society together in the innermost part, and then to tie that in to research activities in all sectors.
Firstly, in the provisional allocation of funds, it is foreseen that only 10 % is to be made available for socio-economic research.
I would therefore suggest a provisional figure of 15 %.
Transparency must be ensured, in particular by using the Internet, with regard to the participating institutions and the themes.
That is why there are some proposals - Amendment No 37 in particular - for greater coordination of this research with other research areas.
Last week I attended a symposium where there were 150 participants, and only two of them were women.
The first is the fifth framework report and the other is the Euratom nuclear report on the work of the JRC.
It is something that should be very much better known by the Members of this House and by the general public.
That is true of all the research programmes but in particular of the Joint Research Centre where scientists from all over the European Union come together to work on problems which are relevant to its citizens.
Its task principally is to be a tool for policy makers in the European Union and for those carrying out implementing programmes in a variety of areas.
Recently, for example, they tested the methods used in every Member State to monitor air pollution and they found great discrepancies in these tests.
The JRC possesses facilities which no one Member State could possibly afford to build and there ought to be better use of some of those facilities.
My Amendment No 20 highlights the fact that it is not the job of a research programme to pay for the decommissioning of nuclear facilities.
The timescale is inappropriate for the fifth framework programme.
However, I cannot believe - even though we want to study the socioeconomic aspects of nuclear fusion, and I am all in favour of them - that they cost ECU 920m, or anywhere near that amount.
Making present nuclear power stations safe and more efficient will be vital if we wish to work to produce energy without harming the environment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall now comment on the three horizontal programmes from the perspective of the Committee on External Economic Relations, in other words as regards the international role of research, innovation, SMEs and human potential.
In its opinion on the proposed fifth framework research programme, the Committee on Fisheries described the research needs of the fisheries and aquaculture sector.
It noted that, in contrast to the fourth framework research programme, the proposal does not contain a programme solely devoted to fisheries.
The design of the new framework programme means that fisheries interests will have to compete with other research interests in several programmes and key actions.
The first specific programme, called 'Quality of life and management of living resources' thus covers many key actions of relevance for the fisheries and aquaculture sector.
We are also very relieved that with the framework programme, an important part of employment policy that we have all been waiting for is to be implemented.
In a modern Europe we ought never to neglect the field of research.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with the report by Mr Tannert.
That is why objective information and a widely-conducted discussion in the field of ethics also have to be among the aims of this programme.
It is always going to have to take place in parallel with the research.
It is important to achieve a lively and effective cooperation between European researchers.
As for socio-economic research, the Commission's aim that socio-economic aspects be identified as a key action in this horizontal programme is an idea that is very much to be welcomed.
I think therefore that the chosen figure of 10 % of the funds from the specific programme for socio-economic research is sufficient.
Hence Amendment No 19 which specifically mentions geothermal energy.
I am pleased to see that the Tannert report clearly spells out that research into human cloning will not be permitted in the present framework programme.
The user-friendly information society programme presented by our colleague, Mr Malerba, is of great importance.
Speaking on behalf of the Irish delegation in my group, it will come as no surprise to many that I have some difficulties with those reports dealing with research of one kind or another in the nuclear sector.
Mr President, I would like to emphasise three points in connection with the fifth framework programme for research and the special programmes attached to it.
As for the nuclear industry as a whole, I do not think it is at all right to continue to invest money in it, because it must itself take responsibility for the consequences in accordance with the principle that 'the polluter must pay', instead of always making the general public pay in its place.
Mr President, I cannot start my first speech in this Chamber without referring to my predecessor, Dr Alan Macartney, who I know was held in very high regard here both for his work in committees and in Parliament.
If one of our major purposes is to create the conditions that will encourage economic growth and improve employment opportunities, then small and medium-sized enterprises must and do play a substantial part.
As a former proprietor of a very small business myself, I am only too well aware of how difficult it can be to find the extra time, energy and finance required to pursue innovative projects.
And as until recently I was also the leader of a local authority in Scotland - a very successful one too - I know from the experience of our economic development and European units that many of our smaller businesses have a wealth of talent and ideas which require more encouragement.
I hope that there can be considerable flexibility in the decision-making processes and in the running of these programmes so that they can indeed be fully accessible to our small and medium-sized enterprises.
The Scots have a well deserved reputation for innovation and inventiveness.
In my particular part of Scotland, the North-East, we have many businesses, enterprises and academic and research institutions working on projects and ideas that are very worthy of dissemination both throughout Europe and in the wider world.
Dundee, for example, one of the two cities in my area, is well and truly becoming a centre of excellence in life sciences.
We have projects to maintain the high quality of our water supply systems, also referred to earlier in this debate.
I hope that through participation in these programmes not only will Scottish projects, Scottish businesses and Scottish institutions benefit, but the ideas generated therein will benefit Europe and the world.
Mr President, in the context of this joint debate on research and technological development, I will be speaking on the report on the programme for innovation and participation of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The decisive role of SMEs in employment and in our countries' territorial balance can never be over-emphasised.
When one tries, as I do, to conduct politics in a Christian-Democrat spirit of responsibility then it is simply impossible - for me at least - to support a programme which admittedly offers us a great many advantages, but also leaves behind for those who will come after us problems that are presently regarded as insoluble.
Sustainable development is an important basis for research, and energy and environmental protection must form an integral part of this.
First, the total European Union investment - not just that allocated within the fifth framework programme, but overall investment in the field - together with the investment made by each of the 15 Member States individually falls far short of the investment in this sector by our main competitors, the United States and Japan.
At this stage, it would be extremely dangerous to start a witch hunt concerning the promotion of investment in this important sector.
I would also stress, on behalf of the committee which I chair, that a good deal of important work has been done in recent years, both on the framework programme, on which agreement has been reached - albeit painstakingly - with the Council, and on the specific programmes where, as you know, several amendments have been put forward.
The importance of this work cannot be overstated even though it represents a very small proportion of overall spending in Europe on research.
I urge the Commission to pay more attention in future to providing consistent assessments of bids, to telling unsuccessful applicants why they did not succeed, and to make payments on time because delays cause great difficulties, particularly for small businesses.
Above all, I wish to emphasise the benefit of the fifth framework programme as a catalyst for progress, innovation, competitiveness, quality of life and employment in Europe.
Rather than go into detail on the very large number of amendments tabled, I will summarise the Commission's position on some important points.
The Commission agrees with several of the 'horizontal' amendments, which apply to all the programmes or express Parliament's position on general points in the words of different rapporteurs.
These amendments reflect the agreement reached on the fifth framework programme within the Conciliation Committee, and relate, firstly, to equal opportunities and the participation of women in the implementation of the research programmes.
They also cover the participation of small and medium-sized companies.
As agreed in the Conciliation Committee, 10 % of the resources for the four thematic programmes will be earmarked for SMEs to resolve the technological problems they have to confront.
Incidentally, the number of SMEs which benefit from the research programmes has increased by 30 % over the last four years.
The Commission would like to fix a date with Parliament, within the next three months, to report on how the first stages of implementing the programmes have gone.
In the particular case of research involving human embryos, the Commission shares Parliament's reservations.
The Commission is pleased to note the support given to the 'User-friendly information society' programme in Mr Malerba's very detailed report.
A little later Mr Malerba also spoke on the problem of international relations as regards research.
However, this contribution would only relate to uses specifically linked to the fields covered by these programmes.
I would remind you that it was at its initiative that the European Union set itself a target for raising the share of renewable energy from 6 % to 12 % by the year 2000.
However, we do not think it is either possible or necessary to fix a quantitative resource threshold for research in this field.
Like the rapporteur, the Commission attaches great importance to the socio-economic aspects of research, especially to the contribution made by such work to the definition and implementation of public policy.
We can now exercise a certain flexibility in the management of the key action on nuclear fusion, without undermining in any way the scientific work carried out in this field.
So, with a view to optimum use of Community funds, and taking fully into account the degree of urgency involved, the Commission proposes revising the distribution of Euratom programme resources, allocating ECU 955 million to indirect actions, including ECU 768 million for fusion, and ECU 305 million to the JCR, including ECU 24 million for the vital tasks of dismantling obsolete nuclear plant and waste management.
This approach requires everyone in the Community institutions to shoulder shared responsibilities, and I hope I can count on the support of the European Parliament.
I would like to conclude with a few comments on the procedure followed.
