Alain Poher was a Member of this Parliament from the time when it was first created, in 1952.
He is one of at least 72 British lorry drivers stranded in Salonika by the blockade mounted by Greek farmers.
Mr Cabezón Alonso has the floor on a point of order.
Mr President, I will refer basically to my own report.
That is why I am in favour of proceeding in a cooperative way with the work that we have been doing up to now.
Róisín McAliskey is the daughter of a former Westminster MP and this treatment of her is against all principles of human rights in the Council of Europe and the European Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the programme of Community action on the prevention of drug dependence is nearing its final stage.
In doing this, the route Europe has chosen to take may be longer and more difficult, but it is also more exciting: to combat drugs is to reaffirm a European policy which aims to reduce demand for drugs in our Community.
The programme also focuses on training, because work is crucial to reducing poverty among the young.
In conclusion, I should like to say, Mr President, that Parliament, which has already included the prevention programme in a stronger policy cracking down on the 'drugs mafias' which feed off the tragedy of drug dependence, must give a broader response and look at the many organizations providing therapy and the voluntary groups which have already done such a lot of work in this area.
The European Parliament has reached agreement with the Council and the Commission on an action programme on the prevention of drug dependence.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we need to invest heavily in prevention, information and education.
This is what emerges from the programme of Community action adopted in relation to prevention of drug dependence, which is designed to contribute to the fight against drug dependence, in particular by encouraging cooperation among the Member States, supporting their campaigns and promoting coordination of their policies and programmes.
Mr President, I should like to inform Mr Burtone of the disappointment felt by the radical antiprohibitionists in this Parliament.
Mr President, the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission have at last reached a degree of understanding which has resulted in approval of the programme of Community action on drug dependence.
I should like to say that, if such issues as legalization of drugs, homosexuality and its legal status, genetic engineering and abortion have provoked a clash in today's society, this is certainly not a clash between freedom on the one hand and obscurantism on the other, but between two different perceptions of freedom and society.
Mr President, the joint text of the Council and Parliament decision has been finalized.
The politically sensitive amendments designed to impose a permissive drugs policy or a policy of damage-limitation on the Member States have been toned down, I am glad to say.
It is actually the case in some countries that young people can buy an alcoholic drink more cheaply than a non-alcoholic one.
The talks, discussions and exchanges which have accompanied the long process of adopting this programme have been fruitful and have allowed us to make positive improvements to the Community machinery for the prevention of drug dependence.
The interinstitutional modus vivendi as regards measures for the implementation of acts adopted according to the procedure laid down in Article 189b of the EC Treaty, as in the case of this programme, forms the basis for providing Parliament with the information required.
This evening, in this very Chamber, I referred to a process, to a debate, to decisions made by the House in the recent past.
As far as I am concerned, the liberalization of drug use and the current suppression of drug use in my country constitute two dogmatic positions that are perfectly symmetrical.
The debate is closed.
After the second reading, Commissioner Bangemann said quite specifically that he was prepared to bring forward a proposal on the labelling of alcoholic beverages.
The original text which was presented by the Commission contained a reference to the labelling of alcoholic beverages.
Now we are all aware in this Chamber of the pressures that are brought to bear on the Commission, the Council and on Members of this Parliament wherever the matter of alcoholic products is concerned.
The 1978 labelling directive simply required the information on the label to be given in a language which the consumer understood.
The 1978 directive was vague and ambiguous, and therefore difficult to reconcile with the principles of the internal market.
Could I ask Commissioner Monti to confirm this in his answer to the House?
Their work has made it possible for Parliament, in effect, to give its opinion twice.
In the present session the task before us is to vote on the draft joint decision by Parliament and the Council, as approved by the Conciliation Committee.
Arising out of this agreement, a political compromise has made the final approval of the joint draft of the European Parliament subject to the submission by the Commission of a new proposal relating specifically to alcoholic beverages.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the House is considering, with a view to its final adoption, the joint text produced by the conciliation procedure concerning amendments to Directive 79/112/EEC relating to the labelling of foodstuffs.
I should like to thank Parliament's delegation, which participated very effectively in the effort to achieve a compromise through the conciliation procedure.
Parliament will thus have the opportunity to express its opinion on this important matter at first reading.
The debate is closed.
Customs 2000 The next item is the report (A4-0390/96) on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council adopting an action programme for customs in the Community (Customs 2000) - (C4-0598/96-95/0087(COD) (rapporteur: Mr von Wogau).
The primary purpose of the Customs 2000 action programme is to achieve a uniform level of protection at all the external frontiers of the Union.
The programme provides for a budget of ECU 50 million for the period from 1996 to 2000.
That is why I attached particular importance to the amendment which calls for the internal market to be further developed into a genuine European home market.
But then we have 15 different national customs administrations whose job it is to ensure that the whole thing functions.
It is this, above all, which has persuaded me to express support - on behalf of my group as well as for myself - for the compromise that has been reached.
I believe that what we have achieved in the discussions on this programme, as well as in the debate in the Committee of Inquiry into the Community Transit System, is more important than the text on the page: it is more important to bring a problem to people's attention and, rather than simply stating baldly that something has to be done, to bring about a genuine change of awareness.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me, as a co-chairman of the delegation, to speak briefly in this debate, in order to emphasize the finally positive - and I would even say, in many respects, exemplary - nature of this conciliation procedure.
Here and there - and I would say more there than here, in other words, more at the Council than in Parliament - various voices are sometimes heard denigrating, to some extent, the procedure for implementing the codecision procedure decided on in the Maastricht Treaty, on the grounds that it is too cumbersome, or too complicated.
The committee chiefly responsible, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, as well as the other committees that were consulted, especially the Committee on Budgetary Control, have worked very hard.
With these two objectives in mind, we were able to find acceptable compromises on many of the points which the European Parliament was concerned about and which Karl von Wogau has just reminded us of, because the institutions finally agreed to consider the other side's point of view and to take the necessary steps to enable the agreement to be finalized.
I really believe, Mr President, that it is thanks to programmes such as Customs 2000 that the awareness of a real European identity will begin to take shape in the minds of our citizens.
The Commissioner was extremely accommodating on these points, and this made it possible to draw up a final programme to which we attach considerable importance and in which we have great faith, such that, if only on the basis of Parliament's internal customs arrangements, European citizens will feel that they are part of a great common home.
This joint text is a compromise between the positions of the House and those of the Council.
I called it a constitutive instrument, and so it is, in that it translates into a legal decision a firm commitment to strengthen cooperation, within a Community framework, among the customs authorities of the Member States and between them and the Commission, enabling our customs authorities to guarantee effective protection of the financial interests of the Union and provide international commercial operators with a similarly high quality service at any point in the customs territory of the Community.
The text before you contains various improvements sought by the European Parliament.
The debate is closed.
National parties are and will remain the main agencies for the legitimation and control of those who represent the Member States in the Union's bodies.
In parallel, however, the European political process recognises European political parties.
For example, the right of parties to receive equal treatment is not essentially a right that the party claims for its own sake, but indirectly, though quite clearly, a right due to the citizens.
The role of the European political parties could naturally form a very important part of this process and also make a positive contribution towards citizenship.
I should like to make a final point regarding party financing, a fundamental issue which the rapporteur discussed at some length, and the need for which is rightly mentioned in the report.
I think that the report attempts to provide a positive response to this problem.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is exactly five years to the day since the Maastricht European Council took the decision to recognize the European political parties.
The Commission and the Council have remained silent, despite the political will - and I remain convinced that the political will on 9 December 1991 was strong, I felt it - which was expressed by the Heads of State and Government who met that day in Maastricht.
Along with the other group leaders, I have today received Parliament's legal recommendations, which indicate that we cannot take any legislative decision on recognition for the European political parties except under Article 235a of the Treaty, which requires unanimity in the Council of Ministers.
So neither Parliament nor the European Union has any powers to regulate the constitutional position of the European political parties.
Their internal political decision-making must be democratic, and all the citizens of the European Union must be able to express their political will in this process.
But we also think that decisions in the European parties must be taken by majority voting.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Tsatsos report on the constitutional status of European political parties does not deserve my group's approval, as we already made clear in the Committee on Institutional Affairs.
Members of the European Parliament are representatives of each Member State of the European Union and, within that institution, join the political groups on the basis of partisan affinities.
These groups have come to function as political parties on a European scale, and have even been able to include regional members, some of them elected by regional parties.
But there is no legal basis for establishing a constitutional status for European political parties, since if it did exist and function that could even create disputes and uneasiness in the various Member States and possibly come up against insuperable hurdles in the constitutional field.
It is far easier to achieve greater proximity between electors and their elected representatives, an important cause of this parliament, when candidates stand for national or regional party lists than it would be if ever they stood for European political parties.
Firstly, we think it is a good idea that the European political parties should be given a stronger constitutional position than they have enjoyed up to now, and that their position should be firmly anchored in the Treaty.
The second, which has also been signed by Members from other groups, concerns individual membership, and the third is on the need to adopt a uniform electoral system based on proportional representation, and a uniform statute for all Members of the European Parliament.
Mr President, in my Group there is a difference of opinion about this report, which will be voiced at today's sitting.
Our Group is international, with ideological roots, and is not answerable to an existing European party; in terms of programme and policy, it is a left-leaning compromise, a confederal Group in which the decisions of national parties, and their ability to transfer their views to the House, are fully respected.
Bearing all this in mind, I am going to give the opinion of those of us who are in favour of including the development of Article 138a in the Intergovernmental Conference.
Mr President, it is traditional in the House to thank and congratulate the rapporteur.
At European or international level, they are merely confederations of national parties.
First of all, this House must adopt a parliamentarian's statute.
Mr President, the proposal to establish a status for European political parties appears to us to be without any legal basis and without any fundamental justification.
This is the position that we have defended within the Committee on Institutional Affairs, and we should like to thank the rapporteur for having quoted our arguments in the body of his report.
The rapporteur seems to prefer the directly expressed voice of 380 million citizens, in the context of, if not a European state, then at least an entity that is 'constitutional' in nature, to use a term that is used on several occasions in the report, in a somewhat provocative manner, admittedly, but fortunately without any legal impact.
This European-style political model has developed in all the Member States of the EU.
European parties must provide answers through a type of politics that is original to Europe and not merely based on the lowest common national denominator.
The whole - that is the European parties - must be greater than the sum of the parts.
The report by our colleague, Dimitri Tsatsos, is an excellent platform from which to start.
Article 137 is based on the fact that Members of the European Parliament are representatives of their own respective countries.
Mr President, this report addresses an issue which really does not lie within the formal competence of this Parliament.
This means that the question of political parties in Europe is, at the same time, a question of the role of the European Parliament.
Mr President, as the elected representative of a national party, I am involved in the work of the Party of European Socialists because I take the view that parliamentary life needs the European political dimension in the same way as a fish needs water.
I do not feel that the existence of a European party is contradictory to the existence of a national party, and I believe the existence of a European party to be the necessary extension of national parties when it comes to European issues.
This is why I welcome the report by Mr Tsatsos as an importance policy document in the run-up to the Inter-governmental Conference.
They simply need more transparency.
Mr Schäfer has quoted other examples.
The Commission wholeheartedly supports Parliament's flexible approach and wishes to emphasize the constitutional role that the European political parties have to play within the context of European democracy.
A genuine European political area will be able to be developed only if it is accompanied by a European party system to complement the national party system, allowing European citizenship to develop alongside national citizenship.
In a community founded on the rule of law, such as the European Union, the time has come to reflect on how to define the European parties, what functions to attribute to them, what kind of legal recognition to grant them, how to define their rights and their possible spheres of action and how to resolve the delicate issue of funding.
European political parties can make a key contribution to the development of a political and democratic Europe and can help the European Institutions meet the challenges that European issues and, above all, the future geography of Europe, are going to pose.
In particular, the question of how the political parties are to be financed remains fundamental.
The debate is closed.
Participation means more than just being represented; it means being able to debate political options, to be consulted, and to intervene personally.
With this in mind, the report proposes a public debate on the Union's policies, to be initiated by the European Parliament which, by bringing together rulers, elected representatives and social players, would put them in a position where they could hold joint discussions.
One important proposal in the report is that there should be a special annual session of the European Parliament, preceded by a conference involving representatives of the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, in order to debate economic policy options.
The report gives them a major role in passing on information and in mobilizing and consulting individual citizens, local and regional authorities and social players, in the places where they live and work.
This report has to a large extent been drawn up in consultation with players in civil society, and it has been the subject of many lively discussions within the Committee on Institutional Affairs.
Mr President, Philippe Herzog never speaks in a loud voice, and yet his ideas, generally speaking, go right to the heart of the matter, and I can tell you that in the Committee on Institutional Affairs he has rather rocked the boat.
It is true that when someone says we must consult the citizens, or let the citizens participate, he is often doing it in order to endorse a withdrawal from the European idea, and a withdrawal from the ideas that we are putting forward here, in the European Parliament.
The second trap that one may fall into is the panacea.
The policy also means proposing a real project to our citizens, and we have done this in the form of the project for social and political union.
Finally, we are in favour not only of information, consultation, concerted action and assessment, but also the idea of bringing this democracy to life by allowing real European forces to emerge.
What I mean is that we should talk to real European trades unions which, being at the heart of the social dialogue, would not be merely a façade, a residual power, but would be real players in the economic and social life of Europe.
This new draft also states that the Union must provide a better response to the demands of its citizens and should display the necessary openness and transparency.
Citizens must be able to play a part in the European Union not just through the European Parliament, but also through their social organizations.
The Herzog report rightly stresses that in recent years, the European Union has placed far too much emphasis on the internal market and economic and monetary policy, and far too little on employment and social issues.
Firstly, there is the idea of giving social dialogue a more established position in the work of the institutions.
The debate would be preceded by consultations with the social organizations such as the Economic and Social Committee and other social players.
The Herzog report has turned out to be an important one.
We must not forget that this policy remains the responsibility of the Member States, even though Europe does have a responsibility to provide information and co-operation.
The idea of organizing an annual conference to report on the economic situation and the employment situation was something that Parliament had expressed a desire for, and I am sure that the majority of Members will be in favour of such an assessment.
We withdraw Amendment No 11 to paragraph 23.
The rapporteur has wisely focused his report on public discussion of European Union policies, on the basis of two instruments: universal access to quality information, and the establishment of consultation.
We consider that approval of this report will be an important step in the process of constructing a citizens' Europe, and our Group therefore supports it and will vote for it.
The idea of integrating those who are involved in Europe more closely into the European process is therefore a very positive one.
In the light of this, much of what has been proposed, not least in this report, seems almost to be on rather a small scale.
I should like to highlight two proposals in this context.
The second proposal, put forward by the Committee on Culture, was that people should be involved at the point where they are first confronted with Europe as an issue - and that means in schools and in the educational process.
The Commission wholeheartedly agrees with the emphasis placed by Parliament on the role of civil society in shaping a genuine European consciousness.
Europe must, then, draw closer to its citizens: a true democratic project can be achieved only if citizens are directly involved in all the Union's policies, and is based on the development of democratic control, with the European Parliament being the natural seat of that control.
The development of a European political area requires Europe's citizens to be better informed, greater transparency of the Institutions and a more extensive social dialogue.
The Commission considers that only if there is detailed dialogue with all social players, at European as well as national and local level, will it be possible to identify the solutions we need.
The debate is closed.
