He received the answer that this problem was being taken seriously and that the authorities in Brussels had been informed of it.
But the Brussels' authorities are not the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
I almost have the impression that, following the judgment of the Court of Luxembourg, there is a desire to punish Members, not just the Italians but the Members in general, as the problem does not just concern Italy.
Mr Poggiolini, that was not a point of order.
Madam President, I would like to start by making a few remarks on procedural aspects concerning the postponement of discharge which we have in front of the House this morning.
In particular, coming to our Budget Control Committee the other day was a 'first' in presentation of the Council's views.
Secondly, I would also like to thank the Council for the way in which it has presented its recommendation.
Last but not least we should remember as we have this debate this morning that it is not concerned with the discharge process itself, but with the postponement of discharge.
Therefore in the issues that I cover this morning I will not for example be referring to the loss of customs duties in terms of the own-resources system or the system of the statement of assurance.
These are issues which hopefully we will come to later in the year, when we come to give discharge on the 1996 budget itself.
Many colleagues across this House, whether looking at the question of Bosnia or at the question of PHARE, have been asking for measures to be taken to promote a more decentralized approach, most recently in a mission by this House to Bosnia-Herzegovina.
The Council has referred to this in its recommendations, but when we look into the substance we find that this system is still not working effectively in all Member States, and one wonders why this is the case.
After all, as we all know, large sums of money are involved in the operation of the agricultural policy and when after a year or a year and a half this integrated control system is still not actually being applied in all Member States, one is entitled to ask why, and why the Commission has powers to withhold money for payments of advances to Member States, which it is apparently not yet applying.
Second-to-last, in terms of the measures applied in the Structural Funds for small and mediumsized businesses, we had a problem in the Budget Control Committee because a major political group did not wish to vote for this particular point.
But it seems to me that we have a programme laid down under which we are going to do something for small and medium-sized businesses, yet, once in the Budget Control Committee or in the Budgets Committee, it has been impossible to get any information from the Commission as to how it is going to be applied or what is happening.
The last point is the question of audit and control of the European Investment Fund.
So let me conclude that in terms of all these points added together - whereas perhaps not one of the points taken singly would justify the postponement of discharge, and whereas we recognize that although the Commission has taken several steps and will no doubt be taking steps with us during the summer to clarify each of these points which are in front of us - we in the Budget Control Committee, as has been shown in this report which was voted by a large majority, believe that it is Parliament's prerogative and indeed Parliament's duty to clarify these points before we give discharge to the 1996 budget.
The 1995 discharge asks the Commission, the Court and Parliament to carry out certain actions.
I am glad to say that a lot of those actions have been adhered to and that we have made a lot of progress in the way that discharge will be carried out in the future.
And this time we have already received them from the UK, which is a major achievement.
As far as the DAS goes, the Court has once again complied with our request about submitting its findings on the activities within the report.
We have had this proposal since 1994 when the DAS first came into being.
The report also calls upon the Court to bring its annual report forward to the first October session.
I know this causes problems for the Court, but the procedure we have gone through recently does not do justice to the report or to the work of the Court or the work of Parliament.
It is not acceptable that our workload is such that Members of the Court are allocated only two minutes' speaking time in committee.
If it came forward in the first October part-session, it would also fit in nicely with Parliament's first reading in the second session in October.
That applies to paragraph 8 on action necessary to improve collections and recovery of sums due to the Community.
The Commission lays great stress on SEM 2000.
On Amendments Nos 11, 12 and 13, on classical swine fever, I will leave that to Mr Mulder, who is a far greater expert on pigs than I am!
I have two final points on this report.
Firstly, the Commission's reply to paragraph 79 of the 1995 discharge resolution does not give the explanation necessary concerning the Berlaymont Building.
Until the EDF is budgetized, Parliament will have a great problem in its role, especially in giving discharge.
We get rather annoyed when the Council tells us that lines cannot be implemented because there is no legal base.
The Council's report on the general budget was wonderful but this issue was not mentioned.
On the tendering procedures, there are several things stated within the report and in my opinion, especially on quality control of tendering procedures and the hard currency payments.
Finally, on the DAS, it is good to see a positive DAS but there is one part where 4.5 % of payment transactions could not be assessed because of material obstacles.
I find it quite incredible that we still have unfinished business from 1981 concerning the earthquake in Italy.
I have spoken to the Court of Auditors, which says there is light at the end of the tunnel, but we want a guarantee that everything for which we make public funds available will also be subject to our control.
Every time I have taken up these issues, I have been confronted with a very arrogant attitude on the part of the Investment Fund.
Mr President, we move from discharges concerning large funds of money to two decentralized agencies which are very transparent in that they are dealing with much smaller sums of money.
In preparing this report the Committee on Budgetary Control has had the advantage of reports from the Court of Auditors, for which I thank the President, and two very fulsome reports from the Council recommending us to give discharge.
CEDEFOP in Thessaloniki have had a rough time.
The Court has drawn attention to the fact that they are not following the financial regulations strictly in obtaining tenders for projects in the research field.
The Court also points out that we still have problems with the contract for the new building which is a unique type of contract in my experience and has got to be watched closely.
The Committee of Inquiry reported in March last year, after a year's intensive work.
I believe that when reports are submitted to us we shall find that far less money than that which we said was being lost in the transit system is being lost now.
That is a very difficult situation for the customs services and for the Commission, because the rules do not permit the Commission to remit any of these outstanding debts.
However, the proposed computerization of the transit system is now three years away when it should be only about 18 months away.
In its annual report on the 1996 financial year in respect of the agriculture sector, the Court of Auditors touches on several areas in which irregularities have been discovered.
Any irregularities here would have devastating consequences, in my opinion, and would without doubt throw into question the sense and purpose of the whole system.
Madam President, in the opinion approved by the Committee on Regional Policy, it has been brought to light that, for all the sections relating to the Structural Funds, the year 1996 has been a turning-point in the commitment of allocations.
Many programmes in the period prior to 1994 remain open, with the main problem being the large number of programmes, rather than the amount of the resources.
The Committee on Regional Policy points to a total lack of assessment of the impact of the measures and funds on small and medium-sized businesses, a question which has already been brought to light and which I believe is very important as the Luxembourg Council attaches great importance to this sector.
Finally, it is the third time that the Court of Auditors is using the statement of assurance for this part of the budget.
Madam President, I wish to begin by thanking you for the chance to present the recommendation of the Council regarding discharge to the Commission in respect of its implementation of the budget for the financial year 1996.
I am also very pleased to have been able to attend earlier this month a session of the Committee on Budgetary Control, and I thank Mr Elles for his kind words.
The reason I attended that meeting, and the reason I am here today, is because the Council makes a recommendation on discharge which it regards as very important.
As you know, on 9 March the Council decided to recommend that Parliament grant discharge to the Commission for the management of the Community budget for 1996.
Both the Council and the European Parliament are determined that financial management of the Community budget must be improved.
From the comments accompanying the Council's recommendation on discharge, you will see that we consider that it is particularly important to focus on the lessons for the future at a time, such as now, when the Union is considering policy reforms in key areas, in particular the common agricultural policy and the Structural Funds.
Another key lesson from the report is the need to make sure that Community expenditure is actually achieving results.
We must ensure that taxpayers' money is properly spent and accounted for but we also need to ensure that it is being used in the most effective way possible to achieve our policy aims.
The Council is extremely concerned by the excessively high incidence of errors which the Court found when it did work on the statement of assurance.
It is happening that there is some indication that the level of errors for the EAGGF Guarantee Section is lower than the average for the budget as a whole, but for the Structural Funds it is higher and this high rate of errors is a cause for grave concern.
You may then ask why, having said that, the Council is recommending that Parliament grants discharge.
The reason is, as I have already indicated, that the Council believes progress will only be made if there is cooperation between the different parties who have involvement in handling Community funds and if they all accept their responsibility for achieving the highest standards of financial management.
The Council is facing up to its responsibilities for ensuring that reform is carried through by working in cooperation with the Commission to achieve this.
As already mentioned, the Commission has made great efforts through the SEM 2000 initiative to improve both its internal financial management and its cooperation with Member States.
In a number of cases, measures have already been taken on recovery of misspent money, on reducing the level of advances and on eliminating dormant commitments.
The Commission's undertaking to submit a proposal on reform of the financial regulation to make this clearer and more appropriate to current circumstances is also a useful move forward towards better financial management.
The Commission is taking measures, but more needs to be done.
I know from the discussions in the Committee on Budgetary Control that Parliament is particularly concerned by lack of progress in certain areas.
These are real concerns which, as you will see from the comments on the recommendation, the Council shares in many cases.
Taking one of the committee's main concerns - strengthening the fight against fraud inside the European institutions - you will see that the Council has called for all institutions to authorize UCLAF to carry out inquiries in appropriate cases.
The presidency is looking forward to the Court's forthcoming special report on the functioning of UCLAF.
The Council also shares Parliament's concern that measures to support SMEs should be more accessible and the results more visible.
The Council welcomes the fact that, in December 1997, the Commission launched an assessment of the impact of the Structural Funds on the SMEs and has requested that the outcome be communicated both to the Council and Parliament.
The Council has also commented on weaknesses in the Commission's management of external aid.
The Council has stressed the importance of improving budgetary implementation of both PHARE and TACIS.
The PHARE programme is particularly important in the context of preparation of the beneficiary countries for accession.
The Council has called on the Commission to take account of experience acquired in the evaluations aiming to improve these programmes.
The Council agrees with Parliament that modernization of the transit system is essential.
No-one realistically expected the wholesale reform of transit to be completed within twelve months, but significant progress has been made in improving customs control measures.
Reflecting the priority given to this matter under the UK presidency, the Council has broadly agreed the legal changes needed to pave the way for more detailed reform of the system.
Further discussion in the Council has been deferred pending receipt of Parliament's opinion on the Commission proposals.
Similarly, setting up the integrated administration and control system was a major technical and administrative task involving considerable investment and administrative reorganization.
The Council would like the system to be fully implemented in 1998 and has asked Member States to ensure that checks conducted by IACS are fully operational and comply with the principles of sound financial management.
The Council has made it clear in its comments that it expects the Commission to improve its performance in all of these areas where serious weaknesses have been identified, but progress requires increased efforts and greater vigilance on the part of all the Community's institutions.
The Council has recommended that discharge be granted and has invited Member States to work with the Commission to ensure that the lessons drawn from the report are acted on and, where changes need to be made now, they are made.
From the Council's perspective, this is the most constructive way forward and it is on this basis that the Council recommends to Parliament that discharge should be granted to the Commission for the 1996 financial year.
The Commission has taken note of the report in question.
It will do all in its power to comply with the wishes of Parliament.
Furthermore, as stated in the document that the Commission sent you on 18 November 1997, on improving the fight against fraud and corruption, UCLAF will make the necessary contact with the national legal authorities in case of suspicion of fraud or corruption.
UCLAF procedures giving the best possible assistance to other institutions confronted with fraud enquiries will therefore be more closely specified.
As regards the basis of the enquiry on the transit system, the Commission has had to change its approach on the new computerized transit system, the NCTS, because of its complexity, which made it too difficult to manage.
The report scheduled for September will outline the state of progress.
We hope that the project will be able to work with five Member States before the end of 1999, but there have been many difficulties, as you know.
In the agricultural sector, in accordance with the resolution of this House of 18 April 1996, the Commission has now strengthened the audit unit (unité apurement des comptes ) by 15 members.
It will also be submitting a composite report on the introduction of the integrated financial control system, and will draw the requisite financial conclusions of any inappropriate operations.
In the external policy field, the Commission has proposed a review of the regulations on reconstruction aid in the former Yugoslavia, and will strengthen its delegation in Sarajevo.
Furthermore, the Commission will submit a proposal for a new regulation aimed at creating a unified framework for budgets and procedures.
As regards the decentralization of PHARE activities, the Commission is actively pursuing its consideration of the possibilities, but believes that the complete transfer of the national programme as a whole requires a little bit more time, and will probably not be possible until 1999.
This new service will continue the process of decentralization which is already under way.
As regard the audits by the Court of Auditors on the activities of the European Investment Fund, the Commission has always undertaken to respect the Court's right to audit, while respecting the competencies of each of the institutions and bodies concerned.
It will propose a new meeting with the Court for the purpose of reaching an agreement on this issue.
Launched in 1995, the SEM 2000 initiative has provided the foundations and instruments to build up healthy financial management.
The MAP 2000 project complements this in the personnel and administrative field.
These reports have already been discussed at length, and it would serve no purpose for me to return to them.
In the meantime, the Commission would probably have improved the car anyway, but would have said nothing to anyone about this.
If we want to achieve all these things - and we really want to - then the face of Europe will be dramatically changed in the years to come.
The Commission's undertaking to do this and to make this the central issue has contributed significantly to the fact that in our final report our dealings with the Commission were actually quite harmonious and resulted in a well-balanced report with well-balanced demands, rather than simply succumbing to directing criticism at the Commission.
And for that reason this issue perhaps affected us much more than any of the others.
Here too it can be said that much of what has been criticized in other points, such as the implementation of the programmes and so on, is still connected with the fact that the Commission tells us that we do not have enough staff, that we have bottlenecks and so on.
If the Commission really believes that we cannot enter the new millennium with many more Member States and an increasing number of duties to perform, since the reserves must run out sooner or later, then it must tell us this and demonstrate it in a plausible manner.
For the first time the Council complied with a request which Parliament had been making for many years by submitting in good time its position on the discharge, with the result that a detailed debate could be held in the company of the President-in-Office of the Council prior to the vote being taken in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
There is still a period of grace for assessing the DAS, but once the Amsterdam Treaty has been ratified, Parliament is obliged to incorporate its results fully into the discharge.
Our approach is, on the contrary, a constructive one.
The grievance often expressed concerning the failure to carry through the integrated control system for agricultural spending is in this respect just as significant as the inefficiency in promoting SMEs.
They have done an excellent job and their reports have been unanimously adopted by the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this very special context of the serious problems raised by the discharge procedure for the 1996 budget, we are faced with a problem which is far from the routine exercise that we have so often encountered in the past, and now have before us a very substantial political examination of the situation of the European Union.
The Commission is responsible to the European citizens for the proper use of funds.
However, at the time of its 1995 investiture, the European Commission announced rigorous action to improve financial management, particularly within its own services.
I do not here intend to stand as an accuser of the Commission, nor take it to trial, but to remind all institutions of the demand for transparency and coherence, which we must commit to in front of the European citizens.
This involves the credibility of Europe and the future of its institutions, as well as the success of the major projects now underway.
The extent of the irregularities and the fraud in the tourism sector, and the laissez-faire attitude of the Commission, which has piled up dilatory manoeuverings to delay the communication of the information demanded by Parliament, is an example neither of transparency, nor of healthy management.
If there is an outbreak of swine fever somewhere in Europe, the European Union will pay 50 % to 70 %.
In some countries the farmers are wholly responsible, in others the government pays.
It is necessary, particularly in view of Agenda 2000, that the integrated monitoring system for income support is perfected.
We hope that, before 15 September this year, the Commission will have presented sufficient arguments to convince Parliament that it should grant discharge after all.
This is more particularly evident in the light of the unacceptable attitude adopted by the Commission in failing to furnish in due time the information required by Parliament to analyse these matters and issue an opinion, as appropriate under such circumstances; in particular, in situations where such accusations of corruption and irregularities exist, as has occurred in the tourism sector.
I mention tourism here because one of the Commissioners responsible for this sector was Portuguese, which prompts me to be even more stringent in this regard.
Madam President, Mr Liikanen, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of December 1995 the budgetary procedure made substantial funds available for reconstruction in the former Yugoslavia.
My belief is that the Commission also has a problem with DG IA.
Many of us on the Committee on Budgets fail to understand, for example, the reason why certain budget lines are so late: one which comes to mind is that ECU 150 million of late payments have accumulated over six years.
The basic problem, Commissioner Liikanen, should be treated with an overall approach, which should, first and foremost, make the point on what we want as a personnel policy and as a European civil service and what this should be.
Mr President, for the third time, the Court of Auditors has refused to give an overall positive assurance on the legality and regularity of payments made by the Commission.
This time, unlike in 1994/1995, the Committee on Budgetary Control proposes that we consider that the trust laid upon the Commission by the Parliament no longer be granted.
How can we do otherwise, if we remember the two resolutions adopted by this House, the first relating to the MED programme - which had emphasized the serious irregularities committed by the Commission - and the second, much more recently, relating to allegations of fraud and irregularities in the tourism sector?
This is a momentous report because it is the end of the first tranche of reports on the two older agencies, Dublin and Thessaloniki.
But it also sets out in the appendix the principles which we will move to in the new discharge procedure following the KellettBowman report which Parliament has adopted - and I hope the Council will accept - for discharge for the newer agencies which have been created.
This will give Parliament not only power over the budget, but power over control of expenditure once it has been allocated to the separate agencies.
It is important that we have a working document to work on in future when it comes to budgetary matters.
I raise this point in working Document No 4 for the Budget Committee and again draw this to your attention, particularly because Dublin has lost some ECU 1 million in exchange rate losses in the year 1996.
Over the next couple of years it may well be even more acute for agencies in those countries which remain outside the first wave of the single currency.
Commissioner Liikanen is to be praised for the work he has done to achieve this.
Mr President, I have three minutes and three comments: transit, personnel, EDF.
I would like to draw your attention to a specific fact, which is that once we have improved the situation in the transit field, we shall be seeing classic forms of contraband developing.
Here, we will be confronted with the inadequacies of our overall customs systems, which are lack of information, lack of integration, lack of homogeneity, and also sometimes, lack of motivation.
We are waiting for you to show us some evidence in this field, but we can see that there are limits.
The purpose of the discharge is not to be the Court of Appeal of the treaty, even if the European Council and the heads of states who signed the Amsterdam Treaty have been remarkably unambitious.
On this point, we are being extremely indulgent towards you, but we will not let that happen again.
The postponement of discharge is a serious measure.
Mr President, the European Parliament, in my opinion, all too often criticizes the Commission for its lack of supervision and all too rarely criticizes Member States for its sheer negligence.
Mr President, my party colleague has already discussed the group's argument in favour of postponing the discharge for 1996.
It goes without saying that these funds should be repaid as soon as possible.
In the Kellet-Bowman report on some of the decentralized bodies there are, in spite of everything, small problems both in Dublin and Thessaloniki which we must tackle, including financial control in Dublin and the buildings in Thessaloniki.
Mr President, I congratulate the Council for the serious attention they have shown this year towards discharge.
The Council is deserving of our thanks and our congratulations for those three things.
Here I would take issue slightly with my good friend Commissioner Liikanen.
It was not a conscious decision to change approach.
In the debate a number of references have been made to the statement of assurance.
There is a feeling that some Members are beginning to doubt its utility because it always produces the same result.
That means reviewing the length of time we spend on the contradictoire procedure.
Thank you, Mrs Liddell, for attending this sitting.
And it is in that context - of the MED programmes - where the misunderstandings arise.
The first misunderstanding is that the European Parliament, or more specifically the Committee on Budgetary Control, is opposed to decentralized cooperation.
In fact, the European Parliament gave the green light for the relaunching of decentralized cooperation over eight months ago, with its resolution of 17 July 1997.
Furthermore, that green light will be confirmed when Parliament votes on the resolution which will conclude the present debate.
How, for example, could Parliament be opposed to cooperation between universities in the Member States and the associated countries of the Mediterranean?
On the contrary, the European Parliament is not opposed to it, but there was a serious management problem which was mainly located in Brussels, and was discovered by the Court of Auditors.
The first lesson is that the European Commission needs to take a more significant role in the management of these decentralized programmes.
And the fifth lesson is that the European Commission should send all the details of this affair to the judicial authorities in Belgium, France and Italy so that they can examine any possible legal implications.
The Council said exactly the same thing, although it then went on to draw different conclusions.
I think there was no justification for this, as the problems in 1995 were exactly the same as those in 1996, and we have had SEM 2000 in the meantime, which means there will be some improvements.
To my mind the new Commission proposals regarding Agenda 2000 comprise far-reaching improvements, even though the problems of combating fraud, the question of who the interest should be paid to, and how this should be calculated has not yet been sufficiently worked out in these proposals.
Mr President, in the recommendation, we in the Committee of Inquiry worked on the assumption that transit is only able to function when customs function as one in Europe.
I think that in both cases we are dealing with a precedent within the European Union.
The Court of Auditors presented us with its report in 1997.
Nevertheless, we hope that this postponement - and our committee decision was a unanimous one - will produce greater efficiency and bring more pressure to bear on the Commission.
I believe that the decisive pressure only materializes according to whether or not there are sufficient votes to refuse a discharge, whether this be today or at some unspecified time in the future.
In recent years the debates have focused increasingly on the responsibility of the Member States, which account for some 80 % of EU spending and which are then responsible for controlling this expenditure.
The Commission is only responsible for monitoring this control process.
The budgetary control procedure of the European Parliament is still more powerful than that operated by the national parliaments.
We can only improve the effectiveness of our budgetary control system by making it absolutely clear who is actually responsible and perhaps by taking a brave decision once in a while.
I would like to note in particular the Commission's announcement today to the effect that the proposals set out in the special report on PHARE will be implemented in 1999, concerning delegating the administration to the destination country itself.
It is also commendable that he should point out that if the Amsterdam Treaty were already in force, then we should have no other option but to refuse to give discharge to the Commission owing to the fact that the Court of Auditors was unable to provide a statement of assurance for the third time in succession.
It is perhaps indicative of the Commission's attitude to this postponement of the discharge that we hear that Commissioners' press officers are linking the intentions of this House with the forthcoming European elections.
What Mr Elles concludes as justification for the postponement of the discharge is in itself nothing new.
Obviously these same Member States can find nothing wrong when money is paid out by the Commission and by a Commissioner in the agricultural sector, despite the fact that there is no basis for this, despite the fact that agreements between the 15 Member States are quite clearly not being kept by certain countries and despite the fact that all that is needed is for the Commission to put the brakes on and say: "that is quite enough, everybody.
We in the European Parliament have been scraping together money for SMEs - ECU 150 million this year, 150 million next year and so on - so that these small and medium-sized businesses can create job opportunities.
The Court of Auditors says that 80 % of the enterprises lucky enough to have been awarded funding are completely unaware of the fact.
Mr President, the course of this debate on giving discharge for the 1996 financial year has in my view demonstrated two different things.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Budgetary Control cannot reach an opinion, whether positive or negative, about discharges because the Commission will not give us the figures we deem necessary and have formally requested from it, to enable us to form any opinion at all.
Mr President, thank you very much for this debate.
On the external programmes, I will very briefly mention that the Commission took a major decision in the autumn to create a common structure for all external programmes.
It means that management of the PHARE, TACIS, MEDA and other programmes will come under one common structure where we hope to standardize all the procedures and public tenders and simplify the way we run the external programmes.
It is extremely difficult for our clients and also very difficult for us.
If we have simple, transparent and standardized procedures it is much easier to control.
This is something we must do to improve efficiency, but of course the balance between efficiency and control is a very delicate one.
I have discussed this a lot with my colleagues and in the case of PHARE it is clear that we can move forward fairly rapidly in some sectors, perhaps more rapidly than with whole countries.
It showed that there had been a high level of irregularities, especially in the field of Structural Funds.
It also said that most of these irregularities, perhaps 90 %, take place at the level of the final beneficiary.
The Commission has also said that the financial corrections will be applied from 1 January 1998 in order to clarify the uncertainties and ambiguities of the present regulation which dates from 1993.
At the same time, of course, we have tried to see how we could improve the whole legal framework to avoid this kind of ambiguity in the future.
This reform, which was presented to you in various committees on 18 March, has taken into account a large number of the remarks by the Court of Auditors and our own findings.
We must cut down the number of initiatives: there will be only three.
The new regulations are very clear.
If a Member State identifies an irregularity, it can transfer the funds to another project; if it is the Court of Auditors or the Commission which identifies an irregularity, we will withdraw the funds.
The question of financing the regulation is extremely important and we hope that this presidency and future presidencies will work hard to get it accepted in time for it to enter into force on 1 January 2000.
We have made a start on the extremely difficult task of financing spending on the Structural Funds in the long term, and I am very pleased to note the words of the presidency that it is a joint effort.
Whatever we do in the Commission we cannot solve every single problem in the final beneficiary countries.
I shall be pleased to come back to the Committee on Budgetary Control in the autumn.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
This indicates how seriously Parliament is taking this particular theme.
The matter at hand is the completely inadequate level of cooperation between the national judicial authorities and the criminal prosecution services in the fight against international crime, which is damaging the EU budget by way of fraud, corruption and money laundering.
It could coordinate and support the work of the national investigating authorities and contribute to providing better training for lawyers in this sector.
The new Article 280 of the Treaty of Amsterdam is intended to promote cooperation between Member States and the Commission in the area of criminal prosecution.
To this effect it would be necessary to lay down uniform criminal laws for all Member States in respect of crimes affecting the Community.
This should also include a clear definition of the term "European public prosecutor' , as used in the Corpus Juris study, so that this is compatible with the individual legal systems of the Member States in respect of their powers of investigation and prosecution, and here I am thinking particularly of English law.
The corrigendum affects the very issue which was the substance of the only significant argument in committee.
Mr President, I should also like to draw your attention to another matter.
I believe that this conversation has now illustrated right from the start just where the problems lie in this respect.
This is a programme on which we shall probably be working for some considerable time in partnership with the Commission and the Member States.
With this in mind our group gives the report its general approval.
Mr President, words are obviously very important things and words can be used either to emphasize something or to conceal it.
In some respects it is difficult to pronounce, but it is clearly even more difficult to understand.
We should therefore demonstrate here today in this House that we require better coordination between the national prosecution authorities in those areas involving the control, prevention and sanctioning of fraud affecting the financial interests of the Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, our course is clear; we all know how we should proceed in providing the Commission with the legal instruments and penal provisions to combat organized crime.
But this also demonstrates how difficult it is to make progress unless all the Member States show the political will to make some concrete decisions in this area with a view to putting in place the systems required for effective collaboration.
It is ambitious considering how difficult it is to come to any decisions in this area, and here, of course, I am thinking of our good old problem of the convention to protect the financial interests of the EU not having been ratified.
This is a serious area and an important one, and I would also like to illustrate this with a simple example - perhaps even a banal example in the wider context - but right now in Denmark we are debating the problem of the loss of many millions of kroner that Denmark incurs because fathers are avoiding their obligation to pay child support.
It is true that in this case good arguments have been used, as the Elles report has emphasized, regarding the refusal to discharge the budget for 1996, but these arguments are also used for purposes which we believe are questionable.
The liaison body between the national and Community judicial authorities would naturally be UCLAF, the Commission's anti-fraud unit, which should, in a manner of speaking, become the European public ministry.
As I indicated in my point of order my reservations are about paragraphs 7, 9 and 10 and the use in the English text of the words 'European public prosecutor' , and what I believe to be the misinterpretation and the misuse of Article 280 as it is referred to in indents (h) and (I).
Article 280 enables the Union to intervene to take subsidiary action under the first pillar.
The same applies to her report, which is really very broad in the viewpoint it takes, and defines the horizon towards which we should tend, in this case harmonization of criminal law in the European Union, and the setting up of an independent judicial authority, an expression which is I believe literally translated from the German, although it is not the translation of the corpus juris.
We know that some instances of fraud and crime with regard to the Community budget are multinational in nature, as they involve a number of players, and their effects are felt in a number of Member States.
He is, it would appear, a devoted defender of the national or Community taxpayers, but in this specific context he has decided that he will not do battle.
Mr President, it seems to me that we are making Europe into a kind of giant with huge legs, driving the economy it runs with arms just as long involved in the fraud and organized crime that are becoming more rapacious today, but with a brain that is sometimes very small and heads in a very modest political direction and that, finally and unfortunately, has no kidneys or liver, organs which it should use to get rid of the negative aspects.
Mr President, this report leads me to think that the status quo in the fight against multinational fraud is unsatisfactory.
As I have repeated on a number of occasions, I support any improvement in cooperation between the national prosecution authorities and, naturally, I also support the optimal use of existing databases.
There is no doubt that developing UCLAF into an independent coordination and information body would be a real contribution to the fight against international crime.
For this reason we cannot accept any report which would lead us in this direction.
The new citizens joining the European Union will expect the European Union to provide them with guarantees in this respect and so will the citizens of the 15 present Member States.
This is necessary because our point of departure is 15 different judicial and penal systems in our Member States.
There are many different definitions of fraud.
So far we have used the Maastricht Treaty as best we can.
It has produced some successful results, such as the regulation on the protection of the financial interests and the regulation on spot checks, but clearly we need to broaden the understanding among practitioners of the utility of our work by addressing issues close to the hearts of citizens.
The multi-annual programmes do precisely that.
We now have a number of programmes in operation: GROTIUS for judicial cooperation, STOP to combat sexual exploitation of children and trafficking in women, DAPHNE to fight violence against women and children, SHERLOCK on forged documents and OISIN on police and customs cooperation.
Another two programmes have just been approved by the Council of Ministers: ODYSSEUS on border controls, migration and asylum and FALCONE on the fight against organized crime.
Taken together, these programmes are an impressive start to practical cooperation between the relevant specialists in all our Member States.
The academic work done to prepare the Corpus Juris is yet another example of how to prepare the ground for further initiatives.
The protection of the Union budget is of special concern to me, as I am responsible for the fight against fraud.
It was decided that the taxpayers' money must be protected in an equivalent way in the Union as well as in all the Member States.
I agree with the rapporteur that in order to ensure that the Union finances are equally protected under criminal law in all Member States, we need efficient cooperation between investigation authorities and the judiciary in all Member States.
We have put such a proposal to the Commission but, as I have stressed on a number of occasions, such an activity needs human resources so I expect the European Parliament to take its political responsibility in this respect.
A number of other improvements in the UCLAF organization will also be made, notably in its computer unit, but these are questions I will come back to next month when we discuss Mr Bösch's report.
The role of UCLAF in assisting prosecuting authorities in the Member States is laid down in the second protocol to the convention.
I hope the issue will be addressed at the European Council in Cardiff.
I also wish to inform you that I am preparing, together with Commissioner de Silguy, a proposal to protect the new currency, the euro, from forgery and counterfeiting.
These ideas have, as you know, been the subject of debate in academic circles for some years.
I have no doubt that the ideas contained in this document will form part of the future discussion on a European single judicial area - an important discussion that also has to link in with implementation of the Amsterdam Treaty.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12.00 noon.
I now understand from the President of the Commission that the Council, the British Presidency, wants to discuss this proposal on 6 April, and that this Parliament is being put under heavy pressure to proceed to the final vote.
On behalf of all those who are waiting for improvements, the frontier workers who are for ever left out in the cold, I call on the Council, which always takes the benefits, but never wants to provide any more rules, to give its support to the proposal not to implement in the final vote the modifications to Regulation 1408 as they are before us.
I have also seen a copy of Commissioner Flynn's letter to the rapporteur.
I agree that it is a shame that the amendments cannot be accepted at this stage but I note the Commission's intention to accept the two main amendments, Nos 3 and 4, in the context of the general revision of Regulation 1408/71 which will come forward later this year.
Also, in the context of Anne Van Lancker's own-initiative report on the issue of frontier workers, the separate question of the position of various delegations in Council is one which would have to be answered by Council.
My final point is that the Council looks to adopt this on 7 April.
Mr President, I also rise to oppose referral back to committee.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think that it is a scandal of the highest order, and one which has been running for years, that the problems caused by an incomplete system of regulations and a lack of harmonization, which frontier workers have to endure on a personal basis, have still not ben solved.
We in this Parliament are responsible for doing everything we can to bring maximum pressure to bear on the Council and the Commission, whose efforts in this area I fully acknowledge.
The first two amendments you have voted for this morning are already on the table of the Council and are being discussed at this time.
However, this morning the House is asked to vote on purely technical amendments to the annual adjustment of Regulation 1408/71.
But this morning you are asked to vote on technical adjustments to Regulation 1408/71, which happens on an annual basis.
This is going to the Social Affairs Council on 6 April, and it would be a great pity if the House could not see the usefulness of doing this at this time.
But unanimity in the Council is involved.
Who in this House will therefore dare to vote against my proposals for it to be referred back to committee, on account of the British Presidency on 6 April?
In a very important report there was a substantial debate in committee and the most substantial part of the debate, as far as I was concerned, was about the use of the words 'European public prosecutor' .
It is, therefore, fundamentally unsatisfactory when we come to plenary to find that we have a corrigendum deleting in paragraphs 7, 9 and 10 the words 'European public prosecutor' and replacing them with 'European judicial authority' , which actually means something totally different.
The fact that there is no European judicial, prosecuting or investigating authority, nor is there a public prosecutor, makes it very difficult indeed to find a common term which does justice to all the different national systems.
Thank you, Mrs Theato.
I must say that, for my part, it is more a question of the concept than the translation.
I do not know how this term can be translated into the other languages, or whether it is compatible, but a body is something that is indefinite, that is half-way; that could therefore solve the linguistic problem we are otherwise faced with.
While open to correction, I think there is little doubt, firstly that the text on which we have voted and which is authoritative is the German text; secondly, this German text included the expression "independent authority' in German and it did not contain the expression "European public prosecutor' , which for its part comes from another source, namely the corpus juris proposed by the Commission.
We have indeed voted on a draft which spoke of an independent judicial authority.
In the event of disagreement with this draft, it would, it appears to me, have been necessary to table an amendment according to the prescribed procedure, and this being the case, there would have indeed been a translation error between the German text and the other linguistic versions.
Mr President, the various groups, including of course my own, have been discussing the report as it was then, namely without the corrigendum, and have formed an opinion on it.
If she does not withdraw it, I will propose on behalf of my group that the report be referred back to committee.
Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore have a proposal relating to the corrigendum and a proposal for referral to committee.
I am thus going to put to the vote the proposal relating to the corrigendum, to see whether or not the corrigendum is accepted or refused.
Mrs Theato, do you agree with this procedure?
Mr President, I should first like to know precisely whether, in the event that the corrigendum is not adopted, you will again allow a vote on the referral back to committee.
If the corrigendum is adopted we shall then possibly vote on a referral to committee, if so requested.
However, at present, I have before me a proposal from Mrs Green, for a referral back to committee if the corrigendum is not adopted.
I must remind you that this corrigendum in French replaces the expression "European public prosecutor' with the expression "European judicial authority' .
Mr President, I appreciate very much what you are trying to do and I agree with you but this is a procedure which we have not adopted before.
Mr President, the vote which you now wish to conduct is inadmissible.
The rapporteur said that the original text was in German.
I therefore consider the vote you are proposing to be inadmissible.
We should be voting on the basis of the German text.
Ladies and gentlemen, I note the fact that Madame rapporteur withdrew corrigendum No 1.
We shall now vote on the text without corrigendum No 1.
I cannot make any other suggestions. (Parliament adopted the resolution) I would like to congratulate our colleague Tom Megahy for his hard work and the pertinence of the recommendations made in his report, which seem to me to go in the right direction.
Like many of our colleagues, I wish to support the amendments tabled by the rapporteur.
We are indeed well aware of the difficulty of implementing measures aimed at integrating disabled people into a society which increasingly excludes those individuals who have most problems adjusting to ever more demanding circumstances.
I grant that these words are somewhat removed from the original subject, but I fear that the measures aimed at social deregulation particularly affect people with disabilities.
I believe that in this field we have much more to do, particularly in terms of access to employment and the fight against all kinds of latent discrimination, which affects disabled people all too often.
In the meantime, there will be a period of 10 years in which we will be driving through a grey area.
The Council is going even further and prescribing the obligatory installation of fully digital tachographs in all new vehicles from 1 July 2000.
The proposal affects small hauliers in particular and those companies which do not always have the possibility of introducing new equipment without high costs.
Parliament adopted a number of amendments at first reading, aimed at further improving conditions for disabled citizens, and it is gratifying to see that the Council has allowed these proposals to be incorporated into its common position.
This regulation was followed by another regulation, No 1463/70, which provided for recording equipment in road transport.
As in many other cases, this innovation had, to begin with, positive effects on conditions of work and competition, but unfortunately they did not last long.
There was then a need for a new regulation.
In 1985, Council Directive 3820/85 established driving times and rest times for professional drivers, and guaranteed better control over Community provisions relating to the monitoring devices.
After years of practical experience, it became apparent that Regulation No 3821/85 did not provide sufficient protection against manipulations of the disk, and that the control system was extremely difficult to implement.
In 1995, Parliament wished for a better performing, more reliable system, which would be less open to fraud.
It is now astonishing to see our rapporteur backtracking, for the 1A system which he proposes is a regressive one.
It does not go as far as the European Parliament's decision in 1995, and neither the Commission nor the Council have any time for it.
Of course, the common position goes further than that recommended by our rapporteur.
It has applied to the letter the request by the European Parliament to introduce a new generation of recording equipment, which would be entirely digital and feature integrated memory.
Now we have to find solutions to the problems which will certainly arise.
If the vehicles driving two years after the entry into force of the regulation require an 1B electrotachograph, the same should apply for vehicles in circulation from 1 January 1996, when the recording equipment which they are equipped with is replaced.
However, these technical improvements are of no value if the road transport controls are not carried out within the rules, and uniformly so in all Member States.
In conclusion, I would say that we need an indispensable instrument to record violations and to increase the respect of the rules now in force.
I believe that the 1B system meets these conditions.
As regards the Member States, they will need in the future to make efforts to avoid different behaviour arising from divergent interpretations of the rules in force.
The investments in the 1B system will be accepted, and the controls will produce the desired effect, provided the Commission also looks at these problems as soon as possible.
Väyrynen report (A4-0008/98) Mr President, I should like to give an oral explanation as to why the Liberal group abstained in the final vote.
As this essential point in the report has now become distorted, the Liberal group felt they had to abstain from voting.
Just as consumers want to know what they are purchasing before they hand over payments, airlines (who are indeed consumers of airport services) should receive the same level of transparency.
For these reasons I am abstaining from the final vote on the Väyrynen report.
The Luxembourg Socialists therefore support the amendment proposed by Mr Simpson (PSE), which seeks to apply Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the directive only to those airports which have annual traffic of at least 2 million passengers or 50 000 tonnes of freight.
This will allow us to ensure that our airport remains a cost-effective business.
Taking into account these considerations, I supported Article 5 and Amendments Nos 11, 25 and 26 in particular.
The proposal for a directive we are debating is the last of the measures envisaged in the third liberalization package for air transport.
The proposal is based on strict, rational, financial criteria, which regard airports as simple commercial enterprises and ignore their vital role as a means to support economic development and cohesion, to exercise social policy, and to implement objectives related to environmental protection and the safety of flights, passengers and those working in the area.
It is extremely important to point out in connection with the discussion of this report that we must see the network of national airports as one system.
Aparicio Sánchez report (A4-0071/98) With the pending economic and monetary union, as well as the completion of the single market, several barriers to tourism within the Union will be lifted.
Currently, the EU's lack of coherent thinking as regards tourism seems to indicate the answer to that question will be a resounding 'no' .
To truly have a single market, tourists must be protected by similar laws in each Member State.
Improvements in the rights and safety of consumers are always an important goal, even though I think that the current impact of the tourism sector on the environment is the most pressing problem to solve.
I have therefore abstained from voting in the final vote on the Aparicio Sánchez report.
The report is also right to point out that air safety needs more attention as the number of flights and passengers criss-crossing our airspace grows each year.
I hope that the Commission and Council will act on the rapporteur's ideas and ensure that consumer confidence in the vital tourism sector of our economy is strengthened as a result.
Paragraph 11 of the report proposes that the Commission should present to Parliament and the Council the results of a study of overbooking of hotels and other accommodation etcetera.
Similarly, paragraph 30 proposes that, along with Parliament and sector associations, the Commission should organize annual conferences on the quality of the supply of tourism services.
The reports of the Court of Auditors make appalling reading.
For its part, the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations goes further in its analysis and lays the blame on the structure itself of a number of European institutions and policies.
For example, the Elles report is concerned about the fact that more than one year after the conclusions of the European Parliament's Committee of Inquiry on the procedures for Community transit, the computerization of this procedure, which was presented as an appropriate means of making it reliable and operational, has still not begun.
To truly fight against fraud, the Commission must be removed from its pedestal, and it must itself be subject to control.
It is clear that the refusal to give it discharge for the 1996 budget will have consequences.
If the European Parliament was logical with regard to its own actions, it would vote a motion of censure.
Moreover, Denmark will remain outside any such initiative on the basis of our reservations about participation in EU legal cooperation.
Mr President, we are dealing with an important proposal, which has appeared thanks to this Parliament, namely as a result of the van Velzen report and the proposal made by the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Tillich.
In the United States 37 % of all investments find their way to start-up enterprises.
The proposal comprises three complementary initiatives.
This plan constitutes the implementation of part of the Tillich package, ECU 420 million out of a total of ECU 450 million.
Secondly, the ETF scheme is implemented by the European Investment Bank, whilst the Euro Start-up scheme will be managed by the European Investment Fund.
The Commission will have to do something about marketing this initiative.
With such a scheme the potential which already exists in a number of Member States can be extended throughout the entire European Union.
There have been some examples of cooperation between transnational SMEs in central and eastern Europe and in the Third World.
It was agreed that the programme would run for three years.
This was also promised by the Luxembourg Summit.
All being well, these two programmes will cost the EU absolutely nothing after 16 years, and this is a wonderful way to promote job creation, whilst at the same time pursuing a frugal budgetary policy.
Amendments Nos 18 and 20 are formal changes.
Amendment No 21 has incorporated part of the amendment from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy which had fallen between two stools.
This legislative proposal is intended as an initiative for creating more jobs in Europe.
The aim of the proposal was, and is, to adopt a programme which will quickly and easily help create additional jobs in innovative enterprises, and not in the administrative offices of the Commission and Member States.
In the course of the 1998 budgetary procedure and in the decision, we did not set out that this programme should comprise ECU 450 million for three years.
The correct interpretation is that we reached a decision on ECU 150 million for the year 1998.
However, this does not mean - and indeed this is the position of the Commission and the Council - that we require a legal basis for the remaining ECU 420 million.
I know, and this has already been said by the rapporteur, that Europe has had a very poor success rate with venture-capital funds and with this programme we wanted to provide some stimulation here.
Mr President, the committee strongly supports the Commission's proposals to help small businesses by making more accessible finance for innovative and job-creating SMEs.
We welcome the involvement of Europe's biggest bank - our bank, the European Investment Bank - and the use of the European Investment Fund.
I share these concerns and hope that the full ECU 450 million can be used earlier rather than later.
This was largely the result of the European Parliament having financed this project out of its own budget.
The European Parliament did this to create the opportunity to submit at least one concrete project before the summit on employment in Luxembourg.
The objective of the entire project is obviously to create employment.
Simply leaving it to the Member States is an extremely dangerous strategy, because in some of the Member States hamburger jobs are proving more popular at the moment than a balance between flexibility and security.
Nevertheless, I hope that what the rapporteur calls the 'ETF start-up scheme' , the joint European venture and the SME guarantee facility, particularly for businesses employing fewer than 100 people, will all prove successful.
It is precisely these enterprises which experience problems when it comes to the provision of risk capital.
Parliament wants to promote this through the SME guarantee facility and in so doing to create more jobs.
As my colleagues have already said, the SME sector accounts for over 66 % of all employment within the EU.
The majority of companies in Ireland in that sector would employ 80 people or less.
This presents us with a great opportunity to send out a very strong message to those people who are putting their own capital at risk that we are willing to act with them as joint partners in creating new enterprises, new jobs and, in particular, new economic wealth.
I congratulate Mr Pronk on his proposals with regard to the very technical aspect of providing venture capital to these small enterprises, so that Europe once again can be in the lead in creating new employment.
For that reason and because we are worried that these resources might be misused, we tabled an amendment to paragraph 3 of the proposal.
That is why I hope that we will be able to look at this programme in a positive way.
The small companies I allude to are often firms in which women mainly work.
However, women often work in labourintensive service industries, so investment in such companies will lead directly to job creation.
In many parts of my area small would not be 50 employees; that would be big.
I join with the honourable Member who appealed for a special set of rules for the micro SMEs.
There was a programme recently on the BBC which suggests that the Commission is about to introduce a directive on this subject.
It is late payment that undoes all the work we are trying to do here, and often the culprits are big companies, local authorities and, I have to say, institutions of the European Union.
I welcome this report with all its merits and hope it will be passed unanimously.
Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report.
It is certainly widely recognized throughout the European Union that SMEs are fundamental to the future of our economy.
We all know that small and medium-sized enterprises account for more than 65 % of our employment, and it is right therefore that in finding ways of strengthening our economy most effort is put into helping them over the initial difficulties.
In my own constituency, we have the particular problem of the difference between the pound sterling and the punt.
The UK government has to date been unable to tackle the high rate which is the most overrated cost of any currency in the world.
In Italy, for example, there are around four million small businesses, which represent 90 % of our enterprises.
Consequently, I share the spirit of the initiative favouring the new financial measures for SMEs.
In particular, I agree with the opinion expressed by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on the need to give specific priority to business with less than 100 employees, establishing accurately and transparently the real potential for growth of the businesses themselves, that have to create new jobs; however, these new jobs also have to be permanent.
Mr President, as recalled by Mr Pronk and by those before me, for years we have been trying to identify effective means, methods and solutions to contribute towards facing the employment problem in a positive way.
For this reason, last year, while preparing for the Luxembourg Extraordinary Summit, the European Parliament called on the Council to adopt strengthening and expansion measures in favour of SMEs and proposed the creation of a new budget heading B-55, job market and technological innovation, to be financed with ECU 450 million over three years, dividing the measures into two sections: initiatives in favour of the job market and technological innovation, in addition to the amount already provided by the EIB and by the European Investment Fund.
In particular, the initiatives favouring the job market are also based on the implementation of the Commission communication indicating the need for local employment initiatives, identifying too 17 different sectors in which pilot projects would be financed as would the spread of the good practices that have produced satisfactory results in terms of employment in recent years.
I am thinking, among other things, of the development and promotion of pilot projects within the third system - not the tertiary system, as it is often incorrectly called or translated - which, in addition to creating jobs, is an efficient local means of participating in and providing positive answers to social, environmental and cultural requirements.
At this point, I have to say that, not meeting expectations, with the proposal we are discussing today, the Commission is allocating a reference sum of ECU 420 million, excluding the initiative of the first section.
In addition to approving the Commission proposal, it is therefore also necessary to correct what has been mentioned above and include it in the proposal legal basis, as proposed by the rapporteur, whom I congratulate.
The European Parliament has made ECU 150 million available, and all this is primarily for the benefit of small and medium-sized businesses, businesses with up to 250 employees, as set out by the European Commission.
The fight against structural unemployment should be introduced in this environment above all.
Coming from an almost ultra-peripheral region in the north-west of Ireland and representing the constituency of Connacht and Ulster, which has a high rate of unemployment and a per capita income less than 75 % the European average, I can very much identify with enterprises with less than ten employees and fully appreciate their importance.
The creation of an enterprise culture within the Union is absolutely essential.
However, it is their responsibility to create conditions conducive to investment and job creation.
Therefore, in conclusion, I welcome Parliament's decision to provide additional financial resources of ECU 450 million and also welcome the proposal for a Council decision to assist SMEs.
These account for 66 % of total employment in the EU and are marked by a strong gross employment growth.
Mr President, this report on financial assistance for innovation and job-creating SMEs carries the promise that resources will be made available to encourage the sort of entrepreneurship which will provide for sustainable growth in employment.
The excellent Mr Pronk has kindly agreed to my suggestions in this regard.
Amendment No 8 draws attention to the need to secure the wide dissemination of information concerning financial assistance, especially to women entrepreneurs, and Amendment No 11 calls for an assessment of the schemes which takes into account equal opportunities.
I hope that the Commission will listen to us on this point and will truly mainstream opportunities for women within this financial assistance.
Take Italy, for example, where I have been elected, a country which has got its accounts more or less into order, intensifying the tax pressure on SMEs and planning to do so even more in the future; the European Commission should pay a great deal of attention to that need.
The strategy recommended by the Commission is the continuation of a healthy macroeconomic policy at Community level and the strengthening of the coordination of national economic policies and employment policies.
I would remind you that in the United States, it is estimated that 3 % of companies - those working basically in biotechnology, telecommunications and in the cutting edge sectors, have created 80 % of jobs in that country.
Moreover, in our opinion it was unnecessary to add the term "Euro' and call it 'Euro Start-up' , as this did not add a great deal.
I would add that a similar programme - namely the JOP - is intended for the Eastern European countries, and has already shown its capacity to create new business and jobs.
The third and last mechanism is the SME guarantee facility, managed by the European Investment Fund.
In this respect, the Commission has taken up your request for a rapid and in-depth evaluation of the efficiency of these measures.
The Commission has already made a certain number of things available for venture capital.
That is why the Commission will, this very afternoon, set up a special committee on risk capital, with a view to the 1998 Cardiff European Council, which will, therefore, play a fully complementary role.
Mrs Ojala and Mr Wim van Velzen, any enterprise is acceptable, as any job is worth creating.
This amount in entered in the lines B 5-510 and B 5-511; these two lines which correspond respectively to the SME technology initiative and to the joint European venture.
May I point out that the collective nature of this project meant that, in addition to the SMEs we also wanted to incorporate innovative actions in the labour market and in the third system?
We added Amendment No 3 so that the original character of the deal would be restored.
Very briefly, Mr President, with regard to Amendment No 3, it is proposed to add a sentence to the first paragraph.
It is a little redundant, but we can accept it.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, as you just said, this report is about the Commission's communication on the world summit on social development in Copenhagen in 1995 when heads of state and government from 117 states and from the EU signed the Copenhagen Declaration.
In just over a month, in May, the UN's Economic and Social Council is to hold a meeting in New York at which the question of the implementation and follow-up of the Copenhagen summit will be discussed.
It is therefore particularly important that we in the European Parliament have the opportunity through this report to give opinions before this meeting.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for good cooperation and for their valuable points of view.
At the same time I regret that, unfortunately, the opinion from the Committee on Development and Cooperation came a little too late for me to include anything from it.
However, I believe that most of the points of view of that committee are still covered in the report.
It may, for example, concern the effect of EMU on employment and cutbacks in the public sector, economic convergence but no social criteria, and it may also concern the EU's role as an aid donor.
Measures must therefore be taken within the framework of the European Social Fund.
EU policy in the area of development cooperation is actually directed at the eradication of poverty.
But we have also called emphatically for a global tax on international currency speculation, the so-called Tobin Tax, in the form of a Parliamentary resolution to the Copenhagen Summit.
My group cannot therefore support Amendment No 10 as proposed by the Group of the European People's Party, for we believe that this tax should be imposed.
She is fully entitled to that, but this view implies that her country should remain as independent as possible.
But now we have the strange situation in which we are going to include a text from Ms Tongue in this report, dealing with very centralized, harmonized measures which encroach on the Member States' autonomy to raise taxes.
And that is a very major problem with this report.
I understand that the Socialist group let this pass rather more easily than we do, but we are not able to accept this under any circumstance, Mr President.
But as to the point in the text by Ms Tongue, there is no room for discussion.
I think that in her report the rapporteur sums up in a very worthwhile way a proposal which goes further.
Secondly, there must be joint arrangements, such as the 20: 20 initiative combining development aid with social programmes in the recipient countries.
However, a majority of the group is opposed to a Tobin Tax and wants to reduce the number of references to ethical regulations in paragraph 17.
It seems to us that in recent years, not only has the situation not improved, but it has not even stabilized; in fact, it has deteriorated.
Only four European countries comply with that resolution.
We think that for there to be a proper follow-up to the Copenhagen Summit, it is essential for all those countries which do not yet comply with this demand to come to a decision in that respect.
And in ten years time, we will be debating poverty here again and still talking about the thousands of millions of people still in the same situation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if my memory serves me well, social justice is the central concept of the Christian doctrine.
What matters is whether we succeed in actually using the process of the UN Summit to reverse the trend of blind globalization and ideological globalism, and whether we succeed in steering towards social justice, ecological sustainability and democratic co-determination, even for those living in the poorer countries.
In this respect, we would like to support the Commission, in full recognition of the work which it is doing, but also with the intention of promoting and accelerating this work, for the decision which is at stake will affect the future of the planet.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel as if, with the opportunity of this debate, the European Union as a whole is undergoing a kind of test, a trial.
Mr President, we believe that economic and social development is not an abstract concept but is combined with the fundamental concepts of peace, safety, respect for the environment and, not least, respect for human rights.
The Luxembourg Summit on employment, in addition to trying to respond to the consequences of the globalization of the economy, emphasized the need to draw up suitable policies to combat the resulting social exclusion and poverty.
Mrs Schörling's report is characterized by this idea.
In paragraph 14 Mrs Schörling urges the Commission to take the initiative for a global tax on international currency trading.
For a person who represents a party which believes that its own country should leave the European Union, it is surprising to put forward a proposal which means that the EU should introduce such a gigantic and bureaucratic project as a tax on all currency transactions.
The proposal is also an example of a common finance policy which the rapporteur opposes in other respects.
The social summit of Copenhagen ended in March 1995 with the adoption of ten commitments which fixed as priority objectives the fight against poverty, support for full employment and social integration.
Following on from the Copenhagen Summit, we have to call into question the heavy trends of current economic and social system of organization and tackle the domination of the financial markets over all human activity, a domination which has not really its progress.
This is what was said in the report on the resolution on the respect of human rights voted through here on 17 February, which considered that poverty and unemployment were indeed violations of human rights.
The governments of the Member States have got better things to do today than to undertake secret negotiations aimed at satisfying the interests of a few investors.
I hear protests from the PPE, and I would like to know whether the PPE shows as mush restraint with respect to international institutions which act in the monetary field in particular, such as the International Monetary Fund.
The Copenhagen Summit was an important summit which led to ten commitments which were very positive, and to which the Member States of the European Union itself have subscribed.
However, although in the economic and commercial field, we are subject to compulsory commitments - here, I am thinking of the World Trade Organization which is the only global institution with supranational power, with the possibility of arbitrating decisions over the states, over the European Union, the same does not apply in the social or environmental fields.
It is important to fight this imbalance and I believe that it is absolutely the role of the European Commission and the European Union to tackle this problem and to act so that in parallel with the institutions which operate in the commercial field, other supranational institutions can also have a role to play in the field of environmental and social affairs.
They negotiate a multinational agreement on investments which is exactly the contrary of this approach, and which goes in the direction of the World Trade Organization, which further strengthens the policy aimed at depriving the Member States of their means of action in the social field.
The Copenhagen summit has given a strong impetus to governments, to the Community, to NGOs, United Nations bodies and a lot of others to develop and strengthen their actions in the field of social and human development.
A lot certainly remains to be done but since the Copenhagen summit a great number of actions have been launched and they should be referred to here.
The 1992 Council regulation on cooperation with the countries of Asia and Latin America already stated that 'the aim of the Community development and cooperation policies shall be human development.
All this is absolutely consistent with Article 130u of the Maastricht Treaty which emphasizes sustainable economic and social development, the campaign against poverty in developing countries, and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Yes, we agree that the fight against poverty and social exclusion should be a top priority for the European Union because it remains a serious problem for so many of our European citizens.
The European Union's single main tool for fighting against exclusion from the labour market is the Integra Community employment initiative within the Structural Funds.
After two project selection phases, one in 1995 and the other in 1997, 1 600 Integra projects have been selected.
The Amsterdam Treaty, once ratified, will create new legal bases for action at Community level to combat exclusion, which can complement the present actions which have a labour market focus.
We firmly believe that public support for increased trade liberalization will be threatened if we fail to address the public concerns on this important issue.
Our new GSP scheme provides for special incentive arrangements starting on 1 January 1998 in the form of additional preferences which may granted to countries implementing core labour standards.
On 29 October 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for the introduction in the GSP of a social clause on compliance with ILO conventions on child labour and freedom of association, of the right to organize and collective bargaining and of an environmental clause on sustainable management of tropical forests as defined by the International Tropical Timber Organization to ensure that these special incentive arrangements operate effectively.
The proposal for a regulation lays down the methods of monitoring application.
Finally, the Commission fully supports the current ILO proposal for a declaration on workers' fundamental rights and, especially, the need for a mechanism to be put in place to guarantee these rights.
That is important for the Union and it is also just as important in the global economy of the future.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's proposal on which we have been consulted at one reading relates to regulations enabling the Commission to adopt individual rules for the exemption from the obligation to give prior notification of certain classes of horizontal state aid, which amounts to 83 % of total state aid in Europe.
This is the first truly significant use of Article 94 of the Treaty.
This tool enables the Commission, enriched with the experience it has acquired in this field, to exempt certain aid from the notification procedure.
The Commission's idea is to achieve in this area a procedure similar to that applicable to the control of concentration, which relies on revisable intervention thresholds, and the participation of third parties in the consideration and establishment of a consultative committee.
We fully approve of the Commission's approach, which focuses its attention on the cases of state aid which truly do require consideration, and to accelerate the granting of aid where there is no dispute as to the validity of the cases.
The aid covered by the regulation concerns the aid for SMEs, where it is as effective as it is diligently allocated to research and development, environmental protection and employment and training.
The Commission's proposal also stipulates that the Commission will be able to adopt a regulation which allows aid under a certain threshold limit to be exempt from notification.
This would provide a legal basis for a practice which is already longstanding.
We must be pleased about this, although we recognize that the impact of this regulation will vary according to the practice of the Member States.
The first relates to the general line followed by the Commission in the field this text comes under, the aim being an undifferentiated reduction in state aid in the European Union.
Such a position might a priori be an obstacle to achieving two fundamental objectives, namely the strengthening of industrial policy, and the search for greater efficiency in public expenditure.
The Union's approach with regard to state aid as an economic policy instrument should be drawn up and explained.
The assessment of how far aid is compatible with the rules of the internal market should take into account general objectives of Community policy, relating to industrial competitiveness and economic and social cohesion within the Union, but also paying attention to the practice of our major competitors on the global market.
The Commission's proposal can give rise to two sorts of reaction.
My third observation relates to the importance of the Commission's proposals with regard to the application procedures of Article 93 of the Treaty.
My last point, Mr President, relates to the place of our Parliament in the implementation of enabling regulations to be proposed by the Commission.
In our amendments, we ask to be involved in this procedure.
I believe there are between 30 000 and 40 000 such companies in Sweden which sell their products on the open market and so compete with normal companies, but they are subsidized by almost the whole wage cost.
In the same amendment, No 11, the rapporteur also removes two categories proposed by the Commission, namely export credits and export credit guarantees.
I think that what the rapporteur is proposing is good because there is doubt that export credits and export credit guarantees really are aid which falls under Article 92 and that they belong in this context.
I think it often seems in this House as if state aid just means that one country goes and steals work in some way, but that is only one side of the coin.
The rapporteur points out that state aid amounts to 1.7 % of the Community's GDP.
That may sound like a lot of money, but we should be aware that the socio-economic costs associated with this aid are perhaps a tenth or a hundredth of that amount and so amount to a few tenths or hundredths of one per cent.
Certainly, the control of state aid is a big responsibility for the Commission.
So, we agree with a practical approach, we agree with the list of categories and aid proposed by the Commission - and our group is not in favour of either lengthening it or shortening it, as the rapporteur suggests - but we have made two comments which have been taken up by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
The first point is that production can be integrated, which means that by giving small amounts of aid to integrated businesses, the added value of the final product might be over-subsidized.
Integrated production has to be monitored, otherwise we are going to run into serious problems of very large subsidies in terms of a product's final added value.
The second comment is that this procedure - this new focus - requires the Member States to be monitored at a global level.
As we lose specific control of each type of aid, there has to be more global budgetary control over the total aid given by each country.
This theory has already been approved by this House with regard to the general report on competition policy, and it becomes increasingly important the further we progress with monetary union.
We cannot cease to exercise control over the possibility that a certain budget might in total devote more than a certain percentage of GDP to state aid.
Even today there are large differences between the Member States, and once monetary union comes into effect, if the Commission fails to take account of the risk that each Member State might devote a large or very significant part of its budget to helping its businesses, we will have competition problems within monetary union.
Mr President, today we have to decide which type of direction to give to state aid in the future, how to involve the territory and categories as well as the controls and exemptions to be applied.
Agenda 2000 will then oblige us to give preference to choices of quality over quantity.
We obviously do not want to say that all state aid is counterproductive, as clearly maintained by the rapporteur, whom we thank for her work.
Therefore, it is important to adhere to regulations on state aid, and transparency is especially important in order to enable third parties, namely competitors, to see what is being given by way of state aid.
The Liberal group is delighted that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has supported us in requiring these subsidies to be made public.
But this should not mean that complete transparency must not prevail, as state aid can seriously distort competition.
State aid should also be examined in connection with normal EU Structural Funds because it is awfully difficult at the moment to know what individual projects are being subsidized either through state aid or through EU structural funding.
In fact, I believe there should be a centre in every Member State where every citizen could have access to information on aid for each individual project, and not just state aid but Structural Funds.
We in the Committee on Regional Affairs are very concerned at the lack of transparency in the document that you have adopted, the draft communication about the coherence of structural policies and competition.
I understand that Commissioner Van Miert has already signed an agreement with Commissioner Wulf-Mathies on making sure that these two maps are indeed coherent, and I wonder when you will refer that document to Parliament.
I believe it is our right to look at issues involving the Structural Funds and I understand you have also written to Member States.
I believe the Structural Funds have a very different objective to state aid and I would simply refer to the case of rural areas.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Berès on her report which increases the chances of better compliance and control of state aid because it makes transparency and greater openness possible.
On the contrary, it is quite wrong to claim that they will lead to a more lax policy in this field.
Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe I am right in understanding that a number of Members of this House - and they are not alone - have raised certain doubts and wondered whether or not this system might not adversely affect the required transparency, once systematic notification had been abolished.
I, for my part, believe that the system once implemented, and in particular the annual reports that the national authorities must send us, will as much as is the case today, and possibly even more so, guarantee the necessary transparency.
I would like to rapidly reply to the Member who spoke about the consistency between the state aid policy, notably provisions governing regional aid at national level and the structural policy, that is, the proposal put forward by Mrs Wulf-Mathies.
Indeed, as you know, a whole series of regions, for example the 5B regions, which are eligible for Structural Funds, are not eligible for regional aid funds or national aid.
The map of regional aid covers about 47 % of the population of the European Union, whereas the Structural Funds reach 51 %.
Regions eligible for Community funds wonder why they cannot receive regional aid, at Member State level.
Mr President, on a point of order.
I understand that the Commission has exclusive competence for competition policy, but in my opinion you are wandering into an area where Parliament has a view on whether it is necessary, in all cases, to have complete coherence of maps.
Therefore, I would like to know when you intend to consult Parliament and, if you intend to force this, what is the legal base for the Commission to enforce the coherence of state aids and structural fund eligibility maps?
As you know, the Commission has this responsibility for state aids on the basis of Articles 92 and 93, unless we make a proposal, as we are doing today, on the basis of Article 94, when the Council has to take a decision.
As I have already said, the Commission has already taken a decision as far as regional aid is concerned because it is the Commission's responsibility.
But I am readily available to Parliament or the relevant committees to discuss this matter and explain to you why we think this coherence between the Structural Funds map and the regional aid map is important.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12: 00 noon.
Now that we are embarking on a more detailed debate on shipbuilding, the waters are parting, for it is very easy to agree on a general plan.
But the new aid policy is supposed to create jobs in the EU.
The new aid policy, which I support, Mr Van Miert, must not amount to featherbedding.
Strong support may well be beneficial in the short term, but long-term it could turn European shipbuilding into a loser in the global marketplace.
Let me emphasize four things in the Commission's proposal.
This must not be allowed to lead to Korean shipyards becoming more dominant players in the market than they are already, for example.
Finally, Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to say that the three statements from the committees concerned and the statement from the Economic and Social Committee all point towards the need to think twice before implementing this plan unamended.
The ultimate goal of EU policy must be that the shipyards recover naturally through market demand.
The European Community has to guarantee Member States equal conditions for competition, promote research and development in shipbuilding, and motivate industrial cooperation.
The conditions for competition among shipyards in EU countries cannot be distorted by aid action which is different for every country.
The shipbuilding industry employs about 130 000 people in the EU.
The market share these countries have, with their cheap labour, is also in the region of 20 %.
The development of the shipbuilding industry is closely linked to developments in other sectors of technology.
Mr President, the opinion I have prepared on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism related only to the Commission's communication to the Council and the European Parliament.
At the same time, I heard all the speakers and the rapporteur talking about support and competition, saying that state aid for shipyards must stop, and talking about the globalization of the economy.
Ladies and gentlemen, that is all very well, but we ought not to remember it only when America, Japan or Korea are asking us to bear in mind the globalization of the economy.
Mr President, on 18 March this year, a majority of the Committee on External Economic Relations approved my report proposing certain amendments to the regulations of the Commission relating to aid to shipbuilding.
The REX committee simply wishes account to be taken of the situation, of the financial crisis in South-East Asia and of its consequences on European shipyards.
I must say very frankly that I do not understand the present attitude of the Commission, which is not unaware of the monetary situation in the South-East Asian countries, and particularly in South Korea.
The Commission is determined as of now to announce that operational aid will be ended on 31 December 2000.
It appears to me that wisdom and common sense should cause it to stand back a little and, as I propose, to firstly carry out a study to ensure that the South-East Asian crisis will have no consequences on the European shipbuilding industry.
This is totally illogical.
That is why the REX committee supports the idea that such a study should be undertaken for the end of 1999 and that, if it appears that there is no risk of monetary dumping from the South Korean conglomerates, the decision should be taken then to eliminate operating aid.
That is why, on behalf of my group, I request a separate vote on paragraph 10.
While they say they are ready in the future to accept the phasing-out of operating aid, they demand that the European Union arm itself with a defensive commercial policy.
Must I point out here once again that since the 1970s, 200 000 jobs have been lost in this sector.
But what are the European Union and Member States doing to impose reductions in capacity on South Korea in exchange?
I therefore wholly support Amendment No 29 from Mr Sindal.
Either the leading trading power in the world remains a shipping power, or it will become dependent on other countries to ship its goods, and it will very quickly become an idol with feet of clay.
Thank you very much, Mr Sainjon.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is questions to the Commission (B4-0272/98).
The Bureau asks the President of the sitting only to accept requests to put supplementary questions once the main question has been dealt with.
Ladies and gentlemen, you will all receive your own copy of these recommendations.
Mr President, on a point of order.
It is on the same issue.
Mr McMahon, please listen to me.
In other words, questions are not to be tabled way in advance, but within the period established by our Rules of Procedure.
So these are small rules, Mr McMahon, intended to improve our work.
But I should warn you that Annex II of our Rules of Procedure states: "The President shall rule on the admissibility of supplementary questions and shall limit their number so that each Member who has put down a question may receive an answer to it' .
Mr Wijsenbeek, I mentioned your name in a friendly manner because I know you are a great authority on the Rules of Procedure.
However, ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is not overstepping its authority by making the simple proposals we have heard here.
The Bureau is keeping well within the scope of its competence, which is the application of the Rules of Procedure, and there is nothing in these proposals which does not appear in the Rules of Procedure.
I have learnt a great deal, I am much more knowledgeable now, and I thank you for allowing me to participate in your debate.
When describing SMEs, the Commission applies the definition set out in the recommendation of 3 April 1996 to the Member States, to the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund.
Under this definition, the purpose of which is to put a little order into the situation you have described, a company must have less than 250 employees, a turnover not exceeding ECU 40 million, and total balance sheet value not in excess of ECU 27 million to comply with the definition of an SME.
To meet the definition of "small, ' a company must have fewer than 50 employees, a turnover of less than ECU 7 million, and a balance sheet of less than ECU 5 million.
The thresholds for turnover and balance sheet will be regularly adjusted, normally every four years, to take account of the economic changes in Europe.
Having said that, in certain specific research and technology development programmes, and in the 1994-1998 fourth framework programme, different and other definitions of small and medium-sized enterprises have been used.
But for the implementation of the fifth framework programme, that is, for 1998-2000, the Commission is proposing that the new definition that I have just given to you should be applied with an exception to allow the inclusion of companies with up to 500 employees.
Among the various criteria for this new definition is that of independence, and the Commission is aware of the fact that this criterion has, unfortunately, not always been respected.
The Commission will certainly continue to insist that, in the future, the SME definition criteria are scrupulously respected.
It has been very useful because just this morning, in approving the Elles report, we stressed how many gaps there were in relation to the aid available to small and medium-sized enterprises which has not been used.
However, we are introducing flexibility, as we have fixed thresholds for micro-companies, employing less than 10 people, which must be precisely adapted to the situation in the islands you mentioned.
I would even say that in some Member States, flexibility is even greater, as the thresholds given are for maximum limits, and the criterion concerning the number of employees may be applied alone, without reference to turnover or balance sheet figures.
I have just two very brief questions to ask him on this point.
With regard more precisely to the second question, I would point out that we plan to have an update of the criteria at least every four years, and sooner, if necessary, according to the change in economic data.
The reform of the common market organization should come into force for the 2001-2002 campaign.
These modifications, as well as the elements that must be taken into account when proposing to reform this sector, will soon be part of a specific debate within your Parliament, and my colleague, Franz Fischler, will answer precisely all your questions on this subject.
I can say to you today that the proposed increases include, among other things, a rise in the maximum guaranteed quantity of 212 400 tonnes, and among the modifications, it is proposed to distribute the increase among the national guaranteed quantities of the producer Member States.
The increase in the maximum guaranteed quantity is due to the change in the Community market take-up capacity.
Although I am not a specialist in olive oil, going on what I know, the current maximum quantity for the whole of the European Union is 1 350 000 tonnes.
One of these allocation criteria relates in particular to the average national production over three years, out of the last five years, setting aside the best and worst year for each of the Member States.
The second, very important thing is that the maximum guaranteed quantity for the whole of Europe will also be affected by these unrealistic Spanish data.
However, it is the Commission's job to submit a proposal on the basis of objective and traditional criteria.
Now the negotiations are in the hands of the Council and I have no doubt but that all points of view will be heard and defended.
I know that, for a certain number of countries, this raises economic problems, and also problems, which we cannot overlook, in terms of market disposal of the olive oil.
Thank you very much, Mr de Silguy.
Question No 43 by Phillip Whitehead (H-0321/98/rev. 1) Subject: Consumers and the euro Will the Commission state whether it maintains the view that all bank charges that are compulsory should be free?
However, the Commission also believes that in order to facilitate the smooth introduction of the euro, the banks should go beyond their minimum legal obligations.
To fully clarify its position on bank charges for euro conversion, the Commission will in 15 days - thus, in the very near future - submit recommendations on the principles of good conduct which will cover both the legally binding provisions and the additional provisions that the Commission believes are desirable.
In this case also, the Commission will present a recommendation in two weeks time and will thus propose codes of good practice in order to provide the necessary clarity and certitude to all the parties concerned with dual pricing.
The round table on 26 February last showed that progress in the practical preparations for the introduction of the euro was to a large extent the result of the mobilization of consumer organizations and professional organizations, and the beginning of continuing dialogue between the players concerned.
Negotiations between consumers and between professionals can also begin at European level.
Indeed, the introduction of such observatories is, I believe, a good thing, as it is a means by which the Member States can promote the circulation of information on the euro and a means by which they can also oversee the voluntary agreements in terms of the codes of good practice I mentioned.
At European level, these observatories might conceivably become a place of informal exchange of information on developments among the Member States.
Thank you for allowing me in with this question.
I am also glad Commissioner Bonino is here now to hear her colleague's answer.
I shall be very precise on this point.
The Commission will make its recommendations in around two weeks, around 15 April, I hope.
These recommendations will be sent to the governments, with the hope of being able to include them in the conclusions of the European Council of 2 May, in order to give them a major political impact.
It is more urgent to look at bank charges, as from 1 January 1999 a certain number of questions will be raised in this respect, which means that we will have to move faster.
For questions of dual pricing, we have a little more time.
I can tell you that the negotiations and reactions are rather positive since the banking community, prior to the round table of 26 February, had sent a letter to Emma Bonino, which I had a copy of, showing that they were willing to work in this direction.
Thank you very much, Mr de Silguy.
Question No 45 by Marialiese Flemming (H-0227/98) Subject: Transport of animals In June 1995 the Council adopted Directive 95/29/EC on the protection of animals during transport.
At present, the Food and Veterinary Office has 46 inspectors.
The Commission is certainly aware of the importance of animal welfare and this aspect will be taken into due consideration when implementing future decisions on the allocation of the resources required by the Office to perform its duties.
Unfortunately, the current situation of employees and human resources is such that only two of the 46 inspectors deal with this sector.
Thank you very much, Mrs Bonino.
My name is not Kirsten Jensen.
I cannot blame the administration for this mistake, because half of Denmark is actually called Jensen, but I find it unsatisfactory not to be able to receive a response today, because the actual question of the regulation on restraint of trade is of great interest to us in Denmark, not least in the run-up to the referendum coming up on 28 May.
Mr McMahon, ladies and gentlemen, I would warn you all that spending time on points of order means there is less time left for questions to the Commission.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, I am sure that the two previous speakers have just as much interest in the welfare of animals as I and that their points of order do not portray indifference to the well-being of animals.
As I said to the honourable Member, every Member State has been inspected at least once and the results are available.
I can provide more details in writing.
I would like to tell the honourable Member that I have two inspectors out of forty-six.
There are also legal obligations arising from other directives such as third countries requesting approval for exporting fisheries or for exporting fresh meat to the European Union.
I am pleased to note that the Commissioner is not satisfied with the existing situation and I am grateful to her for being so honest and open with Parliament about the unsatisfactory nature of the current situation.
As you can imagine, the Commission can only have official relations with Member States authorities.
Nevertheless, I hope that the organizations dealing with animal welfare in the European Union will forge closer links with their counterparts in third countries so that we can establish another form of contact between the people who have to implement the law.
Of course, it is a long way ahead, so we need to find a quicker way of ensuring that the directive is implemented.
Question No 46 by Robin Teverson (H-0281/98) Subject: MAGP IV: Beam trawler length The Commission has allowed the Dutch MAGP IV implementation plan some credit for complying with a change to the Dutch national regulations.
A 1986 rule required that the maximum aggregate length of beams should be reduced.
This is a very technical question but I think it has a political more than a technical meaning.
But it was noted that there was an increase in activity during the previous MAGPs, which compensated for any reduction in efficiency.
There was then no net increase in the fishing efforts base line for MAGP IV.
No Member State has therefore benefited from national compensation measures in the context of MAGPs.
I must confirm that there are only three elements to calculate MAGP which have to reduce overcapacity as a first target.
The three elements that are taken into account are activity, tonnage and power.
They have to reduce the activity, in any case.
According to the Commission, conservation measures applicable to international waters, such as those provided for by the new law, can only be taken within the scope of regional or international organizations.
I am grateful to the Commissioner for her answer but I would like to ask a couple of specific questions.
With regard to the second question, the Council has just given us the mandate to negotiate and we are exploring Argentina's true intentions to determine how the new fisheries law could fall under the terms of this new mandate.
Thank you very much, Mrs Bonino.
Article 2(4) of the agreement on social policy provides that a Member State may entrust management and labour, at their joint request, with the implementation of directives adopted under the agreement.
This provision is similar to those already incorporated into several directives in the social field and, furthermore, this principle was already acknowledged in the case law of the European Court of Justice prior to the adoption of the social protocol to the Treaty.
As a positive example of how the social partners have been associated with the implementation of directives, I would like to refer the honourable Member of Parliament to the agreement on the implementation measures concluded between the social partners' organizations in Denmark.
I would like to ask Commissioner Flynn a slightly more specific question, if he would kindly expand on the response he has already given.
According to the notification we have received in a specific instance in so far as the Danish authorities are concerned, the working time directive has been implemented by a combination of both statutory provisions and collective agreements.
The services of the Commission are currently undertaking an examination of the implementation measures in the light of the detailed implementation of the directive under both headings.
So we are talking about a global implementation report.
We cannot do that just yet because six Member States have yet to notify us of the implementation measures.
The working time directive is precisely what the question is aimed at since, as the Commissioner points out, the situation is such that the Danish government has announced that a relatively large segment of private sector employees are not covered by any agreement and, thus, the working time directive is not in effect for approximately 40 % of private sector employees in the Danish labour market.
These questions are of enormous fundamental importance in Denmark, where many of us believe conditions in the labour market should be regulated by means of collective agreements, but on the other hand we do not believe that the current level of implementation can be considered adequate when the Danish government has announced that approximately 40 % of private sector employees are not included in any agreement whatsoever and are therefore simply not covered.
I would like the Commissioner to confirm that this level of implementation is inadequate.
Thank you very much, Mr Flynn.
As the author is not present, Question No 54 lapses.
Question No 55 by Brian Simpson (H-0296/98) Subject: "Star' Alliance Does the current "Star' Alliance within the aviation sector fall within the scope of the European Works Council Directives?
The Commission has neither the power nor the wish to interfere in the way that the concerned parties define these mechanisms or apply them to particular situations within the context of the Works Council Directive.
The agreement is not binding and, in any case, it does not fall under Regulation 397/87 which applies to international transport outside the EU.
Thank you very much, Mr Flynn.
As the author is not present, Question No 56 lapses.
However, the European Commission has a limited competence in the area of policies on the family.
Our actions are based on the conclusions of the Council of Ministers responsible for family matters that took place in September 1989.
Since then the Commission has been active in promoting exchanges of information on family matters, monitoring measures taken for families in the Member States and financially supporting the promotion of family-friendly initiatives.
The next meeting will take place on 16 and 17 April.
Innovative projects, studies and networks in relation to family-friendly policies have received support from the Structural Funds, mainly under the NOW initiative and from the action programmes on equal opportunities.
In the field of employment policy, all Member States have recognized the need for a substantially increased participation by women in the labour market and the 1998 employment guidelines state that Member States should translate their decision to promote equality of opportunity into increased employment rates for women.
At the same time it is explicitly recognized that this must be accompanied by family-friendly policies for reconciling work and family life and policies facilitating the return to paid work after an absence.
I would like to refer to the 1992 directive on pregnant workers, the 1996 directive on parental leave and the 1997 directive on part-time work in particular.
They are the main elements of the legal framework at European level which reconciles family and working life.
Parliament has been particularly supportive in its upholding of budget line B3-4108, that is measures in favour of family and children.
Although it is quite modest, the budget line enables the Commission to cofinance the promotion of familyfriendly practices and measures as well as comparative studies between the Member States.
Within the budget line's remit, the Commission performs demographic research analysis such as the demographic report which allows us to link demographic evolution and changing family patterns.
Finally, the Commission's intention is to continue the analysis of demographic trends and deepen the debate on their implications.
I should just like to put two short questions to you.
Thank you very much, Mr Flynn.
In particular, I was able to explain this position at the public hearing held on 27 October 1997 and at the sitting in November 1997.
The deadline agreed back in 1991 by the Council for all those involved in the duty-free sales sector to adapt to the requirements of the single market was an exceptional measure.
This unanimous decision took financial concerns into account, which certain Members had expressed at the time.
Thirdly, on the study, would Mr Monti confirm that, if ECOFIN vote for a study in May, as is possible and I think likely, he will enthusiastically implement that decision.
In relation to the other two points, I can say that if we compare the solution and the problems sometimes aired by the categories concerned to the solutions provided for other professions affected by internal market legislation, customs freight forwarders, for example, did receive funds for reconversion of about ECU 30 million.
Finally, I have repeatedly stated that, while the Commission is certainly not prepared to propose to the Council that the 1991 decision should be reconsidered, if there were to be proven and specific problems in certain regions or on certain transportation routes connected with the abolition of duty-free, then it will be possible for Member States, in a transparent way, to consider forms of state aid, which would of course have to be proposed by the Member States and in line with Community norms.
Thank you very much, Mr Monti.
Mr Monti, I have two supplementary questions on the question we have just heard.
A study might also identity the areas of specific problems that the Commissioner mentioned in his answer to the previous question.
Whereas I agree with him entirely that it is very unlikely that the Council, even if the Commission put forward such a proposal, would wish to reverse a decision taken many years ago and introduce a further tax break for the alcohol and tobacco industries - a tax break that is conditional on it being sold to international travellers, which seems preposterous - nonetheless a study would be a useful weapon in furthering this debate.
In fact, a very long period was given for adjustments, and it would be rather paradoxical and counterproductive if, when less than 15 months are left to the date of expiry of duty-free on intra-Eu travel, we were to engage in a study.
In view of his last answer, would the Commissioner close down the duty-free shop in the Commission for Commission staff such as himself?
I understand Mr McMahon's question but I would submit to you that the Commission and the Council, following the Commission proposal in 1991, gave much more than a study.
One aspect that should be pointed out, in fact, is that air passenger transport has seen an increase of around 7 % and this increase certainly cannot be attributed to duty-free sales, but to other causes such as the liberalization of air transport as from 1 April 1997.
In other words, we want to have and we have got the benefits of the creation of a single market and, in this case, that of air transport, and it is difficult to try and gain the benefits of the single market and maintain archaic structures, which are totally incompatible with the single market, as are duty-free sales.
We also need to bear in mind that, at the moment, air transport benefits from an extremely favourable tax system, in terms of which the duty-free benefits are marginal.
Any restructuring of the sector should therefore be considered within the framework of the strategies for achieving ever greater efficiency and profits and not just as a result of duty-free sales.
I accused the Commissioner of being obstinate and arrogant at the public hearing which Parliament held.
A study that was carried out in Ireland just recently and published yesterday by SIPTU, a trade union organization, and by IBEC, representing business interests, shows quite clearly that between £15 and £17 will be added on to the cost of an airline ticket for the average traveller.
After what Mary O'Rourke our Transport Minister has achieved in the Transport Council, you should be more optimistic about the outcome of the Ecofin meeting.
In the case of transportation, as my colleague, Commissioner Kinnock, recently stated in response to one of the many letters on this point, no Member State subsidy in the form of continued tax-free sales would be possible.
This was the case in the Community guidelines on state aid to maritime transport.
I believe this would also be valid for other forms of transportation.
Finally, I stress that the Commission is certainly not insensitive to problems that might materialize from the abolition of duty-free on intra-EU travel, but it will insist that the appropriate instruments be used to tackle any such problems without re-opening an issue which, as I have stressed several times, simply implies having ordinary citizens bear the burden.
The Commission is looking at the situation in Europe and elsewhere.
Research by consumer organisations has confirmed that the duty-free prices for many goods are no more advantageous than in other shops.
I have nothing against duty-free but I have a duty to implement the single market.
When we are working hard, with the support of this Parliament, to try and eliminate tax havens around Europe and promote employment, it would be illogical for me to crusade against tax havens and at the same time propose -or even consider - the continuation of localised tax havens connected with particular forms of transportation within the single market.
Thank you very much, Mr Monti.
Since the time allocated to questions to the Commission has now expired, Questions Nos 65 to 106 will be dealt with in writing.
For example, every question in the first part of this session was tabled after my own question, which is being dealt with much later.
The remaining questions should follow in order, as long as they relate to the specific Commissioners due to attend Question Time.
and resumed at 9.00 p.m.) Shipbuilding (continuation) The next item is the continuation of the report (A4-0101/98) by Mr Sindal, on aid to shipbuilding and a new policy on shipbuilding.
Nevertheless, I have also made it known to my group that I - and subsequent speakers will no doubt go into this - have my difficulties with some of the amendments tabled by Parliament and the committee.
Basically it has to be said that productivity in the European shipyards has increased in recent years.
Unfortunately the OECD agreement was neither signed nor ratified, and I have the impression that some Member States are not angry about it at all.
It is not an honour for any Objective 1 region to be labelled as underdeveloped, but more help and some regulations are still needed in order to extricate ourselves from this situation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we still share your hope, Commissioner, that the OECD agreement of 1994 will still come into force.
We really must insist that the new shipbuilding nations, such as the People's Republic of China and Poland, endorse the OECD agreement, as it is no use having only some of the countries sign up to the OECD agreement, whilst the People's Republic of China and Poland continue with their own shipbuilding policies.
We also share the view that order-related subsidies should be abolished by 31 December 2000, even if some amendments tabled in this House still seek to shake our conviction through more and more new studies.
Commissioner, I believe we need a clear external shipbuilding policy, because unfortunately there is no guarantee that the other countries will end their subsidies.
After the difficult situation and painful reorganization of the 1970s, today I have the impression that we believe that the European shipbuilding industry, which today accounts for 21 % of world employment, is, at first sight, well positioned in the world.
The 50 % devaluation of the Korean won has led to a situation that risks having particularly serious consequences for the Community shipyards and for employment in Europe.
In fact, it has been calculated that the Koreans could reduce the prices of their ships to 30 %, with their current internal margins remaining unchanged.
In this context, I believe it essential for the EU to apply a policy that enables the European shipbuilding industry, which is appreciated throughout the world for its high technological content, to be able to compete with the same weapons with the industries of the other countries in a system of transparent and balanced competition with the same rules for everyone and without any distorting intervention by the states.
What really matters to the Liberal group is point 1, namely the need for monitoring to ensure that the rules are adhered to.
Thus, I would very much like us to support Amendment No 29 in order to avoid unfair competition within Europe so that shipyards will not in future be located only in areas that are eligible for regional aid.
The Commission proposes to place yet more restrictions on the production capacity of European shipyards, with the consequent loss of still more jobs, the complete abolition of operating aid in 2000, but allowing aid to be given for closures and to facilitate the further concentration of production in the few, powerful shipyards that are left.
The European Union has learned nothing, either from the dramatic consequences of its policy or from the stance of the United States, which reserve for themselves the right to use only ships built in the USA for internal schedules.
We cannot accept these proposals, whose implementation would complete the destruction that began long ago.
As has been emphasized by our colleague André Sainjon in his opinion, the OECD agreement whose aim was to eliminate direct aid to shipbuilding was stillborn.
The 'Challenges' newspaper this month emphasizes however that the financial crisis is temporary.
The position is all the more astonishing since the aid from the IMF, in the final analysis, does in fact boil down to a subsidy paid by Japan, the United States and Europe to begin a high risk economic policy.
We therefore completely agree with the general comments made by André Sainjon and the amendments proposed by the Commission on External Economic Relations.
We believe indeed that it is extremely dangerous to commit to a date to end aid to orders, without prior analysis of the market situation and of whether or not there are non-competitive practices afoot.
Similarly, we are in favour of eliminating any regional aid which would risk introducing unacceptable distortions in competition.
Industrial policy and commercial policy, on the contrary, require realism and pragmatism.
We in the Nordic countries have already cut shipyard aid though, and we have noticed that the shipyards have actually been coping better since the cuts were introduced.
The ultimate aim of the EU should be that the shipbuilding industry in the longer term recovers without aid.
Mr President, for a long time shipbuilding has been subject to strong commercial pressure from third countries - such as South Korea, China and others - which are causing serious complications to the market due to, among other things, the competitive devaluations of their currencies, with the passive consent of the International Monetary Fund.
In that context, we Spanish Members of the People's Party believe we should oppose any regulation which directly or indirectly might allow a reduction in the current system of aid to shipyards.
In addition, the Maastricht Treaty states that all the Union's policies should take their inspiration from the principle of economic cohesion.
We cannot support the proposed reduction in aid to shipbuilding, especially in the international context we have just been describing.
The OECD agreement should form the framework for regulating our aid in the future.
Moreover, every time a shipbuilding job is destroyed in Europe, another one is created in South Korea.
This is not the time to commit to any reduction in aid, unless in the context of the OECD agreement, which is good for Europe and good for all shipyards.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, on several occasions the Parliament has drawn attention to the vital importance of adopting common standards for the shipbuilding market which is, after all, the ultimate objective of the OECD agreement.
We consider the 31 December 2000 deadline for operating aid to be inappropriate and premature, particularly if competition is further distorted, for instance, by dumping or by the Far East crisis.
The regulation should contribute to ensuring that the existing inequalities in competition between European shipyards do not increase.
Mr President, over the last twenty years, the number of employees in European Union shipyards has fallen from 280 000 to less than 80 000.
This situation, which is already catastrophic, would have been aggravated still further if the OECD agreement of July 1994 had been applied, as its aim was to eliminate aid while maintaining the American protectionist legislation arising from the Jones Act and reserving a monopoly to the American merchant fleet shipbuilders.
The proposal for a regulation from the Commission aimed at banning operating aid from 31 December 2000 anticipates the OECD agreement, which has still not been ratified by the United States.
Mr President, shipbuilding is a global industry and should be approached as such.
The relevant market is the global market.
Moreover, it goes against agreements which have been made on cutting back subsidies for shipyards whilst reducing capacity.
The Commission document does not mesh with European competition policy.
A recent study by Ernst and Young highlights this conclusion.
The strategic importance of the European shipbuilding industry is evident.
Furthermore, as has also been stressed tonight, that ability to compete is reinforced by the strong devaluation of the Korean won, caused by monetary instability in Asia.
For that reason it is important to call on the Commission to exert pressure on the US Congress, to get them finally to ratify the OECD agreement on competition conditions in the shipbuilding sector.
In its regulation, the Commission proposes that contract-related aid should cease on 31 December 2000, but the recitals of the same regulation introduce a safeguard clause to cover that eventuality.
In that sense, I think there has been some lack of initiative by the European Union, and this erosion taking place at the level of state aid is not related to any overall and long-term policy but to the international situation that exists.
It is sad to see shipyards in Greece closing down and becoming concentrated only in the north of the European Union, while there are opportunities, with Russia, Ukraine and other countries, for not just Greece or Italy but the European Union to gain a foothold in the eastern Mediterranean.
The objective here is to fulfill the principles enshrined in the Treaty by providing the shipbuilding sector with fair and uniform conditions of competition within the Community so that, subsequently, the sector may survive without state aid, in compliance with market rules and conditions.
In this connection, the agreement signed in 1994 between the European Union, Japan, South Korea, Norway and the United States, under the auspices of the OECD, which should have entered into force on 1 January 1996, may today be said to be a dead letter in that, under constant pressure from US shipyards, the US Congress has failed to ratify the agreement.
This position may be understood in the light of the fact that, over and above the many millions of dollars allocated in aid to the opening of a shipyard in Philadelphia, the US authorities wish to add a new payment with which the US Navy may openly finance the construction of non-military vessels.
Therefore, steps should be taken to extend the standards in force within the European Union to a global level, preventing any distortion of competition.
It is essential to incorporate the existing instruments of economic policy, together with those to be created in the future, within a policy which seeks to achieve a uniform international shipbuilding market without distortions of competition and without dumping of any kind.
South Korea's position, which combines its 25 % market share, which it clearly aims to increase, with a devaluation of the won in excess of 50 %, has had and continues to have disastrous effects on the world market.
For instance, the increase in the number of jobs in Korean shipyards in the last decade is equal to the number of jobs lost in my country's shipbuilding and repair yards.
It is therefore urgent to force countries like South Korea to correct the imprudent industrial policy they have pursued and force them to eliminate their excess capacity.
The Commission should maintain the 31 December 2000 deadline for eliminating subsidies if it ascertains that anti-competition practises do not exist.
If that is not the case, then it should be extended, until at least 31 December 2003, the date on which this regulation expires.
Mr President, I am glad to see we are joined tonight by the two Commissioners dealing with this matter, in the contexts of industrial policy and competition policy.
And now it turns out that we have here the regulation which announces that unilateral disarmament on the part of the European Union.
Mr President, in view of what we have been hearing I would like to say two things.
I think it would be very interesting and very important for the shipyards and the Spanish regions to know that that position is being defended because, as we are hearing, that does not seem to be the case.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, after having as is customary, thanked and congratulated Mr Sindal and the draftsmen of the opinions, and our two Commissioners for their presence here, I wish to begin my speech on the future of aid to shipbuilding by making three observations.
Firstly, in the course of the past five years, every time a job has been lost in the European shipbuilding industry, another job has been created in the Korean shipbuilding industry, and our sacrifices have therefore been perfectly useless.
The result of all this can be summarised in four points.
For once, we all together were able to say no.
Once and for all, in this sector, as in many other sectors, we should, Mr President, stop being masochistic. .
Everyone seems to forget that the only industrial sector, and I repeat the only industrial sector which has for a very long time benefited from operating aid is shipbuilding.
Taking the figures from 1990 to 1995, did you know that in the European Union, more than ECU 5 billion of state aid was allocated to operating aid, and more than ECU 3 billion for restructuring?
We have tried to find a solution through the OECD agreement, at a global level, and we have not disarmed on a unilateral basis.
The Americans are protectionist, that is true, but in terms of global competition, the problem is not really there.
Our problem is that, as ships are becoming increasingly sophisticated, we need to act to ensure that we are at the cutting edge of technological development and of the development of modern ships.
I shall return to Korea in a minute, but I believe it is useful to go over the global context again.
That is wrong, as even in the framework of the OECD agreement, aid for research and development, for the environment and for social support measures and export finance arrangements continue to be provided for.
That being the case, I do not understand why we are being criticised for including that in our proposal.
Where your argument does bite, is knowing whether the degree of aid that can be allowed for the eligible regions, be it region A or region C, would also be acceptable in the logic of shipbuilding.
But here I am ready, and I emphasize this, to consider along with the Council of Ministers how to limit regional aid, possibly even by combining it with certain other measures.
However, I believe we should in principle maintain the overall approach in terms of regional policy.
All these instruments remain available, but we must, after a certain period, eliminate operating aid, that is, by the end of the year 2000, as we have proposed.
However, before even the crisis in Korea, Martin and myself included in our proposal a clause stating that if something were to happen at a global level, somewhere in an industrialized country which was developing an aggressive dumping policy with regard to our shipyards, the Commission would reserve the right to come back on this.
We undertook, one year before the end of operating aid, to review this matter in order to make an assessment and present it to you and to the Council of Ministers, with a view to determining whether we should take new measures or develop other elements of our policy.
Before the crisis, the Koreans would not accept a reduction in capacity.
It so happens that in the wake of the Industry Council which is due to take place on 7 May, there will be a high-level meeting between Korea and the European Union, and believe you me, we will take stock of the situation there.
In fact, over and above the problem of the shipbuilding sector, South Korea and a number of other countries are facing a far more serious crisis, which also affects their industrial structures and massive aid systems.
Hence, at a time when those countries are in the throes of crisis, nobody is going to try and sell us a policy based on the South Korean model.
Now we have at least a possibility of saying to the Koreans that we want to enter into serious discussions about this matter.
In my view, if anything it is a matter of good fortune that we can now get into a serious discussion with the Koreans and reassess the matter, instead of being in the situation as it was before.
I therefore yet again, make a commitment on behalf of the Commission to come back to this aspect, as well as to others, one year before the end of the regime, in other words, one year before the end of operating aid.
Specifically, this means that we shall continue to discuss among ourselves, but we must find a solution for the future, as the 7th directive comes to an end at the end of the year.
But now this will no longer be possible.
I have spoken at length, but I know how interested you are in this sector, which is still very sensitive, and as I look at some of you, I can immediately see behind you the region and shipyards in question.
This is a consultation procedure, and I think this process is in fact intended to help expose the problems facing not only the Commission, but also the citizens of Europe, and I believe we can all sympathise with one another.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
That is important to us but here we are this evening, as a Parliament, talking about ship-building and buses and coaches which are very relevant to the citizens of Europe.
I know which reports my constituents in towns like Wolverhampton and Dudley would like to see us talking about in front of the media and not here in front of a few interpreters and a few hardy souls such as ourselves.
I welcome the Commission's proposals.
This is very important.
As the rapporteur I have spoken widely to various interest groups, as I said at the beginning of my speech.
There are a few key points from my report that I would like to bring to the Commission's attention and to invite their support.
I would urge the Commission to look at my Amendments Nos 4, 5, 28, 29 and 41 in that respect.
Secondly, we ought to widen the accessibility provisions to include class II vehicles.
The Commission is currently involved in a study looking at the technical feasibility of accessibility for class II vehicles.
It is my prediction that Commission study will report in favour of mandatory accessibility provisions for those vehicles before the Council has even adopted its first common position.
Included in that we ought to start a study into class III vehicles, coaches and class A vehicles and minibuses.
I am saying here, this evening: let us take this opportunity to widen the single market, to increase the accessibility provisions from class I to class II, with the various bits and pieces of technical amendments we require.
Mr President, Commissioner, the directive on the regulation of vehicles with more than eight seats in addition to the driver's seat - generally known as buses - is aimed at standardizing the type approval system in the context of the Single Market and at the same time improving safety.
The whole report is very technical; nevertheless, these technical details have considerable repercussions for the people.
This new definition of the term will entail a whole series of technical changes which will, however, make it possible and/or easier for people to use public transport.
With the acceptance of the amendments tabled, we have an opportunity to make a start on integration, at least in the field of transport.
About 10 % of the population lives with some form of disability.
At the same time I acknowledge the work the Commissioner has played in it too.
The details contained in the report, as has already been said, are the result of extensive consultation with all the key interest bodies.
It is a proposal for a Council directive which takes a positive step towards the completion of the single market and at the same time provides a framework for the harmonization of construction standards between all Member States which in itself will engender and encourage trade between them.
Let me underline once again that this directive will only apply to new buses and will not threaten double-decker buses or Routemaster buses.
The Murphy report is splendid and prepares the way for better and safer public transport in the future.
I may be wrong, but allow me just as an amateur in this area to point out some things which surprise me a little.
It discusses the fact that the text on buses showing the destination should be white or yellow on a black background and at least 12 cm high.
In Sweden we have buses which travel perhaps 300-400 kilometres and may stop only two or three times on the route because we have such large distances between towns and villages.
In that case it might be simpler for the driver to do as he does today, which is to say that we have now arrived at Burträsk or wherever it may be.
Mr President, it is now two years since we in this Parliament passed the lift directive which was setting a precedent that legislation for Europe's single market could and must be used to enable access for disabled people.
That precedent was then enshrined by agreements within the Treaty of Amsterdam, the draft Treaty of European Union.
Tonight we face our next test in addressing the buses and coaches directive and addressing too an issue which is most campaigned about amongst Europe's 35 million disabled people - the right to accessible public transport.
These are important amendments which everyone in this Parliament should support.
I hope the Commissioner will respond directly to this point tonight.
This proposal has been delayed in Brussels because of the long fight which has been engaged to ensure that all new buses in our towns and cities from the year 2001 will offer full rights of access for disabled people.
Mr President, many years ago the European Community introduced pan-European standards for tractor seats.
The Group of the European People's Party largely supports these results, particularly as regards persons with reduced mobility.
The European Parliament is about to design the perfect bus.
More than 100 amendments on technical details have been tabled.
In this area, a SLIM initiative should also be implemented, which concentrates on the essential political aspects.
That is also the reason why the Group of the European People's Party will tomorrow propose that it should be referred back to the relevant committee.
We must think of everybody: of elderly people with mobility problems, of small children, or of those in particular situations, such as, for example, pregnant women or passengers carrying luggage or pushchairs.
It deals with the right aspect, namely that of safety, but in respect of certain detailed solutions goes much too far in its regulation.
Such solutions could be of a technical, but also of a logistical nature.
Although the problems of disabled people across the European Union are comparable, the Member States must take into account climatic, territorial, traditional and other specific conditions in their efforts to procure a real place in their midst for disabled people.
It has already been said during the discussion that this is a difficult report because it deals with a whole series of technical questions and an attempt had to be made to find a compromise in many respects.
I am quite sure that our proposal is already being seized upon in the press as another example of over-zealous bureaucracy.
If we were to adopt all the amendments tabled - and I believe there are 120 - we would be at even greater risk.
Not only do we want to aim for the highest possible level of safety for vehicles in general, but we also want to guarantee that disabled people - however one wants to define this term, that is, persons whose mobility is reduced - can use these vehicles safely.
We therefore also provided for the possibility that other Member States might not permit this type of bus, which is approved in another Member State, in their sovereign territory, because they do not have this tradition.
That is our position.
If he has a couple of hours to spare he could come with me to Birmingham, which has the busiest route for buses and coaches anywhere in Europe, and join me on the only two low floor double-decker buses actually in operation in Europe which would meet these standards and more.
The debate is closed.
We have before us, Mr President, two proposals which arise from the SLIM initiative.
Unfortunately, they do not represent all the proposals of the SLIM team, which is why it is all the more astonishing that these proposals were favourably welcomed by the Commission and the Council.
Furthermore, the Member States do not even seem to be ready to follow these proposals, which are less extensive in comparison to the SLIM results.
However, things being as they are, and after organizing in committee a hearing on these antagonists, I have proposed amendments aimed at reconciling their interests, amendments which the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs accepted, Commissioner, as a block and on a unanimous basis.
A reduction in the suppositions from 8 to 6 would no longer effectively give the necessary detailed information, namely the type of wine, red or white, or the region of origin.
What is important for this product, is not the same for others.
For example, for the centrifugal pumps, it is not absolutely necessary to know whether they are intended for aircraft, or whether they are submersible, single-stage or multi-stage pumps, and so on.
It is a first step, Mr President, a first package of measures to be implemented pending more radical simplification.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for all of the companies and administrations in the Member States of the European Union, the entry into force of the single market has meant an upheaval for the administrative practices involving the trade in goods between Member States.
In this report, Mrs Lulling points out that it is essential for the data to be reliable.
Hence the export figures of one Member State should normally equal the sum of exports from the other Member States to the Member State in question.
However, the total discrepancy is in the order of 4.6 %.
However, given the need to simplify the administrative burden on companies, the Commission is presenting us with two proposals, which enable us to simplify these declarations.
With this goal in mind, we must certainly welcome the Commission's initiative.
The amendments proposed by the rapporteur all go in this direction, and I support them.
In fact, modifying the nomenclature must not reduce the information which is required, both for companies and professional organizations.
Changing the number of figures in the nomenclature from eight to six could lead to the elimination of an essential element.
But those of us who follow her efforts are bound to appreciate them, because they provide something which will obviously be needed with the new economic and monetary dimension being adopted by the European Union.
As we have discussed in other reports on statistical matters, we obviously need to have reliable information in order to orientate activities and economic and monetary policies.
However, the aim of this proposal is not to correct the deficiency that has been observed.
However, not all the Member States provide answers.
I would remind you that this nomenclature at present comprises more than ten thousand codes.
The introduction of the Intrastat system in 1993 had already made it possible to exempt more than 60 % of all intra-Community commercial operators thanks to the use of statistical thresholds.
I would remind you that before 1993, that is to say, before the single market, any intra-Community movement of goods was subject to administrative formalities, and in particular a declaration of VAT.
The statistical system was based on the VAT declarations, and that was extremely onerous, particularly for small and medium-sized companies, and even for micro-companies.
The purpose of the two proposals that you are considering today is to introduce further simplifications of these administrative constraints, so that there is a further reduction in the burden of declaration for companies.
They are also a response to the many complaints made by companies about the excessive burden of their statistical declarations, and in particular the difficulties of product classification in terms of the nomenclature of goods.
I can tell you that only this evening, before I arrived at this sitting, and although it had nothing to do with the subject we are now debating, I received a phone call from a manufacturer who bitterly complained about the statistical system, on the grounds that it would generate expenses that he believed to be excessive.
The Commission attaches great importance to obtaining concrete legislative results as part of the SLIM exercise.
It is therefore delighted with the support given by your House to these two proposals.
Furthermore, the spirit of the amendment is to be found in other previous amendments which the Commission can accept.
The Commission, like you, is in favour of the elimination of the "terms of delivery' information, but this cannot occur immediately.
We therefore need to introduce a transitional period to allow both us and the Member States to adapt the statistical systems.
In any case, and in conclusion, Mr President, Madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission shares your point of view.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.00 p.m)
