Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gradin, before coming to the individual requests I would like to situate this report within a wider framework, even if this may seem presumptuous to the eyes and in the ears of some Members.
We are conducting a debate on enlargement, a debate on the intergovernmental conference and, often at least with most regrettable undertones, a debate on the future financing of this European Union.
We have heard that the Union can continue to develop unless only if it is also accepted by the men and women within it, by the 370 million people who live in this European Union, but also by those who want to join it and who must of course also contribute something to it.
The President has pointed out again and again that we must also address the feelings, the general perceptions of the people.
But if we have to hold this debate at a time when money is short and we have to save everywhere, then of course the question that is asked first is: what does all this cost?
After all, we read about it in the papers every day: fraud and corruption, fraud with subsidies and all manner of other unpleasant things; is this not a European disease?
Firstly, in my view of course the question is wrong, because unfortunately fraud and corruption are not European inventions but occur at every level.
Mrs Gradin, the Commission has published this report on your measures to combat fraud in every language in the Internet.
But if we are addressing this broad public, then we need to formulate things much more clearly in the report, for then it will not be written just for a few experts, not just for the Committee on Budgetary Control, not just as a justification vis à vis this Parliament; then it will be written for 370 million citizens and they have a right to be able to understand what it says.
I will not repeat my requests in detail now, because I kept my report so short in the hope that some of the Members who are unable to be present now may still read it.
First, it is important that in future the programme of work is recognizably based on the previous year's programme.
That would also mean that the programme of work must make clearly identifiable statements so that it is possible to ascertain just as clearly and definitely whether they have been adhered to.
If you gave your position on this, if you accounted not just to us but to the general public in Europe for what you are doing in this respect, that would gain the European Union greater acceptance and credibility and, I hope, not just in financial but also in political terms, which is what we all so urgently need.
At your initiative, Mr President, in April this year members of the national parliaments discussed with Members of this House how to ensure better protection of the European tax-payers' money.
That interparliamentary conference in Brussels was an important and productive experience for all concerned.
My report lists the points that need to be tackled at Member State level.
In a situation where we have to economize in every area, where painful cuts have to be made in the European Union's budget too, is totally intolerable that in a sense we are often tying our own hands in relation to combating fraud.
The rising number of cases discovered in all areas makes it very clear that more efforts are being made, especially by Parliament and the Commission, but to some extent also by the Member States who after all manage some 80 % of Union money.
There will no real change here unless we in the Union review and adjust the entire arsenal of administrative, legal and judicial measures.
We need precise rules on the cooperation between investigating authorities and courts, indeed where possible we need bodies responsible for this, like the Guardia di Finanza in Italy, and judicial bodies or departments.
Another area is the question of how can we, how can the Member States organize the fight against fraud?
But UCLAF could be even more effective if it had comparable interlocutors with clearly defined powers and decision-making structures in all the Member States.
So far, the recovery quota stands at most at 20 %.
This year we will be spending more than ECU 300 million more on this than the originally earmarked ECU 1 800 million.
In this context we must also remember the Council decision on budgetary discipline which specifically provides for the possibility of suspending the payment of agricultural expenditure if Community resources have been misused.
The Council took that decision on 26 July last year, but so far not a single Member State has ratified it.
But we now have this blockade situation and we are growing impatient.
You have this Parliament's full backing.
Turning to the proposals that I put forward in committee: one is of a general nature but seems to me to be important and concerns the issue of sound legislation.
These instruments need to be merged and, in relation to corruption for example, we are recommending the adoption of a single independent instrument encompassing both prosecution where the Union's financial interests are damaged and the corruption of foreign officials.
The second point which we consider to be very important concerns the second protocol on the liability of legal persons.
Finally, a key point which perhaps encompasses all of the others is the adoption, as we are calling for, of a general and horizontal legal instrument covering both judicial cooperation and judicial assistance.
In my opinion it is disproportionately eroding our credibility with European citizens and provides opponents of the Union and national governments alike with an easy alibi on which they can blame all evils.
It adds some very sensible, pragmatic proposals as to the sort of things that ought to happen in the Commission's work programme and the relationship between the work programme and the annual report.
We have to see these two reports - the Theato and Wemheuer reports - as a coherent response to a single problem; the Wemheuer report addressed to the Commission, the follow-up to your conference addressed primarily to the Member States.
In the fight against fraud we have to accept that the European citizens will not trust us with greater resources until we can demonstrate that we use the existing resources with effectiveness and efficiency.
In a judgment of 24 April 1996, so this year, the judges of the Fourth Chamber ruled that there is indeed a legal basis for action by the Commission to counter fraud.
I am rapporteur for the Belgian Parliament's advisory committee on European affairs and I report on the scrutiny of financial flows between the Union and Belgium.
In that capacity I organized a hearing in the Belgian Parliament in May on measures to combat European fraud in Belgium.
But two months later a Flemish newspaper came up with a Commission report on instances of large-scale European fraud involving farm subsidies in Belgium.
This report, Madam Commissioner, was not forwarded to the Belgian Parliament or the European Parliament, but it appeared in the paper.
Another important event was the Interparliamentary Conference on combating fraud, of 23 and 24 April - as has already been mentioned - which increased awareness of the seriousness of the problem, involving the national parliaments and arousing some press interest.
And, if it has adopted them, do those measures make it possible to reduce the violations and the fraud and, more especially, to reduce the risk as a result of speedier and more efficient controls upstream of the procedure?
The scale of the problem is such as to justify our concern.
Even with the existing resources more could be done if greater commitment were shown in applying them.
Mr President, the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left supports all Community initiatives aimed at increasing its success in combating fraud against the Community.
The Member States must finally realise that effective measures to combat fraud, also and in particular measures administered by the Member States themselves, can only be effective if we finally create an effective legal basis, undertake the necessary harmonization and give Parliament co-decision power in this field.
After all, nothing seems easier - as confirmed by what we found in the Committee of Inquiry into the Community Transit System - than fishing in the troubled waters of the jungle of subsidies and refunds.
Between 1991 and 1994 a special committee of inquiry investigated all the instances of embezzlement in that case.
A European Commission inquiry even revealed that in the period 1990-1992 frauds to a value of 100 million ECU had been perpetrated in Ireland alone.
But they illustrate the importance of the debate.
The two reports we are debating today deserve our full support.
The absolute necessity of more transnational cooperation, a single legal framework in which judicial cooperation is very much improved.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when one meets a large number of people, as is presently the case in Austria in the context of the campaign for elections to the European Parliament, one realises one thing: there are few subjects the European taxpayers feel so strongly about as the fact that they know a substantial part of the budget is annihilated by fraud and waste.
Fraud and waste to the detriment of the Community budget are of course primarily fraud and waste to the detriment of the taxpayers in the Member States.
The necessary instruments must be created, including legal provisions, machinery for combating fraud and in particular a basis for cooperation.
Those who receive money from the Community budget must also allow the appropriate checks to be carried out.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gradin, we keep managing to describe new cases of fraud here in Parliament.
The efforts made by the European Parliament have not been without success, as we know, but often lead nowhere.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, in fact, the European Parliament has in recent times performed a very important role in fighting Community fraud and has pulled out all the stops to counter the idea that Europe is a kind of sieve that everything gets through, only adding to the insecurity of consumers and investors.
This is a question which by definition has to involve everyone, both in the European Union in general and each of the Members of the European Parliament, as well as all of the Member States, together with everyone representing local and regional authorities.
Against this background, very special importance lies with ratifying the Convention on the Protection of Financial Interests which will ensure that we have a vision and the consensual action for fighting fraud and an effective division of labour in respect of the principle of subsidiarity.
Harmonization of the existing rules needs to take place both at an administrative level - that is to say in relation to penalties and controls - and in terms of legislation, with the speedy ratification of Convention on the Protection of the European Communities' Financial Interests, adopted in 1995, and the signature of the two accompanying protocols, one of which relates to the institution of criminal proceedings against officials guilty of corruption and the other the liability not only of officials but also of members of parliament, national institutions and governments.
That is certainly all commendable, but we must be realistic because we are persuaded that the Commission itself does not really believe that the 1995 Convention will be able to be ratified by all of the Community governments, bearing in mind the objective difficulties involved in coordinating the political will of fifteen countries.
We think it would be more serious and honest were the Commission to look into establishing a Community instrument able to function as a regulation of the European Community and finally set under way an effective procedure for combating Community fraud.
Madam President, we have heard time and time again in this debate how citizens across Europe are calling for the highest priority to be accorded to the fight against fraud.
We must all share in the fight against fraud wherever it occurs.
The Commission has already established the hot-line.
Also, regarding cooperation - cooperation between the Community and national governments, and between national governments and other national governments.
I can tell the House that the British Government certainly takes this need for cooperation very seriously.
I think that if we do not resolve this problem it will not just be one Prime Minister from one state demanding her money back, but all citizens demanding all their money back.
The truth is that you are happy to take advantage of this fraud to further the cause of European integration.
And in 1995 you signed an agreement on judicial cooperation and police cooperation.
You have robbed the people of Europe of their freedom, their independence, their jobs, their currency and their democracy.
Madam President, the fight against fraud and organised crime is now high on the Union's agenda.
The Irish presidency is also laying considerable stress on the battle against drugs.
As you know, the Commission has also proposed that all fields covered by the third pillar, except criminal law and police cooperation, should be transferred to the first pillar.
The IGC must therefore establish a fixed legal basis for the fight against fraud, whether it affects the Union's own resources or those of the Member States.
Decisions on how the battle against fraud and crime should be conducted must be taken on the basis of qualified majority voting and co-decision should become the rule.
We have made considerable progress in the battle against fraud but if the fight is to be really effective we must first have better support from the EU Treaty.
Next year the work programme and the annual report will be published simultaneously.
To make the report more accessible and readable we intend to make it shorter and make the contents more concise, because the report is often used as reference material for the general public and the press.
The conference had a direct impact on the current legislative process in the Council.
At their meeting in June, the ministers of finance, for example, took a very important decision of principle on on-the-spot controls.
For the first time we will have a legally binding system, or an obligation, to protect taxpayers' money in the same way in all the Member States.
I believe it is an excellent report with many interesting proposals which both the Commission and the Council need to study more closely and more thoroughly.
The most fundamental and important point, concerning changes to the third pillar, I have already mentioned.
As many of you have pointed out, no country has as yet ratified the convention, though governments have had it in their in-trays for a whole year.
At the same time, I believe the difficulties surrounding the ratification of the conventions bring the spotlight to bear on the intergovernmental nature of the third pillar - as some of you have also stated in the debate.
We would have avoided this if the Maastricht Treaty had included a more appropriate decision-making system for the third pillar.
The Member States have already started setting up special units with broad terms of reference to deal with fraud.
The Commission and the Member States must cooperate to deal with fraud.
The Commission is now discussing how the previous proposal in principle on changes to the third pillar should be followed up.
To conclude this debate, I have received a motion for a resolution from the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs (B4-1009/96).
The debate is closed.
Elections in Bosnia The next item is the statement by the Commission on the elections in Bosnia.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, following a request by the European Parliament, and though it was not on the order of business, the Commission has agreed to make a statement about the elections in Bosnia.
The elections were observed by more than 1, 000 international observers, who covered over 3, 000 election centres.
From a technical standpoint, there were few problems and thanks to the particularly evident presence of IFOR there were no important disturbances.
Access to the media for the opposition parties and the three national groups was not satisfactory.
Now, institutions will have to become more functional, a new central government must be formed, and all the parties must show themselves willing to cooperate.
As you know, the date of 30 November is under consideration, though it is not at all sure that all the organizational needs, including the compilation of the new electoral role, can be completed in time.
The main problem was that over 50 % of the population did not live in the homes they lived in five years ago.
A quarter of the population live in other countries.
A third of the population are displaced people living in other parts of Bosnia-Herzegovina.
There will be complaint from the Bosnians that the Serbs did not allow absentee voting etc., but as their candidate will probably be the first president, these complaints might not be as vocal in the future.
We must not bring them home until there is more security in the country.
I would ask us to send an observer force because there could be more trouble in those local elections than in the other elections.
All three big parties are authoritarian.
You will therefore not find the words free and fair in our evaluation.
The inadequate electoral preparations for enabling the refugees to vote in their present place of residence in the federation for their own home area in what is now the Serbian part of Bosnia led to what were at times chaotic conditions for thousands of refugees.
Up to 20 % of people were not registered.
But in my view the greatest mistake was the OSCE's decision to add a third option to the two original voting options, namely for voters to vote either where they lived now or whether they lived after the 1981 population census.
That led to nationalist manipulation on all sides and stabilized the ethnic division, as for instance in Brcko where 80 % of Serbs voted although in 1991 this area was almost purely Muslim!
On behalf of the EPP Group let me nevertheless say that the alternative to holding these elections would have been the persistence of an intolerable situation in which the dominant national or nationalist parties would have continued to have the say without any legitimation.
Since all the ethnic groups took part in these elections there is a chance that if they cooperate in joint institutions it will be possible to build up democratic structures and that a civil society can at last develop again.
Of course there remains the risk of Bosnia-Herzegovina splitting apart again, something which the Dayton Accord did not preclude but which it even encouraged by the strict division of the country and the territorial rewards given to the aggressor.
But, ladies and gentlemen, without these elections the risk would have been considerably greater.
From a technical point of view they were - the effective conditions were such that it was possible to vote freely despite the lack of ballots, despite the lack of registers, despite the lack of freedom of movement - and the truth is that in the pre-electoral period there were no proper political conditions for effectively free elections: the electoral commission belongs to all of the main majority parties and the media were also manipulated, quite clearly, by the parties whose interests they served.
However, as the representative of an opposition party said, there is no turning back, which means that the opposition and the more moderate parties will now at least have a voice and this is very important for the future of this whole area of Europe.
Let us look at some of the aspects and some points of discussion.
If these democratic institutions can operate I think that, as a representative of an opposition party said, it might be possible to begin to build the house starting with the roof.
The roof in this case is comprised of democratic institutions and if they do operate properly it might be possible to solve the problem of refugees, of displaced persons, and all of the ethical problems.
I think that we can send out a message of hope and I would like to say a word of appreciation for the organisation which I think was impeccable and also a word of congratulations to the head of our Delegation who was also beyond reproach.
Madam President, Commissioner, my group is well aware of the political importance of these first legislative and presidential elections in Bosnia.
Paradoxically, the elections are likely to have a boomerang effect because ethnic divisions in the country may become still more marked and legitimacy conferred on the more extreme positions in the Bosnian political landscape.
The good result achieved by the former prime minister of Bosnia, Haris Siladic, gives grounds for hope because it shows that there are positive forces at work in Bosnian society.
Finally, my group wishes to underline a further aspect of the Bosnian issue which goes hand-in-hand with Bosnia's institutional stability: I am thinking here of the economic reconstruction programmes for that country which the European Union, must, in our view, continue to fund.
And it is economic reconstruction which will be the measure of the political will of the Commission and Council to promote also the social and civil reconstruction of a country where war has trampled the values on which the European Union is founded.
That is a crucial element in resolving the Bosnian situation and, in my view, an acid test for the European Union which has too often found itself lagging behind and frequently been marginalized at the crucial points in the war.
But I wish to underline that they were regular in formal terms only, because we have also to consider all the conditions that existed after the military conflict at a social and general political level, during the electoral campaign and during the elections.
We should not conceal the fact that one of the mistakes which undermined the possibility of holding democratic elections was already contained in the Dayton agreements which in fact crystallized a result obtained by use of force.
In that connection, it is also right to point out that we, the European Union, funded aid for that purpose, aid which did not produce the hoped-for results, and I think that it is necessary - and I say this on behalf of the Green Group also - to hold an inquiry to establish how that was able to happen.
At most, they may constitute a first step towards democracy, but subject to specific conditions, namely that there should now be a commitment, at international level, by the European Union and by the European Parliament, to ensure that the development achieved through these elections brings with it a real possibility of dialogue between the parties.
The first question was whether the refugees would cross the demarcation line to vote in the areas from which they had been excluded, and none of them did.
The second was whether the democratic opposition parties in each of the zones would be able to challenge the domination of the major nationalist parties.
Today, there is a very real risk of partition.
Bosnia can be regarded as being on the brink.
The elections were controversial, both before and afterwards.
The debate is closed.
Votes At the request of the chairmen of the political groups, all the texts on the agenda up to the motions for resolutions on the political situation in Turkey will be put to the vote during the current voting time.
Madam President, if I have understood properly, we shall be taking the vote this morning only up to and including the situation in Turkey, and so the vote on minors will have to be postponed to a time when it is probable that many honourable Members will not be present.
Madam President, an irregularity occurred yesterday when a particular report was put before others and the agenda that had been drawn up was thus changed.
I would like to see that irregularity remedied today by reintroducing the Herman, Barzanti and Tongue reports ahead of the Thyssen report.
First of all, a corrigendum has been distributed in all languages and this has to be seen as an integral part of and must therefore be voted on along with the rest of the text.
Madam President, on behalf of the author of this joint motion for a resolution I would like to table an additional oral amendment.
Mr Falconer, you know as well as I do that our Rules of Procedure cannot be changed by the Bureau - it is a matter for the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
The new version of this multiannual programme for the SMEs is clearer and may enable us to create the minimal conditions necessary for the development of SMEs in the European Union.
After all, we must remember that, in this period of crisis, the SMEs do, and must do, more to create jobs than the large corporations do.
So Mrs Thyssen has achieved a very broad consensus on the substance of her report, whose general philosophy relates to improving the administrative and financial conditions for the development of SMEs in an information society dominated by endeavours to achieve optimum competitiveness.
I would even go so far as to say that this appropriation is the minimum of minima in terms of what should be done for the European SMEs.
The Council must accept its responsibilities to the citizens of the Union, who expect Europe to provide genuine answers to genuine problems.
The Commission has attempted to respond to this positive influence and dimension of SMEs in the Union's economy with various interannual programmes, the third of which we are studying in this part-session.
I would like to express my anxiety and unease concerning the application of this programme by drawing attention to the need to avoid its being applied in a routine fashion.
Such training can be found in the Small Business MBA course at Bolton Business School in my constituency which I launched this summer.
Herman report The arrival of the global information society has transformed the international communications systems.
The arrival of the information society has opened up the possibility of direct access to government (local, national and European) decisions.
Paedophiles are organizing networks to exchange information and entice children into their sordid world.
With this morning's debate, the European Parliament too appears to be moving in the direction of that clearly expressed 'political will' .
On behalf of Europe's artists, we wish to express gratitude for the work done by the Commission and by Parliament, in particular the outstanding report by Mr Barzanti.
We need a directive to harmonize national laws and, more especially, one robust enough to support three basic principles: A.
Every transmission or communication to the public of an original work in fact also constitutes distribution - one of the basic elements in copyright.
Tongue reportDarras (PSE) and Bernardini (PSE), in writing. (FR) I give this explanation of vote on behalf of my colleague François Bernardini as well as myself, since we worked on this together.
European Parliament's Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media is right when it insists that, where exclusive rights to sports entertainment or other events with particular value and interest to the viewing public are brought to pay television, highlights must be available on television services that are free and available to all.
Public service broadcasting must remain available to all citizens.
In conclusion, public service broadcasting will be under increasing pressure from market forces as pay-per-view and other services buy up more programmes and sporting events but a correct balance between private and public services needs to be struck on this issue.
On the other hand, it is regrettable that so much of the report concentrates solely on strengthening the cultural identity and interests of the EU, as shown by the following quotations: ' serving the collective interests of Europeans' (paragraph 19), ' important European issues' (paragraph 22), ' circulation of European programmes' (paragraph 28), ' reflecting the debates that are going on in society in all Member States of the European Union' (paragraph 30), ' majority proportion of European works' (paragraph 33) and 'encourage a greater European dimension' (paragraph 46).
I shall not be voting in favour of the report presented to us by our Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media on the role of public service television in a multimedia society, because the ideas defended in that report would create serious distortions of competition.
My reaction to the ideas defended in the Tongue report must be to warn against an increase in public spending which would create even more distortions of competition and jeopardize the creation of jobs in the private sector.
In voting for the Tongue report, we did so in particular in the belief that the public broadcasting service is a fundamental vehicle for disseminating what a country wants for itself.
For us it is also clear that, in Europe, we must have a set of public broadcasting services, in the plural, and not a single European service.
However, we must have close cooperation between all of these services, especially when dealing with common problems affecting Europe and the rest of the world.
We Greens welcome and support Carole Tongue's strong commitment to strong public service broadcasting that is able to provide social communication and cultural self-portrayal as important public goods on a permanent basis.
Resolution on Turkey Madam President, we are very glad that the customs union agreement with Turkey has been suspended.
Madam President, I voted for the resolution on Turkey because I believed it was important to stress that in many, many respects Turkey really is violating human rights.
It is a powerful country.
It is a country which is allied to Europe, and must stay allied to Europe, and we should do everything we can to ensure that.
It should be said, in the meantime, that Islam had advanced and the USSR had disintegrated, restoring Turkey's dreams of a dominant position in that region.
So Europe must block all the appropriations under the Europe-Turkey financial protocol, and all those provided within the framework of the MEDA programme.
We want good relations with all our neighbours, Turkey included.
Resolution on Iraq Madam President, The Green Group of course voted for the resolution on Iraq.
Saddam Hussein's regime is without doubt one of the worst in the world.
I myself have had the opportunity of visiting Iraq a number of times while Saddam Hussein has been in power and in comparison with most other dictatorships I have visited Iraq is still a special case.
Recent events in Iraq exposed once again the inadequacies of the European Union's common foreign and security policy.
Resolution on child abuse Madam President, the majority in this House has been shedding copious crocodile tears recently, forgetting that it systematically and repeatedly voted in favour of marriage between homosexuals, and we know what they can inflict on the children they cannot bring into the world.
That is deplorable, and of course very belated, too late for all those who are already suffering, but let us at least equip ourselves with the means to protect all the potential victims, children throughout the world.
The terrible and tragic events in Belgium have focused our minds on the need to protect our children from international paedophile rings and criminals involved in the sex trade.
We are dealing with an international problem and therefore we must respond accordingly.
There always has been and always will be crime.
When all religious standards disappear (often as a result of the activities of 'progressive' clerics themselves); when moral standards are dumped; when permissiveness is taken to excess; when indifference rules supreme; when the idea that 'anything goes' takes on the craziest of forms; when decency is ridiculed and considered oldfashioned and outdated; when values such as order, virtue, inner dignity, discipline, self-control and others are seen as suspect; when the family is undermined; when education is stripped of its status; when abnormalities are praised; when the forces of law and order are not allowed to do their job; when the law makes victims into criminals and criminals into victims; when all efforts to establish a moral and spiritual elite are jeered at as fascist.
The joint motion for a resolution on minors who are victims of violence contains a wealth of good intentions, but overlooks the essential point.
And yet Melchior Wathelet is a multiple offender when it comes to this kind of blunder.
In June 1990, in a confidential memorandum to the Belgian Sûreté, Minister Wathelet granted the release of 215 prisoners serving long sentences for robbery with violence, and in some cases rape, although the law required them to be repatriated to their countries of origin in the Maghreb.
On Melchior Wathelet's own admission, several of them have reoffended, while others have vanished from sight.
The battle against paedophiles and violence against minors can best be fought through greater intergovernmental police cooperation through Interpol.
The Liberal Group is profoundly shocked by the murders committed last month during a peaceful demonstration in favour of the island's reunification.
We must condemn here in the sharpest terms the fact that the Turkish Government is paying for armed 'Grey Wolves' to move in to stabilize the situation in Cyprus.
Peace and stability in Europe is after all one of the prime objectives of the common foreign and security policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Greens deplore the fact that the crisis on Cyprus, which has been dragging on for 22 years now, has once again led to confrontation costing human lives.
It will not happen by itself.
Mr President, it was with shock and consternation that we witnessed the terrible events in Cyprus this summer.
After 22 years of Turkish occupation, in violation of international law, of more than one third of the territory of Cyprus, the violence has now escalated to a level that was scarcely considered possible.
It is up to the European Union to do everything in its power - which means more than before - to put an end to the occupation of Cyprus and bring about a united Cyprus.
As early as June last year the European Parliament called on the Council to decide on common action in relation to Cyprus.
Only this morning the European Parliament strongly condemned Turkey for its violations of human rights and international law and decided to freeze the financial commitments for Turkey.
Now it is urgently necessary for the Commission and the Council to make it clear in unequivocal terms to the Turkish Government that better relations with the European Union also depend on a solution to the Cyprus problem.
Mr President, both public opinion and the Members of this Parliament have been taken aback by this double murder and the many injuries to citizens, among them two members of the UNO forces in Cyprus.
However, Mr President, behind that satanic, devilish and unacceptable plan of Turkish chauvinism there are plans by other powers.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has been following with deep concern the deterioration of the political situation in Cyprus following the various clashes between the two communities and which, as someone has already mentioned, resulted in the death of two Greek Cypriot civilians and, more recently, a Turkish Cypriot soldier.
The Commission also intends actively to pursue its action of information on the European Union among the Turkish Cypriot community in order to inform it of the advantageous of Cypriot accession to the European Union and, also, the principles and rules implied.
In respect of a political solution to the Cypriot problem, the European Union will continue to support the mission of good offices undertaken by the Secretary General of the United Nations aimed at finding a global solution and, in more practical terms, the current efforts being made to seek a basis, so that direct talks between the leaders of both communities can be resumed.
The joint debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the political situation in Burundi was once again totally reversed in the past two months.
The coup d'état on 25 July showed that the Burundian army will do its utmost to retain absolute power, even if that means ruin for the country.
In that way we will demonstrate our support for the Burundian people in their endeavour to build up democracy and law and order in a country devastated by civil war.
It is also necessary that the peace-keeping force - regarding which an agreement in principle had been reached at Arusha - should be ready to intervene and, it must be said, should intervene at once.
The selective genocide which is still taking place in Burundi, including since the military coup of 25 July which brought Pierre Buyoya to power, is without doubt desired by certain parties wishing to suppress the will and intelligence of the people.
Although the international community is continuing to make every effort to try to re-establish democracy and guarantee peace and national reconciliation in the various countries of the Great Lakes region, the situation is becoming more and more tragic.
The military coup carried out by Buyoya and condemned by all governments took place unbelievably at the very time that the OAU, with the backing and logistical and financial support of the European Union and the UN, had decided to intervene in an effort to resolve this tragic situation.
This point must be deleted because, firstly - according to direct information from the democratic political forces in Burundi - it is incorrect to state that the ban on political parties has been lifted.
More than 7000 people, including the Archbishop, Monsignor Ruhuna, whom I had the honour of meeting and speaking to about Burundi, have been killed in that country since the coup d'état on 25 July, which led to Buyoya's seizing power.
The level of violence in Burundi is not diminishing - it is, in fact, increasing.
The only solution is for us to support Julius Nyerere, African leaders and the OAU in their efforts at finding a solution to the grave crisis afflicting Burundi and the entire Great Lakes region.
Thank you, Mrs Sauquillo.
Mr President, yesterday we heard the presidency of the European Union fudge on the issue of Iraq and Turkey.
The tragedy of Burundi continues with total disregard for human rights, summary executions and the massacre of thousands of people over a long period of time.
The persistent instability in Burundi, together with the escalation of fighting, has to come to an end and the European Union can no longer stand uncommitted in finding a solution to that particular problem.
One particular problem, Commissioner, is an arms embargo - not just in Burundi - but let us begin with Burundi and then let us look at how we can bring about control of armaments coming from the European Union, which contribute to the terribly sad situations we see occurring in Burundi, in Rwanda and in other regions.
The international community must not stand idly by.
Mediation will only succeed if an international intervention force is set up for Burundi.
I thus urge the Council to ask the European members of the Security Council to back this idea.
Mr President, the delegation of the Alleanza Nazionale agrees with the substance of the resolution and will therefore be voting for it.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, obviously the Commission is continuing to be very concerned over the current situation in Burundi and once again it must deplore events there, especially the recent assassination of the Archbishop of Gitega.
We also wish to continue to cooperate in order to establish national dialogue, to restore the constitution and legal system as well as prepare a sizable package of recovery measures and measures aimed at development, as soon as circumstances in the country permit.
But it is important to say that, having on various occasions called on organisations such as the Organisation of African Unity and other sub-regional organisations to play an active and priority role in discussing the problems of Sub-Saharan Africa, we now have an occasion, and one which we have taken, to support the group of neighbouring countries which, meeting in Arusha, have taken important decisions - and I would even say courageous decisions - aimed at restoring constitutional legality in the country.
Again, I should like to stress that, despite the terrible scenario which reaches us every day from Burundi, despite all of this there are signs of hope.
I have to tell Parliament that I was somehow encouraged to know that extremist groups in Burundi have had exploratory contacts in Rome via the Community of Santo Egidio, a community which has already played a decisive role in the peace process in Mozambique.
The Commission has never hidden its sympathy for this idea of an embargo but I should like to emphasize that as a consequence of the sanctions which are being applied the arms traffic is at this moment virtually impossible in that there is no possibility of significant physical movement across frontiers.
I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying once again that the European Parliament has hit the nail on the head in terms of some of the very topical aspects of the Burundi question and I am very pleased that this resolution has been approved.
The joint debate is closed.
The ad hoc international tribunals for Rwanda and former Yugoslavia are doing a good job, but it is now time to think about setting up a permanent body.
But there is a lot of work still to be done and the Union must play a leading part in it.
If we are to exert as much influence as possible the Union must agree a common position, as quickly as possible, on the need for a court of this kind and it must voice that common position during the next General Assembly of the UN.
So the Member States should apply that policy in practice, certainly when it comes to safeguarding universal human rights and punishing crimes against humanity.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I consider particularly important this debate and the determination of the House, for the third time in as many years, to urge the European Union to promote, as has been the case from the outset, a process which led to the political decision to set up the International Criminal Court.
Commissioner Pinheiro, you are well aware that at the UN, in the preparatory meetings to define the position of the European Union, the agenda clearly includes, among other issues, the question of the Court.
The Sixth Committee of the United Nations will in fact be required to state its view, in November, on the two requests of the preparatory committee: the first involves renewing the mandate to complete work on the statutes, while the other, which is a very important political request, concerns the decision, to be taken this year at the Fifty-first General Assembly, that the constituent conference will, at any rate, be convened in 1998.
Parliament is therefore asking the European Union, the Irish presidency and the Commissioner - and I am therefore addressing myself to you Commissioner and hoping for a positive response - to do all in their power, all that is possible to harmonize the position of the Union and ensure that 15 countries are able to speak with one voice.
We asked for this debate and tabled this resolution because each of us knows that at least two countries still have reservations, countries which were behind the setting-up of the ad hoc tribunal and which have, one of them at least, actually advocated the idea of the permanent court.
That is a matter of concern to us but we hope that, with the help of the Commission, the Council will in fact take this important decision.
If this House really wants to have an international system to prosecute this kind of war crime and crime against humanity, then we cannot evade our financial responsibility for such projects.
I think that the international community must set up this Permanent Criminal Court able to try crimes against humanity.
That is why the Council and the Commission must draw up a common action plan within the time-scale provided for in the Maastricht Treaty so that Europe can support the United Nations preparatory committee for the setting up of this criminal court.
Indonesia Mr President, Mr Deus Pinheiro, ladies and gentlemen, with dramatic frequency the European Parliament denounces and repudiates the total disrespect for human rights shown by Indonesia.
The European Parliament's successive demonstrations repudiating the situation in Indonesia are quite right.
Given the situation in Indonesia, when are we going to take a common stance that has effective consequences on our political and economic relations with that country?
The unnecessarily violent raid on the Indonesian Democratic Party's headquarters, just days after the ASEAN ministerial meeting in Jakarta, is yet another example of the government's attempt at suppression of any opposition to its regime in Indonesia.
The Peoples' Democratic Party, another opposition party, has also been criminalized and many of its supporters too are in detention.
Journalists have been intimidated by the security forces and an atmosphere of censorship prevails.
I draw attention particularly to paragraph 8 of our joint resolution, which calls on the Commission to keep the establishment of trade relations with ASEAN subject to respect for human rights and invite the Commissioner's comments.
Mr President, the fight for democracy in Indonesia has become even more visible and the oppressive character of the regime has become even more evident.
We must prevent the growing importance of the Indonesian economy and interests linked to that dynamic from being used as a smoke screen to hide the political situation which the international community cannot pretend to ignore.
On the other hand, it is natural that, in a resolution on human rights in Indonesia, there is no room to make reference to human rights in East Timor.
But we must remember that this political regime, which flouts the human rights of its own people, also does so, and even more violently, against the people of Timor by means of a military occupation which has now lasted for two decades; among the human rights which have been violated by the Indonesian regime we should also include the right to self-determination of another country subjected to the process of genocide.
Mr President, after what we have just heard from Indonesia, we can establish the following: this is not a democratic state and it is not a state in which human rights are protected.
On 27 July the headquarters of the democratic Indonesian party, the PDI, was stormed by military and para-military troops: 5 people dead, 24 disappeared and 149 injured are the minimum figures to be condemned.
According to our figures, at least 100 individuals were arbitrarily arrested and are now facing prosecution under the anti-subversion law.
That is why we call for three things: first, the release of the people under arrest; secondly, what we have always called for in relation to East Timor and Irian Jaya, an end to all military aid from Europe; and thirdly, the inclusion of human rights in the trade agreements with ASEAN.
The EU has concluded trade agreements without addressing the human rights question.
Violent suppression of a peaceful movement in favour of democratic reform in Indonesia, with arrests, restrictions on journalists, injuries and deaths, is something to which this Parliament must react.
Worst of all in recent years is the case of East Timor, where a third of the population is estimated to have died.
There are, however, sadly, many other examples of flagrant abuses of human rights on a considerable scale by the Indonesian Government.
Unless there is a change, the Indonesian authorities must understand that their total disregard of international standards on human rights will have an impact on economic and political relations between Europe and the Indonesian Government, and the Council and the Commission should give careful consideration to what action can be taken on this forthwith.
We want the best possible relations with Indonesia but these can only be achieved on the basis of a very considerable improvement in the sphere of human rights.
Mr President, once again we can see that the political groups of the European Parliament agree about the defence of human rights in Indonesia, hence the need for practical measures to be taken by the European Union and its Member States.
On other occasions, the European Parliament has already assessed and condemned the serious violations against human rights by the regime in that country against its own people and other peoples in the region subject to its illegal domination.
What is new in the situation which took place in July - developments of interest - is the generalisation of protests and the emergence of a broader democratic movement with credible leaders of a genuine opposition calling into question practices and, I dare hope, the very survival of this dictatorial regime and the leadership of its tyrant, Suharto.
Madam President, Commissioner, the latest events in Indonesia, which I refer to in the motion for a resolution, only go to vindicate all those who for many years now have denounced what was happening in East Timor.
Firstly, they must bear in mind the common position already adopted by the Council and apply provisions on every occasion and whenever necessary, in particular at the 51st Assembly of the United Nations and the meeting of the European Council which will mark the end of the Irish presidency, as happened in Madrid in 1995.
Thirdly, we must back and promote any action which is aimed at using the resources at the European Union's disposal to improve human rights in Timor and finally, we must promote the publication of a White Paper which brings together witness reports and documentation about human rights violations in East Timor.
This House is regularly accused of holding the same debates time and time again, but regrettably we find that there is a very real need to discuss the case of Nikitin, the Russian environmental activist, for the third time in ten months.
Because despite two previous resolutions on urgency by Parliament and despite measures by the European Commission in Moscow, it seems that Alexander Nikitin's position is getting worse.
It is intolerable that someone in a country which, incidentally, is a member of the Council of Europe, should be imprisoned on political grounds.
Madam President, the Nikitin case is important for two reasons.
It would be good for the environment in Europe, and in Russia in particular, if all citizens were to fulfil their civic duty of respecting our environment.
Amnesty International has declared Nikitin a political prisoner and, what is more, the first prisoner of conscience in Russia since the collapse of communism.
He is likely to be sentenced in October or November to up to 25 years' imprisonment, and now is really the time to act.
Either the Romanian parliament is clueless about European human rights standards or, as I presume, this is a deliberate slap in the face of all those who are being persecuted in Romania because of their sexual orientation and also all those Romanians who are looking for a rapprochement with the European Union.
Let me stress that I very much welcome the fact that the leader of the Romanian delegation in the joint parliamentary committee has already informed us that he intends to enter this question on the agenda of our next delegation meeting.
After all, it is time that the Romanian Parliament - or at least the members of certain parties that specialize in such dubious activities as that which concerns us today - should understand that measures of this kind are contrary not only to the agreements to which Romania freely adhered but also to the values on which the European Union, of which Romania wishes to become a member, is based.
In conclusion, I also believe that this episode and others of the same type should prompt every Member of this Parliament to make greater efforts to ensure that the European Union finally acquires a constitution in which these basic rights are codified.
As we all know, Romania wants to become a full Member State of the European Union.
Madam President, Commissioner, I believe that every human being has the fundamental right to express their sexuality in complete freedom and with full respect for their partner, whatever their sex.
A country like this should not aspire to membership of the European Union.
I have statistics before me, which were published by the German church organization 'Brot für die Welt ' (bread for the world), according to which more than 30 000 people were murdered in the year 1995.
Now I know that the situation in Colombia is extremely complex, but I cannot accept, nor can this House, that there have still been no decisive steps towards genuine protection of human rights, especially in the form of setting up a human rights office in Colombia.
I ask the House to adopt this resolution and to give it to the delegation to take with it, rather than keeping quiet about our political position on the human rights situation in Colombia out of some over-hasty sense of obedience.
It would be highly significant if the delegation this House is sending to Colombia were to take with it such a resolution, in other words our agreement regarding Parliament's deliberations on the observance of human rights in Colombia and all these doubts surrounding the attitude of the Colombian authorities, since they are, it would appear, attempting to implement a counter-reform, viewing the army as a judicial police force.
The logical thing would be to wait for its report before approving this motion.
We should remember that, on many occasions, this House and also Commission institutions have shown themselves to be in favour of continuing the current coca-crop eradication campaign.
I shall begin with the question of the International Criminal Court by saying that, apart from some of the arguments already made by many of the speakers, which are relevant, we must look at the examples of ad hoc courts in former Yugoslavia and Rwanda which show that, in terms of time and cost, the option of ad hoc situations is not necessarily the best one.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as to the question of human rights in Indonesia, this unfortunately is a situation which has existed for some time.
But now that the lack of democracy and violations of human rights are obvious, vis-à-vis the citizens of Indonesia, in particular trade unionists and opposition politicians, the issue - from my point of view - has become an even more urgent one.
Madam President, as far as the question of the case of Alexander Nikitin in Russia is concerned, the Commission has obviously taken initiatives and approached the Russian authorities, and has been monitoring closely events through the appropriate channels.
As for the question of the rights of homosexuals in Romania, I am pleased to tell you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that we have been told of a memorandum published yesterday by the Romanian government in which the Minister for Justice is entrusted with seeing that the Romanian Houses of Parliament do all they can to make sure that the Council of Europe's rules of conduct are respected in full, in particular with reference to Article 200 of the Romanian Criminal Code.
That is one of the reasons why, at the level of the system of generalised preferences, not only in the case of Colombia but also other Andean countries, we have allowed some supplementary facilities and we think that they are important.
That is also why we think of Colombia as a priority country under the rubric of democratisation and human rights in Latin America.
Let us hope that the report to be drafted by these experts might give us a detailed indication not only on the issue of Santa Cruz but also other questions which have been reported and which definitely call for a much more detailed assessment.
Thank you, Mr Eisma.
The joint debate is closed.
Some of them testified to their fondness for France and Europe, after many years spent working here, paying their taxes here, studying here - in a word, living here.
Although the shock treatment was handed out by the French government, the question already concerns - or very soon will - the majority of our Member States.
The situation was described to us yesterday on behalf of the immigrants: it is already very serious in the Netherlands and in Germany and, in a more furtive way, in the United Kingdom, Spain and Portugal, apart from the regularizations granted in the latter two countries.
No concessions, either, to the Le Pens and other Mégrets who speak in tones of hatred and often blame immigrants for all our ills.
The French government prevented a Bobby Sands situation from happening, and it was quite right to do so.
The French laws of 1993 righted certain wrongs.
But it is important to get things into perspective and remember that a breach of the law cannot, in itself, create any rights.
Let us get away from these cross-purposes and confusions, and try to find a way in which cooperation between governments might make it possible to solve - or help to solve - this problem of illegal immigration, one which concerns us all and must not be left to the extremists.
This, then, is a fundamental problem facing France today.
The application of the Pasqua laws has often had very serious consequences because, in the guise of combating illegal immigration, it has resulted in a number of immigrants who were previously in regular situations losing their right of residence and becoming illegal.
In any case, this new legislation which we have so often denounced offers no possible justification for the violence with which this movement was repressed.
This is far more a common problem, which all our bureaucracies tend towards because of course bureaucracies always prefer dealing with papers than with people and as a result trample elementary human rights underfoot.
Madam President, we are faced, here, with a highly sensitive matter of great concern to the Member States of the Union and European public opinion as a whole.
The economic and political aspects of immigration into Europe are the source of much tension and debate within the countries affected, particularly those forming the Community's outer border or bordering on countries which receive people, sometimes in desperate straits, who are seeking solutions to their problems of work or political persecution.
However, in democratic countries, such as those in Europe, governmental action is obviously set against a background of the application of law which, under the terms of international treaties or agreements and legislation emanating from their own parliaments, they have decided to promulgate and apply.
Independently of this, our political Group believes in and is working for a free Europe where fundamental human rights are respected - not only those of European citizens themselves, but also of those who come knocking on our door requesting asylum or economic aid - and where those with racist or xenophobic motivations for refusing entry to foreigners are repudiated outright.
The Member States of the European Union grant asylum on the basis of Article 1 of the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees as protection against persecution on grounds of race, political convictions, religion, nationality or membership of a social group.
In addition to the right to defence, those requesting asylum have a right of residence, access to translation services and legal advice as well as a right to basic assistance, in accordance with the principles of the welfare state.
Economic immigration has other connotations: Europe has a high rate of unemployment and, regrettably, cannot take in the hordes of people from third countries who are pressing on our borders, requesting work or sustenance.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, France is of course not an isolated case, but the way in which the French Government forcibly drove people who had no papers out of St Bernard's church this summer shocked an awful lot of people.
Mr Nordmann is right to say that Member States have the right and even a duty to take decisions on whether or not aliens have the right of abode, but they must do so in a democratic manner.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my Group is happy that we have this resolution at last, and we hope it will be supported by all democratic parties.
In addition, what may have strengthened our feeling that there was a need for a joint action in Europe was an upsurge of solidarity towards these people.
We realized that there still existed, within our countries, men and women who were no doubt living comfortable, problem-free existences but were reacting on the basis of a certain set of values, such as respect for human dignity, the respect for children we have heard so much about in recent days, and the consideration we must show for all those who come to Europe, perhaps seeing it as their only recourse, but also fleeing from the realities of violence, the problems of survival and real economic hardship.
Of course, it is necessary to have rules, because rules are one of the guarantees of democracy, but the law is also a living entity: it observes how things really are, and sometimes follows their development.
In the case of Spain, I am sorry to say, the operation was carried out in secret.
Spain is a signatory to all international protocols and agreements in defence of human rights, the country's constitution is progressive and tolerant, and there is a law on aliens, albeit a much highly criticized one, but even this was flouted.
It's not asking for much to request that, on the one hand, at least the legal code should be observed and, on the other hand, that a country which is receiving emigrants should promote, within the European Union, a commonpolicy consensus to deal with this type of situation.
This happens in an increasingly reprehensible and inhumane way.
Madam President, all our Member States, as one of my colleagues has already said, are today confronted by the problem of mass immigration by groups of people who are refugees not so much from persecution by political dictators - increasingly rare today, I am happy to say - as from the economic conditions they face in their countries of origin.
The automatic regularization of illegal immigrants would infallibly create two situations that no one wants.
Our duty lies elsewhere.
Let us support the European Development Fund, PHARE and TACIS, and let us also support the MEDA programme, because they represent a variety of forms of economic aid to support democracy which will enable people to live happily on their native soil.
The law is made by people for people, and if it is imperfect, let us take action to change it, but let us not exploit human misery for political ends.
Madam President, I was unaware that drugging people in order to expel them to countries which were not, in fact, their own is complying with the law in Spain, as stated here.
And, by the way, in the case of Spain, there is more than enough evidence not only that human rights have been violated but also that the law on aliens has been infringed.
Given this context, the European Union must develop a democratic system of laws to protect these minorities, creating the conditions for Member States to tackle problems within a framework of frank dialogue with organizations supporting these groups.
Madam President, there are several lessons we must draw from the many incidents involving the expulsion, or attempted expulsion, of illegal immigrants that have littered the front pages this summer in various European countries.
So it would be very harmful if we were finally to abandon our permanent or mobile border checks, even at the internal borders.
As far as this matter is concerned, I can do no better than refer to the Council recommendation of 22 December 1995, which states, among other excellent proposals, that the demand for state benefits for immigrants should, and I quote: ' be able to be met only once it has been verified that the party concerned and his family are eligible for the benefit, having due regard to their residence and employment status' .
However, we do not feel that the need for education can constitute a sufficiently essential humanitarian reason for delaying the expulsion of an illegal immigrant, which seems to be the bizarre suggestion contained in the motion for a resolution upon which we are to vote.
It pains me to see once again that the great majority of honourable Members of this House are blind to this reality, to this desperate situation in which the weakest of our own people find themselves when they are driven out of their own streets and areas or worse.
Yet the fact is that some of these people are in real and serious danger in their own countries, as the HCR has confirmed, which should lead to their situations being reexamined.
France, of course, is not alone in facing this kind of problem, and so I approve the recommendations set out in the motion for a resolution before us, whereby thought will be given to finding solutions at European level.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has been carefully following the events which have taken place this summer, and one of the most newsworthy events has been that some Member States have been taking decisions to expel nationals of third countries without immigration papers.
These decisions and their application have led to a public debate and the Commission would like to say, before anything else, that these measures have been taken by the Member States in the exercise of their national powers.
The events which have been attacked do not result, on the other hand, as it might seem and has been suggested in some of the proposals, from the application of recent decisions by the Council on expulsions; they have absolutely nothing to do with them.
The Commission has also heard - in this debate, once again - criticism from Parliament about the decision-making process concerning cooperation on matters of internal affairs and we have already had the opportunity to emphasize, in various circumstances, that we deplore the lack of consultation of Parliament.
The Commission has always maintained that decisions in the field of immigration have to be compulsory and there must be some guarantee of controls by European Parliament.
The Commission, for its part, has had the opportunity to emphasize, in various circumstances, mainly through its statement to the Council and the European Parliament and what was said by my colleague, Anita Gradin, in the European Parliament, that its approach is based on two principles which must always be kept in mind and taken jointly: on one hand, controls on migratory flows but, at the same time, the integration of illegal immigrants.
Expulsion is a necessary measure to show that States are set on fighting illegal immigration but this must go hand in hand with a strong commitment to stop illegal entry in the first place and the exploitation of the nationals of third country living in Community countries clandestinely and very often in very fragile conditions.
It is also important to emphasize that some of the practices recently adopted in some Member States to deal with the situation of illegal immigrants could actually be seen as quite positive.
We advocate the adoption of preventive measures in all European Union countries to prohibit campsites being set up in at-risk areas and that those already in existence be inspected in order to prevent a repetition of this type of accident.
Madam President, I would like to begin my remarks by once again expressing my condolences and support for all the families and friends of the victims and everyone else affected by the disaster in the Pyrenees near Huesca during the afternoon of 7 August.
In addition, the dead, injured and other people affected did not come only from the Autonomous Region of Aragón, but also from many other regions in Spain and other European Union countries - the painful effects of the disaster have reached far and wide.
Madam President, I did, in fact, intend to speak about the floods in Catalonia and the Region of Valencia and to join with my two colleagues in their expression of sorrow for the tragedy which occurred in Biescas.
Just a few days ago, the Baldiña, Sazor, Marina and Ribera Baja areas were the scene of serious flooding which has swept away crops and destroyed industry and infrastructures.
Floods in Spain Madam President, the loss of life and physical damage caused by floods which, in this case, occurred in the region of Maresme in Catalonia as well as in the Region of Valencia, moves the Group of the European People's Party to express its condolences to the families and friends of the victims and, at the same time, to request the active solidarity of this House to alleviate the effects of the flooding and to attempt to prevent the recurrence of such a disaster.
It concerns the fact that the British multinational Thor Chemicals, which has exported hundreds of tonnes of toxic mercury waste from the European Union, in particular from the United Kingdom, from Spain and from Italy, to its plant in Cato Ridge, South Africa.
Thor pleaded guilty.
Mandela has now set up a commission of inquiry.
We say to that undertaking and to the European Union: those who produce waste must also dispose of it, which means that 470 t must be repatriated to the United Kingdom, 57 t to Italy and 10 t to Spain.
In particular, we call on South Africa to sign Article 39 of the Lomé Convention.
Let me also refer you specifically to paragraph 4 of our joint resolution.
It is with a deep feeling of shame that I shall say a few words on this resolution concerning the dumping of hazardous waste in South Africa.
The route known as the 'French Route' is the only pilgrim route to Santiago to have been declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO and Europe's First Cultural Route by the Council of Europe in this very House, back in 1986.
It is serious in terms of the route itself and also in terms of this institution, in terms of the credibility of this House.
The Commission recalls that these calamities came in the wake of those which took place at the beginning of the year, mainly in Portugal, Ireland, the United Kingdom and Italy.
I should like to emphasize that the facts referred to in the European Parliament's resolution came before the adoption of the Council regulation on these matters - in other words, exports to non-OECD countries - and also before South Africa joined the Basel Convention.
Finally, Madam President, insofar as the question raised concerning the Santiago Route is a question which, in terms of subsidiarity, does not fall within the Commission's powers, the Commission cannot give an opinion on this matter.
The joint debate is closed.
A delegation from this Parliament is shortly going to Colombia and it is in view of these exceptional circumstances that I would ask the others to postpone this vote till the next part-session.
Thank you, Mrs d'Ancona.
In the case of our resolution, if possible, before it is rejected, we would prefer to hold the vote over until the next part-session because we want approval to be given to a resolution on human rights in Colombia and, therefore, if this were possible, we would prefer the vote on our motion for a resolution to be held over until the next session.
Unfortunately, this Chair is bound by the Rules of Procedure, and Rule 47 which applies to this urgent debate does not permit suggestions such as that made by Mrs d'Ancona.
Mr Robles Piquer, this Chair cannot agree with you.
The Rules of Procedure cannot be amended in the course of debate.
As I stated in my earlier intervention, we have also been trying to persuade the delegation to Colombia to say just what this House thinks about the human rights situation in that country.
We cannot withdraw our resolution because we are not confident that it would be realistic for a motion for a resolution demanding respect for human rights in Colombia to be tabled next month.
Votes Madam President, after this vote let me say one thing quite clearly.
I believe it is most important to make this clarification because I know that some Members were worried about the outcome of this vote.
Mr von Wogau, if you feel that the consistency of the vote has been maintained, so much the better.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for adopting this report.
It was my last in this House because after the direct elections I will no longer be a Member of it.
He drafted the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties.
The committee unanimously adopted certain conclusions that should be put forward here as oral amendments because they were not tabled in time.
They are conclusions 1d, 2a, 2b and 6b.
You can read these conclusions, which are attached to my report, and as rapporteur I am quite prepared to accept the conclusions numbered 1d, 2a, 2b and 6b.
von Wogau report Madam President, I cannot put this explanation in writing because what happened during the vote on the von Wogau report was certainly not a credit to this Parliament.
A single vote was sufficient to eliminate section 11 c), on which we had reached agreement, because the zero rate was mentioned in it and because it was pointless to recall it in section 16.
Unfortunately, a number of Members failed to understand that, since 11 c) had been defeated, it was necessary to vote for section 16.
Unfortunately, not all Members were here to vote.
In these countries prices (regulated through tax policy), alongside information and availability, have been an important part of policy on alcohol.
As representatives of the environmental party, the Greens, we have voted against the Von Wogau report because we believe as a matter of principle that tax policy should be decided by the Member States.
Meier report I have voted against the Meier report despite the fact that it contains many positive features.
Theato report I have voted against the report by Mrs Theato, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
We must always fight fraud, it is true, but (apart from admitting the hypothesis that governments themselves might voluntarily or involuntarily be involved in some of this fraud) we do not think that Communitization has a role to play in this fight but we think that, by doing so, we might be giving the European Union a clean bill of health in the matter, as if the Member States did not qualify for one.
What we do need is cooperation, clarification, action, rapidity and effectiveness in relation to protecting the financial interests of the Community, the fight against fraud and the fight against corruption which has been growing in this Europe of ours.
Madam President, the key word in this report is cooperation.
Energy Centres have been established in all the Eastern countries and it is to them that we should look to encourage cooperation in a wide range of activities.
No fewer than four programmes are involved - THERMIE, PHARE, TACIS and SYNERGY.
The report has some hard words directed to the Commission on this issue.
The resolution invites proposals for developing the role of the Centres through adequate financial resources.
Nuclear power in Eastern Europe accounts for only some 17 % of electricity and in most countries this is less than the fall in electricity produced since the move towards market economies.
The imposition of a 20 % tax by Russia on imports from Ukraine obviously does nothing to encourage the sale of gas or oil to that country.
The build-up of the market economies will take time.
In the 20 years ahead it is unreasonable to expect the energy problem in those countries to be solved by energy savings, nor can dramatic increases in renewable energies be expected.
All too often, we have become bogged down in theoretical debates about sources of supply, about nuclear energy, for nuclear energy, against nuclear energy, etc.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the EPP Group let me warmly congratulate the rapporteur on his report on East-West cooperation in energy and nuclear security.
It really is a report that stands out in comparison to other matters we discuss here.
Investing in safety is vitally important both to the people of Eastern Europe and the citizens of our Union.
My final point concerns Amendment No 8 put down by the Liberal Group.
I would like to focus, in my address, on the following items: the functioning of the PHARE and TACIS programmes, EC energy centres, nuclear cooperation, and coordination between programmes.
With regard to the TACIS and PHARE programmes, while the policy might have been insufficiently elaborated in the first years, the Commission services have made considerable efforts to achieve a better concentration of action in areas where there is the greatest need and impact.
In fact, the PHARE and TACIS programmes are active in most of the areas highlighted in the draft report.
The oil and gas sector, on the other hand, is more inherently prosperous than others, and in a better position when it comes to raising finance from private sources.
As you know, financing of EC energy centres through the THERMIE programme had to stop at the end of 1995 and the centres are being temporarily supported by SYNERGY while the Commission is seeking an appropriate solution for their future.
In some cases the financing has been taken over by the PHARE and TACIS programmes after careful reviewing and planning, while financing centres that have not been successful will be discontinued.
The scope of these centres' work is also being changed to increase their role in attracting investment, to give them a regional mission and to encourage the longterm sustainability.
In the nuclear sector the report takes a very important step in placing the use of nuclear power in the context of global energy policy.
We must continue to require an improvement in the installations of the countries concerned, with the aim of reaching a level equivalent to the one we have in the Union.
Taking into account the economic and strategic aspects of nuclear power in these countries' energy framework is today essential for the long-term solution of safety issues.
In parallel, the assistance programmes and TACIS/PHARE in particular, must continue to target the most critical safety issues while also considering some specific problems of the fuel cycle.
With regard to coordination between programmes, the Commission agrees with the need for improved coordination between the different actions of the Community in this area.
The objectives of these programmes are different and often complementary.
The second type of coordination is between the specific energy programmes and the general programmes for technical assistance.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Cooperation in the Baltic Sea region The next item is the report (A4-0259/96) by Mr Toivonen, on behalf of the Committee on External Economic Relations, on the Commission report (COM(95)0609 - C4-0017/96) on the current state of and prospects for cooperation in the Baltic Sea region.
We have always known that the Baltic Sea has played a major role in the history of Europe, although we were scarcely ever able to make use of this because the dictatorships and isolation of that region prevented us.
The Mediterranean is Europe's link with Africa and Asia.
Our aim, and I am sure we all agree on this, must be to integrate the Baltic Sea region in the Community, in both political and economic terms.
The Baltic Sea makes up an important part of the life and way of life of the people of that region.
It is in everyone's interests to resolve the environmental problems in this sensitive area.
Compared with the previous five-year period, Commissioner, the increase in the aid granted by the Union is in fact very low, accounting for only a few percentage points.
And here I must mention something the Baltic Sea region is particularly proud of in its centuries-long tradition, namely the principle of subsidiarity.
If we manage to do that together, we will also be grasping the historic opportunity offered to us to ensure that this region really becomes economically stable, in the interests of the people living there and of all of us in the Union.
Madam President, when one compares the Commission document with the existing level of regional and local cooperation in the Baltic Sea region, which can look back to long traditions and made it possible to keep bridges of understanding even during the Cold War period, we see that this document is inadequate and falls far short of the existing level of interregional cooperation in the Baltic Sea area!
The Committee on Regional Policy welcomes all the initiatives to create interregional links in which the regions and municipalities of the Baltic Sea area are participating.
In spite of the numerous requests by Parliament, the Commission has not made a single proposal in this document with regard to providing for joint financing or for means of carrying out cross-border projects or interregional projects.
Madam President, may I also point out that the Committee on Regional Policy unanimously adopted the conclusions in Amendments Nos 2, 5, 7, 8, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16 and 17 but could not table them under the Rules of Procedure.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our Swedish colleague Mr Staffan Burenstam Linder has asked me to present the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy because he is in the capital of Latvia today, in Riga, taking part in the founding of a Europe-wide faculty of law..
I think that is a splendid and highly practical contribution to linking these countries, in this concrete case Latvia, with Europe.
I think we as the European Union and the Member States now have a magnificent opportunity to promote peace, security and stability both in the Mediterranean and in the Baltic Sea region through our policies.
Cooperation in the Baltic Sea region is important both as bilateral and as multilateral cooperation between states, but it is also significant that the European Union as such is taking part in this cooperation so that everything that can be done bilaterally and multilaterally also comes within the framework of the European process of integration.
In the coming months and years we should do our utmost through this cooperation to help those states that want to join the European Union through a strategy of preparation, in the sense of giving help for self-help so that they can build up a strong democracy and good economic relations in the hope that in the not too distant future this continent can become a continent of stability, of peace and of freedom.
I should like to mention three points: the many initiatives which have been taken, nuclear safety, and transport links from the Baltic Sea.
It is very important for me to emphasize that at the conference last week in Riga, at which I represented Parliament, we were simply treading water, so to speak.
If we do not solve the problem of Ignalina, which is a problem for all of us together, then in ten years' time we shall have an even greater problem than the one we are confronted with today.
This is connected with NATO, but also with the low-key form of security policy, namely economic security policy.
That is why our discussions are also bound up with the situation in Russia.
Madam President, I should like finally to stress that in order for export industries to function all the year round it is necessary to develop the infrastructure.
I must again stress the very great importance of this area as a gateway from Finland to the Barents Sea and the Archangel region.
I believe this is incredibly important as it is only together with Russia that real security in our region can be established.
In my one and a half minutes I would just like to highlight two different points.
Madam President, following our debate on the Commission's guidelines for policy on the Baltic region last year, Parliament is now required to pronounce on a report which outlines the foreign aid extended to this region.
The Commission report gives a clear overview of the various aid programmes being implemented in the Baltic region.
One thinks of measures against drugs trafficking and illegal trading in dangerous substances, and effective action can also be taken jointly with the Baltic region against trafficking in human beings and child pornography.
It is important to establish a new European security system through cooperation.
A good example of the new type of action is IFOR in Bosnia, which is composed not only of NATO peace-keepers but also of contingents from Russia, the Baltic States and the non-aligned countries.
The Commission has already responded to this challenge by proposing an updating of the list of projects for trans-European energy networks.
The Committee on Energy will begin its consideration of the Commission's new proposal on 30 September 1996.
Indeed, four countries in the Baltic region are Member States of the Union and four others are associated to the Union through European agreements and very much involved in the process of cooperation, with a view to future accession.
In April and June of this year, before the Baltic Summits in Visby and Kalmar, the Commission had the opportunity to put before the Chamber its ideas on its involvement in cooperation with the Baltic Sea region as a means of guaranteeing stability and prosperity for the peoples living in that region.
Following a request by the European Council, the Commission presented at the Summit of Baltic States in Visby, in May of this year, its so-called 'Initiative for the Baltic Sea Region' , which sets out the way in which we are supporting cooperation with this region and, as has already been mentioned, brings out three main areas: the first area, strengthening democracy and stability, including a reinforcement of civil society, the promotion of human rights and the fight against unlawful activity; -a second aspect, which is economic development, a priority area in which we are continuing to develop our bilateral relations and also foster the development of relations between the countries in transition in the Baltic Sea area, so that a wider economic area can help to improve the economic outlook.
As a member of the Council of Baltic Sea countries, the Commission has actively participated in the elaboration of action programmes adopted at the ministerial meeting in Kalmar which took place in July.
The Commission's initiative for the Baltic Sea complements this CBSS document.
We shall continue to play an active part in other CBSS bodies and in the HELCOM.
On this score, the European Union gives its full support to a strengthening of cooperation in order to construct a better future for all of the peoples of the Baltic Sea region and, by extension, the rest of Europe.
Those were all things that are already going on.
We are talking about a document on strategies.
It is a question of strategies and in this respect I must start by pointing out that the partnership and cooperation agreement with Russia has already been signed and that it is for the Council to ensure that it is now ratified in the individual Member States.
Secondly, I would like to know whether the Commission has responded to Parliament's proposals, namely in relation to channelling the aid in such a way as to overcome the difficulties between PHARE and INTERREG and between TACIS and INTERREG, and setting up model projects for cross-border cooperation, and whether this will get going in the near future.
However, any strengthening of appropriations for the Baltic Sea region must be met by a readjustment within the main lines of Chapter IV, and in particular, in this case, through programmes which have been approved for exercise in this area, namely the TACIS and PHARE Programmes.
Moreover, there are other programmes working in the Community's transfrontier area, such as INTERREG, which might obviously also apply here.
But I am certain that, with the cooperation that we already have, namely through the CBSS and our relations in terms of international trade that we enjoy with the countries of the Baltic Sea - if any of these solutions are viable the Commission will necessarily back them.
The debate is closed.
