I have no comment to make in that respect, but I think reports of this kind should not be considered by Parliament.
However, people can lose their cards in countries other than the 15 EU Member States, and Internet selling is also not limited to EU countries.
Of course, for doing this they get back 10 % of the duties, which really belong to the Community Budget, to cover their administrative work.
In the context of SEM 2000, the European Council of Madrid planned an intensification of the collection of the own resources, and the Commission is now presenting here a proposal for an order to amend Basic Order 55/89 relating to the system of the EU's own resources with the intention of meeting this goal.
The Court of Auditors discovered that in 1995.
Meanwhile, in some Member States the front lines are being drawn for the so-called net-payers' discussion.
It is presented on a particularly attractive day at a particularly attractive time, and nobody will take any notice of it, especially since we are all in agreement.
This technical report is not going to solve all the problems, but it is a simple first step in the right direction.
The Green Group is going to support the report in its entirety.
In this case this agreement should no longer be implicit, but the Member States should be informed in writing.
This applies particularly to the amendment relating to the retention of the threshold value of ECU 10 000 for the notification of cancellations, that is, Amendment No 3.
If this amendment were accepted the result would be an enormous increase in the administrative costs.
The suggested rise in the amount to ECU 50 000 would have the effect that about 69 % fewer cases would have to be checked, but 90 % of the income at stake would be covered.
The debate is closed.
We shall now proceed to the vote. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I cannot support this report.
Development finance The next item is the report (A4-0050/98) by Mr Wynn, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the draft Financial Regulation applicable to development finance cooperation under the Fourth ACP-EEC Convention amended by the Agreement of 4 November 1995 (COM(96)0676 - C4-0101/97-96/0307(CNS)) Mr President, this is one of those Friday morning reports, with no amendments.
We have said, therefore, that the EDF should be budgetized and Parliament should have some say in the matter.
When the seventh EDF came before Parliament, Parliament was once again consulted and we said that, because of Article 199 of the Treaty, it should be budgetized and we therefore delayed somewhat in giving our opinion.
Because of that delay the Council then adopted the regulation without our opinion.
Even when we had the 1994 discharge, and we refused to give discharge in 1994 to the EDF, the Court of Auditors said that the legal framework for the EDF was directly responsible for many of the failings in terms of sound financial management.
Mr President, I should just like to draw to Mr Wynn's attention the fact that I took part in the vote on Amendment No 3 on the Kyoto Summit.
He has done so much work in this sphere and shows that he was always a committed housekeeper, but also a man who was personally committed in development politics and who has been very successful in bringing both together.
The other is the rather interesting point that the civil servants in the Member States have convinced their ministers that there is a better cost-benefit for national aid going to developing countries than for aid from the European Union.
We come up against these two rather simple things and get into a very complicated, legalistic argument with the Member States and the Council.
The European Parliament has rightly always supported the budgetization of the EDF, which is in accordance with the spirit of the Treaties, and in particular with Article 199 of the Treaty instituting the European Economic Community and the rules of universality and unity of the budget.
The Green Group does, of course, support Mr Wynn's proposal.
The European Parliament should not cooperate in being a democratic alibi.
Mr President, Mr Wynn takes a very unusual position in his report.
The Member States fulfil an important role in the implementation of this agreement, which is by nature intergovernmental.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this week we have already had several opportunities (on the occasion of reports on tourism) to reconstruct above all how seriously this House takes its task of representing the interests of taxpayers in the European Union.
At the same time, we see ourselves confronted by the fact that the Council - and in this connection apparently also the Commission - really places no value on being appropriately inspected by the institution which ultimately is responsible for monitoring the implementation of European policies.
Mr van Dam, I believe we shall have no problems at all, not even in public, in following our rapporteur's arguments.
We should perhaps be guided by this thought when we deal with the reports before us, which we have to adopt in this house in the near future, relating to the monitoring of European policies.
So I believe Parliament cannot accept this role, since it is so significant.
I am saying once again that what we require is a more solid basis for this policy, within the budgetary framework of the Union.
Mr President, I too would like to compliment the speaker, Mr Wynn, and the Committee on Budgetary Control for their work on this subject and for their proposal, which I believe should be approved, to refuse to give Parliament's opinion on the proposed financial regulations for the Eighth European Development Fund.
This highlights the fact that Parliament's consultation is purely optional on many measures and that, on implementing measures and even on negotiations on the Lomé Conventions, its prerogatives are simply shown to be a power of political influence - being able to give its opinion which, however, is never binding.
Our opinion is therefore all the more important as we are dealing with the debate on what to do after the year 2000 - that is, after the Fourth Lomé Convention.
The budgetization of the European Development Fund is a permanent topic in the Committee on Development and Cooperation, and we also know that we have the Commission on our side there too.
Moreover, we should in no way give these unilateral Council decisions a dubious democratic legitimization, for the Council is the most undemocratic element in our Community. (Applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the finance regulation for the eighth European Development Fund is a question of a document in which the implementation rules (that is, the financial order, the management of resources, the implementation measures and organs which carry them out, as well as the checking and the statement of accounts) are fixed as an internal agreement between the Commission and the Member States.
The debate is closed.
Community cereals trade The next item is the report (A4-0021/98) by Mr Giansily, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the Court of Auditors' Special Report No 5/97 on management of the Community cereals trade involving export refunds, special import arrangements and regional aid schemes, together with the Commission's replies (C4-0351/97).
In the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control, the failure to correct the coefficients may have led to considerable additional costs, which is why in future care should be taken that these coefficients are checked at regular intervals.
Secondly, the Court of Auditors' Special Report is concerned with special arrangements for the import of maize and sorghum to Spain and Portugal.
It will be recalled that after the entry of Spain and Portugal into the Community an agreement was made between them and the United States in order to guarantee the annual import of two million tonnes of maize and 300 000 tonnes of sorghum to Spain, and 500 000 tonnes of maize to Portugal.
The Committee on Budgetary Control demands that care be taken when the regulation is implemented in future, so that no additional costs for the budget of the European Union are incurred.
Mr President, I have a worry about my own mental health (since this topic was mentioned this morning) when I can get excited by something that says "Special Report 5/97 of the Court of Auditors on the management of the Community's cereals trade involving export refunds, special import arrangements and regional aid scheme together with the Commission's replies' .
However, it is not as good as previous special reports on the very same issue.
The Commissioner may ask what that has to do with this report?
I have to laugh that the opinion from our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development says that Parliament is not in a position to monitor the activities of the management committees.
We have 79 agricultural management committees.
Insofar as the POSEIMA programme is concerned, we have to admit that you could not think of a more complicated or indirect or inefficient way to aid islands or remote regions, because in the first place there is no guarantee whatsoever that this money is going to the aid of the people who need it or for whom it was intended.
The one area where I have a slight disagreement with Terry Wynn is over the whole question of export refunds, where I think he went a little bit astray.
Similarly when prices on the world markets are higher than they are in the European Union, as has happened thankfully recently, we save ourselves that cost and the money is retained in the budget and we can use it for something else.
For instance 25 %, when it has been occurring for so many years.
Furthermore, what is the need for special arrangements for Spain and Portugal when, if I have understood correctly, they have served absolutely no purpose, at least not during the past ten years?
Mr President, the Court of Auditors' Special Report contains several observations which are both interesting and startling.
One of these, as several speakers have already mentioned, is that the flat-rate processing coefficients have not been changed for a full 24 years.
This report once again makes clear how necessary it is to reform the Common Agricultural Policy in terms of ecologization and renationalization, and above all to ensure that these drastically deplorable abuses are eliminated.
It is obvious that imported maize is, at least in Portugal, being mixed with EU maize at considerable profit.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Special Report No 5, for the year 1997, from the European Court of Auditors deals with three particular problems.
The Commission welcomes the Court of Auditors' report and also the rapporteur's proposed resolution, on which you will vote today.
I think Parliament is justified in complaining about the fact that the flat-rate coefficients for the conversion of export refunds for processed products were not changed for 24 years.
The problems which arose in two Member States with regard to the origin of exported malt have been solved in the meantime.
The fact that part of these imports were arranged by the Portuguese interventions office is the result of a compromise reached in the Council in December 1993.
Before the vote on Amendment No 6 Mr President, I did vote, but somebody has removed my card.
Mr Martin said that the roll-call votes on Friday did not count and you also have made a distinction.
I said the opposite, and you know I am always here every Friday to give them the value they deserve.
Mr President, on the same lines, I was going to say that all of us here have heard what you say, but there is a group of Europeans above, who are quite young in fact, for whom I think you would need to clarify exactly what you wanted to say.
As you rightly say, votes are as important on Friday as they are on Thursday.
The situation is even more serious because on Friday mornings the votes are extremely disjointed.
Furthermore, exchanges in this field have been taking place for many years, and the three programmes in question were already able to support actions involving CEECs.
Similarly, the Tempus programme set up in 1990 within the framework of Phare and Tacis has established the foundation of cooperation between universities.
It is obvious that this process has been reinforced by the adoption of Agenda 2000 and the decisions of the Luxembourg Summit, which have brought these pre-accession procedures into the operational phase.
In this respect, we can see that there is synergy not contradiction between the actions recommended in Agenda 2000 and the procedure adopted by the Association Councils.
Under the terms of this agreement, Poland and the Slovak Republic can take part in all the actions falling within the scope of these three programmes.
On a financial level, the complement to these countries' contributions which must be provided by the European Union has been included in the 1997 budget.
This expenditure must be made without fail before 31 March, which explains the urgency of this debate.
In addition, Poland has been offered the opportunity of using up to a maximum 10 % of its Phare allocation.
The Leonardo, Socrates and Youth for Europe programmes, voted for under the codecision procedure, were set up during 1995.
We must be aware that these three programmes operate in synergy with other European Union actions in the field of education, training and youth.
Article 126 of the Maastricht Treaty has given the European Union competence in this respect, and however limited, they are proof of a real determination to take action.
Certainly the budget of the Socrates programme has been substantially increased thanks to the tenacity and efficiency of our colleague, Doris Pack, whom we should once again congratulate on her activities, but there is now a real demand for the education and youth programmes, to which it would be a pity not to respond.
Poland, like the Slovak Republic, cannot escape the need to adapt its educational system, not only in relation to the European Union, but also in the context of globalization and the development of the new technologies we are seeing today.
The Slovak Republic is developing a less aggressive strategy as only 3.2 % of its budget is allocated to education, that is approximately 1.5 % of its GDP.
The Slovak Republic and Poland had to wait, since we first had to see whether we got additional Socrates resources.
The choice of education, training and youth is a good one to start with and to gain experience, and the role of Commissioner van den Broek in this choice is to be applauded, because those who have youth have the future.
A good basis for future cooperation with these countries can be found in the shared financial support for the relevant programmes, as well as the Phare programme.
But to my mind it is clear that the substance of this initiative far exceeds the financial limitations as far as the significance of the initiative is concerned.
Mr President, I think this is one of the European Parliament's most important tasks: to strengthen the cooperation between the professions, youth, countries and people.
We should see this within the framework of the partnership between the Commission, the Slovak Republic and Poland.
The programmes concerned here are mainly Leonardo, Socrates, Youth for Europe, Tempus and Phare.
Mr President, Community training and education programmes are of the utmost importance.
I therefore welcome this report on Poland and the Slovak Republic.
The Green Group is therefore going to support this report.
Mr President, we vote in favour of this report, although I regard it as unnecessary automatically to attach the label of eastwards expansion to every sensible measure concerning our eastern neighbours.
This report turns to the young people - in this case in Poland and the Slovak Republic, previously (in fact last year) in Romania, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
If we win over the young people in these countries then the future of Europe belongs to them, which is what we want for them.
It is our task to show and suggest to these young people our European values, granted to us by 50 years of peace which have provided us with great prosperity, a great epoch, so that they can accept them of their own free will.
Mr President, Karl Habsburg-Lothringen kindly mentioned that I am, as it were, the grandfather of this report, because I had the honour at that time of presenting here in Parliament the supplementary protocols relating to the association agreements.
I believe the report on which we are voting today is a significant step forward.
We should place a financial emphasis on the Slovak Republic, for none of the associated states requires our support as urgently as the Slovak Republic, which is a profoundly central European country.
We members of the eastwards enlargement delegations did in fact have some very intensive discussions in the last week in Strasbourg with Commissioner van den Broek, and we made it clear that we particularly welcome the importance of this European agreement to include the central and eastern European states.
The fact that we commence with cooperation in the fields of education and youth is not only to be welcomed but also well thought out.
I agree with the rapporteur: a common future in a common house called Europe can only be constructed in cooperation with young people.
The European Parliament inspired the opening up of Community programmes for these countries, even before the European Council decided this in 1993.
As far as the last amendment is concerned, I would like to say that we completely agree that there should be a follow-up in relation to participation in these programmes.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I am sorry, I have no wish to hold things up, but I see from repeated readings of Amendments Nos 3 and 8 - the text is the same for both countries- that a slight error has crept in.
