We have made the transition in various areas from the information stage to consultation, from consultation to cooperation, from cooperation to codecision, from codecision to simplified codecision and sometimes even directly to the assent procedure.
Owing to the demands of the timetable for introducing monetary union and the need to examine the other problems in greater depth, I have split this report into two parts.
It was in effect decided when drawing up the Treaty of Amsterdam that the provisions relating to monetary union should not be touched in any way.
That is why this area was left aside, while recognizing that the broad aim of the Treaty of Amsterdam was to improve democratic control and transparency.
In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy we were consulted on recommendations relating to broad economic policy guidelines, or GOPES in our French jargon.
So we are consulted on these guidelines, but this consultation is informal.
What we ask is that the Council and the Commission, with Parliament, create a procedure by interinstitutional agreement which would formalize today's practices.
Mr President, this report is highly significant, because ever since the beginning of the second stage of monetary union the European Parliament has been calling for an interinstitutional agreement between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, so that in the excessive deficit procedures, and more particularly in the basic aspects of economic policy and its enforcement, we can get to grips with the problem of democratic deficit.
Also, everyone is concerned to find a way of ensuring that the institutions of economic and monetary union are responsible and accountable, without prejudice to the technical independence of the European Central Bank.
There are a number of other important areas that still remain outside the democratic control of the European Parliament.
We must implement the proposals in the Herman report, which represent our determination to overcome the serious lack of democratic control in many areas of economic and social policy at European level.
Mr President, 2 May was a historic day.
Were it not for the fact that the term 'historic' has been overused on many occasions, no doubt we would be able to use it in this instance too.
The truth is that on the evening of 2 May, the least that can be said of the heads of state and government is that they were not on their best behaviour, but I do not think the anecdote should be given too much importance.
And that is what Fernand Herman's report does: it gets to work.
The system we have created - and that the Maastricht Treaty created in establishing a European Central Bank - is a system which is answerable to nobody.
That is very important because, in the resolution we passed in this Parliament on 20 November 1997, we laid the foundations of the European Union as a union of states and a union of peoples.
So it is important for this Parliament to be kept informed, to be consulted and to state its opinion, in order to guarantee democratic responsibility.
So my group is going to support it, because we are convinced that it will help the European Central Bank, the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council to collaborate efficiently.
And we are also going to support some of the amendments, which improve the text.
Mr President, as I said at the beginning of my speech, it is a good text with which to begin our work.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely applaud the principles of openness and democracy in the operation of democratic institutions wherever they are upheld.
I myself voted for the European Parliament's recommendation on the creation of the euro.
One of the things public opinion, and even some politicians, found most shocking, was the delay in taking the decision.
The important thing, from my point of view, is that the countries harmonized their opinions and reached a final decision.
I am one of those people who believe that Europe will be richer, better and more acceptable to all its citizens if all those people, without exception, who have political responsibilities and have been elected by their peoples are able to participate in and be informed about decisions which, I repeat, affect everyone.
The European Parliament, for the first time in its history, becomes the sole interlocutor of an institution as powerful as the European Central Bank.
It was Mr Schioppa himself who said in his excellent speech that the European Central Bank will need to explain its actions, not only to the market operators but also to the Community institutions, to public opinion and to the media.
The European Parliament, by means of its competent committees, will have to organize these relations.
Finally, how could we fail to be pleased by the conviction shown by several of the directors when they firmly stated that the need for economic and monetary union will be dependent upon the institutional progress of the European Union towards stronger and better integrated institutions, which would compel us all to clarify the objectives of the Union.
His proposals are very useful.
There will only be democratic supervision of the European Central Bank if, simultaneously, a capacity for cooperation of national economic policies is demonstrated within a balanced concept of the institutions and the running of the institutions.
From this point of view, I understand the demand made of the European Central Bank in the report, that it clearly states its objectives, including those objectives which do not come strictly within its responsibilities, such as growth - and here I will add employment -, so that the dialogue between Parliament and that institution is fertile and so that it can be judged in full knowledge of the facts.
Firstly it assumes that the European Parliament is capable of playing a political role in the substance of political and economic options.
Secondly, you are examining its relations with civil society and the social players, and you are confining yourself to a procedure within the institutions.
I will end by saying that in order to reflect on the consistency between the social objectives of the Union and the choices of financial and monetary policies, we absolutely must become much more involved in dialogue with the social players, the representatives of civil society.
Mr President, as a colleague of mine on the Committee on Institutional Affairs, the rapporteur knows that I am not one of those people who simply follow established ritual by thanking and complimenting each and every rapporteur.
I consider this report to be very important indeed.
The report's achievement lies in producing a frank and somewhat singular diagnosis of the democratic deficit in the EU and, by way of a clear and definite strategy, in producing a host of proposals, which I fully endorse.
The essential part of this diagnosis, in my view, lies in the fact that the rapporteur very clearly shows that parliamentary control is being withdrawn from the national parliaments in an increasing number of political spheres without this control being transferred to the European Parliament.
This leads me in turn to criticize that practice, that pragmatic strategy, which the rapporteur is proposing in order to extend parliamentary rights and tackle the problem of democratic deficit.
Having said that, there are two questions I would like to ask in this debate.
I address them to Mr Herman, who knows my position well.
Firstly, can we continuously list after the event, so to speak, the litany of the causes of our dissatisfaction, which should have provoked a more vigorous reaction on our part when it was adopted, when we gave our political agreement to the Treaty of Amsterdam?
Secondly, are the interinstitutional agreements the appropriate formula simply because there is no other solution?
But this is what is going to happen with the draft Treaty of Amsterdam, which the majority of this Parliament approves, but which will reduce democracy in Europe and deprive the national parliaments of their powers without offering any equivalent democratic control.
For example, may I remind you that the new Title IV of the EC Treaty provided by Amsterdam will remove from the national parliaments all decision making powers in the field of immigration, without providing any replacement control for at least five years, and then only the inadequate control of the European Parliament.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations believes that to overcome the democratic deficit in Europe we need a new treaty - note the use of the word 'treaty' rather than 'interinstitutional agreements' - to restore the national parliaments' role within the European decision making process.
In this respect, I regret that Members have once again shown ostracism, a few days ago, by excluding on principle the national parliaments from control of the euro.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Amsterdam Treaty constitutes a significant step on the road to the democratization of the European Union, and our journey down this road must continue.
The Intergovernmental Conference has agreed that the common institutions should use every means to improve their functioning without any change in the Treaties.
The future president of the ECB has ensured us that he is willing to hold regular quarterly meetings to exchange ideas.
The current information procedures are in need of improvement.
The latter makes Parliament an equal legislator in many areas of social policy.
I estimate that some 80 % of legislation and the budget will soon be controlled by the European Parliament, but that does not alter the fact that a number of important areas are not included, as my colleague Mr Herman has indicated in his report.
Agricultural policy, fisheries policy, common trade policy, competition policy and development cooperation policy - none of these types of areas are yet controlled in this democratic way.
Mr Herman has made an excellent proposal to try and improve this control in the meantime by concluding interinstitutional agreements.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that cooperation between national parliaments and the European Parliament ought to be improved.
The Commission understands this, and the executive board of the European Central Bank seem to understand this too.
Firstly, there is a need for closer liaisons with the national parliaments, especially on the part of the European Parliament.
Finally, and in conjunction with the two previous aspects, there is an urgent need for greater and more effective involvement of the people in the decision making processes, especially those they normally have less chance to influence.
The report shows very clearly something which, in effect, we already knew: that is, how much is wanting as far as democratic control, democratic legitimacy, openness and transparency are concerned.
Mr Herman is a veteran of the Committee on Institutional Affairs.
I am sure that the overwhelming majority in the European Parliament will back the resolution that has been put before us.
An interinstitutional agreement to involve the European Parliament in the decision making legitimization chain is appropriate with the advent of an economic policy that will of necessity be more and more a joint one, in the wake of the single currency.
What is more, in some of the cases I have described, the European Parliament has already acted informally.
And the Council also accepted the institutionalization of participation by the European Parliament only last week, particularly as regards Agenda 2000.
Mr President, I would like to concentrate on the lack of democratic control pursuant to the Euratom Treaty.
This is not an abstract issue but a very specific one.
Nuclear matters are an important part of European activities, and the powers of the Commission under the Treaty, especially in the context of international agreements, are quite extensive.
I am very pleased to see Commissioner Oreja here and I call on him to take the initiative to agree to institute a formal consultation procedure on the important matter of KEDO.
I hope also for the support of this House for Amendment No 3, which asks the Commission for information on the financial consequences of this important issue before signing the agreement.
Secondly, the European Parliament cannot replace the authority of the national parliaments.
The European Parliament, on the other hand, is of course bound and trapped in a complex structure where the citizens truly lack influence and which is not ruled by the openness that prevails in national systems.
Mr President, I too welcome Mr Herman's report, particularly some parts of it that have hardly been touched on by previous speakers: the need to control power at European level where it has been lost by national parliaments, the need for greater parliamentary control over agricultural and trade policy and, in particular, its recognition that the European Parliament itself must be made more open and more effective.
We often criticize the democratic deficit and shortcomings in other institutions, but are less critical of our own.
They have that at least in common with Members of the European Parliament.
Mr President, the European Parliament must fight for its democratic rights.
I should like to direct our attention to some of the other major questions which will face us in the coming months and years, issues in which the European Parliament wants to - and indeed must - become more deeply involved, as is in keeping with current Treaty law.
We have had to negotiate a new financial perspective for the years ahead, and for all the areas in question it seems important for the European Parliament to be involved in the decision making process in a manner which is proper and appropriate to a democratic Union.
Mr President, the Danish referendum on the Amsterdam Treaty is now only two weeks away.
The European Parliament is much more open than the majority of national parliaments.
Interinstitutional agreements are often a good idea in our quest for more openness and democracy in the EU.
Social dialogue is still in its infancy, and it is important for us to leave it to the parties to the labour market to achieve mutual agreement and establish a framework for collaboration.
In short, I am voting in favour of the rapporteur's excellent report because of the many positive elements it contains and because we must never stop investigating how to make the EU more open and democratic.
It is the people that make up Europe, not the institutes or the Member States.
It is important to correct the democratic deficit with increasingly effective partnership between the European Parliament and national Parliaments, in order to safeguard common parliamentary interests.
Undoubtedly, the development of this process of participation by the national parliaments and close cooperation between representatives elected democratically at European and national level has benefited from the very positive climate of collaboration which has been established between the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
But it is essential to remove the barriers which, in practice, prevent the European Parliament from fully expressing its point of view, which should of course be taken into account by the other institutions.
The report proposes a series of sectors in which the agreements should accompany the Treaties, in a manner of speaking.
The institutions can decide whether or not to approve that type of agreement but, of course, what they cannot do is decide to modify them.
Also, we must remember that basically social policy is not implemented through this sort of agreement, but through the other Treaty procedures.
I would remind you that President Santer had to hold a conference for the social partners, to check their willingness to use social agreements for specific matters.
But a lot has been said about 2 May and I do not want to finish without mentioning the dates 8 and 9 of May, which saw the recent European Movement congress 50 years after the Congress of Europe in The Hague in 1948.
And I want to convey to you the fact that many of the speeches made there, especially the one by the President of this Parliament, stressed that this century must not end without a great initiative being launched to allow us to create an institutional framework in keeping with the great progress we have seen in Europe over the last few years.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, in its budget the European Union has allocated 27 eurocents per head of population to informing the citizen about what is happening in Brussels and Strasbourg.
The report carries my name, but the text is the fruit of the excellent cooperation between all the members of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Institutional Affairs, and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
Secondly, improving the coordination of activities between the different European Union institutions, especially between the Commission and the European Parliament.
The third aspect is the decentralization of activities down to the level of Member States and the regions within the Member States.
The information policy is not a means to an end.
The organization of common activities of both institutions requires special attention.
The advantage of this approach is that we will be able to start implementing the new policy tomorrow.
A practical aspect of the cooperation between the Commission and Parliament is that they can both use the communication infrastructure.
Mr President, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights paid particular attention to the institutional question of a modern and efficient information policy.
The European Union has a duty to inform people and this is implied in the Treaties, its powers and its objectives.
The citizen is entitled to receive accurate information about what we do for him.
It is true, no other international organization in the world has such a direct impact on the lives of ordinary citizens.
A working party chaired by myself as far back as 1993 highlighted the information policy's lack of strategy guidelines.
There is no general message common to all the institutions in which the citizens can recognize themselves.
Mr President, in a report which I submitted to the Bureau on 21 March 1995 on an information policy for the European Parliament, among other things I recommended the drawing up of a report by the competent Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, and an annual debate in the House on this important issue.
Our starting point was the realization that a great lack of communication separated the European Union from its citizens.
To begin to reduce somewhat this significant lack of communication, we attached primary importance to the development of cooperation with the European Commission, which has more general responsibility for information on European activities.
The PRINCE programme for the three major actions in this field served as a laboratory for the implementation of our new ideas and methods in an effort to turn the rapidly developing new technology to advantage.
We also had the satisfaction of seeing our original cooperation with the Commission finally take on a trilateral dimension, as the governments of 11 Member States signed agreements with us and shared in the joint effort.
And from within this general framework has come the report we are debating today, after so much delay.
The approximately ECU 100 million a year represents little more than the budget of an average European company which normally advertises a single product.
We need to make even greater use of the new technologies and to have greater access to television, which is the chief or only source of information for 70 % of citizens.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of the European Union will very, very soon be faced with this electoral date which is going to be very important for Europe, that is the re-election of Parliament, without forgetting, of course, the reappointment of the Commission.
In all parliaments, the risks of communication are political and are therefore a matter for the democracy and authority of their executive.
The fundamental message of the Treaty of Amsterdam was to force the European Union to communicate more intensively with its citizens.
Mr President, since the outset this report has created a certain feeling of uneasiness, as also demonstrated by our President, Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado's speech, an extremely rare event in a public sitting.
In paragraph 16 it grants a degree of power to an ad hoc body, but in this case it must guarantee its objectivity.
The composition of the working party, which is made up essentially of political representatives and not civil servants, shows the exclusive presence of the two large political groups in this Parliament.
In the form in which it is presented in paragraph 16 of this report, and given its powers, this working party which the report proposes to institutionalize could be turned into an EU ministry of information, a ministry which, moreover, would not be democratically accountable.
So if the majority of this Parliament does not vote in favour of our amendment on pluralism, I will, regrettably, vote against this report.
Mr President, information policy is an important aspect of democratic culture, but it is also a power issue.
The way in which an institution behaves in this critical area is an indicator of its democratic qualities.
The background to this report, the inadequate objectives which have been set, and the composition of the working party all clearly demonstrate that a majority of the Members of this House regard information policy as purely a power issue.
Mr President, in taking the initiative of studying the problem of information in the European institutions, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media has done something worthwhile.
Information includes helping our fellow citizens to have a better perception of the European institutions and a greater knowledge of the decisions taken, while communication, in political terms, is the duty of the political groups and the Members of the European Parliament themselves.
Our mandate obliges us to learn to pass on the message and to explain our choices.
This is a question which cannot be evaded, but it goes beyond the scope of this debate.
Nevertheless, such a body could not exist without all the political groups being represented.
In the run-up to the 1999 European elections it is necessary, amongst other things, for the citizens to know that their choice in these elections is of real value.
The core of the resolution consists of a proposal to the Commission to submit a legislative proposal with the aim of integrating the information services of the Commission and this Parliament.
Mr President, the very first paragraph of the explanatory statement to Mr Pex's report already shows the mentality with which this document, and occasionally this Parliament, are imbued.
If this positive view is now crumbling, it is not because people are badly informed but, on the contrary, because they are becoming better informed.
There is a massive amount of work to do, and it is not surprising on the basis of the way some of the offices of the Commission work within the Member States.
For 15 years we have not heard a squeak from it.
DG X is changing and it is improving, and there are some great examples of direct communication, especially using the Internet.
I just want to put it into perspective: the EU spent 10 % of what Pepsi Cola spent on telling us about the difference between changing its coke cans from red to blue - so we must keep it in perspective.
Mr President, the proposal on the future of the European Union's information and communication policy, on which Parliament is invited to vote, contains a number of important points which I would like to highlight.
Since the press is one of our targets, we should specifically make room for the means of information that are closest to the people, because it is they that keep institutions in touch with local life, and are able to translate the Union's political messages into specific terms.
The attention the report proposes to give to regional television stations should be expressed by using the initiatives that already exist in that field, particularly the regional CIRCOM, which consists of 376 regional stations in 39 European countries.
The European elections in 1999 will be the next major test of how serious we are in our attempts to improve the idea Europeans have of Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to congratulate Mr Pex on his excellent work and his delicate mediation in drawing up this own-initiative report.
An efficient and organic information policy represents a fundamental instrument to ensure that the citizens understand the values on which the European Union is based, the objectives proposed and the efforts required to attain these objectives.
As for content, it is most important to consider the objectives in the major areas, the direction in which the European Union is going, and the fundamental role the citizens play in this development.
Cooperation between the European Parliament and the Commission is very important, above all to identify the effects of information on major topics, to coordinate the specific contribution of each of the two institutions.
Lively, pluralistic information is the fundamental element of democratic debate.
Mr President, first of all I would like to state that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party intends to vote in favour of this report.
The future of the European Union depends on the support of its citizens.
No excellent information policy can cover for a chaotic structure or poor decisions, but much of the dissatisfaction felt by our citizens stems from the EU's distant stance.
The big challenge for the EU's information and communication policy is to bridge the abyss that separates the EU institutions and the people.
If Europe is to become a Europe of the people, then its tangible benefits, its aims and its perspectives must be more clearly understood by the people.
There is a serious information deficit - incidentally this also applies to the national governments - and a clear disparity between the successes of the EU and its image.
The widening gulf between the citizens of Europe and its institutions is not being caused by the inadequate information policy but by the unsatisfactory answers which have been given to Europe's most burning questions, such as that of the 18 million unemployed.
While the rapporteur underlines the importance of intelligibility in the drawing up of legal documents, Members are declaring that they are unable to understand the language of the regulations which have been submitted on agricultural reform.
If the communication policy of the institutions is to be regarded... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media wishes to coordinate visiting and information policy for EU institutions.
In this matter, our only responsibility is to the European Parliament.
For example, our committee meetings are open compared to those of the national parliaments.
Our information policy has two key elements.
Mr President, this report represents a large collection of contributions by various groups on the question of information, and is also a clear indication of Parliamentary cooperation.
That is why I would like to announce two pieces of good news in this morning's debate.
Secondly, on 28 April we had a coming together of local government, education and business representatives over the whole of the East of England.
I would also call for vigilance on the part of our Parliament to ensure that this European body which we are setting up can, in addition to its tasks of coordinating common areas of information, also exercise control of this information and communication policy which we want so badly.
There are national public opinions, but it is hard to convey the content of our institutions' decisions at Community level, to public opinion at a Community level.
Thus he rightly stresses in his report that the Commission and Parliament have objectives in common, but that they are not identical, which means that communication policy should either be developed jointly or in a differentiated manner by each institution.
So I fully share his view that we have to coordinate and collaborate better wherever such coordination and collaboration is possible, with full respect for the institutional autonomy which allows each one to develop its role efficiently.
So I will concentrate on the second part of the report, on the mechanisms to ensure cooperation between Parliament and the Commission.
I must confess, I have certain reservations here as regards parts of paragraph 16 of the report.
Firstly, the Commission is invited to present a legislative proposal by 30 September 1998, in order to create an interinstitutional working party.
Furthermore, I note that the rapporteur himself fails to request in his report that the proposal be presented by reason of Article 138 B, which is the channel provided for in the Treaty to request the Commission to propose Community acts.
That is exactly the policy I have been following ever since I have been responsible for this area.
As for the other matters mentioned in paragraph 16, I agree with the whole set of initiatives - Euronews, ' Europe by Satellite' , and the European Union on radio and CD-ROM.
On all these points, I fully share the rapporteur's views.
The debate is closed.
Votes Madam President, Members will recall my question to the President yesterday in this Parliament: he advised us that it would be the Bureau, and only the Bureau, which would review and make decisions relating to the 50 % voting attendance in Chamber during roll call votes.
Before the vote on Amendment No 17 Madam President, my presence in the Chamber should be noted.
Madam President, you said: ' I am not willing to participate in your game' .
Recital G begins: ' Inquiet du non respect par Israël des engagements... ' The first part of the oral amendment consists in replacing this phrase with the phrase: ' Convaincu qu'Israël doit respecter ses engagements... ' The second part of the amendment consists in adding at the end, after the phrase 'novembre 1995 ' , the phrase: ' et des accords d'Oslo ' .
This is all that is in paragraph 3. (The President noted that there were more than twelve objections) Ladies and gentlemen, there is something I do not understand.
We are all aware that the rule was fully respected in this case.
We hope this discussion can commence without any preconditions, as stated in the resolution. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Madam President, on the subject of this Amendment No 4 on the reduction of working hours, taking account of the debate underway in a number of countries in the European Union and taking account of the votes in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I wanted to say that, as rapporteur, I cannot ask for this to be supported.
Good, I think the House is now clear on this. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Madam President, I will be very brief.
I would ask for Parliament's indulgence to amend as necessary to 'having regard to its resolution of 2 April 1998, doc.
All the Presidents who have occupied this rostrum have shown a great deal of patience.
It is part of the procedure which we have adopted.
Madam President, on behalf - I am sure - of 99.9 % of my group, I should like to thank you for your patience, good humour and dignity in conducting this vote. (Applause ) Thank you, Mrs Green.
The deadline of 1 January 2000 for most Member States also seems adequate.
We cannot drop our guard now, knowing the effort we have had to make to gain acceptance of the principle of a specific supplementary labelling, one as complete as possible, within the context of the adoption of the novel food regulation.
It was a European Parliament proposal that originally advocated that doubtful cases should be labelled.
Tindemans report (A4-0171/98) Madam President, I am presenting this explanation of vote on behalf of my Group, namely the Green Group in the European Parliament.
It relates to a report which has produced a fundamental change in the policy of this House.
In this respect, we condemn the fact that in spite of massive protests by a minority in this House during the ratification process for the Amsterdam Treaty, and despite the fact that some Member States of this European Union are neutral, such a report was put on the agenda.
On behalf of the Green Group, I wish to register a strong protest against the attempts which are being made to change the procedures in the European Union by way of initiatives, and to do this against the will of the European people.
Instead, intra-state conflicts are becoming ever more common.
In Sweden, 70 % of the population is opposed to this.
Parliament does not have the right to decide on a common defence policy.
I voted against this report because although I want the EU to move towards a common foreign and defence policy as part of a federal Europe, I cannot support the basis of that policy as that of nuclear deterrence.
The British and French nuclear weapons should be dismantled in accordance with Article 6 of the Non-Proliferation Treaty and in line with the judgement of the International Court of Justice in 1966.
The Yugoslav drama has shown how the European Union, incapable of imposing its authority on its own borders, remains a political dwarf and continues to depend on its American ally for its own security.
The latest crisis in the Gulf, which once again saw the Member States of the European Union talking and acting in a disorganized and even contradictory manner, is just the most recent example of this.
Following the adoption of the euro, which confirms its position as the world's top commercial power, the European Union is advancing too slowly down the path of a true common foreign and security policy.
Admittedly, the Treaty of Amsterdam made some progress in this area.
In this context it is necessary to note, along with our rapporteur, that on the eve of its fiftieth anniversary, and for several years to come, the Western European Union is called upon to play the role of a link, an integral part of the development of the European Union.
The Tindemans report is not based on clear-headed thinking about European defence and security needs.
We therefore had to vote against the report.
The Danish Social Democrats have chosen to vote against the resolution.
The Tindemans report regards the EU from the outset as a military power and, in its recommendations, goes further still in its efforts to make the EU the standard-bearing regional superpower.
The report concludes that Union initiatives with regard to problems arising in areas such as the Middle East and the Balkans have been too little and too late, and that the European Parliament's natural role as a responsible player on the world scene has not been very evident to the Commission or the Council of Ministers.
However, the report's proposed solution to this problem involves suggesting a rapid assimilation of the WEU into the EU.
The report also represents the view that the EU should be entitled to act as a kind of "global police force' and intervene militarily in other countries' affairs as it sees fit.
Our relations - and the quality of those relations - with all the countries bordering on it are vital, both for them and for us.
Euro-Mediterranean cooperation, launched by the Conference of Barcelona in November 1995, is a sustainable element of stability and economic development of the entire region.
In fact, for the European Union it is a matter of promoting growth to reduce unemployment in the region and decrease migration pressure, contributing in general to the stability and security of the Mediterranean countries.
These programmes do not function through national governments, but with a multilateral cooperation decentralized to regional and local level.
We should be involved in helping to secure peaceful development in terms of trade, democracy and human rights in the countries bordering on the Mediterranean.
Setting aside ECU 9 million for such initiatives is not enough.
In this way, good projects have paid the penalty for the failures of the Commission.
I am nevertheless convinced that we have to debate this matter in much greater depth, and that in doing so we should not lose sight of the real culprit - for he sits in Belgrade and not in Prishtina.
We have abstained from voting on the resolution on Kosovo.
The solution to the conflict in Kosovo is not a military question, but a political and diplomatic one.
On behalf of my group I would therefore like to ask the Commission exactly what it intends doing in the very near future to organize help from the democratic programme for the civilian population of Kosovo.
It is now up to us to stimulate investment, both public and private, which we have neglected too much over the past decade, and to implement the 1993 White Paper on Growth, Competitiveness and Employment, notably in the area of finance and financial aid for the transport and telecommunications infrastructures.
So I have no hesitation in voting in favour of the report.
However, we cannot endorse the rapporteur's view that all countries should impose an equal burden on their companies as regards environmental requirements.
Mann report (A4-0173/98) Madam President, given the rapid increase in European-wide teleshopping, I support the rapporteur's proposal that it should be regulated at an international level through the World Trade Organization.
In other words, to avoid giving rise to a new debate, it was better to tolerate an indefensible situation.
The result is that today, on the eve of the entry into force of the single currency, everyone is worried about the weakness of democratic control and the European Parliament is reduced to having to come up with emergency secondary measures to give the impression that the citizens will have a say in the matter.
The Herman report notably proposes initiating reforms by means of so-called interinstitutional agreements between the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament.
These agreements do not by any means have the value of a treaty, but allow those in favour of integration to agree among themselves on progressively extending the powers of the European Parliament, in order to create a situation which will later be presented as an established fact.
If any additional measures are required for this monetary unification, let them be discussed and put clearly to universal suffrage.
g. (SV) We cannot vote in favour of this report because its thrust is that the European Parliament should be the channel through which democratic control is gained over the European Central Bank and other political issues.
In order for the European Parliament to acquire the democratic responsibility to function better in the EU, it would be better if its Members were chosen by the national parliaments.
Anxious to absorb the democratic deficit of the European institutions, we constantly aim to bestow on our House all the attributes which belong to a true parliament in a state of democratic law.
We should note that, while the Maastricht and Amsterdam texts are going in the right direction, they remain nonetheless insufficient in this area.
Despairing of better transparency and greater democratic control in the functioning of the European institutions - which are too often regarded as a technocratic machine insensitive to their true aspirations - some citizens will from now on be tempted to withdraw into themselves.
Following the Brussels Extraordinary Summit and the adoption of the single currency, the report we are examining today comes at just the right moment and proposes a number of measures which, even if they can only be provisional, nonetheless represent a necessary palliative to a persistent democratic deficit.
While awaiting another new and necessary Intergovernmental Conference in the future, we need to conclude agreements of interinstitutional cooperation in those areas of competence in which the loss of control by national parliaments has not been replaced by that of the European Parliament.
In implementing the different proposals for interinstitutional agreements contained in the present resolution, the European institutions will contribute significantly to reducing the lack of comprehension which separates a number of our fellow citizens from a European construction which many of them claim to want.
Moreover, it is correct to highlight interinstitutional agreements as an important means of achieving this goal.
Furthermore, we would like to emphasize that we cannot endorse the idea of the European Parliament becoming involved in social dialogue.
Social dialogue must be supported and expanded, and in our opinion, that is best done by giving the social partners the freedom to negotiate to their mutual satisfaction.
However, the European Parliament's working methods must be improved with a view to achieving more contact with the general public, less time spent in Brussels and more time in the homeland, more direct contact with the national parliaments, more questions of principle and concentration on the major political issues and dispensing with all questions of detail.
I thank our colleague, Fernand Herman, for the own-initiative report which he has drawn up on possible improvements to the functioning of Community institutions without modification of the Treaty.
The democratic deficit which the institutions of the European Union generally suffer from and the possible solutions to this are set out perfectly clearly.
Like our rapporteur, I believe that the most substantial institutional improvements have been the result more of practices established on the basis of either institutional agreements or case law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, or indeed of the extensive use of existing procedures, than of formal modifications of Treaties.
The role of the European Parliament must be strengthened urgently in two areas: social policy, which is particularly important in the eyes of European citizens; and economic and monetary union.
Our rapporteur recommends reaching an interinstitutional agreement.
The hope attached to the Nairobi talks resides in the fact that a compromise may be possible this time due simply to the respective weaknesses of both sides in the conflict, for at the fruitless peace talks held six months ago the same peace plan, more or less, was on the table.
The intention now is to agree, for a transitional period, on a loose federation between north and south and then, after several years, to put to the people in a referendum how they wish to be governed.
That is why I thank Commissioner Marín, and in any case the Commission, for the recent ECHO flight with ECU 8.8 million in emergency aid.
Madam President, over the past 15 years a million people are estimated to have died in the civil war between north and south in Sudan, and hundreds of thousands more are now threatened by imminent starvation caused partly by a twoyear drought but primarily by armed hostilities.
The Sudanese government has an appalling record of ruthless repression in north and south alike, apart from its military operations: imprisonment, torture, execution and the use of terrorism against its own and neighbouring peoples.
The Sudanese government has ignored UN Security Council resolutions on human rights.
Peace, however, is only possible on the basis of accepting the right of the peoples of Sudan to democracy and democratic self determination.
Madam President, I have been dealing with this question for five years in the ACP-EU Joint Assembly.
Madam President, as the honorable Members are aware, the Commission stopped all development aid to the Sudan in 1989 because of the persistent lack of respect for human rights, the absence of democracy and the lack of significant attempts to negotiate a peaceful end to that country's civil war.
Nevertheless, the Commission is following developments in the humanitarian situation in southern Sudan very carefully.
On 23 March this year, the Commission approved a decision to the sum of ECU 11.8 million, in the form of an overall plan for humanitarian aid to meet the needs of the victims of the war in the Sudan.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Madam President, the resolution on Slovakia is a compromise resolution.
In this House my group put forward a proposal to bring in Dounreay in Scotland as well because the situation there in many respects is just as serious.
So we are certainly not singling out Slovakia.
If you take recital H which expresses doubts about the safety of the Mochovce station alongside paragraphs 2 and 3, these add up to a reasonable request that the evaluation study which will be published, we understand, within two or three weeks should take into account any criticisms and problems.
Madam President, the history of nuclear energy in eastern Europe is that of unparalleled decline, whether you take the defunct reactors in Bohunice and Chernobyl or the Mochovce nuclear plant.
These have all come to nought, as the case history of the Slovak nuclear plant shows.
Our main demands are: no start-up of the Slovak nuclear plant; complete shutdown of the defunct reactor in Bohunice; and no reduction in European nuclear safety standards as part of EU enlargement, until such time as this view finally prevails.
But no, the operators announced to an astonished public that whatever happened, they intended to commence operating trials on 21 July.
Neither Austria nor the EU can force Slovakia or any other country to collaborate with us, but compliance with the findings of the two panels could constitute the starting point for creating international structures for greater transparency in nuclear matters, and for this Slovakia would earn the gratitude not only of Austria but of the whole European Union.
Madam President, our draft resolution asks for a very small number of reasonable things from Slovakia: an assessment, and the promise that the findings of that assessment will be respected.
I remind you, however, that at Mochovce, as a result of a previous assessment, 201 cases of inadequate safety measures have already been detected, some of which are outrageous, such as the lack of insulation, corroded material and inexistent fire protection.
We are very worried, because there is still no clarity about the storage of nuclear waste and the safety of the installation itself.
Madam President, I hope we will all adopt this resolution unanimously, so that our imminent delegation to Slovakia knows the position of the European Parliament, and the position the Slovak authorities ought to adopt.
In this context, I must also mention that it seems strange to me that one expert was excluded from the visit.
Everybody there was of the opinion that nuclear plants which are not safe should be shut down.
Madam President, this Parliament must respect Slovakia's right as a sovereign country to determine its own energy policy and to operate a nuclear plant if it so wishes.
Because of a previous resolution in this Parliament, the completion of Mochovce has gone ahead without European Union financial assistance.
As a further result, there is no legally binding international agreement to close Bohunice number 1 reactor when Mochovce is in operation.
This Parliament bears the prime responsibility for that situation.
It is to the credit of Slovakia that the completion has gone ahead not only with their own national engineers and with the assistance of the Russian designers but also with the involvement of Siemens, EDF, Westinghouse and Framatome, all western experts in the nuclear field.
That was a great mistake, but they have no right to say the things they are saying now.
It will not be fully approved, Mr Eisma, because it is not particularly correct.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a letter from Austrian MPs to the Slovak government and to the Members of the European Parliament reports on the possible dangers associated with putting second generation reactors into service in the nuclear plant in Mochovce in Slovakia.
On behalf of the Group Union for Europe, I must note firstly that the Slovak Republic ratified in 1995 the convention on nuclear safety which was adopted by the IAEA in 1994.
Secondly, the modernization of sections 1 and 2 of the nuclear plant in Mochovce, although it was not subsidized by the EBRD and thus does not benefit directly from European funds, received financing which affects the whole of Europe.
From now on there is no reason to do so, in that all nuclear safety precautions have been taken for starting the operation of second generation reactors, which are henceforth as safe as the reactors used in the European Union.
So let us wait for the results of the evaluation, which we will have at the end of June, and allow the Slovaks, who are sovereign in this area, to bring back into service, for the benefit of its population, a nuclear plant which guarantees all necessary security standards.
Madam President, the start-up of the Mochovce nuclear reactor is a decision which will have farreaching consequences for the entire future of nuclear power generation.
Added to this is the fact that we are for the first time faced with a situation in which the start-up of a suspect nuclear plant may well be part of an election strategy.
I propose that the European Parliament should invite these experts to a hearing on safety standards at the plant.
Contrary to all promises, Bohunice is being refitted, rather than closed, at a cost of over ECU 150 million.
However, I would say to this Parliament that, as the vice-president of the joint parliamentary committee with Slovakia, I met yesterday senior safety officials from Slovakia and the Slovak Electricity Authority.
In its opinion on Slovakia in Agenda 2000, and in the association agreement for Slovakia's accession, the Commission has mentioned the need for the Mochovce nuclear plant to work to international safety regulations, and for the implementation of a realistic programme to close the Bohunice reactor.
At the moment, the Community's participation in this project is limited to supporting the Slovak authorities.
The PHARE programme is funding a project for experts from the EU to review the Mochovce units under the direction of Risk-Audit, which is a company effectively composed of independent organizations of safety experts from France and Germany.
The debate is closed.
The EU must call upon the Guatemalan parties and support them in continuing down the road towards this difficult and lasting peace.
Madam President, on behalf of my political group, I also want to express our most energetic condemnation of the murder of Bishop Gerardi and our solidarity with the Catholic community and the whole of the Guatemalan people.
I think the compromise resolution satisfactorily covers not just Bishop Gerardi's worthy pastoral activities, but also his firm and resolute commitment to democracy, human rights and the peace process in Guatemala.
Madam President, I think we have talked about impunity many times during this session, and about the way these murders are sometimes directed against the people who defend human rights.
More than three human rights activists have been murdered, two of them after having spoken to Members.
Madam President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, during the night of 26 April, Bishop Gerardi, the auxiliary bishop of the archdiocese of Guatemala was murdered in Guatemala City.
As has been said, Bishop Gerardi had coordinated the documents reflecting the human rights violations which occurred in that country during the years of armed conflict, and the conclusions of that work had just been presented to the public.
The European Union must also carry on lending its political and economic support to the content of the Guatemalan peace process.
The people of Guatemala deserve the best possible future after decades of armed confrontation and violence.
Peace in Guatemala also marked the culmination of a process of pacification throughout Central America.
The Guatemalan people deserve our full support for the way they are relying on solving the conflicts through dialogue rather than violence.
We trust that the investigation into the crime against Bishop Gerardi will have a more satisfactory conclusion than other processes underway, such as those relating to the murders of the politician Jorge Carpio Nicol or the lawyer González Dubón.
The Guatemalan government has recently shown how anxious it is to establish peace and order.
After 30 years of civil war, however, it is simply inconceivable that such a thing can be achieved overnight.
Colombia Madam President, the murder of Eduardo Umaña Mendoza has shocked us all.
Such intimidation of human rights supporters is completely unacceptable, and the Council should distance itself unequivocally from such a policy.
I know you are a master of diplomacy, but a response would be most appropriate in this case.
In contrast, Europe is constantly defending human rights, justice and equality, so I think it is our responsibility to ensure that people realize the difference between the North American influence, which sows corpses, and the influence of the European Union, which sows peace and concord.
It is a violence which threatens those who believe in democracy and the rule of law, and who do not resign themselves to this state of affairs because they believe there are ways to achieve peace, and who are so generous that they act as human shields in the fight for democracy, peace and liberty by means of dialogue alone.
Eduardo Umaña Mendoza is the third human rights activist to be killed in a very short space of time.
We really must demand that these human rights representatives are given better protection as they go about their work.
Nor will the elections of 31 May bring an end to the killings, as indicated by the murder of the former General Fernando Landazabal, who was advising presidential candidate Andrés Pastrana on various matters, including a future peace plan.
In particular, the culture of lawlessness was regarded as a deterioration in the situation there.
We have seen what this can lead to.
Today's motion for a resolution rightly calls for a Commission report on the human rights situation in Colombia.
I am also asking the Council, which is meeting on 18 May, to pay attention to this.
Turkey Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, once again this House has occasion to express its concerns about human rights and freedom of speech in Turkey.
We do so without any exaggerated view of our own capabilities and without belittling our own problems, even within the European Union.
Turkey itself is undergoing the process of transition to a normal society, which is something the laical constitution of Kemal Atatürk cannot live up to, for in my mind this constitution does not allow sufficient scope for religious freedom and for the religious activities of its citizens.
Neither a ban on political parties nor the threat of imprisonment can prohibit this process of transition, and this is a problem which Turkish society and the Turkish political parties themselves will have to solve.
He always had a certain sorrow in his eyes, a sorrow which is easily understood because in a country like Turkey you need not only courage, indeed foolhardiness, but also obstinacy to devote your life to the defence of other people's lives.
Turkey, a signatory to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, cannot continue with its policy of repression and persecution towards journalists, magistrates, parliamentarians, defenders of human rights, Kurds and ordinary citizens.
The European Parliament must take urgent action and force the Turkish government to respect the rights of the Turkish people and to abide by its obligations, which arise both from the customs union and from its other international commitments.
We call for the release of all political detainees in Turkey.
Finally, we call for talks to begin, because only dialogue can produce a political solution.
The military way is no solution.
It is bad enough for a country to think that it has to conduct its political arguments in a court of law, that political arguments with Islam, political Islam, fundamentalist Islam, have to be conducted in court and by application of court judgments.
Madam President, it goes without saying that I concur with the present resolution which rightly denounces the worrying violations of the most elementary human rights and freedom of speech in our neighbouring country of Turkey.
I must add that with this resolution we are once again missing an opportunity to say to the Turkish government and the Turkish people that we wish to maintain the best possible relationship with our neighbouring country and our neighbours, but that Turkey will never be able to join the European Union for the simple reason that culturally, historically, ethnically, and even geographically Turkey is not a European country.
Malaysia-Indonesia Madam President, the situation in Indonesia has been getting completely out of hand over the past few weeks, and in particular over the past few days.
The economic crisis, which this regime is responsible for, is being shifted onto the people of Indonesia.
I must say in all honesty that the IMF is demanding measures from Indonesia which do not really improve the situation for the people, but which will lead to even greater poverty.
At the same time we are looking at Malaysia, where there are thousands and thousands of people from Indonesia, whether they have arrived there recently as refugees or not.
Madam President, decades of political omnipotence, familial enrichment and a complete lack of interest in the fate of the Indonesian citizens have rendered the latter helpless and desperate.
The financial problems have got worse as well, and as a result of the political unrest and the way Suharto's troops acted, it seems to me that the IMF and the World Bank might have to review their ideas.
Madam President, in January this year I was part of the European Parliament's delegation which undertook a fact-finding visit to Malaysia.
It is a violation of the tenets of democratic freedom to deprive Lim Guan Eng of his seat in Parliament simply because of his mild criticism of the Malaysian government.
In passing, I would say that our delegation was very impressed by her and her foundation's work in combating the AIDS epidemic in Malaysia.
In conclusion, it must be right to emphasize that sustainable trade, investment and economic development cannot be achieved in the absence of the development of democracy, the rule of law, civil society and human rights.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a regrettable fact that the economic and political situation in Indonesia is getting completely out of control.
Madam President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, our Parliament cannot help but notice that its policy and proposals are systematically ignored by the Council and the Commission, with the exception of Commissioner Marín's positive collateral measures and initiatives.
We have had no follow-up to our requests on the liberation of all political prisoners in Tibet, on the liberation of the Panchen Lama, on respect for human rights, on setting up a committee of inquiry, on the appointment of an EU high representative for Tibet, or on negotiations between Tibet and China.
Once that has been done, our group is ready to discuss the matter with the Council and prepare a resolution which takes all these elements into account, a global resolution proposing the main point again - the request by the Dalai Lama for direct negotiations, without conditions - and many of the points stated by those who have spoken before me.
We also wish to remind the House that in a few weeks, Parliament's delegation will be visiting China.
Madam President, the two resolutions submitted to the European Parliament join the fifty or so adopted since 1994 which accuse China.
No other country in the world receives such treatment.
The Commission and the Member States are anxious to develop good relations with China, which does not exclude certain disagreements, notably on the issue of human rights.
The resolution on Tibet is based on events in India.
The encouragement of separatist tendencies which inspired the resolution on Tibet, notably with reference to a Tibetan government in exile, calls into question a basic international rule: respect of the territorial integrity of each country.
It is a dangerous attitude which will not in any way help to improve the situation.
Peace, like dialogue on human rights, implies mutual respect, particularly when it is a question of a country with over a billion inhabitants such as China.
For fear of compromising its investments, the international community refrains from condemning these violations of basic human rights, or does so half-heartedly.
This is due to our secretariat, our delegation for relations with China.
If anyone has any doubts about the existence of the death penalty in China - but how could it be denied? - clearly for that person within this House, China still represents a beacon of democracy and communism.
The number of death sentences, the executions and the methods used are treated as state secrets.
The European Parliament has always pleaded for people sentenced to death, and has always spoken out against the death penalty.
The United Nations which, so we are told, this year at long last is to investigate the slave trade - an action which I believe has been inspired by a resolution from this Parliament - should also set up an international committee of inquiry, and the Council and the Commission should do everything in their power at least to put a stop to the activities of those European firms involved.
Mr President, on the issue of the death penalty and its macabre exploitation in the Republic of China, we are now confronted by an extraordinary phase of routine horror.
Individuals have a right to a fair trial, and political prisoners ought to be released.
Mr President, the military regime in Burma continues to persecute political opponents without restraint.
That makes 8 death penalties and 38 heavy prison sentences in the space of a few months, with all the dangers which accompany prison sentences.
In 1996 we abolished the preferential system for Burma after a series of exasperating acts of violence by the military regime.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament has considered the dramatic problem of the death penalty more than once.
Mr President, I am going to reply en bloc to the various resolutions on the different questions raised by the honorable Members.
As regards Guatemala, the Commission shares Parliament's sorrow and indignation over the assassination of Bishop Juan Gerardi, whom I had the opportunity to get to know personally, as did many of you, because as you know, the European Union has been heavily involved in Guatemala's pacification process and now, recently, in the peace process.
Colombia's problem is very simple.
At the moment, elections are just about to take place - on 26 May - and really serious things are happening in that country.
Human rights in Colombia will have to come as a direct result of peace.
If there is no peace, I very much fear that this situation of domestic disintegration will continue.
Because there are atrocities by the paramilitaries; there are atrocities by the guerillas; and there are atrocities - I believe - in a situation in which it is now very difficult to say who is responsible, resulting in that spirit of impunity which creates this sort of situation.
In any case, as you know, the Colombian authorities have created a special committee as part of the public prosecutor's department, and it is going to investigate these murders.
At the moment, the most we can do - and we want to do it, and have said so, even on our own account, without waiting for the United Nations - is to maintain the human rights office in Bogotá, which is in charge of monitoring the situation.
On the other hand, something we shall have to see about in the future is how to increase our cooperation with Colombia in the judicial area.
It is true that the Colombian authorities have already made that request, but it would be quite interesting to see how, in this aspect of judicial cooperation, we can gradually make progress in the future.
Furthermore, the Commission shares the European Parliament's concern about the repercussions of the judgement against the mayor of Istanbul in connection with freedom of expression in Turkey.
And the Commission is of course concerned that this sort of decision may have adverse effects on democratic pluralism and freedom of expression in Turkey.
And despite Ankara's decision, in principle, to end all political dialogue with the EU, the Commission intends to continue to inform its Turkish partners of the EU's concerns in this area.
During the last few months, the Commission has been fully engaged in a constant dialogue with the beneficiaries and other donors on how to increase our support for the region.
At the moment, following the ASEM conference in London, we are reconsidering, within the Commission, our cooperation programmes with that area and that country, in order to target additional funds on the most severely affected countries.
As regards the conviction of the MP Lim Guan Eng, the Commission's delegation to Malaysia will follow this case closely, along with the appeal which has just been lodged with the Federal Court.
Turning now to Indonesia, we are of course also worried and concerned about that country's current situation and the use of violence by the security forces to repress the latest demonstrations which, as you know, has already caused the death of a number of students in Jakarta.
This will be the first open debate to be held on human rights in Indonesia with the joint participation of the European Union and the Indonesian National Human Rights Commission.
The first assessment which has been made - by this team working on the question - is that there is often a difference between what the media depict and what is revealed by in-depth study.
But I repeat, in principle the situation does not seem to be as dramatic as suggested by the images we have seen.
There is specific dialogue on human rights between the EU and China, which began in 1997.
That dialogue has helped to achieve some concrete results, especially as regards China's participation in the UN human rights instruments.
The question of the death penalty, and particularly the legal and administrative conditions governing executions, has been addressed in the context of this dialogue, and will continue to be raised in the future.
As regards the trafficking in human organs reported by the international media, the Commission will raise this problem with the Chinese authorities within the context of the human rights dialogue, on the basis of a detailed analysis of the facts.
Nevertheless, although this certainly does not mean we are not worried about it, the Commission would remind you that intervening in such matters is the responsibility of the Member States since, as you know, Article 129 of the Treaty does not confer legislative powers upon the European Community in this area.
Nevertheless, I repeat that although the Commission does not have the institutional competence, we are closely following the work of the competent international organizations: the Council of Europe is working on this, at European level, and supports cooperation between the Member States on this point.
As you know, the European group on ethics, science and new technologies - which has replaced the group on the ethical implications of biotechnology - will issue a statement in 1998 on the ethical aspects of human tissue banks.
As for Burma, you know that we in the Commission have always deplored the widespread human rights violations in that country, and we are aware of the recent death sentences passed against six prisoners.
Nevertheless, we think there is reason to be hopeful about these death sentences, insofar as no death sentence has been carried out in 1998.
It is hard to imagine anything that is more important for the long-term future of a world which is beset by strife of all kinds.
Unfortunately, we have to conclude that the proposals which have so far been developed by the British Presidency in conjunction with France are frankly a disappointment.
During the ACP meeting in Mauritius on 20 to 23 April we saw that a majority of both the Europeans and the ACP representatives also raised this issue.
Mr President, the three previous speakers have already partly articulated what I wanted to say.
The present proposal does not deserve to be called ethical politics, as the British Presidency still referred to it at the beginning of the year.
Transparency, Mr President, and multilateral consultation between all Member States are essential ingredients for a common policy.
Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group I would like to welcome the initiative by the British Presidency to establish a new code of conduct for the arms trade.
Furthermore, Member States would reserve the right to operate more restrictive national export policies while working to adopt the common list of military equipment covered by the code.
It is, however, to be hoped that the envisaged annual reports to the Council will be used as a basis for discussion and scrutiny in the European Parliament.
The next step will be to extend the principles of the code to countries like Russia, China and the United States.
Nevertheless, the fact that we are on the verge of agreeing a historic code of conduct on arms exports, which I hope will be agreed on 25 May, is a hopeful sign for all those seeking a safer world.
Even the focus of the British Presidency - namely the implementation of a policy for the protection of international human rights - breaks down when it comes to the protection of arms exports.
In view of this new situation, the German Bundestag is currently deciding about easing national regulations on arms exports in order to improve Germany's position as an arms trader.
The EU has taken the initiative in this respect in establishing common rules, in the form of a code of conduct on the transfer of conventional arms.
This draft code of conduct aims to establish a set of principles upon which to base all arms export decisions, and to provide a well-defined framework for action, as a context for discussions of each case of arms transfer.
The draft code of conduct also establishes the criteria for use in evaluating all arms exports.
Nevertheless, it must be made clear that the final responsibility for arms exports rests with the national governments.
And having an agreement which covers the whole of the EU and has a consistent internal approach is important when it comes to putting pressure on third parties to adopt similar practices.
We do not deny that serious obstacles remain, and the presidency has offered the possibility of holding other limited consultations between governments during the next few days, after which a report will be presented to the Council - on 25 or 26 May - assessing the situation, and I should imagine a series of compromise solutions will be presented by the presidency.
Doñana National Park Mr President, in my capacity as president of a Spanish national park - Aigüestortes y Estany de Sant Maurici - I can only lament the disaster which has happened, or which may happen, in a large part of the Doñana National Park, which is the biggest and most important national park in Europe and has been declared a World Heritage Site.
Over 2000 hectares of cultivated land has also been destroyed.
Mr President, first of all I want to express my solidarity with the victims of the floods in Italy and add my support to that shown by all the political groups in drafting this resolution about the Doñana National Park.
It is important for the European Commission to find the means to grant urgent aid, and to work in close collaboration with the Spanish government and the Andalusian regional government in order to reprogramme the structural and cohesion funds to support the plan being prepared to decontaminate, restore and strengthen environmental protection in the area around Doñana.
But Carmen Díez de Rivera Icaza asked for attention to be paid to the Doñana catastrophe, and it is quite right that we should do so.
And in the third amendment, we also think the European Commission has a responsibility.
Mr President, the Commission should put all its effort into helping both to correct a situation which still today continues to threaten the Doñana National Park - which is one of the most outstanding jewels of the ecological heritage of the whole Union - and to prevent similar disasters from happening in the future.
Mr President, the Spanish administrations are collaborating mutually to solve the problem, and are counting on dependable scientific advice to help them, but it is enormously important for the Commission's support - which the Commissioner has already announced in Spain - to be emphasized and extended along the lines suggested in our proposed resolution.
Mr President, 145 dead and 135 missing: these are the first totals, which are increasing daily to give an even more tragic number.
Mr President, I have come to this House today to express profound grief and remember the very serious disaster which affected not only the Italian community but also the European community.
The natural events which recently affected the Campania region were certainly exceptional, but at the same time we cannot say with any certainty that they were unforeseeable.
Mr President, the terrible extent of the tragedy in Campania has already been discussed: 150 dead, 150 missing - it is difficult to imagine that there will be any more survivors - four communities damaged and in confusion, two provinces - Avellino and Salerno - seriously affected, and destruction of the land.
We must try to provide this, and contribute to the rebirth of these very beautiful areas which have been so unfortunate in suffering the events which have occurred there over so many years.
With the availability expressed by Commissioner Monti, we should remodel the resources and structural funds which, like Objective 1, have more often been shown to be lacking in terms of cost capacity rather than planning.
Mr President, we are certainly all deeply affected and wish to express our grief for the families of the victims, because there are nearly 300 people dead and missing, very many injured and thousands evacuated.
For this reason we also ask the Commission to examine the possibility of using Community funds, together with the national and regional funds, to deal with these problems.
Mr President, I believe that the very serious tragedy which took place in Campania must be seen as a warning and an alarm signal for the European institutions and all Member States governments.
It would also be useful sometimes for Member States to be able to resort to measures on a European level.
To conclude, Mr President, how can anybody fail to see, in this violence and lack of attention to the land, a typical sign of our civilisation which has desecrated everything, and where everything tends to be seen in rational and scientific terms?
And in this case, as far as the region of Campania is concerned, I have to tell you that the Commission has in fact been discussing what can be done in that area, which fully meets the Structural Fund Objective 1 requirements.
Lastly, it is also possible that the Social Fund may be able to fund work-related training activities, especially in the field of prevention.
As to what can be done, my answer to you is that in fact the area around the Doñana National Park which has been affected by the disaster is also included in Objective 1 of the ERDF.
However, you have to bear in mind - and we would like to make this point very clear in the case of Campania and of Doñana - that, because of the lack of a budgetary line for natural catastrophes, there may be a temptation to use the ERDF every time a catastrophe occurs, but the regulations do not make provision for urgency aid to be provided from this source.
It is possible to do that, and in fact the Commission is already in contact with the Spanish authorities and the regional Andalusian authorities with a view to carrying out this exercise, and letters were exchanged on the subject last week.
So it will be possible to provide an answer to this situation too.
So in the case of Doñana, just as with any other complaint lodged under Community procedure, the Commission can never archive it unilaterally.
It is always done by means of a contradictory procedure.
The Commission conveyed that complaint to the Spanish government, and the Spanish government replied on 31 January 1997, describing the measures it had taken.
Before the complaint was archived, on 25 March 1997, the complainant you mentioned still had two months, according to Community procedure, to reopen the case.
I am telling you this for your own information, and to point out that, in Community procedure, no complaint can be archived without there having been a contradictory procedure, as is quite right.
The Pex report on the European Union's communication policy announces with a surprisingly clear conscience that this policy aims to "awaken European citizens to the cause of European integration' (recital A), that its effectiveness constitutes the "conditio sine qua non for obtaining the support of most European citizens for the integration process' (recital B) and that it is necessary to step it up " in view of the great events approaching the EU in the coming months' (recital C).
For our part, we see in this all the foundations not only of a reasonable information policy, but also of propaganda campaigns aimed at convincing the citizens that there are no options other than those defined for them by the Eurocrats.
In our amendments to this report, which have been rejected by the European Parliament, we asked that a code of good conduct finally be drawn up to define, for purposes of information, the principles of transparency, neutrality and respect for pluralism and partnership.
Firstly, European information campaigns must not interfere with national electoral campaigns.
No information campaign funded by the Union or by bodies which it subsidizes should be able to be organized in a Member State during the six months preceding referenda or legislative European or presidential elections.
They must allow the expression of all opinions which reflect the political trends represented in the European Parliament.
The institutions of the Union, their administrations, their offices and officials should, in exercising their duties, always provide neutral and objective information.
They must not in any circumstances become involved in a national debate, either directly or indirectly.
Thirdly, information campaigns must be conducted in close association with all the partners.
No campaign should be launched within the territory of a Member State without the prior agreement of the authorities of that state, and those authorities should be involved in it.
No public meeting related to an EU information campaign should take place in a state without inviting elected representatives of all political leanings to participate in it.
At the end of each year the European institutions must publish the following, in separate documents made available to the public at no cost: an exhaustive list of the information campaigns which have been carried out, including their references and costs; an exhaustive list of the organizations which have been subsidized for the purposes of information, communication or education campaigns, or who have received funding which could be used for this purpose; an exhaustive list of experts who are remunerated in various ways and are involved in information campaigns where they do not appear officially as salaried staff of the European institutions.
In conclusion, the European institutions should refrain from financing political parties, either at the national or European level, or associations linked to these parties, even for projects which are supposedly for simple purposes of information.
Had it addressed the core problem of the lack of openness within the EU then this could have been a very good and valuable report on the information and communication policy in the European Union.
But information can be misused as an instrument of power in society, and can easily be replaced and exploited as propaganda.
The report formulates an information policy for the EU.
The only case which has produced results was the multimedia publicity campaign, jointly organized by Parliament and the Commission, in preparation for the first elections to our institution by direct universal suffrage.
The actions undertaken have certainly been useful, in the sense that they have provided more information.
However, I think the crux of the matter lies not so much in the quantity of information as in its quality and its intrinsic capacity to become communication, that is to transmit a message to the general public, or present a positive image of the institution, or even to illustrate metaphorically an action or position.
As regards the first aspect, communication actions need to be undertaken jointly by the two institutions, in order to maximise efforts to transmit messages for joint objectives, such as the euro, enlargement, Schengen, and so on.
The consequences of the second aspect are plain for all to see.
In conclusion, I would like to say that better information, a more appropriate message, and more perceptible communication, are offered by a better policy, better functioning, better efficiency and transparency.
These are the problems which we should concentrate on closely, not only for communication, but above all because of our political will to solve them.
I am certainly in favour of any proposal which develops a policy of education rather than propaganda.
Recently a constituent drew my attention to a Commission publication for use in schools entitled 'What Exactly is Europe?' .
Upon investigation, I discovered that this information had been sourced from the Guinness European Data Book.
Not only do we need improved cooperation between the institutions in our information policy, we need to make sure that the information which is provided to citizens is accurate and will not give offence.
I warmly welcome the rapporteur's view that this Parliament must pursue a policy of complete openness and transparency with regard to the way in which this institution operates (recital E).
Moreover, the rapporteur is absolutely correct in stating that information campaigns cannot simply consist in unilaterally developing a specific position on a proposal that does not meet with unanimous agreement (recital H).
Many citizens are evidently suspicious of the EU.
Article 87 also provided for the adoption of any appropriate regulations 'to give effect to the principles' presented in these articles.
The first liberalization package adopted in December 1987 included Regulations 3975 and 3976, although their scope was restricted.
The first allowed the Commission to apply the competition rules in the air transport sector, imposing penalties and granting exemptions, but only in respect of traffic between Member States.
The Commission believes that a number of new factors have intervened since 1989: the liberalization of the aviation market since 1997, the weakness of external flights resting only on bilateral agreements between Member States and third countries, and the future development of agreements with the United States and the countries of central and eastern Europe all mean that a precise framework is needed more than ever to deal with the inconsistencies or gaps in the current system.
So, in order to cope better with the new liberalized framework of rules, to protect consumers' interests, to protect small and medium-sized carriers and to ensure balanced competition between the various European and non-European operators, the Commission is calling for the same powers in respect of transport between the Community and non-Community countries as it has on intra-Community routes.
The first proposal for a regulation will extend the scope to cover all air transport services, including international routes.
A new article 18a has been added to resolve any legal conflict with Member States or third countries by obliging the Commission to consult the competent authorities before withdrawing an exemption.
Nevertheless, the network of bilateral air service agreements between Member States, third countries and their national airlines pose a formidable legal challenge to uniform and compatible competition rules in the air transport sector.
These two proposals represent substantial changes as regards the application of Community competition rules in air transport, especially in its international aspects.
Despite the reservations expressed by several companies, the Commission can already use its powers in accordance with Article 89 of the Treaty of Rome, and is indeed obliged to do so as guardian of the Treaties responsible for applying Community law.
The main advantage of our proposals for all parties concerned - airlines, governments, legal services, the European Commission and, of course, passengers - is to set up a homogeneous framework, with definite legal guarantees, for the whole of the European Union, and to promote the position of civil aviation companies within the European Union.
Of the amendments proposed, the three principal amendments accepted by the Committee on Transport - Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 6 - aim for greater coherence in Community regulation by using the wording and scope of the regulation on competition rules in the maritime sector.
Amendment No 4 limits the powers of the Commission to the application of competition rules only to routes which depend on a Community airport.
This amendment defines the scope of the powers of the Commission, which would have no jurisdiction in a commercial alliance or agreement between two non-European companies which did not affect Community air traffic.
Amendments Nos 4 and 5 aim to clarify the procedure to be applied where bilateral agreements between two companies, one from the Union and one from a third country, are in conflict with the European Community's competition rules.
The present proposal for a regulation specifies simply that, in cases of conflict, the Commission must consult the relevant authorities in the country concerned.
I accept them because the sentiments expressed are shared by everybody although, legally, they do not seem to be really appropriate in the context of the two regulations.
To conclude, I will briefly mention the three amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party.
The airlines are against this regulation because they judge it to be contrary to their own interests, with the provision for the European Commission's anti-trust authorities rightfully to prosecute any cartel involving the airlines of the European Community and a third country if the benefits contravene competition rules.
Those, ladies and gentlemen, are the reasons why we are making these proposals, which have been put to the vote and accepted by the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
My pleasure derives from the fact that we have been able to contribute to the inclusion or strengthening in the proposal submitted to the House of some aspects of air transport which we consider to be of the greatest importance, and which are always relevant when proposing amendments to the regulations covering competition rules and approved agreements and practices.
We refer to the question of safety, which in this type of transport must be given priority in the context of the Community and international competition rules.
Any limitation on the present Commission mandate is in contradiction of our request to encourage the mandate to be extended.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Group of the European People's Party think the Commission's proposals to extend the competition rules on air travel to include third countries are logical in principle because, Commissioner, internal and external regulations are bound together for practical reasons, which makes it essential to have one single regulation.
We hold the view that in the complex field of international transport it would be logical for the Community to be in charge of air traffic agreements for all Member States.
But the Council is not prepared to do this, and I have not seen the UK presidency submit any proposal to this effect within the Council of Transport Ministers.
I would say to the rapporteur, Mr Scarbonchi, that if the AEA supports these proposals, as we do, then this will benefit all European airlines, for you know how difficult it is to get any kind of agreement out of the AEA, with British Airways, KLM, Sabena and Lufthansa always at each others' throats.
We are therefore asking the other groups to support our three amendments.
In this connection, Commissioner, I would ask you to give us more details of your intended decisions on the cooperation agreement between British Airways and American Airlines.
In that respect, bearing in mind the importance of the sector to the European economy, to jobs and to internal and intra-European communications, and the fact that air transport plays a vital role in reinforcing economic and social cohesion, by providing rapid transport links between regions and, most particularly, access to peripheral island regions, Community legislation has allowed for the possibility of imposing public service obligations and joint operation agreements between airlines to ensure that these transport links are maintained.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I always find it a great pleasure to be here.
According to these proposals, it is necessary to apply the rules of competition, namely Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty, to air transport between the Community and third countries.
However, before going on to a number of details about this, I would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur very warmly.
Not only did he do an excellent job, but he also drafted some amendments which the Commission is very happy to make use of because they improve the current text of our proposal.
As well as congratulating the rapporteur, of course, I also congratulate the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
In my speeches to the Committee on Transport and Tourism last December, and again on 20 April this year, I have already had the opportunity to present the actual content of our proposal in detail.
In the meantime, the Economic and Social Committee has also pronounced itself almost unanimously in favour of our proposal.
When agreements are concluded between airlines in the European Union and US companies, or third countries, there is a problem because the Commission, while retaining its powers under Article 89, has not been given the appropriate instrument to manage this type of case.
For example, we are examining the British Airways-American Airlines case together with the British authorities, as well as with the American authorities, of course.
The German Federal Cartel Office is also dealing with the case in question, as is the Commission, on behalf of the United States.
Let us suppose for a moment that the agreement between Alitalia and KLM is concluded.
Both companies have two different alliances with American companies.
You see then, Mr Jarzembowski, that adapted instruments are urgently required because there are several alliances, not only transatlantic alliances but also alliances with Asian companies, for all I know.
This is because the procedure is too complicated and long, in the absence of appropriate instruments which would allow cases to be dealt with rapidly and in line with the principle of transparency, as is done in the case of maritime issues.
Here also the need for this instrument is becoming increasingly evident for external flights.
I must therefore urge you to vote in favour of Mr Scarbonchi's report, by a large majority I hope, to give a clear signal to the Council who have so far refused to process our proposals, either by blocking them or because of pressure from airlines.
Like the rapporteur, I believe they cover the genuine concerns which we must be able to recognize but which do not really come into today's debate.
Mr Jarzembowski, they would complicate the situation even more, while the problems are there and are real.
As a result, the sooner we have these instruments at our disposal, the better it will be.
That is exactly what we hope for from this debate and from the position of the European Parliament.
Time is short, but the guiding principles for agreements in the air travel sector are of fundamental importance, in my opinion, and we need to have more contact on matters such as this.
Mr President, I apologize, but I noticed that time was marching on and finished my speech.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, computerized reservation systems, hereafter to be called CRSs, occupy a relatively unknown but powerful place in air transportation.
Amendment No 7 opens up this possibility of selective acquisition of information, which thereby comes within the reach of the travel sector.
Amendment No 13 ensures that the link between ticket and route is safeguarded.
The code of conduct has been fulfilling an important function since 1989, but there was cause for further improvement and for bringing it up to date.
The Commission proposal contains a number of significant improvements which benefit travellers in particular, but also travel agents.
The Internet is developing as a new sales channel for airline tickets.
CRSs occupy a powerful position, both in the field of marketing and in marketing information.
My final conclusion is that there is still room for some improvement in the area of providing the best possible information for the customer, and in the area of combating double or fictitious bookings.
In any case, I have tried to treat this important matter with the greatest possible care.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it used to be when you wanted to travel somewhere that you would go and stand at a counter.
The important thing is really to thank the rapporteur, for he has submitted an excellent report which has been unanimously approved in committee.
With quite a few countries in the middle of election campaigns, it is always very nice to be able to say that a report has been carried unanimously because of its absolute objectivity.
Thank you very much, Mr van Dam, for this report.
We may, quite unintentionally, create a market situation without any fresh ideas, in which we preserve the status quo by means of legislation.
At the same time, this cannot be said to be a new phenomenon, since the code has been in existence since 1989.
Not only have you managed to initiate yourself into the mysterious technical terminology of computerized reservation systems, but you have also managed to propose a series of amendments which substantially improve the proposal.
Computerized reservation systems are extremely complicated databases which offer a wide range of subscribers - travel agents, tour operators, hotels, ferry companies, hire companies - the means to access information about air lines and other services and, at the same time, make it easier to reserve and issue tickets.
Parliament will be interested to learn that computerized reservation systems are thought to be the world's largest users of computerized services, and offer instant access to the services of more than 140 000 travel agents throughout the world.
There are four major systems in the European Union, and one of them has a market share of more than 70 % in 10 of the 15 Member States.
But Community regulations also allowed this to be dealt with on the basis of competition rights.
Although the code has worked very well, our recent review suggests that some improvements are needed, in view of the latest advances in the Internet or in high speed trains.
The Commission proposed a new classification, in order to take account of recent advances in the aviation sector.
I want to congratulate him, and also thank the Committee on Transport and Tourism for their helpful work on this subject.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, the first report, dealing with the directive on the marketing of beet seed, fodder plant seed, cereal seed, seed potatoes, seed of oil and fibre plants and vegetable seed, or in short the seed marketing law, produced an amendment not that very long ago and also resulted in a positive debate with the Commission.
You know that these directives on agriculture are dealt with in Article 43, in which the European Parliament has only a consultative role.
The Council can then ignore the substance of Parliament's submissions when drawing up its decision.
However, if we adopt a different approach, in that we suspend the final vote and reach a compromise with the Commission, so that the Commission and Parliament have a common position, then we will be in a relatively strong position when it comes to agriculture, even with respect to Article 43, for then the Council will only be able to reject this common position unanimously.
Unanimity in the Council is a rarity.
I hope we can also reach agreement over this small amendment and consequently get a good result, for this time the issue is not the simplified registration of conservation seed, that is to say old varieties and local varieties, but rather the adoption of a simplified procedure for the approval of certified seed or basic seed for propagation.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists has tabled an amendment which concerns the swearing-in of inspectors, but I prefer the amendments which we approved unanimously in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
The matter in question concerns a Community programme for the conservation, specification, collection and use of the genetic resource base in agriculture.
Parliament submitted this programme to the Commission in 1993, after it had been established in Rio that the great diversity of plant life which we have constitutes one of the most important elements for future civilization on this planet.
Of the ECU 20 million which was made available over the following five years, the budget for 1997 was even cancelled completely.
The programme in question has acquired a considerable reputation at international level.
When the WHO held a conference on genetic diversity in Leipzig in 1996, the EU was the only region in the world which was able to present such a programme.
We must create a closer link between this programme and those which have been set up under Regulation 2078, or with programmes associated with the environmentally friendly use of the countryside, so that we get a complementary effect and the in situ conservation and support of genetic diversity can be secured via these programmes.
If, as Agenda 2000 intends, we then provide economic backing for these programmes in the form of structural aid, and if we see to it that those products which are made from the great variety of plants and animals available continue to be in demand as quality produce in the local markets, then and only then will we achieve a form of stability which is not limited - if I can take a drastic example - to conserving genetic diversity in museums and in some botanic garden in the countryside, but actually constitutes an economic basis for the farming industry.
There are a lot of things that irritate our citizens about the EU when it is perceived to be imposing new rules or removing ancient rights without justification.
Thank you very much, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, especially for your pertinacity.
My question to the Commissioner is, can a seed firm now have its analyses carried out in any recognized laboratory anywhere in Europe - that is, not only in that particular country's own state controlled laboratories, as certain countries are claiming?
Furthermore, I have a couple of comments on the diversity of our seeds.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf's report, of which we approve and which I congratulate, in passing, on behalf of my group, rightly underlines our interest in preserving varieties of plant or animal species to conserve the genes which could be useful for agriculture in the future.
This report also underlines, albeit more indirectly, the role which these banks and conservation networks play in the service of the Community, which is, a priori , a good thing.
To achieve this we must have strong inspection measures in place.
The measures must be so structured that they gain the confidence not only of the producer but of all involved in the industry.
The Member States will have to show themselves worthy of each others' confidence and the confidence of the Commission, the guarantor of the Treaties, by the care they take in exercising the controls for which they are responsible.
We often hear it said that Europe is involved in too many things.
So we must make the investment, not only in records and inventories, but also in gene banking and conservation of what still remains.
In conclusion, in my opinion, one of the most important aspects of conservation of seeds and animals is the ever increasing possibilities in the area of biotechnology which these genetic resources may provide for the absolute benefit of a rapidly growing world population, much of which is already undernourished in many regions of the southern hemisphere.
Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a successful report.
We must ensure that farmers in all Member States are treated equally by the inspectors.
Madam President, in Amendment No 1 the rapporteur suggests that the new inspectors should be sworn in before they are officially licensed.
I do not know exactly what the situation is in other countries, but in the Nordic countries there is only one professional group that swears an oath of office, and that is the judiciary.
Firstly, to extend the scope of the current provisions for the carrying out of temporary experiments, by which alternatives can be explored for improving the provisions laid down in these directives.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf referred to the procedure laid down in Article 43.
I am therefore pleased to be able to inform you that the Commission unreservedly accepts Amendment No 4 for the evaluation of the new procedures within a period of four years.
Amendment No 3, which contains the proposal that action shall be taken in the event of contravention by licensed inspectors of the rules governing official examinations, can also be accepted in principle by the Commission.
At this juncture I also wish to thank the rapporteur for the keen interest shown in Regulation 1467/94 and I can assure him that the European Parliament's position will be of great value to the Commission in its deliberations on how to proceed with this regulation.
This report shows that the regulation in question is already allowing important work to be done in the Member States, and that this is contributing to the objectives of the common agricultural policy, particularly in respect of the relationship between agriculture and environmental protection.
Thanks to this regulation, Europe can now coordinate the efforts which are being made for the preservation and environmentally friendly use of the genetic resources of the agricultural industry.
In his report, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf indicated that the budget funds for Regulation 1467 must be increased and that greater manpower resources must be deployed in this sector.
Thank you, Commissioner Fischler.
The rapporteur has asked for the floor.
Madam President, I should like briefly to pick up on two points.
The second report states that we think it would be sensible for this programme - and I am now also extending this to programmes covered by Regulation 2078 - to be made available to those countries in the transitional phase of membership.
Madam President, I would like to look at this question once again, for it seems to me to be an important one.
Within the framework of the accession procedures and the new funding packages which are to be provided from the year 2000, it is planned to give priority to developing the processing sector and to creating a stronger management structure and a more effective environmental policy in agriculture, with ECU 500 million to be made available to the 10 applicant countries for agricultural purposes.
Thank you very much, Mr Fischler.
