Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 29 May 1997.
You know that the French authorities have responded with a proposal to the European Council on fixing the institutions' seats and timetables.
Thank you, Mr Macartney.
The country is facing a legal disaster as a result of an absolutely incredible blunder on the part of the government in failing to notify Brussels of some 340 provisions, which are therefore now cancelled.
Mr Morris, if you have put this matter to the Commission, I shall ensure that they answer you.
Mr President, the British Sunday Times on 1 June this year carried an article in which it indicated that the new British Government was maintaining a computer database on the activities, questions and speeches of Members of this Parliament.
Order of business The final draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents (at its meeting of Thursday 5 June 1997) pursuant to Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed.
The outcome of the vote which takes place tonight in the Committee on Institutional Affairs, where, as you know, there are 134 amendments to the text on the IGC, will not be available for consideration by the groups before the deadline for amendments expires.
Mrs Green, that means that we would vote on Thursday?
Agricultural debate The third point concerns the joint debate on agricultural prices.
Mrs Lulling, according to the agenda, you report was not part of the joint debate.
It is therefore unaffected by this decision.
Mr President, I present the annual report on the work of the Committee on Petitions.
I find that whichever committee in this Parliament colleagues are members of, they regard that committee as the most important, the most vital and central to the work of Parliament.
I know that the Committee on Petitions is not universally regarded as the most important.
Citizens take their right to petition seriously.
In the last ten years the number of petitions has doubled from 500 to over 1, 000 per annum.
The Committee on Petitions performs the role of listener on behalf of the Parliament.
Sadly my report is not all plaudits.
I wonder whether they are in the debate this evening.
The Committee on Petitions has been in existence for ten years now, and during that time it has received about 10, 000 petitions with about 10 billion signatures.
In the past year children who have been missing - in some cases for up to 18 months - have been recovered.
As a direct result of this petition we have discovered some very alarming things about some gas heaters, including the fact that 61 people died in Belgium last year as a direct result of carbon monoxide poisoning from water heaters.
Mr President, the annual report by the Committee on Petitions naturally contains little that is controversial.
The Perry report follows the lead set by the Gutiérrez Díaz report last year and the Kuhn report in 1995 in enhancing the standing of the Committee on Petitions.
This right of the citizen to approach the European Parliament directly provides us with a good tool for monitoring the European venture on the ground.
Madam President, I think this is a very useful report, as we are seeing from the debate, because it gives an account of the work of the Committee on Petitions - an account fully deserved by the Committee on Petitions and its secretariat.
But I must not forget to point out the practical importance which petitions to the European Parliament have, for example in Portugal in the case of discrimination as regards salaries in the Banco Central Português and in the case of the customs agents, specific cases where many petitions were received - indicating that people expected an objective response to their problems from the European Parliament.
When a citizen hands in a petition to Parliament, he is not only highlighting what, in his opinion, is an unsatisfactory application of Community provisions, but also, at the same time, expressing his confidence in Parliament.
Since 1987, more than 10 million European citizens have turned to Parliament, in around 10, 000 petitions.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
As co-rapporteur along with Mr Hoppenstedt, I must also note the leading role played by the European Parliament in this debate.
In the recitals, we have pointed out the elements always regarded as essential by the European Parliament for promoting the European audiovisual industry: fostering production by means of a Community mechanism, that could be the guarantee fund, and boosting independent producers in particular.
During the second reading, we made some important decisions, for example, about the definition of the concept of broadcasting, the differentiation of the so-called new services, and also the clear definition of advertising rules, which is naturally an important factor in setting the course for the dual system which we all wanted, without - Mrs Tongue - pressurizing public-law broadcasting in any particular way.
MEDIA I and II, Action Plan 16: 9 and the Guarantee Fund which has already been mentioned, and which we still see as an important contribution to the development of European programming policy, all these, on the other hand, are elements which we trust will take European programming policy forward.
Owing to technical developments, we as a Parliament will in future be called on to give some thought to major developments in media policy.
Madam President, I should like to thank our rapporteurs.
We must be able to create and see our own stories, be it Inspector Morse or Derrick.
Madam President, now that the dust has finally settled on this directive - possibly the most lobbied directive in my experience here in the last 13 years in Parliament - let us look at some of the issues that concerned not just us here in Parliament but specifically those who were quite bemused by the complexity of this directive in terms of public perception.
We must protect our public service broadcasting.
This directive has been a great catalyst: it has pulled us up short to look at what we mean by our culture and to put a value on it that perhaps was lacking in many of our other deliberations.
Madam President, a conciliation meeting of 100 minutes was deemed to be sufficient, partly because the European Parliament, in its wisdom - though not everyone would agree with that - dropped its original demands for compulsory quotas for European productions and the inclusion of new services.
It is also a failure for Europe and its institutions, when at the IGC we are not going to be able to call into question that false codecision, and we were 22 votes short of a qualified majority, whereas we had a simple majority, such that we opposed democracy.
For many countries, they have in any case been largely invaded.
Madam President, the interest of the conciliation focused on the European Parliament proposal to guarantee the open broadcasting of major sporting events.
The European Parliament proposal established that in all Member States it would be compulsory to broadcast openly certain sporting events of extraordinary importance, such as the Olympics, and World or European Football Championships.
For legal reasons, the Parliamentary delegation to the conciliation accepted that this rule should not be compulsory in all Member States but that it would be optional for each State.
The right to receive information must be compatible with the rights of ownership and free competition between companies possessing broadcasting rights.
Madam President, I shall be very brief because I do not want to enter into a national debate.
Madam President, the debate on the right to televise major sporting events, incorporated in the TV directive, has been good in principle, for it is important that everybody who wishes to do so should be able to follow major sporting events on television.
Parliament's view at the first reading was, in my opinion, principled and far-sighted.
They too will come to bless this directive for the basic protection that it gives all who wish to avail themselves of it.
This Committee will be composed of representatives of the competent authorities in the Member States.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
As regards the harmonization of data and indicators, in fact, on the basis of an obstinately restrictive interpretation of article 129 of the treaty which, as everyone knows, excludes any harmonization of legislative and regulatory provisions, the Council even opposed harmonization of scientific language.
Well, the Council, demonstrating great parsimony, promptly cut the ECU 800, 000, arriving at a proposal of only ECU 13 million, a figure we considered inadequate.
The free movement of persons, the physical disappearance of frontiers, the free circulation of services means that it is common sense for health to come within Community scope and, in that sense, many of us think that the Treaty on European Union should more explicitly turn health into a Community competence.
Mr President, the collection and analysis of all health data is obviously a necessary condition for the promotion and actualization of the Community's competence in the field of health, as required by Article 129 of the Treaty on European Union, and for ensuring that Community programmes and actions in the field are structured in the best possible way.
These actions should have been taken immediately after the adoption of Article 129.
Mr President, my colleague, Professor Cabrol, who followed the conciliation on the health programme, is unfortunately absent, and has asked me to speak on his behalf.
The Council has accepted the idea of comparable data.
We are voting for the joint project because the proposed programme is a real step forward for the health of our compatriots even though it is small, since we are starting from scratch.
Fortunately, we have a written undertaking from Commissioner Flynn to ensure that the next Community statistical programme devotes appropriate attention to the development of statistics on health monitoring.
We think the Commission's proposal on this is rather inconsistent: inconsistent with the Commission's own stated position in its communication on legal bases and maximum sums, where it proposed that actions with amounts below ECU 5 million should not be given legal bases.
Mr President, health monitoring is of course an important field of activity within the framework of the Community objective of achieving a high level of health protection, as set out in Article 3 and Article 129.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at noon tomorrow.
Since 70 % of the European population lives with sound levels coming from a single source, namely road traffic, far higher than those recommended by the World Health Organization, one might think that people should be listened to more attentively.
That would undoubtedly be extremely interesting and very positive; but given that seven in ten people are exposed to sound levels harming their health and quality of life, at levels far higher that those authorized by the WHO, the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council should try and make it a top priority to take urgent action and set in motion, as promised, a set of practical measures in the form of an appropriate legal response to the problem.
I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are only asking the Commission to do something as basic as honour its promise and for the Council to listen to this popular outcry against noise, never better expressed.
Consequently noise abatement is in the interests of industry.
We also think that, when measuring noise, we should not only set standards but actually take action to reduce the noise made by refrigerators, air-conditioners, building machinery - especially the latter.
So I hope that approval of this report can finally push the Commission into raising the standards to a satisfactory level and giving us appropriate provisions on the matter.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, noise is a significant environmental problem, and with the rapid development of technology it will soon be one of the most serious.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, noise is classified nuisance number one by most Europeans and nearly 70 % of them have their quality of life affected by noise.
Over 20 % European suffer from diseases linked to excessive noise levels.
It is high time for the European Union to take full stock of the size of the problem and turn the fight against noise into a priority.
Mr President, the Commission Green Paper on future noise policy contains many important and correct considerations on the noise problems we experience in our daily lives.
In particular, I note with satisfaction that the Commission pays special attention to noise nuisance from road traffic, which is absolutely the most disagreeable source of noise in Europe.
I welcome the Commission's decision to replace its original idea of committing the individual Member States to common legislation in the area with a noise abatement programme.
In this way we have managed to deal with all major noise problems in an exemplary manner.
The Commission would like to thank the European Parliament for its comprehensive contribution to the debate on future noise protection policy, which of course I shall be analysing in depth.
In the mean time, the Commission has received 175 written contributions, and has organized numerous conferences on the aspects touched on in the Green Paper, which may also supply the Commission with important information.
Many municipal authorities have given us their opinions on the Green Paper, and this is in line with the concept of shared responsibility, whereby all those involved must work together to achieve a common objective.
Mr President, first of all I should like to thank the Commissioner for his good wishes and the fifteen or more speakers in this debate.
The debate is closed.
