This document was included in the European Parliament's list of documents received on 12 April and I was informed that it was to be officially announced at the beginning of Parliament's sitting on 3 May, that is, the day before yesterday.
Thank you, Mr Valdivielso.
Mr President, I received a letter from your office which said that, as there was to be a debate on Kosovo yesterday afternoon, the questions to the Council that I and other colleagues had tabled for this afternoon would not be discussed.
Mr Trakatellis, according to paragraph 2 of Annex II, Part A, a question shall be inadmissible if the agenda already provides for the subject to be discussed with the participation of the institution concerned, in this case the Council.
Mrs McKenna, I already explained to you on Monday that this decision was taken by the Quaestors, who followed the recommendation of the services responsible.
Mr President, going back to the same question regarding the possible use of depleted uranium in Serbia and Kosovo, a specific question was asked to go on the agenda of Question Time, a specific question, not a general point as we had yesterday from the President-in-Office of the Council.
What I can do is have an oral question in this session because we have the subject of Kosovo on the agenda.
You could have asked the Members who spoke in the name of your group to raise the question.
If they do not deem it necessary to do so I cannot make any other arrangements.
The Minutes were approved Statement by the President of the European Parliament on the occasionof the conclusion of Parliament's fourth term of office Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, this week's part-session is the last in our term of office and my last as President of this House.
The balance between the European institutions has, in fact, changed to become what was intended in the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties: the appointment of the Commission and its political activities are no longer dependent on the confidence of the Council alone, they also depend - and this is crucial - on the confidence of Parliament.
Many reforms have been adopted in the last few years in relation to the way in which our House works: we have improved our standards and financial organisation; -we have completely changed the top levels of Parliament's administration and introduced new systems of promotion and mobility at all levels; -we have increased the number of women in senior posts, although we have not yet reached the levels I would have liked; -we have regulated the transparency of administrative decisions, at the request of the Ombudsman; -we have brought together and clarified the existing rules so that, from now on, both Members and officials will be aware of their rights and obligations, according to clear rules that prevent arbitrary behaviour or favouritism.We also managed to find a satisfactory solution to the technical and financial problems surrounding our buildings in Brussels, thereby completing the efforts of my predecessors to provide Members with more functional and compact facilities.
It was also Parliament that presented the Council with a very comprehensive text, even before the Treaty entered into force, covering all the aspects of our situation as transparently as possible, even those aspects where it has always been our responsibility to take decisions.
Few institutions or bodies - national or otherwise - within this Union are capable of taking such decisions on their own initiative, as we have done.
We are having to watch how the absence of adequate instruments to implement peace there has left us powerless to prevent an act of genocide.
We must now begin to pave the way for peace and to collaborate with the countries in the region to build a stable system of cooperation between them and promote development so that they can join our Union as soon as possible, a Union that is based on respect for differences and on the integration of its wealth and its cultural and human diversity.
Applause I think that we should give special recognition to our colleagues who are now moving on to new pastures in their political or personal lives.
They have helped build a more democratic Europe that is closer to the people and we should thank them for that.
I have tried to face these with determination and with total dedication and effort, and without flinching when it has been necessary to defend Parliament's decisions and actions.
On no occasion did I wonder whether or not other institutions would be pleased with the way I was defending Parliament; I simply looked on it as my duty.
Loud applause Mr President, I should like to thank you for this assessment which you have presented to Parliament.
I believe we can safely say, as you emphasised, that in the course of this term the House has developed into a genuine Parliament.
Everyone in this House knows that this would never have been achieved without your efforts.
The European Parliament, our Parliament, has developed into a political institution whose voice within the European Union cannot be ignored and which has exercised its political and budgetary control with great authority and great independence.
I consider this to be an exceptionally important development which also constitutes a democratic counterbalance to the European Union's other two political institutions.
But much more importantly than all of this I believe that you have acted out of your genuine belief in Europe rather than any kind of pragmatic Realpolitik.
Ladies and gentlemen, there have been two Presidents during this parliamentary term, neither of whom, I believe, have held government office, but who worked and grew in stature here in Parliament.
As prime minister of my country I noticed how the Presidents of Parliament were sometimes only allowed to attend the European Council for a few minutes.
Both of you, Klaus Hänsch and José Maria Gil-Robles, represented and defended our Parliament in a very credible manner and achieved some outstanding results.
The last six months have been the most tumultuous six months of the life of this Parliament.
You, Mr President, have ensured that Parliament's role in this entire period has been clear and has been effective.
It has helped on occasion, as you know, to sort out or to ease certain issues and events through the life of this Parliament.
It is a coincidence, but perhaps a fortunate one, that this very week when we are in the last week of the life of this House, we are also in the first week of the life of the Amsterdam Treaty.
Yesterday, for instance, during the vote, 39 reports were dealt with in one and a half hours which is probably something of a record.
I am aware also, of the extent to which, in your many years of service in this House, you personally were committed to issues of institutional reform.
Therefore it must be an issue of great personal satisfaction that, having given so much of your particular attention to institutional matters, you should preside over this last session under the new Treaty of Amsterdam.
Applause Mr President, I am very pleased to be able to speak at the end of our term of office, which is beginning to seem like the end of the academic year, when students finish their university classes and pleasantly say goodbye to each other, remembering certain students and teachers, and there is a generally friendly atmosphere.
I would like to stress three aspects of your work.
You gave priority to your role as President of Parliament.
I am a member of a medium-sized group - it is certainly not small, since 34 Members constitute a medium to large group - and I have to say that we have never noticed any discrimination.
The Treaty of Amsterdam does not attract much attention, although we are very much aware of it in Parliament because of our legislative work.
We must thank Mr Santer for accepting Parliament's role.
Applause Mr President, it is with the utmost pleasure, on behalf of the Union for Europe Group, that I say a very sincere word of thanks to you for the very able leadership which you have given Parliament over the last two-and-a-half years.
I do not wish to repeat what has been said by colleagues who have already spoken but it has been a very great two-and-a-half years.
But above and beyond that it is recognised that you are a man of strong conviction with many natural human qualities; a person of great energy and determination and a person who has always been positive and even-handed; a person who is encouraging and indeed, a person who can be very firm and authoritative when that sort of authority needs to be shown, as we have witnessed on occasion.
I thank you very sincerely for what you did in relation to bringing a greater degree of openness and transparency to the workings of this Parliament.
I have not been a Member long enough to know what Rule allows the French Socialists to join in the praise for your work on behalf of us all.
Thank you, Mr Duhamel.
I shall continue to work in Parliament as a Member, and I can assure you that I shall continue to do so gladly with all of you, in the same spirit.
I too would like to say Gracias, Presidente on behalf of the Europe of Nations Group, and to acknowledge the fact that something happens to our Presidents when they are first elected.
So in this area at least, a change has taken place, but unfortunately the political group chairmen are still in the minority in this House.
The proposal which has been adopted in the Bureau means that for my journey from Copenhagen to Strasbourg, I get EUR 450 more in travel expenses than I received before the cost-cutting measures were set in motion.
And Parliament has decided by a large majority that all documents must be public unless we decide by a two thirds majority to prohibit access to them.
There is a consensus on this stance in Parliament, but unfortunately this is not yet the case within the Commission and the Council.
In your collective overview which, in my view, was given in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which you have always strictly abided by and respected, thereby setting us an example to follow, you should have included the fact that this Parliament is coming to the end of its term of office and that it was unable to prevent war taking place on European soil.
Let me also say quite specifically on behalf of the Council that this Parliament took a qualitative leap forward during this term of office.
The Treaty provides the European Union with a wider range of instruments but at the same time raises new questions to which we shall have to find answers in Cologne.
However, our activities are overshadowed by an issue that dominates all others, the conflict in Kosovo and the accompanying human tragedies.
I just want to establish again that against the background of developments in the Balkans, over the past weeks the European Union has demonstrated its unity and resolve, from the joint declaration by the Heads of State and Government of 24 March to the General Affairs Council's decision last week to toughen the sanctions.
The Council continues to maintain that on the threshold of the 21st century Europe cannot allow the numerically largest ethnic group in Kosovo to be collectively deprived of its rights and subjected to severe, systematic human rights violations.
It is also a matter of the general European perspective of our policy of integration and of the long-term security and stability of Europe as a whole.
If Milosevic achieves his aim of a Kosovo no longer inhabited by Albanians, that will create a source of crisis in a region that is in any case not very stable and could lead to numerous new conflicts.
The German Presidency of the Council took the initiative and made the necessary proposals.
Together with the international organisations and the neighbouring states concerned, we will hold the first working meeting on 27 May and will hold the first conference of foreign ministers on 11 June.
It is against this backdrop that the European Council will be meeting in Cologne on 3 and 4 June.
Cologne will look at the following major issues: firstly, the European Employment Pact; secondly, the timetable for the forthcoming institutional reform; thirdly, the European charter of basic rights; fourthly, the common strategy towards Russia; and fifthly, the further development of the European security and defence policy.
Thanks to the Employment Pact, which we hope to adopt in Cologne, we want to give the people of Europe a sign that the European Union is looking at their concerns.
We want to interlink the national and European level measures to promote employment more closely and link them to a coordinated monetary, financial and wages policy as also to economic structural changes.
Another important item on the Cologne agenda will be institutional reforms.
In accordance with the request of the Vienna European Council, it will have to be decided in Cologne how and when to tackle the institutional questions not resolved by the Amsterdam Treaty and that have to be resolved prior to enlargement.
The Amsterdam protocol on the institutions with a view to enlargement of the European Union, together with the declarations on the subject, provide the framework for the intergovernmental conference, but we might indeed have to go further.
The developments early this year that led to the resignation of the Commission and to a discussion about reforms certainly give reason to examine the relations between the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission in this regard.
We must fully restore confidence in the institutions; we must not have a repeat of the institutional crisis we have just gone through.
The more able the European Union becomes to act, the more its actions and decisions must have democratic legitimacy.
That also means, for instance, that in all cases where the Council adopts legislative acts by majority vote - and we want to make majority decisions the rule - the European Parliament must have equal codecision powers on an equal footing.
That is an ambitious aim, but I believe that a short and clearly circumscribed intergovernmental conference could send out an important signal about the European Union's ability to enlarge and about the effectiveness of its institutions.
We know that the Amsterdam Treaty only entered into force a few days ago and we must begin by gathering experience from it, because even now the comprehensive debate on the future development and form of the European Union is showing more and more clearly that in addition to the European Parliament the national parliaments and the broadest possible spectrum of social groups must also be involved.
We need to tell the people of Europe that their basic rights apply in the same way at European level as at national level.
The first talks on this charter of basic rights have now begun and I am sure that we will manage to agree on the further procedure in Cologne.
Formulating this kind of charter of basic rights would be a typical task for Members of Parliament - they are best able to do so and it is what they must do - and we will certainly take account of that aspect in our proposal concerning the practical form that charter of basic rights should assume.
The Amsterdam Treaty has markedly enhanced the Union's ability to act in foreign policy.
Even if the Union is already demonstrating great solidarity now - as in the Kosovo crisis -we still need to develop the common foreign and security policy further.
Another is the common strategy towards Russia that we want to adopt for the first time in Cologne and which we will be able to implement on the basis of majority decisions.
This common strategy towards Russia is a pilot project; it will very much determine the face of future common strategies.
We intend to draw up a report on means of further developing the European security and defence identity by the time of the Cologne European Council.
Among others it will cover the question of possibly integrating the WEU in the EU, pursuant to Article 17 of the Amsterdam Treaty.
As you can see, even without the additional challenges facing the Union as a result of the crisis in Kosovo and the resignation of the Commission, there is a wide range of tasks to be dealt with in Cologne.
Applause Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Cologne European Council comes at a decisive moment for the European Union.
The entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty on 1 May marks a further step forward.
Later this morning you will be voting on the appointment of the future President, Romano Prodi.
The new President will need the support of the European Parliament to make a success of his term of office.
This is no easy task, if only because the Council and the Commission do not, in the end, have all that much time available, but we are making good progress.
It is more important than ever to maintain and develop constructive and close political, economic and commercial dialogue with Russia.
The Kosovo crisis is also a stark reminder of the need for a proper European defence identity.
Following the progress made at the Atlantic Alliance summit in Washington, the European Union will need to adopt a solid stance.
As regards the economy, the prospects for growth in 1999 are not looking quite so good.
The Commission will also be reporting on the development of the trans-European networks and hopes that the European Investment Bank will make its contribution, as it did at the Amsterdam European Council in 1997.
To help the discussions, the Commission will be sending the European Council a communication on the best way of integrating the objective of higher employment into the formulation and implementation of Community policies and measures.
I would, however, remind you that even when it was putting Agenda 2000 together, the Commission called for the questions first raised at Amsterdam to be settled and said that a more far-reaching reform should follow.
Looking beyond the institutional reforms which must be put in place, I would like to plead for a consistent approach.
We cannot expect the Commission to act as a strong political driving force and at the same time give the impression of wanting to turn it into a mere secretariat for the Council or the European Parliament.
Applause from certain quarters Some issues have already been identified: weighting the votes in the Council and reducing the number of Members of the Commission.
Whatever happens, such a reform must include bringing in qualified majority voting as standard practice, as the President-in-Office just mentioned.
The Cologne European Council will therefore have to take stands on some major issues.
Be it employment, Kosovo, enlargement or the working of the institutions, the European Union must learn to speak with one voice: one voice for the 15 Member States and one voice for the institutions, too.
Two fundamental issues have been raised: the need to hold an intergovernmental conference very early in the year 2000, with a method and timetable to be discussed, and the issue of the constitution, which Mr Verheugen has taken up, as I was delighted to discover this morning.
And then, as the President-in-Office said this morning, the institutional balances are out of kilter and need to be redefined.
But we need something else as well, because, as people have highlighted, the background to the intergovernmental conference in 2000 will be complex and difficult, so foreign policy and, above all, the area of freedom, security and justice are issues which must be raised again.
We are pressing, as we did before in the November 1997 Méndez de Vigo and Tsatsos resolution, for a Commission document to underpin interinstitutional coordination involving civil society and national and regional parliaments.
To put it as briefly as I can, what we need is a highly authoritative document on the intergovernmental conference table, because preparing for the intergovernmental conference in a different way may guarantee safer results in terms of reform.
Because Europe demands it, because Europe needs strong institutions!
I am, I repeat, delighted that the President-in-Office returned to this subject this morning.
We know the problem today is not to write a constitution, as we have done in the past and as we have demonstrated that we are capable of doing.
Thank you, Mr De Giovanni.
Mr President, I would like thank you for letting me speak and ask if these statements by the Council and the Commission are to be followed by motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 37 of our Rules of Procedure.
I would congratulate him, too, on his work while in office.
The German Presidency has done a great deal of work since it took over.
Contrary to expectations it managed to conclude the Agenda 2000 package, which seemed extremely difficult, and now it has just informed us about the fairly ambitious programme for the Cologne European Council, on which I must congratulate it.
The German Presidency is right to give priority to this proposal as, in spite of other issues, there is no doubt that the main everyday problem for Europeans is employment.
The only question mark is whether or not the European Union will have sufficient resources in the years ahead to implement an employment policy of its own given that the financial perspective for the 2000-2006 period has been reduced and practically all Community policies have had to face cutbacks.
The first step towards creating a European defence identity - which is proving essential - is to incorporate the Western European Union into the EU system.
We will also make sure we do not have a repeat at European level of the Lafontaine policy mix between monetary, financial and wage policy.
Mr Méndez de Vigo will have more to say about this.
The institutional reform must be achieved in cooperation with the European Parliament, which must certainly have a better role to play at the intergovernmental conference than it did in Amsterdam, where it remained rather on the sidelines.
I hope the German Presidency of the Council will manage to ensure that.
If that could be achieved in cooperation with the European Parliament and the national parliaments, it would do a great deal for the people and for the identity of the European Union.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, during the 1998 congress in The Hague, the European Movement expressed its regret that the Union now seems condemned to progress in a vast conceptual vacuum and appears to lack any political perspective at a time when it is setting off on the two greatest adventures of its history: the launch of the single currency and enlargement.
Since 1998, another major challenge has appeared: the war in Kosovo.
What is at issue, and what should be looked at seriously by the Cologne Council, is the fact that the political leaders of certain Member States have, for far too long now, tended to hang on to the outdated remains of their national sovereignty, particularly in terms of foreign policy.
The tragedy in Kosovo, which has been on the cards for almost ten years, is a terrible illustration of this.
The Liberal Group is particularly pleased that emphasis has been placed on the urgent need to strengthen institutional relations with the Western European Union, which should eventually have its own defence and prevention force.
The second issue is the method.
The method used to prepare the ground for the Treaty of Amsterdam proved to have various weaknesses.
I must take this opportunity to congratulate and thank him for his impartiality, conscientiousness and fairmindedness both in general and also as chairman of the Committee on Institutional Affairs, in which I have participated in recent years.
At this point in time, it is apparent to me that the people of the European Union are concerned about war, misery, social exclusion, unemployment, drug trafficking and crime in general.
Madam President, in the light of the structural unemployment in Europe, it is easy to understand the importance of the Cologne European Council.
The Cologne European Council must be more than just a combination of good intentions, a catalogue of unconnected actions or the sum of the national employment policies.
Madam President, Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, as we have learned here in Parliament, in the alternation of presidencies what is important is not so much which country is in office or the abilities of its leading representatives as the underlying dynamic of the state of the Union.
Instead of seeing a clear change of course in European policy in year one of the euro and a move towards a new type of economic development that can also resolve the problem of mass unemployment, we are given a European employment pact that falls far short of what the Santer initiative once contained, that falls far short of what the original proposals that came from the presidency's German Ministry of Finance contained.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Cologne summit has some very important work to do and also has the important task of appointing the High Representative for the CFSP.
If we had not had the crisis that shook the Commission, we would have found ourselves in a situation where, in spite of Parliament's requests, the European Council would have taken all the decisions without giving any consideration to the views of the voters who will be going to the polls between 10 and 13 June.
I have two requests to put to the Council.
In relation to our foreign policy and our policy towards the United Nations, the European Union must make progress and speak out on two key issues: the ratification of the Statute of the permanent Criminal Court and the moratorium on capital executions, which was requested through a vote by the United Nations Commission in Geneva.
If the Union and the presidency were to highlight these two issues in the European Council to indicate the path to be followed and the choice to be made by the Union in the months ahead, we would be making a firm commitment in two areas which, in my view, will be critical as the third millennium approaches.
The Heads of State and Government have already sought to appoint a more political President of the Commission, who will be responsible for exploiting all the federalist opportunities provided by the Treaty of Amsterdam.
In our view, it is totally unacceptable for the Members of this House to be paid out of the Community budget rather than by their own countries.
Madam President, the Treaty of Amsterdam, which can be dubbed the treaty of lost opportunity, only came into force a few days ago and already it needs to have chapters on the institutional issues not resolved in Amsterdam incorporated into it to complete it.
The European Council in Cologne must remedy these omissions and do the groundwork for the reform of the Commission, the extension of qualified majority voting and the reweighting of the votes within the Council.
It must retain its independence and its power to make proposals.
These are both indispensable conditions for the fulfilment of its autonomous functions, in the general interest of the European Union.
The exercise of these prerogatives prevents the Commission from becoming a sort of Council secretariat and hence dwindling to a level inappropriate to the political role it ought to play.
But even if all these concerns were addressed in preparation for the summit of Heads of State and Government, that would not represent an adequate response to the gravity of the Kosovo crisis and would not make up for the notable absence of Europe from that particular trouble spot in the current affairs of the continent.
We need a new Treaty now and, more importantly, we need to give the starting signal and define the exact ground to be covered, and these signals must come from Cologne, especially as, with the unfortunate experience of Kosovo, public opinion is proving more sensitive than before to the role Europe can play.
The single market is prey to tensions and repercussions.
The real economy of our countries needs new impetus to expand.
Parliament should also make it clear that we have our own ideas on the central subjects of that summit and that we want the intended measures to produce a successful outcome.
It will not surprise you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if I do not take the same line as my colleague Mr Elmar Brok.
If the institutions are to cooperate successfully but also if we are to secure what is eventually achieved in the intergovernmental conference for the long term and implement it successfully, then the European Parliament must be involved more closely in this conference than it was in past conferences - and I am deliberately not using the term intergovernmental conference, however much that has become common parlance - in this conference of the Member States.
When you discuss the institutional reforms do remember that it is not just a question of figures but also of ensuring that the matter of Parliament's lack of power in relation to cooperation with the Council and the Commission - here I am addressing the inadequate codecision procedures - really is included in the agenda of this conference.
Applause Mr President-in-Office, in the speech by President Santer - which was an excellent speech and I would like to congratulate him on it - and the speeches by my other colleagues in the House, you will find a rare unanimity.
My colleague Mr Brok has already spoken about the content and I would like to speak about the method.
So, with the approval in due course of President Santer - for which I would like to pay tribute to him - we believe that one good possibility would be for the European Commission to prepare a draft, to discuss it with Parliament and to also include the national parliaments in the discussion - for a discussion is all it would be.
In my view, if the Commission is in agreement, if the European Parliament is in agreement and if the national parliaments have been involved, this document would have tremendous legitimacy, and the governments and any President-in-Office would be able to accept a discussion paper.
I think that this is a good possibility, Mr President-in-Office, and I would ask you to give it your consideration in Cologne.
When it was announced, our group welcomed the new approach set out in Luxembourg and in Pörtschach.
We hope that the Cologne summit will come up to the expectations of the people of Europe and will result in specific actions.
In light of the preparatory work, we are hopeful, since certain governments are proposing active employment policies and measures to relaunch investment.
Our group is putting forward innovative proposals to support this growth and generate employment.
The German Presidency has rightly emphasised fiscal policy and its interaction with our economic and budget policies.
Mr President, NATO's war against Yugoslavia has failed in its declared objective.
It has not managed to put an end to the crimes against the people of Kosovo but instead has dramatically worsened their plight.
Let me first take this opportunity to thank both the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission for constantly bringing up and resolutely following up the question of employment policy, even though the Santer plan was not followed up to the same extent and came to nought in the Council.
Let me also emphasise strongly that we need closer cooperation between the European countries and between monetary, financial and wage policy.
What approach the European Central Bank takes, what kind of interest-rate and monetary policy it formulates, what kind of infrastructure is built up, whether it would not finally be possible to strengthen the European infrastructure in particular, all these things have a major impact on competitiveness, on unemployment and on the employment situation in Europe.
Let me make a brief comment on the second point, the intergovernmental conference.
What the President-in-Office of the Council said here today in fact backs up this scepticism, for he said that far more comprehensive reforms will have to be undertaken.
I think it is essential also to involve this Parliament more closely in this process.
The biggest opportunity is that a number of issues will be resolved and confidence in European cooperation restored and strengthened.
The common defence and foreign policy has always been a non-starter, partly because a number of Member States have sought to retain primacy.
The drama in Kosovo and the moral and military response to it have brought the Union together for the first time in this field.
It would bring us nothing but credit if we could sustain this unity and defend this European cooperation on the basis of values such as democracy and human and minority rights.
A second step forward should be to establish better standards and values for a social Europe.
A third breakthrough is necessary in the field of the internal democracy and transparency of the European institutions.
After the European summit in Cologne we must choose once and for all to have a Europe in which the European Parliament exercises control over all legislation and the entire budget and in which the European Commission is required to guarantee maximum transparency and management which is free from fraud.
If the Cologne summit can provide an impetus for this then as far as I am concerned it will have been a success.
Mr President, Mr President-designate of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, employment issues have been accorded the importance they deserve in European Union policy, and at the Cologne summit Germany will be making efforts to push through the European employment agreement.
The superiority of European labour market practice must be made plainly visible through our ability to maintain growth and levels of employment by means of a system of open dialogue among the labour market organisations.
The Cologne summit must succeed in creating a credible single foreign and security policy.
The European Union must take more overall responsibility in order to ensure that the situation in the Balkans grows more stable and allows different groups to coexist.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to devote my last speech in the European Parliament to the common foreign and security policy.
EU enlargement and the events in central Europe oblige us to make a realistic assessment of the possibilities that such a policy offers.
There is clearly movement within the European Union: Pörtschach, Saint Malo, Bremen, Berlin.
Both Chancellor Schröder and Minister Verheugen have made optimistic statements.
A different timetable must be adopted than the one proposed by the Committee on Institutional Affairs.
The Western European Union should be fully integrated into the European Union in 2002, for example.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very good thing that the German Presidency is to give the starting signal for another intergovernmental conference at the EU summit in Cologne.
With the Amsterdam Treaty, Agenda 2000 and the euro, the EU has acquired a new quality; with the military operations in Kosovo its face has changed.
The Biagio De Giovanni resolution sets out a guideline for the years to come.
Mr President, the Balkan question must be dealt with, that is certain.
The problems of unemployment must be confronted with renewed vigour.
We need a security and justice policy which meets the expectations and requirements to defend the freedoms of the people.
The political will to use the current Treaties in this way has been lacking and I fear that when the 'cold war' ends, there are some who may lose the desire for political integration which is at the root of our achievements and of peace in Europe.
I congratulate the German Presidency of the Council for its decision to hold the Intergovernmental Conference although it may find that this should take place using a Community procedure.
I fear that this is hiding the idea of a return to an intergovernmental Europe with a 'governing body' consisting of the large Member States.
That remains within the remit of the responsible national leaders.
The Federal Republic of Germany, for instance, has already submitted its national plan and is trying to implement it; it has earmarked DM 2 billion for a special plan to create 100 000 training places and jobs for unemployed young people.
That is what we expect of the Member States.
As I understood President Santer, the report he intends to submit is aimed at achieving precisely that objective.
I am extremely grateful to Mr Tindemans for speaking so plainly, for his urgent appeal that we finally do what we should have done long ago.
They are all there in the Amsterdam Treaty.
It is a question of political will and nothing else.
And all in all I am optimistic, because the situation we now find ourselves in truly does force us to draw the conclusions that should have been drawn a long time ago.
I have received eight motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 37(2) and Rule 40(5) of the Rules of Procedure on the European Council meeting in Cologne and the oral questions on institutional reform.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11 a.m.
a Council Regulation (EC) on structural assistance in the fisheries sector(COM(98)0728 - C4-0101/99-98/0347(CNS))II.
the proposal for a Council Regulation (EC) on the common organisation of the market in the milk and milk products sector(COM(98)0158 - C4-0295/98-98/0110(CNS))II.
the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 1766/92 establishing a support mechanism for producers of certain arable crops(COM(98)0158 - C4-0293/98-98/0108(CNS))II.
Parliament's services have informed us that this joint debate on Agenda 2000 will begin with statements by the Council and the Commission, which will then be followed first by the speeches by the groups rather than the speeches by the rapporteurs.
In fact, in my 14 years in this House, I cannot remember a time when the groups spoke before the rapporteurs on any budget report.
The decision on this matter was taken at the Conference of Presidents and it is binding on us so we will proceed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Berlin Agenda 2000 package, which accounts for a volume of more than EUR 680 billion, probably contains the most comprehensive reform of EU policies in the history of the Union.
It includes a solid financial framework up to the year 2006, substantial reforms to the common agricultural policy and to structural policy, as well as changes to the own resources decision that take greater account of the Member States' financial situation and help distribute the burden more fairly.
Agenda 2000 was concluded in accordance with the timetable fixed by the European Council in Cardiff, which demonstrated that the European Union is able to act under increasingly difficult conditions.
This prompt agreement paves the way to enlargement eastward.
It is also an important precondition for the seamless continuation of structural policy as from 1 January 2000.
On the common agricultural policy: the Berlin package contains the widest-reaching reform ever of the common agricultural policy.
The gradual approximation of support prices to the world market price level, flanked by direct payments, prepares our undertakings for the further liberalisation of world trade that is taking place now.
The structural resources will be concentrated on the genuinely needy regions, especially by giving clear priority to Objective 1 regions and by continuing the Cohesion Fund.
In the Council's view, it is particularly important that in spite of these comprehensive reforms it proved possible to stabilise expenditure.
The ceiling of EU expenditure remains 1.27 % of the European Union's gross national product, and we will continue to remain below this ceiling.
The resources allocated to enlargement up to the year 2006 are included in this figure, in this 1.13 %.
The expenditure for the EU of 15 members is to be EUR 686 billion up to 2006 and will be kept constant in real terms, which means that for the first time we will now also be achieving at European level what the Member States have already achieved, namely strict budgetary discipline, strict expenditure discipline and keeping budgetary increases in line with economic requirements.
In real terms, agricultural expenditure will be restricted to an average of EUR 40.5 billion a year for market measures plus about EUR 13 billion for rural development over the period 2000 to 2006.
The Agenda 2000 reform package represents a major step towards enlargement.
In agricultural policy, by placing more emphasis on the world market and the environment, we will now be giving agriculture in the accession countries a good basis for agricultural policy planning.
These resources cannot be transferred for other purposes.
As regards financial precautions, as I have already pointed out we are still below the own resources ceiling, which means we have a quite considerable financial margin of 0.14 % of the EU gross national product to provide for unforeseen expenditure.
It is now up to the European Parliament to decide on Agenda 2000.
So I am confident that the European Parliament will take a responsible approach in exercising its rights to participate in the decisions on the regulations on the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund.
Everyone made their contribution to the compromise and everyone gained something from this compromise.
Applause Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, Agenda 2000 is being adopted against the background of the Kosovo crisis.
Democracy, respect for human rights, tolerance, security and economic and social stability form the basis of the success of the EU and the personal welfare of each individual.
The humanitarian disaster in Kosovo makes enlargement eastward and the democratic and economic stabilisation of the Balkans even more urgent, in the interests not only of the people in Central and Eastern Europe but also of our own security.
Against this background, we cannot overestimate the importance of financially safeguarding the enlargement process through Agenda 2000 and of the positive signal the Community is thereby giving the states applying for accession.
But we must do more than this, which is why it is right and necessary that over and above Agenda 2000 the Council has also declared itself willing to cover the additional resources needed for the Balkans by, if necessary, reviewing the financial perspective.
The various pillars - the single market, economic and monetary union and promoting economic and social cohesion - have helped achieve that.
Agenda 2000 safeguards these pillars and allows us to further develop the European system for the future.
The adoption by the European Parliament of Agenda 2000 will conclude a two-year process of intensive discussions and negotiations.
By in a sense anticipating Amsterdam, if I may put it that way, the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament have proved through a process of increasingly close coordination and positive give and take that it is possible to achieve results that will help the EU as a whole to make progress.
It makes no difference that this is a genuine compromise, meaning that not everyone could obtain all they wanted, and that it is a compromise that produces more satisfactory results in some areas than in others.
Let me thank the presidencies involved, and in particular the presidency of the Council and Chancellor Schröder, for the fact that they managed, by persevering with the negotiations, to bring about agreement between the Member States.
Mr Fischler will talk about this in detail later in relation to agricultural policy.
The review clause in the cereals sector shows that the Heads of State and Government have not even excluded the possibility, perhaps indeed the necessity, of further improvements.
That not only underpins sustainable development in the rural regions but also gives the European Parliament a new power of codecision on agricultural matters, for in future this expenditure will be shown as non-compulsory.
The division of the traditional agricultural guideline into two sub-headings that this calls for will in fact require stricter budgetary discipline in the organisations of the markets.
But overall, the agricultural reform is an important step towards a competitive agriculture in Europe.
The second major pillar of Agenda 2000 is the reform of regional and cohesion policy.
That was only possible because this time the principle of concentration really could be applied successfully.
The structurally weakest Objective 1 regions will receive not just two thirds but this time as much as 70 % of all Structural Funds resources.
Since the European Court of Auditors and Parliament's Committee on Budgets have taken a very positive view of these aspects of the Commission's proposal, I am confident that this has created the conditions for better control in future than in the past by the Commission, the European Parliament and the Court of Auditors of the financial settlement and efficiency of the resources allocated.
But above all, the principle of concentration means concentration on the Union's political priorities.
So all the Structural Funds will now concentrate on creating secure jobs for the future, which means employment-intensive growth, strengthening the competitiveness and innovative power of the regions, sustainable development and promoting skills and equal opportunities.
That applies in particular to the European Social Fund, which Mr Flynn will be discussing in more detail later on.
Here the Commission fully agrees with the European Parliament and I am sure that Parliament will ensure in future too that adequate attention is paid to this in the everyday implementation of the Structural Funds reform.
Partnership between the Commission and Parliament also includes the code of conduct that we have agreed.
With its pre-accession aid and the gradual inclusion of the Central and Eastern European countries, the agenda is mobilising a package of EUR 80 billion for economic development in Central and Eastern Europe.
It is important to the implementation of the Agenda 2000 package for the new interinstitutional agreement to establish a solid, seven-year financial framework.
At the same time, the financing of Community policy is guaranteed in the medium term.
Moreover, the financial distribution system is fairer.
I know that not all Members are convinced of the merits of the proposed interinstitutional agreement.
That is why I would stress that it is also in Parliament's interest that the implementation of Agenda 2000 is not jeopardised by annual budgetary conflicts.
In light of the debates we have had here in past months, I believe that is an important common aim.
It is your privilege, by the adoption of the legislative proposals on Agenda 2000, to lay an important foundation stone not just for fulfilling the expectations of our people but also for the Europe of the future.
That is why I hope they will find broad support and on behalf of the entire Commission let me say that I am grateful for the excellent cooperation with the European Parliament on the Agenda 2000 package.
In my view, these two amendments aim to replace at least two, if not three, paragraphs of the resolution presented to us and, as a result, I do not believe that they are admissible.
Having said that, I am completely in favour of a statute for Members of the European Parliament and believe that it should be introduced as soon as possible, but not by means of a violation of Parliament's procedures and of our Rules of Procedure.
Moreover, the Legal Affairs Committee, which had some doubts, held a vote in a very similar case on one of the proposed texts, which was rejected.
Let me point out that my group tabled an Amendment No 27 to delete paragraph 1.
Applause Mr Rothley, although the services responsible inform me that the other amendments depart further from the text, I agree with you that an amendment seeking to delete a paragraph is always the one that departs furthest from the text.
And in my view, an amendment that seeks to delete a paragraph always departs further from the text than an amendment that seeks to replace it.
We are therefore going to begin with the vote on Amendment No 27.
Once again, I am sorry, but we must proceed with the vote.
Mr President, I would simply like to make a point of order pursuant to Rules 4 and 125.
The French Members from the National Front are present in the House.
However, we will not take part in the vote on the amendments for a fundamental legal reason: we are national Members representing 15 different nations, not a single European nation.
Moreover, to accept a statute for Members of the European Parliament would be to change our status from being a matter of international law to being a matter of internal constitutional law.
However, apart from that, I would simply like to say that this is the first time that I have seen in a House such as ours a situation where two opposing views are set out, one by the services responsible and the other by the chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure - who is elected by his peers - and where that of the relevant services has prevailed.
As always, I accept responsibility for the decisions which I take, be they right or wrong.
Parliament adopted the resolution Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the votes on the Rothley report on the Statute for Members, I can only confirm that the opinion delivered by the Commission pursuant to Article 190(5) of the Amsterdam Treaty stands unchanged.
Applause Madam President, after 10 years the circle is complete.
My first report in this House concerned the basis of Europe's development policy towards Asia and Latin America.
I simply want to tell him, on behalf of the French Socialists, that we voted in favour of his appointment today by a large majority.
We have already experimented with the formulas of a lesser role for the state and the blind belief that the rules of competition or liberalisation generate employment.
As far as we are concerned, the principle of secularism is a founding principle of our Union.
We will judge Mr Prodi on his respect for this commitment.
There is nothing in his statements that refers clearly to the need to defend and update the European social model.
He made a long plea regarding the need to continue with deregulation and the liberalisation of all sectors of the economy.
In short, his commitments have very little to do with the hopes and expectations of the people, who have demonstrated their desire for change and elected Socialist or Social Democrat governments in most of our countries.
Applause from the left I voted in favour of the nominee for President this time round, whereas in July 1994 I voted against Mr Santer.
I hope that the political will indicated by Mr Prodi to reestablish the balance between the institutions will bear fruit so that the Commission can reassume its essential political driving role as a body independent of the national governments and private interests.
To do this, the European Parliament must also fulfil its role in order to avoid the return to an intergovernmental Europe with a 'governing body' consisting of the large Member States.
After listening to you yesterday, I am disappointed that not a single reference was made to the social Europe.
Mr Prodi, you refuse to distinguish between the market-based Europe and the social Europe.
You will have the difficult task of establishing Europe in a new millennium, and I cannot get used to the idea that the twenty-first century might represent a negation of the social Europe.
At the time, I voted in favour of the appointment of Jacques Santer as President of the Commission, in the knowledge that he had been prime minister of a small country, like my own, but one that had been much less affected by extra-European immigration, by unemployment and by taxation.
He did not say a word about the Europe of people.
I abstained in the election of the President of the Commission, as I could not see how I could give my support to Mr Prodi.
Mr Prodi sets great store by a common defence policy for Europe.
We would also highlight the importance which Mr Prodi has placed on Mediterranean policies, which he regards as being just as important as enlargement to include the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, his will to help make the European economy more dynamic and reduce unemployment and, essentially for us, the defence of economic and social cohesion.
The Portuguese Socialists support a strong Commission which is capable of mobilising the will of the European people and which respects these people and their legitimate interests, particularly in small countries such as Portugal.
We also demand an independent Commission which, within the structure of the Community institutions, can contribute to achieving a balance between all the Member States, whether small or large and whether in the south or north of Europe.
What I listened to yesterday was a liberal credo that leads me to fear greatly that this new balance is not on the agenda of the next Commission.
Moreover, my secular view of public life was shattered.
Commissioners should receive the same salary as ministers in the country which they represent.
The fact that Mr Prodi was actually nominated by 11 Socialist or Social Democrat governments proves that the social Europe is not the priority and that the liberal approach has not been discarded.
Nonetheless, I am convinced that the rights of the people of Europe will only improve if we build a strong, political Europe based on the principle of secularism.
After Jacques Delors and the very liberal Commissioner, Mr Bangemann, he in turn is conforming to the myth of the overriding power of the Internet and information highways and is promising us paradise through the fact that 'we can bridge the gap between us and the United States'.
It is vital to include them in our trade mechanisms to ensure that globalisation is based on cooperation and solidarity with the poorest regions and countries.
As a result, I voted against his appointment as President of the Commission.
The people of Europe - of the 15 Member States and the applicant countries of Eastern Europe and Cyprus - hope and demand that the European Union becomes a real political and social union, with the required authority and validity to play a leading world role as we approach the millennium.
I fully agree that we need to define the political and administrative responsibilities of the European Commission.
Another fundamental issue is that of preserving the overall responsibility of the College of Commissioners.
I have also on various occasions defended the need for the Commissioners to meticulously respect their ethical commitment to maintain the necessary independence from their governments.
The European Parliament has no reason to support the European Commission because of its political stance.
Compared to national parliaments, the great asset and advantage of the European Parliament is that we are all part of the opposition here.
The legislative arm must have complete freedom to monitor the executive arm.
As a democrat I have to accept the result of the vote on the Rothley report even if I do not agree with it.
As a parliamentarian I have to accept that we use procedures sometimes as a way of either promoting or shielding ourselves from particular votes.
And this via media which we sought to bring forward - and as democrats we have to accept the win or loss - was blown out of the water by a procedure which disgusts me.
As the leader, I had my name on it, but for the record, I voted against it.
Madam President, the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations did not agree with the draft uniform Statute for Members of the European Parliament adopted by our House on 3 December 1998.
Since 3 December, the Council has examined Parliament's draft and has unfortunately approved its key principles.
In its view, the Members of the European Parliament should from now on be paid out of the Community budget and not by their countries of origin.
It is somewhat difficult to understand the deep-rooted motives of the Council when it accepts a text that is so opposed to the interests of the Member States, unless it, too, agrees tacitly to the establishment of a European superstate.
Although many people have expressed their disgust, I do not know how we are going to go back to the electorate and justify that basically things are remaining the same.
That is why I voted against the Rothley report.
Madam President, I do not normally give explanations of vote but on this occasion I shall, because this may have been one of the last actions in this present Parliament, and I want to avoid any possible misunderstanding about what is perhaps an ambiguous vote.
I did vote against the Rothley report because I take the view that, with all its faults, we should have accepted the proposed Statute for Members that came from the Council.
In general I am always very sympathetic to the idea that Parliament should defend its rights and its position vis-à-vis other institutions.
But on this occasion, particularly in view of the coming election, I took the view that it was better for us to get this matter behind us.
I have always taken the view that Parliament must rigorously and ruthlessly defend its constitutional and legal rights.
When, however, it is a question of its own personal rights, the rights of its Members - particularly the financial rights of its Members - Parliament would be well advised to tread more softly.
It was my view that by voting against the Rothley report I could serve that political goal.
The majority of Members of this House - 376 Members - have shown that in actual fact they did not want the system for reimbursing travel expenses to be changed.
Parliament does not want to be open and transparent about the way in which its Members are paid, and that is particularly scandalous in terms of public opinion.
The current system of reimbursement is absurd, particularly with regard to travel expenses.
We should like to have a uniform statute giving all Members the same salary, but with the possibility of taxation at national level.
We have voted this morning to try to ensure that concrete measures are put in place as quickly as possible.
We have been at the forefront of reform and believe that we have to reach a conclusion on this matter and start the new mandate with a statute in place.
The Council has said that it will look at the detail of implementation of the Statute alongside Parliament and we look forward to playing an active role in those further negotiations over the new few weeks.
The Portuguese Socialist Members voted against the motion for a resolution approved today in the European Parliament because this motion prevents the entry into force of the Statute for Members proposed by the Council of Ministers which represents an important reinforcement of Parliament's credibility.
The continuation of the current set of rules postpones a long-standing desire of the European Parliament to finally achieve the principle of equality between all Members.
The European Parliament has missed an unparalleled opportunity to resolve an issue which is fundamental to its good image and dignity, especially at a time when transparency and efficiency in the workings of all the Community institutions are being discussed and demanded in Europe.
The outcome of today's vote, which saw a majority of our House give its support to the Rothley report, is a defeat as far as we are concerned.
For a long time, a majority in this Parliament has been hiding behind the lack of initiative from the Council in this matter in order to excuse its unwillingness to conclude a statute for Members of the European Parliament.
After several years of work, a proposal had been drawn up that was, in general, satisfactory, and the Council had indicated that it was willing to negotiate with Parliament, following the result of today's vote, with a view to finding a compromise.
The response of the majority in this House today does not match up to its commitments to its own voters or to the expectations of public opinion.
Following the Commission's resignation and the problems of fraud and poor financial management, how can the majority in this Parliament justify the fact that our House is incapable of reforming anything that affects our allowances and the financial management of our institution?
But each of our colleagues who voted in favour of the Rothley report will have to shoulder their responsibilities in terms of public opinion and the postponement of the uniform Statute for Members of the European Parliament.
In view of these considerations, I voted against the report.
We believe that the Council's text is a distinct improvement on the European Parliament's draft Statute, which was adopted on 3 December 1998.
We believe that the adoption of the Statute is yet another step towards a United States of Europe, with the European Parliament as a co-legislator.
The Treaty of Amsterdam provides for a statute for Members of the European Parliament.
Some of our Spanish, Portuguese and other colleagues are in favour of this, not only for ideological reasons, but also perhaps for the sake of convenience.
The Members of the National Front in the European Parliament are opposed to this European Statute for legal reasons which serve to nullify it.
Members of the Parliament in Strasbourg are, in fact, the representatives of 15 different nations; they are not the elected representatives of a European nation.
Our legal status is therefore international rather than constitutional.
The European Parliament would also have been able to reinforce its legitimacy by not having the sole right of approval of its own salaries, like other parliaments.
The lists of candidates are now ready and the rules would have been changed without the potential new Members being able to participate in the vote.
However, I consider that it will be imperative to approve the Statute for Members of the European Parliament as soon as possible after Parliament reopens in July.
I voted against the resolution on the Statute for Members of Parliament.
My fundamental reason for doing so is perfectly simple.
For me, however, these shortcomings are far outweighed by my desire to be able to begin the next parliamentary term with a totally clean slate and with the prospect of no longer having to devote our time to decisions about our own statute.
Kuhn report (A4-0224/99) Madam President, naturally we fought for the Kuhn report.
I believe it is very positive that we have also managed for the first time to establish a one-year guarantee for second-hand goods; that is a step towards greater sustainability and greater consumer protection.
I believe that a directive on the subject can be justified if it brings real benefits to consumers who buy goods across borders - but this directive does not do so.
But preamble paragraph 16 is very confusing: it says that the nature of second-hand goods makes it generally impossible to replace them, so that the consumer's right of replacement is generally not available for these goods.
If so, we will see 15 different systems springing up.
I await these developments with interest, but cannot give the directive my support as it stands and have therefore abstained in the final vote approving the text.
I will be voting today in favour of greater rights for consumers across the European Union.
One of the major achievements of the European Union has been the creation of a single market in Europe encompassing over 370 million people.
As a result, businesses, employees and consumers from my own constituency in the North West benefit from a market over eight times larger than the UK alone.
A bigger market generates more business and more business generates more jobs.
However, I want to ensure that when my constituents take advantage of the single market and buy abroad, they enjoy the same level of consumer protection as they have in Britain.
I want them to have the same right to repair, replacement, reduction or refund in Milan as they have in Manchester.
The Labour Government has long been committed to more information for consumers, so that they can make informed choices about the products they buy, and the right to redress in case anything goes wrong.
Under the British presidency, for example, we pushed through a long-awaited agreement on consumer guarantees establishing rights for consumers when they buy goods anywhere in the single market.
Oomen-Ruijten report (A4-0190/99) Distance marketing of financial services via the Internet, fax and telephone is on the increase.
The Commission has submitted a proposal to improve consumer protection in relation to this distance marketing.
The Commission's proposal lays down firm rules from which the Member States will not be able to depart.
That is not just a great success for consumer protection but also a major contribution towards a more ecological agricultural policy.
We have shown that we do not have to dumb down harmonisation to the lowest common denominator but that it is quite possible to set a binding highest standard for all the EU Member States.
I can only urge that if we make the precautionary principle a binding one - as we have managed here - we should also take it as our yardstick in many other areas.
EU/US trade disputes Madam President, the World Trade Organisation has set 13 May as the deadline for Europeans to lift the embargo they have imposed on imports of American meat that has been treated with hormones, and particularly BST.
It is important to note that the rules of international trade that are applied by the WTO and that prevent us from making proper use of the precautionary principle were ratified in the agreements concluded at the Uruguay Round by Europeans themselves; they were led astray by poor advisers, such as the European Commission, which undoubtedly was overly influenced by foreign interests.
What is even more alarming is that the President-designate of the next Commission, Romano Prodi, stated yesterday morning in this Hemicycle that the next international negotiations should open, and I quote, 'a further round of liberalisation'.
Instead, what we need to do now is to establish in international trade the free choice of the people and the primacy of national sovereignty, as expressed in a democratic manner.
The Commission is also planning to extend the moratorium on genetically manufactured bovine growth hormones.
What also pleases me is the fact that this House has demanded unanimously by 525 votes - which is indeed rare - for the ban on hormone-treated meat to be maintained.
Now the scientific findings have confirmed our fears.
The outcome of the decision by 525 votes will impress the Council and make it now maintain this ban on hormone-treated meat and resume the discussions in the WTO panel, so as to make it clear that we are not in the mood to burden our people with this highly dangerous hormone-treated meat.
Thank you for those kind words, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf.
In the cases of hormone-treated meat and the sale of seeds produced genetically - known as genetically modified organisms or GMOs - the European Union is not being allowed to respect the concerns of its consumers.
I would call on the Commission to remain firm in defence of our interests and not to be afraid to stand up to international pressures.
Our only answer to that must be to maintain the ban on hormone-treated meat from the USA.
But I found that he did not utter a single plain word on the subject of hormones in his statement.
After bananas, hormone-treated meat is the second source of major dispute between the USA and the EU.
And we must take vigorous steps against the measures taken by the USA, which has de facto been imposing punitive tariffs since 3 March even though the panel's ruling did not come until much later.
It is the Commission's task here not to protect free trade but to protect those who suffer in the name of free trade.
Europe must be firm with the United States in the context of the transatlantic partnership.
The issue of hormone-treated meat proves that health and consumer protection requirements are not being taken into account and that the precautionary principle holds little sway in the face of prevailing economic interests.
The banana issue reveals that the interests of multinational firms are a thousand times more important than the development of nations; the market is prevailing over the solidarity that needs to be developed within a political community.
The three disputes the European Union is currently involved in with the United States in relation to the World Trade Organisation involve the banana sector, hormone-treated meat and aircraft noise during takeoff and landing.
Although these three disputes only relate to a small percentage of the trade between the United States and the European Union, they are very good examples of its economic, political and social consequences.
We must establish the principle of fair trade between the European Union and third countries and restore the precautionary principle.
After the dispute over hormone-treated meat, we all know that the United States will attack the European Union over genetically modified organisms.
Spencer report (A4-0242/99) Madam President, I voted against the Spencer report on the common foreign and security policy.
It is just further evidence of the tendency towards militarising the European Union.
In my own country we have been reassured over and over again that the European Union is not being militarised, yet many reports which have gone through this Parliament in the five years I have been here clearly indicate that is the direction it is going in.
Helmut Kohl said he believed that at the end of the line to European Union lay a European army and European police force.
Although the European Union's political action is obviously still inadequate - and this is particularly evident in terms of security and defence - we must qualify this statement in light of the recent events in Kosovo.
It can make its voice heard and is not playing a supporting role to the United States.
The appointment of a High Representative for the CFSP will render this policy more visible and more effective.
I support the rapporteur's suggestion that we should organise a hearing within the Committee on Foreign Affairs before this High Representative takes up office.
Moreover, the new instrument of common strategies allows us to provide the CFSP with fundamental guidelines.
The General Affairs Council should adopt such a strategy with regard to the Russian Federation and submit it to the Cologne European Council.
The crisis the Russian Federation is currently experiencing, in institutional terms and also in economic and social terms, means that there can be no delays.
The European Parliament should be consulted on the content of this strategy.
I share his indignation as regards the assessment of Parliament's powers in this matter.
The presidency failed to present in time to Parliament its annual report on the main aspects and basic choices of the CFSP.
That is sufficient evidence that there is no desire to involve Parliament in this policy.
The EU should tone down its common foreign and security policy and instead concentrate all its energies on preventing conflict in the EU and the neighbouring regions.
Cooperation, openness and disarmament give us greater security, but real security must also include security from the threat of hunger, disease and oppression.
Spencer report (A4-0219/99) This report contains many good intentions and for that reason it deserves our support.
However, its purpose seems somewhat pathetic.
The United States benefited so much from the division of Europe after 1945 that it seems to be doing its utmost to create the conditions for a new division, this time between Western Europe on the one hand, and Orthodox Europe on the other.
The countries of Europe must reject this logic, with the mutual support and cooperation of the Russian Federation, in the interests of peace and prosperity for all.
We abstained in the final vote on this report.
We support the line that all the EU Member States should develop and reinforce their political and economic relations with the Russian Federation, since development in Russia is important for Europe as a whole.
The fostering of relations with Russia should therefore be based on a policy which helps to strengthen democracy and reduce social inequality in that country.
Müller report (A4-0227/99) Mrs Müller has drawn up an excellent report on the budget estimates for 2000.
The rapporteur also rejects direct subsidies out of the EU budget for setting up and operating a supermarket and the catering services in the Parliament buildings.
and resumed at 3 p.m.
The master plan presented by the Commission to this end did not come through the more than two years of discussions in Parliament and the Council unchanged, and I admit that this was not advantageous in every respect.
The result of Berlin is a compromise.
That it came into being at all is also thanks to the German Presidency of the Council, and in particular to the German Chancellor.
From the time of the first reading of the reports in the European Parliament up to the Berlin European Council at the end of March, Parliament influenced and modified the results in the course of intensive discussions, and in intensive negotiations after Berlin.
However, we are also aware that for the first time the European Parliament has managed to change important aspects of a European Council decision.
The large majority of my group will approve the interinstitutional agreement on medium-term financial planning and we will of course give our assent to those parts of Agenda 2000 that require such assent.
As we declared back in November 1998: we, the Parliament, will do all we can to ensure that the Agenda 2000 package is adopted before Parliament is re-elected and we want to get this Agenda 2000 under way now.
With our decisions on Agenda 2000 we will make the European Union more able to move into the future.
This is why we asked from the outset that three quarters of the funds went to Objective 1 regions, which are the poorest.
As with all compromises, the compromise reached at Berlin does not give cause for celebration, even less so for my country - and I must speak as a Greek - since the Greek Government accepted reforms which place us in the same category as Spain, Ireland and Portugal, countries which are less poor than ours and which are already participating in the euro.
Nevertheless, if Parliament were to reject this compromise, all our efforts would go up in smoke, and it would prevent the timely onset of programmes within the third Community support framework on 1 January 2000.
We see in front of us three of the resigning Commissioners, and I should like to say on this point that the original proposals on Agenda 2000 showed courage and vision on the part of the Commission.
The results of the European Council were not satisfactory.
We have received new guarantees of new flexibility.
In Category 4 - external policy - there is an agreement that we will have the possibility of review.
The hypocrisy of the European Council can best be demonstrated by the fact that no less than EUR 250 m had to be decided within two weeks on Kosovo, thereby taking more than three-fifths of the overall basis for seven years.
It shows therefore that Berlin is already outdated.
But voting against an interinstitutional agreement at this moment would be a major mistake.
It is on that basis that the Liberal Group will vote for the interinstitutional agreement because it will achieve not simply more money but more rights and more parity.
Unfortunately, less than two years later and with the Treaty having entered into force last Saturday, it is important to note that the reform of the Structural Funds for the 2000-2006 period does not follow the same logic as the new Treaty.
Only the regulation concerning the ERDF refers to the need to help certain islands, and even then it only contains a very vague reference.
Mr President, the framework for the financial perspective agreed in Berlin is not likely to raise much enthusiasm.
This is probably not due so much to the amounts earmarked for or requested from each of our countries, but more to the generally restrictive solution adopted and its precariousness.
This medium-term financial framework does not respond to such important issues as the consolidation of the euro and, in particular, any asymmetric shocks or other shocks which may result from the next WTO negotiations.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first let me turn to the positive aspects.
It is vitally important to economic and social cohesion and therefore to the very core of the European social model that the new regulation was adopted in good time, before the end of the European Parliament's electoral term.
After Parliament increased the rights of the people of Europe by incorporating a comprehensive principle of participation in the draft regulation - and this is the only basis for sustainable planning - the Council is now leaving this common concern to the discretion of the Member States.
I regard that as the main problem with the new regulation.
Under the new Structural Funds regulation it has proved possible to continue the cohesion policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a consensus within Parliament as regards the enlargement of the EU to include the CEECs and the need to reform the CAP, and I would like to look at this aspect of Agenda 2000.
Parliament, which represents the people of Europe, stated that it was in favour of the European agricultural model, greater equity, balanced rural development, improved quality and the protection of the environment.
Thanks to Parliament's firm stance, which has meant that the Commission has had to take up a less intransigent position, and thanks to the perseverance and persistence of certain Member States, we have a satisfactory compromise for the short-term in terms of abandoning cofinancing, in terms of a more moderate fall than expected in guaranteed agricultural prices and in terms of the status quo on quotas.
Has rural development, which involves 80 % of the Union's territory, been given the role it deserves?
Is aid to agriculture better distributed and does it better protect the environment?
Those negotiating on behalf of Europe in the WTO will have to prepare for battle and put our minds at rest: the European Union must never have a political agricultural objective of bringing the Community's regulations into line with the rules of play of the global market.
For the time being, since it is the present we must deal with, my group will vote in favour of the current compromise, but it urges the Commission to defend the European agricultural model at the next WTO negotiations.
When I drafted the two opinions of the Committee on Agriculture on Agenda 2000, I warned all my colleagues about the budget difficulties we would encounter.
In this connection, I am for the most part satisfied with the Berlin agreement with respect to its aim to support, if need be, the agricultural guideline as and when the successive enlargements take place, taking into consideration an automatic annual technical adjustment in the financial perspective to account for inflation.
The only acquis that our partners will accept is the reduction of prices.
Besides the economic and financial role that farmers play, they also have a social, cultural and environmental role that must be given top priority.
So allow me to ask one question: in this context, where does the future of the countryside lie with the development of the Structural Funds to benefit urban areas, with the new WTO negotiations and with a CAP that contradicts our European identity?
Our objective has been to emphasise Parliament's priorities in the reform process through a succession of informal contacts.
This informal procedure is an ongoing exchange of information, a fruitful dialogue which has resulted in Parliament's priorities being incorporated into the final Berlin text while some demands remain to be negotiated in post-Berlin meetings.
Parliament requested that concentration must ensure that Objective 1 regions, the poorest in the Union, continue to receive priority assistance.
We supported a safety net proposal.
We would have liked to have gone further on partnership but we hope that Member States will have the vision to ensure wide and deeper partnership in the drafting of programmes and in the implementing of those programmes.
The rapporteurs therefore recommend that we now see a balance of interest between Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
It is an employment and regeneration pact and it is a product of a consensus and compromise between the Member States.
As I have said, we believe we have made very positive improvements with the addition of a fourth Community initiative, a new URBAN initiative, which Parliament supported and campaigned for.
When I presented this report for a first reading last November I spoke about the need for social and economic cohesion to remain one of the central pillars of the Community.
The Cohesion Fund has been one of the clearest examples of this solidarity and action and what it can achieve.
In recent months, and indeed up to the Berlin Summit, there have been a number of meetings with the Council on the future of the Cohesion Fund.
Parliament's priorities in relation to the Cohesion Fund were easily identifiable.
The first priority was to ensure the continuation of the Fund and the Council was able to agree with Parliament's view that the basic objectives of the Cohesion Fund are as relevant today as they were in 1992.
The view shared by Parliament and the Commission that the four current cohesion countries should continue to be eligible was agreed to by Council.
The countries concerned need to continue the convergence process, and the continuation of the Fund is a vital ingredient in this process.
It is vital that the current imbalance in this area be redressed so as to allow for a harmonised level of economic development across the EU.
A second point on which Parliament's views were taken on board, relates to the amount of an advance for projects and Parliament believed that the 10 % on account proposed by the Commission was insufficient.
It would have exerted too heavy a burden on less-favoured regions trying to get a project off the ground, and the 20 % agreed at Berlin, I believe, recognised this fact.
I will just outline some of the main features of the Cohesion Fund as it will be under the amended regulation from the year 2000.
There will be an overall amount of EUR 18 billion available to the four cohesion countries for the seven year period.
The allocation of the total resources between the four countries was made on the basis of precise and objective criteria, principally population size and GNP per capita.
As I have already mentioned, the 'polluter pays' principle is included in the amended regulation and other environmental considerations also feature.
I welcome the final text of the regulation as one that reflects very clearly Parliament's views and I recommend that colleagues give this report their assent.
This will consolidate many months of dedicated effort from Parliament's side to secure the best deal possible for the balanced development of our regions and the furthering of economic and social cohesion of the European Union.
These projects will make a real and tangible difference to the lives of millions of our citizens living in the Community's more remote and under-developed regions.
But the Cohesion Fund is more than this.
In building the Union into a more cohesive, economic Union we are consolidating the single market and reinforcing the euro.
It is true that the Cohesion Fund is limited as to its sectors of operation, geographical focus and indeed amounts.
In conclusion, Mr President, on a personal note, I should like to sincerely thank Commissioner Wulf-Mathies for her very positive role in this area.
Firstly, Parliament has the chance to approve tomorrow in the House our recommendation at second reading concerning the ERDF.
One slip by Parliament, or simply one occasion where we do not exercise our powers responsibly, could result in us approving certain amendments that might prevent us from concluding this important regulation tomorrow, thereby preventing the regions of Europe from planning their activities for 1 January 2000.
It was not easy to fully explain our colleagues' ideas, but through four compromise amendments we succeeded in obtaining the agreement of the majority to withdraw other amendments, while also managing to preserve the spirit of our committee's proposal.
The first of these four amendments refers to the inclusion of the concept of land-use planning in the ERDF, which is something Parliament has been fighting for for quite some time.
We need to link regional development with spatial development.
In its three-yearly report on cohesion, the Commission has highlighted the fact that this situation is one of the main reasons for the backwardness of these regions and a factor in any eventual recovery.
Not long ago, just before he unfortunately passed away, the artist and humanist Yehudi Menuhin wondered publicly what would happen to the European Union's culture.
Strangely, although 80 % of the Union's spending on culture comes from the Structural Funds, only 3 % of its appropriations are allocated to cultural projects.
Our report hopes to provide a response to these questions and we would ask that culture be given a greater presence in the Structural Funds, including our cultural and natural heritage.
Finally, in line with the report on the general regulation, we would ask that the URBAN initiative should be maintained alongside the Community's Interreg initiative.
In my speech to the House at first reading, I called on the Commission to amend its proposal and put fisheries on an equal footing with agriculture.
I would therefore like to thank the Commission, the Council and all our colleagues who have supported us.
Mr President, Members of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, it seems hard to believe: the Social Fund is our only labour market policy instrument at European level!
Basically we were concerned with five key points to effectively flank the common employment strategy.
Suddenly it did prove possible to enshrine in the regulation the objective of social integration in the labour market.
In the end we even managed to reach a compromise on global subsidies, which now actually makes it possible to provide up to 100 % support for NGOs.
But on no issue was the Council as inflexible and stubborn as on mainstreaming.
I hope we will also see a few women in the Council in seven years' time.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, in the first report I presented to the House on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries on the Council Regulation on structural measures in the fisheries sector, Parliament expressed its support for three basic ideas.
The first was the need to guarantee sufficient resources in the Community budget to cover the sector's needs in the context of the structural policy for the fisheries sector.
On the basis of this strategy, at first reading Parliament brought together in a single regulation both the proposal for a Council Regulation on structural measures in the fisheries sector, which is included in Agenda 2000, and the proposal for a Council Regulation laying down the detailed rules and arrangements regarding Community structural assistance in the fisheries sector.
We will also have a full list of all the actions and measures involved, and on the basis of these concessions from the Council, the Committee on Fisheries has accepted that there will two separate regulations.
I would like to congratulate the Council and the Commission on the flexibility they demonstrated in reviewing the initial ideas we considered to be mistaken and looking for a satisfactory compromise.
I would also like to point out that we have made significant changes to the regulation on implementing measures: we have removed the additional 30 % requirement for capacity withdrawn and the arrangements linking joint enterprises to the fisheries agreements.
Perhaps, against this backdrop of budgetary rigour, we can see the importance of the requirement set out in the Treaty that all Community policies - not only structural policies - must be considered from the perspective of economic and social cohesion.
It may be that in a situation where the debate on net balances determines the solutions, it is somewhat utopian to demand that all Community policies should be aimed at achieving greater economic and social cohesion.
But in the near future, when we tackle the question of enlargement, we will have to look at this idea in greater detail if we do not want to end up with an enlarged Europe with even greater regional disparities that put the entire system at risk.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to help the President by speaking slowly, if possible, and without a text in front of me.
This report of mine which is now at second reading discusses the coordination of pre-accession aid for enlargement.
One of these, which relates to the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, is my belief - which did not receive the support of the House, but now that the Treaty of Amsterdam has entered into force it is assuming great importance - that we should look at this entire process as an overall strategy for the Union that should lead to joint measures.
In my view, this would also allow us to integrate the policy that we need to develop in this area into our legal and constitutional framework.
There is another issue that should be mentioned, which it was not officially included but was incorporated in the procedures involving each of the countries.
It relates to the importance we attach to social dialogue in relation to strengthening the system of production and industrial relations in these countries.
In our first report we included a fundamental point concerning the conditions which the Commission proposed applicant countries should fulfill in order to qualify for EU farming subsidies.
I am referring here to the condition that applicant countries must have drawn up a seven-year rural development plan by 1 January 2000.
The European Parliament believes it is impossible for the applicant countries to develop a full seven-year integrated rural development programme in a democratic manner within such a short space of time.
The European Parliament raised the possibility of setting up a small group of experts on the acquis communautaire and the economic development problems facing the former Communist bloc countries, who would act in an advisory capacity in selecting measures and projects.
In the meantime, it was decided following the Berlin summit to set up a separate budget category for accession, Category 7, which will also cover the SAPARD support and under which stricter financial rules will apply for prefinancing and financial management and responsibility than would have been the case if Category 1, in other words agriculture, measures continued to apply as the Commission had proposed, or with Category 2, which would have applied if these countries had actually become members.
It seems that a country in the pre-accession phase must already meet very stringent administrative demands in order to benefit from the SAPARD pre-accession support for agriculture.
The other institutions are more focused on accountability and cost management.
This is why the European Parliament is today formally delivering its opinion, while at the same time expressing its concern at the demanding procedure.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur on ISPA, the pre-accession instrument for the applicant countries, and a constant monitor of the general reform of the Structural Funds I am really glad that Parliament is bringing the negotiations on Agenda 2000 to a successful conclusion this week.
That will send out an important signal, both to the people of the Union and to the Central and Eastern European countries that are seeking EU membership.
The fact that we can now take the definitive vote on Agenda 2000 is not just a matter of course.
Let me also take this opportunity to say something about the EU's future structural policy as a whole.
With the new Objectives 1, 2 and 3 and the Community initiatives Interreg, Leader, EQUAL and URBAN we now have powerful instruments at hand which allow us to make a major contribution to making the regions more competitive and creating jobs.
I am also pleased and rather proud that the European Parliament managed through tough negotiations with the Commission and the Council to carry through a fourth Community initiative.
It may be called URBAN but it is something more than the previous URBAN initiative, for in future it will also benefit smaller cities and urban neighbourhoods and will take a broader approach to social and economic regeneration.
With this initiative we now have an important additional job-creating instrument.
Members will recall that this was in fact presented to the House and in November 1998 referred back to committee.
Essentially, the amendments which have been put by Parliament, through its Committee on Budgets, to the original Commission proposal have been accepted.
In total, we have a situation which I feel satisfies all the requirements of Parliament and on that basis I commend it to the House.
However there is a salutary lesson in this process for Parliament.
Parliament today has managed to gather less than 5 % of its Members.
That is not just because nine separate regulations have been turned into one clear regulation, which is good for transparency and certainly also has an impact on the management of resources, but because it represents the move to a new policy.
Let me remind you of what Commissioner Fischler once said: this policy is so important because we always have to put the question: what will the brother and sister of a young farmer who takes over a farm do on the labour market?
This is where it becomes quite clear what we will have to do for the rural areas in future.
That is why we are still rather attached to our earlier demand that in future of course Parliament must have codecision power over the entire spectrum of the common agricultural policy.
As I said on another occasion this morning: it is a necessary part of perfecting parliamentary democracy in Europe.
So you will understand why we agricultural politicians are strongly in favour of supporting the interinstitutional agreement.
Applause Mr President, as rapporteur for agricultural policy funding under Agenda 2000, I should like to begin by expressing my appreciation to the German Presidency for the opportunities granted by the German Government for a trialogue on agricultural policy.
I do not believe anyone can ever be 100 % right in these complex negotiations.
Could he confirm whether my assumption is correct that the EUR 200 million and 0.03 % flexibility it includes applies to all categories including Category 1, in other words guarantee expenditure for agriculture?
In its January report Parliament paid particular attention to monitoring, combating fraud and that type of thing.
Although this is not mentioned in the conclusions of the Berlin summit, I can assure you that Parliament will keep a very close eye on such matters.
One last question Commissioner Fischler: in our parliamentary resolution we also asked for the hectare subsidies, all income subsidies, to be paid before 31 October of each year.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur on the horizontal measures I cannot give you a positive assessment.
In these farms, that means job cuts, but it also means jobs losses because of the further destruction of farms in the EU.
The 14 billion that were earmarked for the second pillar in Berlin are not in the funding proposal either.
As rapporteur for this issue, I must point out that in its initial proposal, the Commission had favoured a reform based on a substantial reduction in prices with the aim of increasing our share of the export market in the context of the restrictions imposed by the WTO.
In January, Parliament supported the proposal in my report: it rejected the Commission's recommendation and voted in favour of limiting the reduction in prices to 15 % rather than the 30 % advocated by the Commission.
The Council of Ministers finally opted for a reduction of 20 % in three stages.
It is on this point that I am proposing that Parliament vote in favour of an additional amendment to my report which has the support of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Furthermore, since I believe that it is equally vital to reach a compromise with the Council and the Commission, I simply proposed a compromise amendment to Parliament's Committee on Agriculture - which it accepted - that involved strengthening the 'security net' by increasing it from EUR 1 560 per tonne to EUR 2 000 per tonne.
In this way, we could continue along the same lines as our vote in Parliament in January and, at the same time, ensure greater security for our livestock farmers, that is, if the Council and the Commission have the good sense to support us.
With the introduction of rural development measures and the strengthening of the accompanying measures that have existed since the 1992 reform, we have taken a further step towards a global agricultural policy for rural areas.
The ceiling of EUR 4.3 billion a year can be regarded on the one hand as safeguarding rural development appropriations but on the other hand there is the risk that because the Member States would have to cofinance these measures they will not apply them or will do so only to a limited extent.
We greet the postponement of the reduction in milk prices to the year 2005, primarily for reasons of economy, with a certain joy.
But it will not be nearly enough and we will still have a quota up to the year 2008.
I believe that in addition to optional set-aside, that is the key result we in Parliament have managed to achieve.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of Mr Fantuzzi.
We have today come to the end of our debate on the Agenda 2000 agricultural reform, a reform which, in my view, has partially lost its common European focus and been distorted by the plans of various Member States.
Faced with the criteria for shaping an agricultural policy that focuses more on the structural nature of certain problems through a rural development policy that is capable of resolving some of the problems facing the countryside - the need for diversification, the need to provide the people with new opportunities and the need to prevent the constant depopulation - a minimal rural development policy has instead been chosen that lacks any real weight.
Faced with a situation where the agricultural policy must also respond to the principles of economic and social cohesion and correct certain excesses, such as the concentration of aid in the hands of a few, the Commission's response is to say that the Member States will be responsible for reducing imports, thereby rejecting an essential Community focus and the inclusion of general principles.
In short, the agreement may satisfy one or more of the Member States, but I do not believe that it rises to the challenges set out in Agenda 2000, including even that of enlargement.
And to those of my fellow countrymen who are enthusiastic about what has been decided, I would simply suggest that they should do their sums not only in absolute but also in relative terms.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the common organisation of the market in wine is undoubtedly the most complex of all the COMs.
My report focused on this aspect.
Therefore, in order to stave off this threat, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development voted in favour of an amendment that excludes the possibility of extending the wine-growing zone to include any Member State other than those set out in the amendment.
Finally, the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development believe that it is vital to establish an action and information programme to make consumers aware, in particular, of the positive effects of vine products on their health.
Mr President, the aim of my report is to provide the European Union with the financial and budgetary framework it needs to enable it to meet the challenges of the next few years.
As a result, I am very aware of the difference between dealing with a budget with a financial perspective and without a financial perspective.
For example, we have been able to control the unchecked increase in agricultural expenditure, consolidate and develop the cohesion policy, which is essential for economic convergence and political solidarity, integrate events such as the reunification of Germany into the Community budget, and make progress in reducing the Council's powers in the area of compulsory expenditure.
In any event, I would remind you that between 1988 and 1999, we approved and implemented Community budgets totalling just under EUR 110 000 million below the own resources ceiling.
This was summed up in the resolution we approved in Brussels on 4 December 1997.
We also decided in December that we wanted to withdraw the so-called 'strategic amendments' to the 1999 budget, and just before the Berlin European Council, our chairman, Mr Samland, sent a letter to the 15 Finance Ministers informing them of the figures the European Parliament considered to be the absolute minimum requirements, the so-called 'minima minimorum '.
The results can be presented in many ways, Mr President-in-Office.
In its resolution of 14 April, the European Parliament did not share the idyllic version set out by the Council this morning.
Any expectations we had of cuts were surpassed in Berlin.
Agricultural spending was frozen, the structural policy was cut by 20 %, and internal policies were cut by 54 %, if we exclude the framework programme for research.
And this is also the position of the Socialist Group, which I am now representing, as I have changed hats.
The Council told us this morning, for example, about a possible method for combating unemployment, yet it is cutting the budgetary framework for such measures.
I want an agreement, but not just any agreement.
And as far as I can see, this agreement would be of less use to us than the strict application of Article 272 of the Treaty.
I would like to remind you that the two previous Interinstitutional Agreements entered into force five and seven months respectively after the budget period being planned.
There are no funds in this package for essential policies.
With this Interinstitutional Agreement, the Council would de facto approve the budget for seven years.
Therefore, since I am in favour of more Europe, although with the same budget - and I do not believe we can achieve it with any less - I cannot in all conscience recommend that the House approve this agreement.
His report already includes budget amendments on technical assistance.
However, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I must ask the House not to support Amendments 5, 53 and 54, which do not follow the principles of the regulation.
The Committee on Budgets have supported the proposal to involve private capital in financing network projects and has raised the possibility of increasing this from 1 % to 2 %.
We have supported Galileo, the proposed European global positioning technology, and we have supported the Committee on Transport in its wish to have 55 % of the funding ring-fenced for railways and a maximum of 25 % for roads.
The funding is a contribution to the projects.
I believe that together with Council we have managed actually to achieve what many people considered unlikely.
If we are honest with each other we know that there is no point in making insularity as such a criterion for support, for as it says in the Treaty, structural aid is granted to compensate for the disadvantages of certain regions and social groups, and in their interests we should adhere to that principle.
Incidentally, the same applies to a number of other requests for Structural Funds aid.
I also want to point out quite clearly that such important initiatives as the PEACE initiative also come under it.
To prevent any misunderstanding, let me say to Mr Arias Cañete in regard to the fisheries measures that there are some amendments that the Commission does not accept because they relate to measures that require a Council decision which we cannot simply anticipate at this point.
Moreover, we want to see the measures relating to the fishing fleet reformed and do not agree with your proposals in this regard.
I am glad that with the new code of conduct, which adjusts past procedures to the new legal situation, this close cooperation will continue in future too and I hope that it will also be carried over to the new Parliament.
Here in particular Parliament has codecision, and your concerns are clearly evident in the new text.
We can be proud of the results in four particular areas: the universal agreement on the overarching priority of employment and the Social Fund's mission to underpin the European employment strategy; secondly, the confirmation of the thematic structure of the funds regulation and the scope of the five policy fields, extending from active labour market policies, through social inclusion, lifelong learning and adaptability, to positive action for women; thirdly, we have maintained and strengthened the commitment to support non-governmental organisations and the combating of social exclusion - we share the view that the regulation must oblige Member States to provide for small grants with special access arrangements for non-governmental organisations and local partnerships: fourthly, again with the support of Parliament, we have strengthened the equal opportunities provisions and the mainstreaming principle of the regulation.
It is only through this flexible, forward-looking and, above all, inclusive approach that Europe will be able to meet the economic and social challenges of the new millennium.
The Social Fund is the one Structural Fund directed exclusively at the individual person.
I believe that as a result of the work that has taken place between the institutions and taking on the amendments that I mentioned earlier, we have made the text as good as it can be got at this time.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has of course been a great deal of discussion about the Berlin decisions in the agriculture sector over the last few weeks.
In Berlin we also made significant progress towards sustainable agriculture by managing to incorporate environmental concerns more firmly than before in market policy and rural development policy.
Moreover, the Agenda decisions created a second pillar of the common agricultural policy.
It means we now have one upper limit for traditional guarantee expenditure and a second upper limit for rural development.
Overall, the reform that was agreed in Berlin represents an important step forward.
In particular, nobody can tell today whether the lower price guarantee reductions agreed in the final compromise will be enough to really achieve market balance.
In the preparations for the new WTO negotiations and the enlargement negotiations we will have to take due account of these constraints, as we will do when we implement the organisation of the market in coming years.
And that is also the agricultural model that we want to offer our partners in Eastern Europe, together with the new, second CAP pillar.
First, I do agree that we should strengthen rural development policy, but to strengthen the measures for the disadvantaged regions without increasing the funding would mean having to divert these funds from other rural development measures.
Secondly, in the Commission's view intervention buying at higher prices in the beef and veal sector would lead to new, unmarketable surpluses and exert considerable pressure on the budget, as also on our market prices.
For the rest I would also point out that the Commission never proposed aiming at full price equalisation.
Applause This is the last debate on the future of the common agricultural policy in which you will be taking part in this House.
Applause Mr President, I would like to ask Commissioner Fischler a supplementary question.
Can I assume that the Commission accepts those amendments in the second report, such as those on the milk sector, which you did not mention?
Mr Goepel, I did not go into that question because it did not come up in the statement made by the rapporteur on the milk sector during the debate.
The financial perspectives for 2000-2006 and the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and improving the budgetary procedure are an integral part of the package of Agenda 2000.
It is true that the conclusions of the European Council of Berlin with regard to the financial perspectives for 2000-2006 remain below the Commission proposal.
With regard to administrative expenditure, the agreement would permit the financing of some 1000 new posts for the Community institutions and also finance the new Statute of the Members of the European Parliament, even though a solution on that issue is not yet clear as you know.
In the process, Parliament has widened its budgetary powers in the field of agriculture expenditure.
On the amendments proposed in Lord Tomlinson's report, the Commission is ready to accept Amendments 1 and 2.
As far as Amendments 3 and 4 are concerned, the Commission has accepted a joint declaration in the regulation according to which the Commission will give all oral information to the Council and Parliament on the economic situation of the beneficiary countries which are receiving loans and on the risks which I have explained when the annual report is presented.
For that reason the Commission does not find it necessary to introduce these Amendments 3 and 4 into the regulation of the Guarantee Fund.
Mr President, I would like to repeat a question I asked earlier and the answer can be just 'yes' or 'no'.
My question was whether the flexibility of 200 million and 0.03 % applies to all the categories of the budget, including category 1. 'Yes'.
Laughter I should like to begin by welcoming the agreement between the Council and Parliament on the trans-European networks financial regulation.
This vital component of the Agenda 2000 package has the twin distinctions of being the first legal text arising from Agenda 2000 that achieved a common position in the Council and yet the last to be agreed by the Council and the European Parliament.
It also is one of the first legal acts to be adopted under the codecision procedure set down in the Amsterdam Treaty.
He has shown a real understanding of the financing requirements of the trans-European networks and a determination to put in place a stable long-term framework for the financing of major TENs projects.
That is particularly important for the development and encouragement of public/private partnerships.
Other important elements of the revised regulation include, first, a truly new facility for the investment of TENs money in risk capital funds with the aim of gaining access to the potentially very large resources of long-term funding available from insurance companies and pension funds for the financing of public infrastructure projects.
Second, the regulation provides for the possibility of financing up to 20 % of the Galileo satellite navigation project - around EUR 500 m - and doing so from the TENs budget.
That component is essential in order to demonstrate that this vital project can be financed and also to ensure that it develops as a genuinely European project.
I hope that any discussion of European Union finance for innovative TENs projects at the current European Council will confirm the importance of Galileo for European producers and for European users.
I therefore look forward to early adoption of the revised regulation in good time for the implementation of multiannual programming that will commence in the year 2000.
If Parliament does not agree tomorrow to give its assent to a new interinstitutional agreement, then we will not have the financial framework which we have just discussed and on the basis of which the two agreements, on the fifth framework programme of research and on the trans-European networks, were concluded.
I just wanted to say this now, as a reservation, before the champagne starts to flow.
We have perhaps come to the end of a long task which started with an own-initiative report by the European Parliament on the European Social Fund.
Here I want to stress an important point: the close link between the European Social Fund priorities and the employment guidelines.
The European Social Fund is certainly the basic Community instrument for applying the four pillars, especially employability, and the regulation we are discussing today is consistent with the objectives of social integration and non-discrimination.
That will certainly be the responsibility of the Member States, but it will also be up to the Commission to monitor and control it.
Social promotion is naturally determined in the first instance by meeting the basic needs of our citizens and there is clearly much to do in this area.
In my view, Commissioner, an excellent and positive reform of the Structural Funds has been concluded, with projects aimed at concentration and simplification and with an effective partnership as a result of the contribution of regional and local authorities, which may lead to increased efficiency in the actual implementation of the Structural Funds.
A final decision by the Council, at the request of Parliament, has included a fourth Community initiative which will also have very specific advantages for certain sections of the European Union's population, although it does not have the Community dimension that the other three initiatives have.
We regret that the Berlin European Council agreed to significantly reduce the funding to be allocated both to the Structural Funds and to the Cohesion Fund, but we understand that these will be implemented in a positive manner over the next seven years.
We also need to take account of the fact that the Structural Funds are practically the last to apply to the 15 Member States, since the prospect of enlargement to include the countries of Central and Eastern Europe will change the regional action policies for years to come.
Mr President, after months of arduous debate and complicated negotiations, the time has come for the European Parliament to say yes or no to Agenda 2000.
My impression is that the agreement that has been reached is an agreement based not on the Union's needs but on the negotiation of national interests.
A single problem cannot be dealt with in three different ways if we want Europe's structural policy to be consistent.
Thank you, Mr Escolá.
Question Time (Council) The next item is questions to the Council (B4-0337/99).
In its statement of 22 February 1999, the European Union took note of the Turkish Government's assurances to that effect.
What I have to present is the common position that 15 Member States have formulated on your question.
It is not a question here of the presidency's view but of what the Council says.
That is what I have told you and I will repeat it: the Council expects and requires Turkey to comply with its national and international obligations, which arise from its own constitution and its accession to international conventions.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
Mr Morris, please, just a moment.
Mr Morris, under the Rules of Procedure questions on issues that are dealt with at another stage in the House are not included in Question Time.
My question is this: if Turkey does not abide by them, what action is the European Union going to take?
Mr Dimitrakopoulos, it has been made clear to Turkey on many very recent occasions that its conduct in the Öcalan case, namely the guarantee of a constitutional trial, will affect the development of relations between the European Union and Turkey.
If the Council concludes that Turkey is not fulfilling its obligations, it will take the appropriate steps.
Mr President-in-Office, each time we put questions to you here, you take refuge in regulatory issues, which I fully understand.
Clearly, after two months, the Schengen provisions were not fully applied, but I feel that the Council's role is a political one.
Mrs Pailler, I have to tell you too that it is not a question of my personal view nor of the presidency's view.
I can only give you an answer agreed by the two states concerned, which you mention in your question.
As for the matter of principle addressed in your question, I can tell you that the Council is looking closely at the problem of how Europe can be brought closer to our people, how they can be made more aware of the advantages Europe offers them and also how we can increase these advantages, especially in the field of internal and judicial policy which we are just discussing.
The first is by Mr Ripa di Meana, who has the floor for one minute.
I put that to you as a political question and I expect a political answer.
I cannot give you a political answer off the cuff.
Whether or not that was justified in this particular case is something I as a politician have a very definite view on.
The fact is that the Danish Government has been given until the end of April to respond, and I would very much like to know when this question will come up in the Council.
But I am quite prepared to answer it in writing.
That law has been in force since 15 June 1998 and the presidency knows from own experience that this in fact also involves high costs for the senders of the packages.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Minister, I sincerely thank you for this clear, detailed and satisfactory answer to my question.
After all they are our partners and will one day become our partners in the European Union.
Thank you, Mr von Habsburg.
I believe that this is your last question in Parliament and I must therefore thank you once again for your excellent speeches here during Question Time, and for your admirable brevity and respect for the time you are allocated.
Mr President, Mr von Habsburg, I take what you have just said not so much as a question but more as words of encouragement, which I am happy to accept.
One reason I was able to answer the question was that I know from my own practical political experience that there are cases, especially the cases I am sure you know too, where it is possible to get round this law and what that costs those concerned.
It really is hard to understand why someone who provides aid on an individual basis should incur costs that are many times higher than the value of the aid itself.
As the author is not present, Question No 14 lapses.
Mr President, Mr Medina Ortega, I really must admit that you are wasting no time in putting forward the interests of these regions here in Parliament, given that the Treaty has only been in force for four or five days.
But basically that already answers your question, for pursuant to Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam the Commission must first make a proposal to that effect.
Mr President, Mr Medina Ortega, it is with good reason that the rules of the European Union give the right of initiative to the Commission.
For the rest let me say that if the Member States consider it necessary to maintain or introduce more stringent consumer protection measures than those that exist at Community level, they may do so pursuant to Article 129a of the EC Treaty - new Article 153 of the Amsterdam Treaty - provided such measures are compatible with the other provisions of this Treaty.
And I have already answered that question by pointing out that a Member State has the right to maintain or introduce more stringent consumer protection measures than those that exist at Community level.
It is the fifth paragraph of Article 153, former Article 129a, and it reads: 'Measures adopted pursuant to paragraph 4 shall not prevent any Member State from maintaining or introducing more stringent protective measures.
It is true that a Member State can make use of a safeguard clause.
If it cannot be proved that there are grounds for the more stringent rules, then it will be regarded as a technical barrier to trade, and it is now expressly stated in the new environmental guarantee that if it can be proved that the tougher rule which is being sought at national level is actually in the consumers' interests, then the EU must adopt the regime.
Question No 17 by Arthur Newens (H-0343/99) Subject: The EU/US banana dispute Would the Council make a statement about the latest information from the WTO Disputes Panel investigating the EU banana regime and about the response that it will make to the Panel's conclusions?
Mr Newens, first let me say that I hope this seemingly endless business is finally nearing its end now.
At its meeting of 26 April 1999 the General Affairs Council emphasised that the European Union intends fully to respect the latest WTO ruling in the banana dispute and to amend the EU banana regime accordingly and without further ado.
The Council therefore called on the Commission, in the light of further contacts with the USA and the other parties concerned, to submit proposals to amend the banana regime by the end of May 1999.
The costs are quite considerable in any case, if you think of the punitive tariffs that have been imposed.
Yet I am inclined to say that it is some satisfaction that the WTO has now markedly reduced the level of the punitive tariffs the USA may impose against the European Union.
In what way will the Council intervene to ensure the effective protection of human rights in Iraq, in particular in the light of the UN Security Council's debate on the lifting of economic sanctions?
Mrs Karamanou, this is an extremely serious question and the Council is grateful to you for giving it an opportunity to address this issue in the European Parliament.
The European Union is aware of the effects of the sanctions on the food situation and on health care in Iraq.
Ever since the 'oil for food' programme was implemented in late 1996, the Member States of the European Union have chaired the Security Council's committee on sanctions against Iraq and always sought the flexible application and continual improvement of the programme.
The European Union and its Member States are also playing their part in trying to improve the humanitarian situation in Iraq.
At the 55th meeting of the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva from 22 to 30 April this year the European Union took the initiative in drafting a resolution on the human rights situation; this calls inter alia on the Iraqi leadership to cooperate further in carrying out the 'oil for food' programme and to ensure the fair distribution of the humanitarian imports.
The Union also continues to support any initiatives to further improve the operation of the 'oil for food' programme and in this respect refers specifically to the proposals submitted by the UN Security Council panel on 30 March 1999 on the humanitarian situation in Iraq.
Iraq's export capacity is now being improved under a sub-programme of the 'oil for food' programme, but it will not take full effect until spring 2000 because of the planning and delivery schedules; here, as you know, oil prices are a factor of uncertainty in both directions.
According to information from the United Nations, medical aid to the value of 275 million dollars is currently blocked in Iraqi warehouses although it is urgently needed by the population.
Let me remind you that in 1991 all the experts could and did assume that Iraq could have complied with Resolution 687 on a basis of full cooperation within the space of a few months.
We are dealing here with a conflict between the humanitarian principle and the principle of national sovereignty, both of which are enshrined in the United Nations Charter, which restricts our means of action.
I would also like to congratulate the European Union on the initiatives it has taken and on the recent Geneva summit.
I would like you to tell me, Mr President-in-Office, whether the Council considers that the achievement of political and military objectives can ignore the cost in terms of human lives.
Mrs Karamanou, you are of course right to draw a parallel with the equally dreadful human rights situation in Kosovo, but in both cases we must after all look at cause and effect.
In the case of Iraq it is clear that the sanctions were imposed on the basis of UN Security Council decisions.
These sanctions were imposed because Iraq did not fulfil the necessary obligations for ensuring the security and stability of the region.
Let me repeat: the Iraqi leadership wants to exploit this situation in order that the sanctions, which have a quite different political purpose, may be lifted.
Mr Newens, you are making a political statement here and all I can do is to respectfully take note of your opinion and to bring it up at the next Council meeting on the situation in Iraq.
Question No 19 by María Izquierdo Rojo (H-0349/99) Subject: Presidential elections in Algeria What political assessment does the Council make of the Algerian presidential elections of 15 April 1999?
The European Union has supported and encouraged the democratisation process embarked upon in Algeria since 1995.
Mr President-in-Office, using the same constructive approach that seems to underlie your response, could you tell me what exactly the European Union will do to help put an end to the violence and what measures it will adopt to help combat corruption in Algeria?
So we now conclude that in spite of the problem of which we are both aware, the movement towards a civil society in Algeria that began in the 1990s has in fact been boosted by the electoral campaign.
In particular that means keeping in contact with the democratic forces in Algeria and supporting these forces, for instance by inviting them to the Member States of the European Union and to the European Parliament.
Question No 20 by Eva Kjer Hansen (H-0351/99) Subject: Appointment of officials without holding a competition In its answer to my question about the plans to appoint staff from the Schengen Secretariat, the Council stated that, under Article 7 of the Schengen Protocol annexed to the Amsterdam Treaty, it is obliged to take on the staff of the Schengen Secretariat since the Protocol has to be regarded as part of the Treaty and hence as part of primary Community law.
To the extent that it is possible to envisage appointing existing Schengen Secretariat staff to the EU institutions, the provision in Article 7 of the Schengen Protocol in no way prevents the Council from appointing any staff interested in conformity with the existing rules of the Staff Regulations or from resorting to the alternative appointment procedure based on Article 24 of the Merger Treaty.
This being so, can the Council explain why it in this case still considers it legitimate both to flout the current Staff Regulations and to ignore the Commission's right of initiative laid down in Article 24 of the Merger Treaty?
Given this situation and in view also of press reports that have also appeared today, let me point out that it is not the Secretary-General of the Council who is responsible for the tensions we are currently seeing in the General Secretariat, but that the only reason for these tensions is a political decision by the Council that is covered by the Treaty.
To hold the Secretary-General responsible for that is, in my view, quite unfair and inappropriate in this situation.
The Treaty provides that the Schengen Secretariat will be integrated into the General Secretariat of the Council and that the Council will decide the detailed arrangements.
I have to say again that the political intention of the Treaty was to integrate the existing Schengen Secretariat - without any new appointments being made or any selection procedures being initiated - into the existing General Secretariat because surely there would be no point in the integration of one secretariat with another secretariat meaning that we appointed 80 new staff according to the rules that apply to the General Secretariat and kicked out the 80 people who used to work for the Schengen Secretariat.
The Council received the Court of Auditors' report on the formation of joint enterprises in the fisheries sector on 9 December 1998.
The Council discussed the content of this report during the deliberations on the Commission proposal laying down detailed arrangements and conditions for Community structural assistance in the fisheries sector.
This Commission proposal contains various provisions aimed at removing the abuses listed in the Court of Auditors' report on the management of joint enterprises.
The presidency intends to take a final decision on this proposal at the Council of Fisheries Ministers in June, provided that Parliament has given its opinion by that date.
I understand that the missing funds were part of a EUR 280 million programme to modernise almost 200 fishing vessels.
On the concrete question of what is being done to minimise in some way the damage that has occurred and of the European Union possibly also taking legal action, that is a question for the Commission and not the Council.
As the authors are not present, Questions Nos 22 and 23 lapse.
No, Mr Gallagher, they must be here themselves.
Mr Hyland, the aim of the proposal in the agriculture section of Agenda 2000 for a regulation on rural development is to regenerate the rural areas and simplify the agriculture rules.
The reform of the Structural Funds, which includes the agreed reduction of the number of Objectives from six to three, will make it easier to achieve this aim.
On that basis rural development policy can gradually establish itself as the second pillar of the common agricultural policy.
Let me also point out that this question is a subject of the debate we have interrupted with Question Time.
Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office for his reply.
UN Security Council Resolution 687 called on Iraq to cooperate with the International Committee of the Red Cross in order to release these prisoners of war.
Mr Collins, the Council shares your concern about the problem of the disappeared persons, including the prisoners of war, who fell victim to the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait.
You know as well as I that unfortunately we are not in a position to force Iraq to comply with these demands.
Mr President, I wish to thank the President-in-Office for the information he has given.
There is also a new initiative by the United Nations Security Council.
The situation remains unchanged and I cannot see what other means of pressure we can apply against a country on which we have already imposed the most far-reaching sanctions at our disposal.
Mr President, Mr Gahrton, the Council is aware of the news agency report you quote.
In regard to interpretation from Swedish in principle, let me say that a Council programme exists, and has also been forwarded to the Swedish Government, on the appointment and training of interpreters in the Swedish language and that this programme is now under way.
As the author is not present, Question No 27 lapses.
Question No 28 by Marianne Eriksson (H-0368/99) Subject: Commissioner for equality In accordance with Articles 2, 3 137(1) and 141 of the Amsterdam Treaty, the EU is to take up equality between the sexes as an extremely serious issue.
The Council has no part whatsoever to play in this connection, and I am not even saying: 'unfortunately no part whatsoever'.
I also expected to hear whether there had been any discussion of what should now be done to give genuinely active encouragement to equality of opportunity following the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty, Article 13 of which covers all groups, including women, in terms of anti-discrimination.
The presidency does not have the power to negotiate with the Member States about who they send to Brussels as a member of the Commission.
Since the office of presidency is filled by a country that can appoint two Commissioners, it can only ensure that the principle you called for is observed by its own country.
Since then, he has obtained a new post in another Commission department.
Is that the question?
I should be glad to hear the Council's views on this, in other words whether openness can be further developed in the European Union.
The Council cannot make any statement about the internal organisation of the Commission.
You will have to address this question to the Commission.
The Council cannot make any comment.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
I hope that Parliament and the Council are now back on the same wavelength, since I would now invite you to reply to Question No 30.
After its last examination on the basis of the conditions set on 9 November 1998, the Council decided that Croatia should continue to be granted autonomous trade preferences but that the conditions for assistance under the PHARE programme had not been met and that it was also too soon to negotiate a trade and cooperation agreement.
The stability pact will offer all the Balkan states a concrete prospect of stability and integration into the Euro-Atlantic structures.
I myself will be in Croatia next week as the representative of the presidency to discuss the development of relations between the EU and Croatia with the Croatian Government, the Croatian Parliament and Croatian political parties.
You said that a decision was taken on 9 November during the bi-annual consideration of the question.
So I just wanted to ask: have I misunderstood something or has the timetable changed in some way?
I also wanted to ask another question.
On your second question, the purpose of my trip to Croatia is precisely to find out whether what you say is true.
As the author is not present, Question No 31 lapses.
I would now ask you to finish one minute late, and to give your last answer for today and for this German Presidency to Question No 32.
Mr Crowley, in reply to your question, let me refer you to the Council's common position as adopted on 14 April and forwarded to the European Parliament that same day.
However, the Council intends to amend its common position and to provide for a possible 100 % cofinancing of these subsidies.
Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office for his response.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have now reached the end of the time set aside for questions to the Council.
The conclusion will be, as it were, a tailor-made one because by approving the Agenda 2000 proposals the European Parliament is laying the foundations, during the final part-session of both this parliamentary term and the German Presidency, for the future development of the European Union and not least the future common agricultural policy.
However, this decision will also bring to an end a discussion which has occupied both politicians and professional groups in all the Member States for two years.
A maximum of EUR 297 billion will be made available for the agricultural budget during the period 2000-2006.
The reform of the common agricultural policy and pre-accession aid also prepare the Community for enlargement eastward in the agricultural sector.
The common agricultural policy's stronger orientation towards the market and the environment will equip the Community with an offensive negotiating strategy at the forthcoming round of WTO negotiations.
It can also use this to defend the European model of agriculture with its high standards of quality, safety and protection.
Measures to promote rural development have been extended considerably and can now be developed into a second pillar of the common agricultural policy.
It is the result of hard work, but I think it is first and foremost the result of the exemplary form of cooperation between Parliament, the Commission and the Council which was based on trust and was always constructive.
I believe that we have taken a decision to the best of our knowledge and beliefs which should be of use to Europe and its citizens.
Mr President, the implementation of the Berlin agreements will mean that the process of farms disappearing and jobs being destroyed, which already started with the 1992 reform, will become more pronounced.
Furthermore - and this is the worst element, in my group's view - no means of correcting the existing imbalances between continental and Mediterranean production and between small and large farms has been introduced.
I am absolutely astonished that Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development rejected an amendment tabled by my group to correct this situation and that the amendment was declared inadmissible in the House pursuant to Rule 60 of the Rules of Procedure.
It is just as well that, in this case, the Berlin European Council did intend to correct that point, highlighting the paradox of what happened in Parliament's Committee on Agriculture.
In the wake of the Commission's timid proposal, the Berlin agreements are a step backwards in terms of limiting aid to large farms and increasing support to small and medium-sized farms.
Mr President, this concluding debate on Agenda 2000 should be limited to the main thrust of the reforms.
If we now try to bring controversial amendments we risk bringing down the whole Berlin package like a house of cards.
I am thinking, for example, of the amendment in the Görlach report to increase setting-up aid from EUR 25 000 to EUR 35 000.
The central question today is: do we accept the financial basis of Agenda 2000 and are we going to confirm this in an interinstitutional agreement?
If the Union wants to give applicant countries the real prospect of accession we must look at how this is to be financed.
The Council has succeeded in drawing up an efficient multiannual budget, thus creating the financial scope for enlargement.
My principal objection to the use of Article 203 is, however, that it would effectively mean making the financing of enlargement dependent upon the uncertain outcomes of the annual budgetary conflicts between the Council and European Parliament.
We are in favour of reform, generally speaking, but we do have certain reservations about grey areas not yet examined in depth - for example, the impact on the regions whose development process will be put on hold for the sake of the principle of concentration.
I hope that that does not prove to be the case because it would be an inadequate end to a subject as important as the one we are debating this evening.
It offers us a move from that mythical figure of 1.27 % - which was so difficult to get past - to 0.97 %.
It offers us a reduction and a de facto renationalisation of the funds the European Union needs, and I have to say that quite a few Members will say 'no' to the Council tomorrow, precisely on the issue of the financial perspective.
In view of the timetable for ratifying the Amsterdam Treaty, the Council and the Commission have already agreed that as far as possible, the European Parliament should be granted those rights to which it has only formally been entitled since 1 May this year, particularly in the area of structural reform.
In this respect, as a representative of my country, I welcome the special consideration given to rural development under the new Objective 2.
I welcome the new Interreg regulation in particular, because we have worked long and hard on it, and I hope in particular that the regions bordering with the applicant countries at the EU's external borders will take advantage of the time and money available.
Mr Flynn, you naturally called for support for the proposals to reform the European Social Fund.
But at the same time we cannot deny that a large group in society is in need of special attention, and by this I mean people in a disadvantaged position, such as women and minorities.
This brings me to something which is very close to my heart: the European Social Fund and also, Mr Fischler, the new budget for rural development.
I believe the European Social Fund is a means of giving impetus to job creation in Europe, just as the fund for rural development is something which should facilitate the major changes which large sections of the farming sector have to make.
We will have no credibility in the eyes of the people of Europe if on the one hand we say we want to exercise control over a number of problems and will make money available to do it, and then allow that money to disappear into the pockets of organisations and individuals who are not entitled to it.
But it is a great pleasure for me to do this, given that we are talking about an important measure, that is Agenda 2000, which deals with some extremely complex aspects of the European farming world.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the financial framework agreed in Berlin is a totally inadequate response to the requirements and objectives of cohesion, which should be the guiding star for the construction of Europe and its present and future ambitions.
Nor is it acceptable that, contrary to what Parliament approved in November 1998, the conditionality of the Cohesion Fund in relation to the stability pact is to be maintained, and that, for example, the Committee on Regional Policy should now be presenting an opinion in favour of the proposal for a regulation which envisages exactly this type of conditionality.
It is very important to stress that this is not because we do not agree with structural funds for fisheries.
Prices are being reduced - 20 %, 15 %, 30 % - with a small compromise in Berlin, partial compensation and some illusions.
And what good is an agreement in Berlin when in six months' time the world trade negotiations will begin and, just as in 1992, we are starting to make concessions even before those negotiations have started?
That raises the problem of our agricultural model.
Mr Rosado Fernandes and many others spoke about it, just as you did, Commissioner.
That brings me to the Structural Funds.
The Spanish wanted EUR 240 billion, the Dutch wanted EUR 193 billion and EUR 213 billion was agreed on.
But in reality, the winners keep winning - Spain still gets the Christmas tree with EUR 9 billion and Great Britain still gets its cheque - while the losers keep losing.
Germany does not want to pay more, and it is quite right.
France loses between EUR 1 billion and EUR 4 billion.
Because of your foolishness in terms of constantly reducing customs duties, particularly as regards the GSPs, they no longer amount to anything: they account for only 14 % of resources.
But that is not enough: by moving to 20, 21 or 25 Member States, and putting a ceiling of 1.27 % of GNP on the budget envelope, we will not even last a few years.
We need other resources.
I in fact believe that, although it contains certain weaknesses, the agreement that was reached at Berlin on Agenda 2000 is a success that can be attributed to the German Presidency.
The prophets of doom were proved wrong, and confirmation was given to both the priority that the European Union places on the policy of economic and social cohesion and the admirable and particularly effective cooperation between the main political Community institutions.
We have jointly agreed with the Council in the text that before the European Union's budget is adopted, an additional trialogue meeting will always be held at which the Council, the Commission and Parliament will agree on how possible additional requirements - last year there was the matter of aid for Russia - can be covered by the appropriations not utilised in the current financial year, or how new requirements in the next financial year should be dealt with and how full agreement can be reached on this before the budget is adopted.
We have made a suggestion in this regard, and the Council has been prepared at least up to now to accept that if possible, a new regulation should not be adopted by the Council before an evaluation of the old one has been completed.
Mr President, I would like to present the main points of two reports I produced on the subject of the applicant countries for the Committee on Regional Policy.
Secondly, we would like to stress the importance of nuclear safety, and, for that reason, EU resources granted for purposes of nuclear safety must be concentrated within the context of PHARE.
Thirdly, we want to stress the importance of training people to promote the structural changes that are now under way in the applicant countries.
Mr President, I am going to speak on the Arias Cañete report on the structural policies for fisheries which is, of course, part of the Agenda 2000 debate.
In our opinion, many aspects of Agenda 2000 are worthy of criticism and ought to be criticised, and some Members have done that this evening and in the course of the day.
It opposed this original plan because it destroyed the horizontal nature of the intervention measures and established a financing system charged to the EAGGF Guarantee Section, which made the planning of this intervention enormously difficult.
These aspects of the initial proposal were changed after Parliament voted against them a few months ago and the final proposal establishes a unitary instrument for intervention in the fisheries sector.
Although there are still two regulations, there is only one fund, which means that structural intervention can be properly dealt with in the fisheries sector.
In my specific case, coming from Andalusia, I must point out that the Moroccan Government has just confirmed that it does not intend to extend the current agreement, which raises serious problems for tens of thousands of fishermen in my region, Andalusia, and also in Galicia.
Structural measures are important, but they are not enough in themselves to solve economic problems in the northern regions.
So Portugal and the other cohesion countries will be in a position to maintain their development and modernisation and converge with the European average, and this is actually happening, especially in my country.
I will stay because I have to, but the parliamentary services cannot stay here until 4 a.m.
I should also mention that this strategy was agreed on in our committee after three public hearings with representatives of the fisheries sector and each and every one of the national fisheries departments.
I include in my thanks all the staff who helped us reach a compromise that includes three of Parliament's principal objectives: a horizontal legal instrument, a single financial instrument, the FIFG, and a basic regulation finally covering all the financial structural measures.
For instance, we need continuity of measures to maintain a modern, safe and competitive fleet or measures that have proved to be extremely effective instruments of fisheries policy, such as joint enterprises with third countries.
There has been a call for Objectives 1 and 2 to be granted an adequate share of overall resources; we trust that there will be something positive in the package for the development of northern Sweden.
Mr President, Ireland has the European Parliament to thank for ensuring extra funding for neighbourhoods in crisis.
This decision is particularly important for Dublin.
This is my valedictory speech, Mr President.
I want to thank you and all the Members and say what a pleasure it was to work here in this Parliament over the last five years.
Political considerations have taken precedence over economic ones, including in the way we have formulated and implemented our strategy in regard to the applicant countries.
A good example of this is the position of the Russian minorities in Estonia and Latvia.
There are great differences between the applicant countries, Mr President.
First, not only have we ensured that urban poverty and neglect are dealt with directly for the first time, but against all expectations we have retained an urban community initiative too, which can target the small- and medium-sized towns which currently receive less than 10 % of the funding.
My own region, Essex, in the east of England, has 18 urban wards in the 25 % most deprived in the UK.
In the Cambridgeshire Fens, which have been part of the £50m 5-B Programme across East Anglia, but where 73 % of villages have no food shops, 74 % no daily bus service and not one a bank, these decisions offer hope.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, this debate represents the end of a long discussion and decision-making process on the reform of regional and structural policy.
My group has from the outset declared itself in favour of reforming structural and regional aid, so that the financial resources available are concentrated on the regions in greatest need of development, but also so that greater individual responsibility is assigned to the Member States, particularly where entire regions are not eligible for EU structural aid.
We welcome the fact that the new Objective 1 regions receive 70 % of resources.
We have always urged that a regional GDP per capita of less than 75 % of the Community average be strictly applied as the criteria for the selection of future Objective 1 regions.
Opinion is divided within my group as far as the Cohesion Fund is concerned.
Lastly, in this context, there is no general review clause of this financial perspective which is heading off for the next seven years with no fixed date for revision and so no possibility of this Parliament or the new Commission collectively reviewing it at a particular date, irrespective of enlargement.
Mr President, this agreement means that the Spanish countryside will lose 100 000 million pesetas a year and there will be a reduction of 5 % in agricultural incomes.
If we are really showing or want to show solidarity, then it is not sufficient to hand out money.
If we really want to show solidarity, we must help the people of Central and Eastern Europe to rediscover this instrument.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, Agenda 2000 has preoccupied us for months and in my opinion it required all those concerned to be deeply committed to it.
I should therefore like to begin by sincerely thanking Parliament, the Commission and the Council for the work that they have done.
We have always declared our support for the further development of the common agricultural policy and of rural development policy.
This involves strengthening rural development policy as the second pillar of agricultural policy.
I regret that agreement was not reached on the reforms in the milk sector.
In principle, I should like to say that the compromise already worked out by the Commission, the Council and Parliament has produced satisfactory results as far as I can see.
These should also be taken into account for the benefit of our farmers, thereby creating and securing more jobs in rural areas.
Europe's farmers and thus our European cultural landscape must not be sacrificed in favour of the world market; instead, we are demanding fair conditions for European agriculture, and this also applies to future WTO negotiations.
I should also like to add my thanks to the Commission, to the Commissioners present, and all the others who have worked so hard during the period I have been in this Parliament.
The promise of full compensation for price cuts given in 1992 has not been honoured in Agenda 2000 decisions, and while farmers suffer much lower prices, the cost of the common agricultural policy continues to rise.
As I have repeatedly said, without the core business of farming most rural development projects cannot be successful, because they cannot stand alone.
I realise it is difficult for colleagues from other Member States to realise how low farm incomes have fallen in my country, Ireland, mainly due to the fact that Ireland is heavily dependent on export markets, both in the EU and in third countries.
Ninety per cent of our total beef production and 80 % of our milk production is exported.
The BSE crisis in the UK has almost ruined our export markets.
I believe that is where Agenda 2000 proposals will take us unless we make changes without delay.
The PPE agrees with the common position on the ESF.
As shadow rapporteur, I would be able to support the amendments which have arisen as a compromise from the negotiations within the Council if the Council and the Commission confirmed that the amendments in question would in fact be adopted and the danger of a third reading therefore did not arise.
We have pushed through Parliament's demands in this reform of the wine market, and I can only emphasise here once again that it would be a good thing if Parliament were able to take part in the decision-making in the future, since we have mastered horse-trading in this House just as well as the Council.
The reform includes programmes financed by the EU for restructuring, switching to different varieties, and modernisation of production techniques.
Mr Fischler has also recognised and actively supported this.
The Union's structural policy plays an important role in supplementing development at national level.
Mr President, for five years I have listened and learned in the Committee on Budgets that the only way to prepare a good budget and take advantage of all its possibilities is to conclude an interinstitutional agreement that guarantees the financial perspective for seven years.
Today we are listening to proposals to make us condemn the interinstitutional agreement, thus leaving us without a financial perspective.
Unless there are final agreements between the Council, the Commission and Parliament, I am afraid that the only thing we are doing is promoting euroscepticism.
Mr President, the European fisheries sector is in a difficult situation, and this is largely taken into account in the future structural policy.
Even our original demand for a separate Objective 4 for rural development with separate treatment for the regions dependent on fishing did not gain acceptance.
From now on, therefore, the same measures will be funded by different sources in the different Objective 1, 2 and 5b regions, with Objective 1 regions clearly being in a better position.
Where I live in Cuxhaven-Bremerhaven, there is the threat of just this kind of sword of Damocles; such distortion of competition must not be the result of European structural policy.
I should like to finish by thanking all those who helped to ensure that we continue to have an independent Committee on Fisheries in the European Parliament.
If this was the case in the past, then it should certainly remain so in the future.
I should like to include a further Mediterranean island in the discussion, namely Malta.
Mr President, Commissioners, Mr President-in-Office, we have been discussing and arguing about Agenda 2000 for a long time.
Applause The losers are definitely the rural areas and especially the regions bordering with third countries.
Commissioner, I have no wish to conceal how positive it is that we now have a safety net in the former Objective 5b regions, as well time-limits for transitional periods - it was not certain we would have them - and that the Community initiatives, Interreg and Leader, are better provided for than before.
This is the last speech I will be making in the European Parliament.
In any event, you have made the announcement and I think that the Chair must acknowledge your extremely regular presence in this Chamber and your entire activity here, as well as the activity of other Members who can claim the same share of the credit.
Mr President, I shall take ten seconds of my precious time to thank the Commissioners and the President for their stoicism in being with us at this hour of the night.
With regard to the financial perspectives, I feel that it is crucial for the European Parliament to approve the framework defined in Berlin.
If not, we will be responsible for enormous confusion and instability in the management of Community policies and we could even distort the fundamental options under Agenda 2000.
With regard to the CAP, I must stress that the final agreement reached in Berlin was far better than the Brussels agreement.
In devising structural measures in this sector for the new millennium the overriding objective should be to keep them as simple and as cohesive as possible, to ensure that they are flexible enough to respond to the specific regional needs of fisheries and areas dependent on fisheries or where there are significant fishing communities.
It is essential to guarantee that all regions with fishing communities continue to have improved access to fishery structural funds without any attempt to reduce the levels of funding or restrict or exclude access through increasing complexity.
Mr President, there is no doubt that Agenda 2000 will bring tremendous change to the European Union, be it in agriculture or be it in regional policy.
On agriculture the proposals will not improve the position of my farmers.
I understand that on Friday I am going to have the great pleasure of welcoming Commissioner Kinnock to Northern Ireland.
I am sorry I am not going to be able to welcome Commissioner Fischler to Northern Ireland before the election is over, but if he wants to change his mind he would be very welcome.
I would like to thank all the participants, firstly the President-in-Office of the Council.
This has always been a very serious problem and the European Parliament has tended to be diffident about it, partly because it has not always been clear who is responsible or how the European Parliament could carry out any monitoring or get any information.
In my opinion we must always bear in mind the close relationship between codecision and comitology and now, after Amsterdam, with the power of codecision extended, it is all the more necessary for implementation to be monitored closely and effectively.
We are naturally hoping for greater satisfaction on this point in the future, because the European Parliament's attitude to the issue of monitoring is sure to become increasingly radical and clear-cut.
Community trade policy is one of the European Union's most important projects, but in this area Parliament is given hardly any opportunity for involvement in decision-making.
But what is peculiar about the European Union's system is that during all those years when the Council alone acted as the legislative authority, it was willing to delegate implementing measures to the Commission only on condition that a committee of national civil servants would work with the Commission.
Secondly, these committees set up by the Council or the Member States had the right to block an implementing measure from the Commission and refer them back, but Parliament had no such right.
In other words, if Council committees have the right to block the Commission and refer a measure back then Parliament should also have that right.
If you look at the way we have used this power in the informal procedures that already exist, it is actually very unusual for parliaments to intervene and to blow the whistle.
We do not want to do it very often, but we want the right to intervene when necessary.
If we have that right then we will be much more willing to delegate more measures, knowing that we have that safeguard in place.
When the case came before the Court of Justice, it departed from its traditional integrationist case-law - which lasted until the number of members increased beyond nine - and kept to a strictly formal interpretation of the texts, against all logic and against the fundamental principles of consistent legal interpretation.
Mr President, it is after all three obligatory and two non-obligatory committees which play a role within the framework of comitology and the Common Fisheries Policy.
Unfortunately, any amendments proposed to date have been rejected.
The Committee on Fisheries shares the view that improvements in these areas are urgent and absolutely necessary.
I think it is quite important to mention this, in case Mr Kinnock has been informed otherwise.
So it is the regulatory committee that I should like to be abolished.
I am sometimes amused by popular descriptions of Parliament, and indeed of the Commission, as being institutions which clog the progress of the European Union.
The resulting modus vivendi that was adopted in December 1994 went some way towards achieving that objective.
But as we heard from Mr De Giovanni, it was clear even then that the issue had not been definitively resolved.
In June 1998, therefore, in accordance with the Declaration annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Commission presented a proposal to revise the 1987 comitology decision and we did so with the aim of making the procedure less complex, less opaque and more open to Parliamentary control.
An interinstitutional agreement could subsequently be concluded to clarify how this provision would actually operate in practice.
After thorough examination and many informal contacts at all levels Parliament should now be in a position to give its opinion on the proposal so that the Council can pursue its work with a crystal clear view of the wishes of this House.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The Commission only forwarded the draft directive to Parliament on Monday.
We are therefore now seeing, barely one month before the European elections, that the Amsterdam Treaty in fact limits our rights quite considerably in the area of social policy.
Not only did Amsterdam fail to remove the democratic deficit in social policy by including the social protocol in the Treaty virtually unchanged, but it even increased it.
However, social partners' agreements do not relieve us of the duty to examine them critically, as we did with the agreement on part-time work.
In the European Union, the number of employees in fixed-term employment has increased from 14 million to 17.5 million in the last three years alone.
However, long-term employment relationships are still regarded as the sole guiding principle for both social insurance and conditions of employment.
The only progress achieved on the highly controversial part-time agreement is that the exceptions from the principle of non-discrimination are cited more clearly.
They either define objective reasons or a maximum duration, or the maximum number of extensions is defined.
Mr President, Member States have committed themselves to the European employment strategy and to the four pillars of the employment guidelines, including the pillar on adaptability.
The Commission has done the same in its Green Paper on a partnership for the future organisation of work and in its subsequent communication.
But that, Commissioner, still leaves the difficulty of social security provisions for atypical workers, part of the original atypical work directive.
I believe the rapporteur should be congratulated on having been able to get this item on the agenda at this final part-session of the parliamentary term.
I continue to believe that social dialogue is important and that we must also discuss the consequences of social dialogue.
If the Council had wanted to play a role, it should have adopted an interinstitutional agreement which would have put an end to the unacceptable situation that the European Parliament is not, formally speaking, sufficiently involved in the results of social dialogue.
But I should like to repeat my request for the Commission finally to draw up a directive in the field of social security, so that the Council can no longer take refuge behind the excuses it has been using to date and we will have genuine Council debate on a social security directive.
The new Commission should embark without delay on a programme of action to find a solution to these as yet unsolved problems.
Ending this should be a priority task for the Union.
Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her report.
We have consequently urged the Commission to submit proposals in this equally important field.
Mr President, I should first like to thank those who have contributed and particularly you, Mrs Jöns, for the speed of the response to the social partners agreement on fixed-term work.
The Commission only adopted the proposal for a directive last Wednesday.
The agreement applies the principle of non-discrimination to fixed-term workers and it also establishes a framework to prevent abuse arising from the use of successive fixed-term employment contracts or relationships.
Not only has the Amsterdam Treaty just entered into force but we are at a key point in the implementation of the Union's employment strategy.
It is important because the agenda on working conditions and employment must now be one of the social partnership for the modernisation of work.
It is important because we need to find a new balance of workplace flexibility and of course worker security, especially as new technologies, competition and the new demographic profile of the work force change the conditions for companies and for workers and indeed for public policy too.
I want to thank you for the way in which you have continued to work on the agreement and the proposal for a directive in spite of the difficult timescale that has applied here.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, this is the second reading of the common position on the health protection of workers who may be exposed to risks from explosive atmospheres.
Since 1 May, just a few days ago, when the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force, health and safety has come under the codecision procedure.
The Commission is then always faced with the problem of whether it should stand its ground and defend Parliament's amendments to the bitter end or bring the matter to a close.
I cannot see how Amendment No 7 can be interpreted as meaning that all the equipment has to be replaced; adapted, yes, but that is a totally different prospect.
It is on that understanding of the meaning of the amendment that we will support Amendment No 7 as well as the others.
In this particular directive we can seek further clarification from the Council.
I spent some time working on a lot of these reports.
The text of the common position in these areas is considered by the Commission to be weaker than the amended proposal.
Finally, the rapporteur's approach to bringing the proposed safety sign into line with the international CEN ISO standard is a good approach.
I would like to record my appreciation for the important contribution that you have made to achieving our shared objectives.
For those of you who will not be returning I want to congratulate you on the contribution you have made to social policy advances over these last few years.
I believe it will be made easier because of the work and the cooperation that we have had these last few years.
Seven is a holy number which expresses a certain fullness and that is very good.
It is a quotation from Abraham Lincoln, who was President of the United States from 1861 to 1865.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the debate I am opening on the now famous global agreement with Mexico ends a five-year cycle during which Parliament has worked actively with the European Commission to renew and strengthen relations with the Latin American countries, including Mexico.
The Commission's communication on Mexico provided the opportunity for us to draw up a first report in 1995.
The conclusions reflected Parliament's priorities and, as a sine qua non for adopting a future agreement with that country, the conditionality or human rights clause, political dialogue and parliamentary dialogue were priorities, as well as regional development, social development, assistance to women at risk and a long list of other points.
Of course, in addition to the objective of liberalising trade, we also wanted the agreement to include guarantees for environmental protection and respect for the basic labour standards of the International Labour Organisation.
Parliament's demands have been adequately reflected in the articles.
The agreement includes the trade objectives of the interim agreement, but also incorporates a social philosophy, a range of possibilities for cooperation in areas such as professional training, regional development or support for cultural diversity.
Recital 7 relates to the social and environmental issues.
I am highlighting this because I want to express my appreciation for the constructive position of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions on this agreement.
It should take careful note that the Committee on External Economic Relations categorically rejects the tariff increase announced by Mexico on 1 January this year.
Approval of the report we are debating will strengthen our political position and allow us to use this instrument to follow up the negotiations on political, social and economic issues, including, most particularly, the paragraph on democracy and human rights.
We are offering faithful cooperation and we also support the search for a permanent solution to the Chiapas conflict.
Mexico is a developed, dynamic country, and a member of the OECD, playing an increasingly active role in relations within North and South America and with Europe.
The adoption of this recommendation will send a good signal to the Americas at a time when doubts are growing about our will to increase European efforts in the region.
The Union faces a number of challenges: its peace obligations and commitments and the dilemma of enlargement.
The philosophy of this agreement includes important development policies.
I also want to thank everyone who has cooperated in this endeavour throughout the years and - obviously - all the members of the secretariat of the Committee on External Economic Relations who have worked towards these objectives, as well as all those who have believed in the advantages of cooperation with Latin America.
Mr President, my group recommends that we give our assent to the global agreement with Mexico for four fundamental reasons, and two of them are based on the pure logic of democracy.
Secondly, the main political forces and the leading political groups in Mexico have also requested it, and it has been called for and approved by all the Member States of the European Union.
Secondly, the European Commission must undertake to keep Parliament informed on the outcome of the trade negotiations before they are concluded.
And there is so much that is positive about this agreement, so in this case the best thing we can do is support it.
We know that Mexico has a democratic deficit, but the best thing we can do to help Mexico establish a democratic structure is approve this agreement with the European Union.
In short, I want to reiterate what the previous speakers have said and I feel that this agreement is extremely positive for Mexico, the European Union and, as a result, the progress of democracy in the Western world.
The EU-Mexico agreement is therefore urgently needed to help restore the balance and to foster political and cultural, as well as economic, links between Mexico and Europe in the interests of both sides.
However, the postponement of the decision on this accord at this point at the end of this Parliament would not, in my view, be in the long-term interest of the Mexicans or of Europeans.
I believe that we should all vote for this agreement to go ahead because, among other things, it will help to achieve a better human rights and democratic rights record in Mexico over the course of future years.
Mr President, I think the first thing that needs to be said, because it is the general feeling in Parliament today, is that we are all in agreement - I do not think there is anyone who is not - that we must strengthen our commercial and political relations with Mexico and with Latin America in general.
I want to end by saying that we are a pluralist group and we will perhaps be voting in different ways.
I proposed abstention, active abstention, and my good friend Ludivina García Arias, who has a great affection for Mexico, asked me what active abstention meant.
Mr President, active abstention means no more and no less than that we are not washing our hands of the agreement with Mexico, that we want an agreement, but we want a good one.
The Mexican Parliament also only approved the agreement on the condition that it will be consulted again once the negotiations have come to a close.
The negotiations will last for a long time yet, and civil society in Mexico is extremely dissatisfied with this.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Economic Partnership, Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement submitted today for ratification by Parliament represents an essential stage in the ambitious voyage we set out on four years ago to establish a new relationship with Mexico that would fulfill our hopes.
The revitalised situation in Mexico led Europe to seek a framework of strategic relationships with that country based on reciprocity and partnership and built on mutual interests.
And that is how Parliament saw it in May 1998, when it gave its assent to the interim agreement.
I can confirm what most of you have said: if we want to make progress on the issues I have just mentioned, political dialogue makes much better progress with an agreement than without an agreement.
We trust that we will be able to achieve substantial results for the Rio summit in June so that this exercise can be concluded in the second half of the year.
And, of course, the Commission will consult Parliament on that outcome, in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Treaty.
That is impossible, because Parliament will always have the last word when the negotiations are concluded.
Finally, the Commission hopes that Parliament will see fit to give its assent so that the agreement can enter into force, and we thank you again for the great support we have always received from this Parliament, not only with regard to strengthening relations with Mexico, but also with regard to establishing a real alliance between Europe and Latin America, which is gradually being forged.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
