Last night there was an unpleasant incident in the House when, for the first time ever, a Member of this Parliament physically attacked another Member of this Parliament.
As you know - and I will read out the Rule - ' In serious cases of disorder, the President may, after giving formal notice, move, either immediately or no later than the next sitting, that Parliament pass a vote of censure which shall automatically involve immediate exclusion from the Chamber and suspension for two to five days.' This morning's sitting is the next sitting, and, pursuant to that Rule, I am obliged to move a vote of censure on Mr Rosado Fernandes, which would entail his suspension for two days.
But I would like to ask this House what any of us would do when a Member who has no knowledge of our lives and thinks we are not in the Chamber - and I was still in the Chamber, I had simply left my seat - says in front of everyone that I get money from the tobacco companies?
In the first place, from the political point of view, it is easier to get money from the tobacco companies for speaking against European production than for speaking in favour of it, as I did in my report.
Mr President, since physical aggression against a member of my group has actually been applauded in this House, I must say, Mr President, that I would have welcomed a word of solidarity and sympathy from you for the victim of this attack, namely our colleague Freddy Blak.
I would however like to say that it seems we are now about to vote, without a break, on an extremely important subject: the budget.
Mr Giansily, as you know, the vote this morning will be long and very important.
We still have to approve the Minutes, which will give them time to think.
I would like to know how and on what basis this issue was decided.
I believe he deserves much greater respect in this House than shown by the benches from which this unacceptable description, which I have to rebut, originated.
Thank you, Mr Lataillade.
This Amendment No 36 falls into block 3 and the deadline for the submission of technical amendments or corrections expired at midday on Tuesday; in fact, when I asked you if it was possible to include separate votes, yesterday at 6.30 p.m., I was rightly told that the deadline had expired.
It seems strange and quite intolerable to me now to accept that the reference to this expression should be deleted: something has been voted through by the Chamber and it therefore has the force of res judicata , forms part of a block and now the rapporteur, not knowing what to do, tells us there is a correction, whereas it was included in last year's budget and in this year's budget.
I would nevertheless like to tell you, Mr President, and all the honourable Members of this Parliament, that the Presidency is obviously delighted with the overall agreement we have reached on the 1998 budget.
This is in fact a good budget.
Starting as you do with the vote on Amendment No 5, Amendment No 2 can then be added - they are not mutually exclusive.
We welcome you and your delegation, Mr Mazowiecki, at this historic moment, following the European Union's decision to commence negotiations for Poland's entry in a few months' time.
I wanted to take the floor to request that Amendments Nos 168, 104 and 172 be voted on together, as they are an addition.
Mr Pompidou, we did that on the responsible Committee's recommendation.
That is why the rapporteur has not expressed an opinion.
The amendment proposed by the Liberal Group adds a further two words, namely materials and technologies.
I asked a written question on the Commission's information policy.
After the vote on paragraph 7.2 Madam President, please forgive me but do the political groups realise that each roll-call vote costs the European taxpayer ECU 1, 000?
Mr Anastassopoulos, that is the price of democracy. (Parliament adopted the resolution) - Mr President, my group was unable to vote, at second reading, for the 1998 budget of the European Union.
At that time, in fact, the majority of the House had increased the Council budget from 0.7 % to 2.7 %, the same increase as in the expenditure of the European Union.
At second reading, in accordance with some of the Council's proposals, the budget increase is 1.4 %.
The increase in expenditure allows an increase in national contributions of 1.29 % compared with a 1.39 % increase in expenditure.
If the French budget, for example, increased by so much, my country would not be able to comply with one of the important criteria of the Maastricht Treaty, the budget deficit criteria.
Relative to the Council's second reading, the proposal from the Committee on Budgets represents an increase in the payment appropriations by around ECU 500 million, or just over SKR 4 billion.
That means increased income for the EU leads to increased costs for the Swedish national budget, something which will ultimately express itself in cutbacks in Swedish public services.
For this reason we entirely share the government's objective that the EU's budget should be kept as tight as possible.
Parliament's first reading represents a large increase (almost ECU 600 million) in commitment appropriations compared with the Council's first reading.
The almost ECU 600 million which makes up the difference between the Council's and the European Parliament's first reading includes an item for ECU 200 million which Parliament has combined with the ECU 150 million which has been proposed for employment.
The European Parliament has also said it would leave this ECU 200 million unused on condition that the Council decides on a legal basis for ECU 150 million for an employment initiative.
If the Council does not meet the European Parliament half way, it has said that it intends to try to spend the whole amount of ECU 350 (200+150) million.
As far as the budget resolution is concerned we are voting for Amendments Nos 3 and 4.
We welcome the main priorities for next year's budget which have been set up with regard to the EU's new employment initiative and the employment measures of the Member States.
In order to avoid misunderstanding we therefore voted for Amendment No 3, in the same spirit, even though it is not identical to our original proposal.
Parliament's first reading, which involved an increase of ECU 1.7 billion in payment appropriations compared with the Council's first reading, entailed an extra SKR 400 million for the Swedish treasury in membership fees.
The increase in support for structural funds alone cost around an extra SEK 250 million.
However, in the past agricultural aid has been overbudgeted and the surplus has been returned to the Member States.
At second reading of the 1998 budget we have acted largely in the same way as we did at first reading.
We also voted against paragraph 12 concerning the programme for controlled thermonuclear fusion.
During this Parliament I have twice refused to vote for the budget because it contained not a single mention of support for bee-keeping in Europe.
It was my way of protesting about the Commission's failure over the years to submit to us any proposals for a regulation or directive - despite the fact that this subject has been of concern to us since 1985 - for creating the legal basis for making money available in the draft budget for this purpose.
Now at last we have the legal basis we need, even though I would say that the mountain has only brought forth a mouse, since the regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers in June for measures to improve the production and marketing of honey falls far short of the unanimous proposals of this Parliament.
What is more, the Commission even managed to do this by putting ECU 12 million less credit in the draft budget than it itself claimed its halfhearted proposals would cost.
As rapporteur, I have therefore been concerned that at least ECU 3 million more be allocated in the 1998 budget to promote the development of apiculture.
I am grateful to our Agriculture Committee, our Budget Committee and also to the Luxembourg Presidency for the fact that the budget now has ECU 15 million, rather than ECU 12 million, for promoting the production and marketing of honey.
For all this, I feel that I can agree to this year's budget with a better conscience, though not without affirming my continued intention to fight for proper aid and structural measures to assist our apiculturists.
At this second reading Parliament is accepting the Council's proposal for the 1998 budget cutting a further ECU 1.1 million from spending on payments.
At this second reading Parliament is accepting that the Council's final proposal for the 1998 budget therefore remains at a level of 1.14 % of GDP, the same spending level, when at Edinburgh in 1992, in the light of financial perspectives for the period 1994 to 1999, it had been decided that it should be increased to 1.26 % of GDP.
The budget still provides no complete solution to the problem of unemployment and social exclusion in the European Union today, with 18 million unemployed and 50 million people excluded.
The ECU 150 million proposed by the Council for the 1998 budget after the Luxembourg summit on employment are no more than a palliative; the sums allotted show how important the subject really is.
Parliament is now accepting the amendment of its proposal and will only be allowing ECU 150 million.
We do not agree with that position, the less so because over ECU 100 million are going to be spent on information operations, and ECU 42 million are going to be made available for advertising the euro alone.
It is also clear that the objective of creating budgetary savings to enable us to finance the costs of enlargement within the present limits of our financial perspectives, using the Commission's Agenda 2000 proposal as a framework, is still inherent in this budget.
We are also pleased that some of our proposals have been included in this budget (East Timor, small-scale coastal fishing, the REPAS system, among others).
In response to the submission of the report, the President-in-Office of the Council applauded the 1998 budget.
No one will be surprised to learn that our group voted against the budget which, in reality, paves the way for the common agricultural policy's dismal future, as described in Agenda 2000.
On the other hand, the agricultural budget lost ECU 1, 450 million between the first draft submitted by the Council of Agriculture Ministers and the end of the final second reading.
It is completely out of order that, at a meeting of COREPER on 12 November 1997, the representative of the French Finance Ministry himself requested an ECU 1 billion decrease in the agricultural budget between the first and second readings of the budget.
I know that the Maastricht convergence criteria are compelling our government to reduce its budget deficit as much as possible, but a civil servant from the Finance Ministry should think in terms of the return France would receive.
Giansily Report (A4-0409/97) Mr President, my group voted in favour of the Giansily report although I expressed strong reservations about it yesterday.
Indeed, this House pronounced itself in favour, in a resolution of 21 April 1994, of the early abolition of the ECSC levy, in order to increase the competitiveness of the coal and steel industries, whose difficulties in all European Union countries are well-known.
There is no way in which I can vote for this report, because it proposes the reintroduction of the production duty of 0.11 per cent for Member States.
Sandbæk recommendation (A4-0379/97) The Danish Social Democrats have voted in favour of this report today.
Paasio recommendation (A4-0371/97) To many societies, non-governmental development organizations, so-called NGOs, make a major contribution towards ensuring democracy, human rights and so on.
The Council has adopted some of the constructive proposals which Parliament put forward at the first reading.
The budget line for cofinancing with European NGOs is therefore important, and is a good basis for helping the developing countries.
Community project funding is normally limited to 50 %.
If Danish NGOs are to collect money for aid via collections, most people would have problems with that.
Giansily Report (A4-0409/97) Our present debate has no particular national significance, at least not for my country.
From now on banks and financial institutions, using sophisticated mathematical models of recent vintage will be in a position to estimate the market risk they bear and themselves assess the amount of capital to be earmarked against such risk.
Against the possibility of such abuses no legislation can ever be totally foolproof.
It would be dangerous, on matters like this, for the industry to acquire delusions of omnipotence which might lead it to irresponsibility, for the financial sector to deem itself superior to the dictates of the real economy or for a government of money, by money and for money to become normal practice in this our European Union.
I therefore support the Commission's work on establishing a European hunting standard and regret that the USA, Canada and Russia are not immediately willing to sign an international treaty which ensures that wild animals are hunted humanely.
I also believe, however, that the disagreements between the USA, Canada, Russia and the EU should not lead to a "minor trade war' , but that we should strive for an amicable settlement without a dispute in the World Trade Organization (WTO).
I have to agree with the rapporteur that this draft agreement between the EU, Canada and Russia is simply unacceptable.
The three sides are at least talking about acting against these cruel animal traps.
Scapagnini Report (A4-0308/97) We are strongly opposed to the report's proposals in paragraphs 2 and 3 for a supranational European energy policy.
If a common energy policy is introduced, the Euratom Treaty should be abolished and replaced with a programme of environmentally friendly, long-term sustainable sources of energy which fit into the recycling society of the future.
I am pleased to express my full support for the report drawn up by Dr Scapagnini, the Chairman of the competent Parliamentary Committee on the Commission Communication, which gives us a global vision of our policy and actions in the field of energy.
This is only the beginning of that promised "global vision' .
The European Commission´s effort to be open, as demonstrated by the rapporteur, is laudable.
That effort enables us to enquire which sources of energy protect the environment, create employment and improve the quality of life.
Point 12 also deserves emphasis, because it calls for "financing over several years' which will make it possible to undertake "significant actions' , particularly in the field of renewable energy.
This is particularly absurd when the Commission has just completed a lengthy process by finally presenting us with White Paper on renewable energy sources.
This could help ensure a more coordinated EU energy policy in future, as energy and rising energy consumption in particular are becoming increasingly important at both European and world level.
In section 11 of the report, the rapporteur wants to promote the Community institutions involvement in developing the nuclear sector because of the major role it plays in the EU's energy policy.
Paragraph 3 of the summit's conclusions reiterates that enlargement will necessitate the prior reform of the institutions, in compliance with the guidelines of the Amsterdam Treaty.
Let me say clearly, Mr President, that Turkey is evidently good enough to defend the borders of Europe as a member of NATO, but there it ends.
It is important to stop the verbal abuse on both sides, and to take a EU conciliation initiative, Mr President, before the United States, as usual, fulfils its responsibilities in this region, unlike the Union.
First of all I would like to congratulate the Luxembourg Presidency.
With regard to enlargement, I am particularly pleased that the Heads of State responded positively to the views of the European Parliament.
It was important to send a positive message to all applicant countries.
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted, along with the rest of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, in favour of the resolution on the Luxembourg Presidency.
The EU summit in Luxembourg on 12 and 13 December 1997 took a historic step towards unifying our continent, which for decades has been divided and ravaged by bloody wars, violent dictatorships and poverty.
The decision by the summit to initiate an admission process covering the ten applicant nations of central and eastern Europe and Cyprus ushers in a new era of European development.
It is incredibly positive that the Heads of State and of Government of the EU are following the recommendations which the European Parliament passed by a large majority immediately before the summit.
At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of the extension process covering all the applicant nations of central and eastern Europe on the same footing.
The decisions of the Luxembourg summit mark a new historic period in the evolution of the European Union.
If we want to achieve the ambitious goal of a Europe with no east-west division, then we cannot agree to the Council's decisions.
By refusing to place their cooperation relationship with Turkey within a specific framework, not related to enlargement, and by instead assimilating that country with European applicant countries for accession, have not the fifteen, thereby adopting the same position as the United States, laid a trap which is likely to seriously affect the progress of the whole accession procedure?
Not only do the fifteen not seem to have taken into consideration the projections made yesterday by Agence Europe, according to which in a few years' time Turkey will have a larger population than any of the fifteen countries, which, according to the new method of calculation envisaged for the distribution of votes in the council, would make it the country with the most weight in the Council.
As you know, this problem is in the news again as, on 9 December, the Court of Justice issued a ruling, which finds France guilty of having failed to respect the freedom of movement during the big demonstrations by French farmers in 1993 and 1995, during which trailers particularly those containing Spanish strawberries, were intercepted and smashed by French farmers.
It has therefore slipped into its latest single market action plan an allusion to the need to find ways of investing itself with the power to intervene in such cases, and even to impose sanctions.
The Amsterdam European Council, last June, approved this action plan globally, without additional remarks.
But it knew what it was doing, because the Luxembourg Council, on 13 December, has just welcomed, again allusively, a proposal, which has just been made.
It is a draft regulation, tabled on 18 November, which refers to a mechanism of immediate intervention by the Commission.
As there is no legal basis for such a regulation at present, its authors have decided to use article 235 of the treaty, which allows anything and everything, provided it is unanimous.
This serious error is already producing its initial negative effects inasmuch as there is not a single proposal on tourism in the programme under discussion.
The Commission's Work Programme for 1998 is based on misguided political priorities.
National governments are best placed to understand the economic and social conditions necessary to tackle unemployment in their respective areas.
Achieving economic and monetary union involving the introduction of the euro is the Commission's main priority in 1998 and beyond.
The absurdity of Commission dogma in pursuing its economic goals at any price has been recent demonstrated by its could not-careless attitude to the thousands of jobs which are under threat in the duty-free trade.
The Commission also continues to take a dogmatic line in regard to what it calls "Union action in the world at large' by persevering with a strategy which replaces the long experience of individual Member States in managing foreign affairs with the collective inexperience and amateurism of the European Union in this important field.
Jové Peres report Mr President, in my view the general lines proposed by Commissioner Fischler, which Parliament has now rejected for a number of reasons, were not acceptable.
And the third and last reason: in Andalusia, which accounts for 30 % of European and 20 % of world production, and furthermore has a major unemployment problem, olives are a crop with a high social value, using a great deal of labour, and have provided the rural population of an enormous area with stability and eliminated agricultural unemployment for many months of the year.
Mr President, the report which has been approved today represents a good agreement for the olive oil trade.
The cost of harvesting the olive crop amounts to 70 % of the variable costs of the process, and a system of that kind could cause the abandonment of actual production.
Mr President, when the Council and the Commission approve the forthcoming regulation on olive oil in the next few months, they should very much keep in mind the employment potential of this product.
If, however, we were there on the ground, we would see that the Andalusian olive harvest started a fortnight ago, and that, Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan, completely neutralizes unemployment in Andalusia.
The Commissioner for Agriculture should include a socio-economic impact study in his proposals, and what he said yesterday about its parameters is not true.
Firstly, it relates to the economic interests of southern Europe and that fact that the EU is the world leader in olive oil, with about 80 % of total production.
Until recently, the European Union's system of aid for production and consumption has favoured large producers, although small farmers produce 60 % of the total.
If the system continues, it could lead to a risk of over-production, and in fact, to an increase in market prices.
Olive oil from the Provence region for example, is above all known for its quality.
The reform, which is required, must enable small producers to benefit from a more favourable system of aid.
For that reason, it is becoming important to set up a new system of support, which will enable aid to be distributed more fairly, in a more controlled way, taking into consideration the role of the environment and the requirements of small producers.
A reform of this kind must not ignore the new requirements of the World Trade Organization, and, in that respect, must evolve towards a system of aid for producers, which is not connected to production volumes and is adjusted in accordance with the principles of environmental protection and quality.
Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore ask you to support a new system of aid and production control, capable of being integrated into the new system of international trade of the WTO, which will respect small producers and producers who, like those in the south of France, produce high quality olive oil.
The vote this morning, concerning the WTO olive oil reform proposals, shows that you do not have to be a large political group for your amendments to be adopted.
Finally, I can say that whatever its initial direction, this report has, during the various debates in the Committee on Agriculture and part-session, been redirected in the direction we wanted.
That is why the whole of the Europe of Nations Group voted in favour of the final resolution and we await the Commission's new proposals with impatience.
We hope that Commissioner Fischler will take into consideration the European Parliament's guidelines, the aim of which is to protect agriculture in southern Europe.
The Danish Social Democrats support the Commission's proposals for a reform of the market arrangements for the olive oil sector, which provides for giving aid per tree in future.
The reform of the COM for olive oil is the first of the new reforms to come in the common agricultural policy.
Thorough going reforms are needed in the common agricultural policy if the Union is to be ready to admit the countries of central and eastern Europe.
We Spanish Socialists have supported the report on olive oil for one central reason: our conviction that the present COM has worked properly and has played a key role in the modernization of a sector of major economic and social importance.
We consider the final result, which has sprung from a compromise, to be a starting-point, which should not prevent us from continuing to insist on those points which we consider essential in the light of the final decision the Council has to agree on.
Valverde López report (A4-0341/97) The cultivation of tobacco is one of the most intensive in the Union as regards the labour force.
The reduction or disappearance of tobacco production, which would ensue from the proposed abolition of direct support for the tobacco sector in the Union (paragraph 29), would cause enormous irreversible social, political and economic damage to peripheral economies.
A positive step was taken in the vote against paragraph 29 which asked, in a frivolous and unacceptable way, for the immediate cutting off of subsidies for producers.
It is a great mistake to confuse the safeguarding of public health from the effects of smoking with tobacco cultivation, which covers only 30 % of European consumption.
Finally, I was greatly taken aback by the fact that the rapporteur rejected my amendments against tobacco smuggling and for the non-participation of Members of the European Parliament in the publicity campaigns of large tobacco companies.
I supported the Valverde López report warmly.
The Valverde López report makes a number of good proposals to discourage smoking.
So it is time that the Union adjusted its support policy to the requirements of the new treaty.
They concern paragraph 13 on the tar content in rolling tobacco.
Paragraphs 17 and 34 assume in advance that a higher tax on rolling tobacco is justified.
It has been clearly established that smoking can cause serious illness such as lung cancer and cardiac problems.
The report of Mr Valverde López has some excellent proposals in this regard.
On behalf of Labour members of the European Parliament, I indicate that support for the Valderde López report on the present and proposed Community role in combatting tobacco consumption has been given on the basis of its status as a report on a communication.
The UK government will publish its own views during 1998 and the UK parliament will deliberate on appropriate measures to be introduced.
Quite recently, the European Council, under the Luxembourg Presidency, adopted a common position regarding the prohibition of direct and indirect cigarette advertising.
It therefore made haste, without waiting for the opinion of the European Parliament, so as not to defer this important file.
The position of the European Parliament is above all motivated by public health considerations.
As the rapporteur, Mr Valverde Lopez, reminded the House, half a million people die each year from the effects of smoking, in the European Union: smoking has become the main cause of avoidable death.
From this point of view, and in the interests of public health, a total ban on direct and indirect advertising of tobacco products is a good approach.
It is not a question of banning tobacco or its consumption, but of preventing young people from coming into contact (by means of closely targeted advertising) with smoking when they are too young, of trying to prevent the risks of passive smoking or the consumption of tobacco during pregnancy or in the presence of babies.
It is in this respect that I support the views of the rapporteur to the European Parliament and oppose all views, which support the liberalization of tobacco advertising.
There is no doubt in my mind that tobacco is harmful, so I welcome the committee's report.
The rapporteur is entirely correct in pointing out that the use of tobacco in public places and in the workplace costs society a huge amount, so I support measures which are aimed at improving health and safety at work.
I am also voting in favour of the report for health and social reasons, even if it restricts consumers' freedom to buy tobacco as they like in some ways.
Our group voted against the final resolution in this report.
In fact, although we are very much in favour of controlling the use of tobacco, we cannot on principle accept the fact that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection should vote for a report, which aims, at the same time, to withdraw aid for the production of tobacco, and aid for the export of tobacco and withdraws all the Community protection in that sector.
I would like to remind the House that the priority aim of the Europe of Nations Group is the protection of employment: it is necessary to take into consideration the importance of tobacco production in underprivileged rural areas.
In addition, our group wishes to remind the House that the European Union still imports a net 67 % of the tobacco it uses.
To conclude, our group is pleased that the part-session rejected paragraph 29 of the rapporteur's initial motion for a resolution.
I have voted for this report as I agree wholeheartedly that smoking is a proven health risk and should be discouraged.
The European Communication on the present and proposed Community role in combatting tobacco consumption was specifically to prevent exposure to young people.
The government has distorted what could have been a very positive message for its own reasons.
All passengers and crew, 72 people in all, are unaccounted for.
Madam President, I simply want to say right at the very beginning that this House ought to apologize to the Commissioner for having brought her here to make this statement on a Thursday afternoon when there is nobody present.
Some of us tried to tell the group leaders that it was not a good idea to have this statement on Thursday immediately before Christmas.
The Commissioner was in Kyoto last week.
We ought to have had a proper debate after Christmas when both she and the President of the Council could have been present and then we could have looked forward as well as backwards.
That is absolutely shocking.
The Kyoto Protocol will prove to have been history in the making.
But I am sure that you will agree with me that this is a milestone in international environmental negotiations.
The potential implications for the global climate, for the economy of 160 countries and for the domestic politics of many major participants are staggering.
It was a particular satisfaction to see how the European Union maintained its role in pushing for the strongest possible protocol throughout the negotiations.
I believe the result is a positive one for the global environment.
It is true that it is an incomplete agreement and that more work has to be done, but we now have a platform on which we can continue to build in our efforts to save the global climate.
Let me say quite openly that there were many important players in the Kyoto process, including representatives of this Parliament.
This aggression climaxed in a formal proposal of an EU 'penalty' , for 3 % extra on the target in return for the joint fulfilment.
Let me add that it was clear that the attacks on the EU bubble were another way of attacking our more ambitious target of a 15 % reduction by 2010, a figure that certainly displeased most of our OECD partners.
The EU has argued for the same reduction target to apply for all Annex 1 parties, the so-called flat-rate approach.
In the end we chose a position of minus 8 % for the EU to take the necessary extra step for the environment.
I very much regret that other Annex 1 parties were allowed a higher degree of differentiation, notably Russia and Ukraine, that were required only to stabilize, and Australia, that was allowed a possible 8 % increase.
In addition, Australia was granted a provision to include in its 1990 emission baseline the emission from land-use changes as equivalent to industrial emissions.
During the negotiations it has become increasingly clear that the reduction targets themselves are only part of the story.
The EU has made it clear from the beginning that it was not against such 'flexibility measures' - in fact joint implementation was part of the original EU protocol proposal.
The agreed text is not very clear on this point. 'Hot air' from the years before the first budget period cannot be traded - a very important point pushed by the EU.
Joint implementation between Annex 1 parties is now part of the protocol (article 6).
Joint implementation with developing countries will be possible through the 'clean-development mechanism' , a new invention described in article 12.
This new mechanism can be a very useful way of improving cooperation and transfer of technology between industrialized and developing countries but it will only become operational after the protocol has come into force and the parties have agreed on the modalities.
The proposed article that would allow developing countries to voluntarily undertake commitments in the form of quantified emission targets was not adopted as part of the protocol.
Resistance to this article was led by China which had been singled out in the United States debate on developing countries' participation because of the expected strong growth in CO2 emissions.
This position was also strongly backed by India.
The upcoming UK Presidency is very keen to assure a fast and efficient follow-up to Kyoto and this will certainly also be followed by the Austrian Presidency during the second half of 1998 up to the first Conference of the Parties in Buenos Aires.
Within 11 months from now the world will again have to take crucial decisions.
Our first task is to prepare for a signature of the protocol.
A final aspect concerns the question of when the protocol is likely to enter into force and on what basis.
The 50 % of CO2 emissions in 1990 is the critical factor.
The United States accounts for approximately 35 % of 1990 emissions and Russia for roughly 15 %.
This implies that at least one of the two will have to ratify in order for the protocol to enter into force.
It follows from this that the United States or Russia has the main key to activate the protocol.
The US administration has made it known that it is not ready to send the protocol to Congress for ratification at this stage.
To facilitate US ratification it is crucial that the EU moves ahead as quickly as possible to maintain the highest possible political pressure.
It will also be necessary to continue our efforts to establish a constructive dialogue with the developing countries, not because they should be pushed to undertake quantitative commitments at this stage but because it will be necessary to include them in the process to guarantee a long-term successful outcome.
Better coordination between Parliament, me and my services should start right now.
But it was a first step.
I am sure that we can continue to rely on your support in this important task.
The question which then arises is why we have not kept our original target of 15 %.
For this reason too I would recommend sticking with the 15 % proposal.
If we assume that in the long term each citizen on the planet should produce equal amounts of CO2 , then we in the industrialised countries naturally have to achieve a much more substantial reduction than all the proposals discussed at Kyoto.
This becomes all too evident when one realises that a citizen in Tanzania only emits about one hundredth of the amount of greenhouse gases produced per head of the population in some of the industrialised countries.
This is because it is partly due to the perseverance of this Commissioner that the European Union has been able to play a leading role in the Conference in Kyoto.
Like most speakers present here this afternoon, I was also in Kyoto, and heard the Commissioner speak.
Because, as a result of the European Union setting out for Kyoto with its reduction proposal of 15 %, Japan and the United States ultimately agreed to much stricter reduction targets than they had originally intended.
Neverheless, I believe the European Union should not stick to the global agreement made in Kyoto of 8 % as the target for Europe itself, but that we should stick to the minus 15 %.
My question is: when will the Commissioner make this announcement so that the decision can be taken under the British Presidency during the first part of next year?
Finally, Madam President, I am fully confident that during the British Presidency we will tackle this case as energetically as was the case under the Dutch Presidency.
Madam President, it might be appropriate at this point to remind the House of our earlier intervention at the Kyoto Conference, when we stated that ecological and citizens' groups in general were asking for a reduction of over 20 % in the year 2010, in relation to 1990 levels.
We must denounce the environmental policy of countries like the United States, which insisted that developing countries should reduce their emissions while they themselves continued at the same rate of development as at present.
I agree with my colleagues and my group insists that the European Union must continue to be among the leaders in this project.
We must stick to our original bid of minus 15 % by the year 2010.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have rarely, in the whole of my political career, seen so much intellectual dishonesty as last week in Kyoto.
The scientific community and NGOs had agreed that a reduction of at least 15 % in greenhouse gas emissions was necessary by the year 2010, in comparison with the reference year, 1990, in order to stabilize the greenhouse effect.
The Americans, who create the most emissions in absolute figures and per head of population, finally agreed to reduce emissions by 7 %, provided that tradable emissions are allowed.
The European Union will only have to decrease its emissions by 8 %, and Japan by 6 %.
Madam Commission, please be brave, accept your responsibilities.
According to your department's calculations, this target is quite achievable, both from an economic and a technical point of view.
Madam Commissioner, Madam President, we should not play such a dangerous game.
Madam President, was the Kyoto Conference a success?
Last week in her response, Commissioner Bjerregaard seemed disappointed.
I am inclined to agree with the environment ministers, and I am pleased with the positive tone of the Commissioner's argument, and praise her for her dedication in Kyoto.
The compromise which we have now is approximately the arithmetical average between the 0 % of the United States and the 15 % of the European Union.
Not very elegant, but the maximum achievable and hopefully the beginning of greater things.
It is a major plus that even countries like the United States and Japan have now agreed to the reductions.
That is why it so important that all industrial nations set themselves reductions targets.
Madam President, there are two ways we can look at Kyoto.
From the environmental point of view it is no news that the conference did not agree on the levels of greenhouse gas reduction needed to reverse the process of climate destabilization.
However, as a realist I believe we should welcome what has been agreed as a very important first step on a long and rocky road towards reversing the trend in emissions by the major industrialized countries and recognize how hard it was to get that far and how hard the Commission and other parties worked to achieve what they did.
Having met with the Americans in Kyoto, I found it rather shocking to see how absolutely opposed many of them were to reducing their emissions at all and it is a victory that any agreement was reached.
The main problem will be whether the United States will ratify and of course this is not a foregone conclusion.
In the meantime it is essential that we in the European Union remain committed to our more ambitious target of greenhouse gas reduction of 15 % and put our energies into the economic advantage for European industry in being ahead in the clean technology markets.
We must also redouble our energy saving and renewable energy efforts; we should also engage in a debate.
I have a second fundamental comment to make: If I accept that climatic changes are man-made, that they are caused by human actions, if I say that climatic fluctuations exist, if I say "yes' to the idea, or consider it probable - and that is clearly what I do think - then I cannot deny the relationship which this has with energy policy, for example.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to start by congratulating the Commissioner on her determination in defending the position of the European Union in Kyoto.
Moreover, international organizations are badly equipped to tackle global problems such as these.
Finally, Madam Commissioner, I would like to support the plea that we in the Union should keep to this reduction of 15 %, whatever the commitment of the other parties may be.
You have done seriously little to bring this about, Madam Commissioner, for where are the instruments needed to achieve this reduction target?
Madam President, first of all, congratulations to the Commissioner.
If you want to see how this world really works, go into the world of energy and see the vested interests.
If ever there was a justification for the existence of the European Union, our presence in Kyoto was that justification.
Going as individual countries we would not have had the effect that we did have.
It is very good business because it gives us a competitive edge, lowers our costs and makes us altogether more successful.
That means they cannot see the world clearly.
Secondly, from an economic point of view, in a privatized market, nuclear energy is not viable.
The experience in my own country, the United Kingdom, has proved that.
If you can name me one country with a privatized market which decides to build new power stations at this moment, I will give you a prize.
The answer lies much more in using energy rationally and in turning to renewable energy sources.
What we need now is a treaty on renewable energy, a Eurenew treaty.
Of course we need to coordinate our work.
The Environment Commissioner has to coordinate her work with the Energy Commissioner.
Energy is 90 % of the problem in climate change.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, though the road to Kyoto has been a long and stony one, the outcome, namely the Kyoto internal agreements, has provided us with a ladder up which we will have to climb in eleven months, before we are ready for the next conference in Argentina.
For one thing we in the Community have to set about changing the proposals which were made by the Commission, with an eye on the Kyoto proposal of three gases and 15 %, to six gases, which are now new.
We must also make a new proposal for the European bubble, which in my opinion should be retained, because I believe that it is good to have a joint model for the individual countries of the European Union and together to bear the burden of emission reduction, modernisation and the modification and renovation of our industrial society.
Of course, that was also why, in the last phase, instead of using the same target as the USA, namely a 7 % reduction, stated that we were committing ourselves to a reduction of 8 %.
Mr President, I would not only like to thank the Commissioner for being here, but I would also like to say to all my colleagues that I think it is usual for a Parliament which respects itself to make an initial political evaluation a week after Kyoto took place.
Mr President, there were obviously some problems with the translation.
I believe that points 6 and 8 of our resolution are of particular importance.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, as you know, at the beginning of this month an important step was made towards a global ban of anti-personnel mines.
What was unthinkable two years ago was signed two weeks ago by 122 countries: a total prohibition on the use, sale, export, storage and production of anti-personnel mines.
The Commission played an important role in the establishment of three joint actions in the context of common foreign and security policy.
Hearings, two reports and numerous resolutions which not only spurred on the Council and the Commission, but also had a positive effect outside the Union.
The real work is starting.
I recall that the Development Council as far back as November 1996, indicated that the most important thing is, of course, support for mine clearance, which must go in particular to countries which respect to the ban on antipersonnel mines.
This seems to me an important factor in conducting politics with third countries and with third world countries.
To make sure that mines are cleared as quickly as possible, effective coordination between all international efforts is needed.
Mr President, we believe it is a matter for congratulation that 14 Member States have signed the Ottawa Convention, that Finland will probably not get through 1998 without signing it and also that several of the countries that have applied to join the European Union have signed it.
In our opinion the European Union should raise the subject of anti-personnel mines in its negotiations, trade agreements and bilateral agreements with each of those countries.
Mr President, it is very encouraging and refreshing to be able to stand up in this House and say that we have some results from our labours - that we see some progress.
I look around the Chamber and I see one or two Members who helped to found the All-Party Campaign Against Landmines some time ago, when I was a new Member of this Parliament.
When the European Parliament has played a role in this peace process, we should be able to trumpet it about and perhaps take our minds off some of the negative publicity about trivia that we sometimes have to endure.
I would also ask the Commissioner to be active in cooperating with other countries that want a coordinated response.
This particular fast-track approach - the Ottawa process - should be applauded and I very much hope that we will be able to use it on other occasions.
I should also like to congratulate Jody Williams and the international campaign to ban landmines, in particular on winning the Nobel Peace Prize.
We obviously need to persuade those countries that have not signed, and in particular the United States, Russia, China, Pakistan, India - some of the main producers of landmines - to sign up.
Finally, we also need to do something about the victims of landmines.
We need to do all of these and we need to do them as speedily as possible.
Mr President, the Ottawa Conference represented a first small step, a first small victory on the long road to a comprehensive ban on landmines.
I think that the Canadian government should be congratulated on this achievement, as indeed should be Nobel Peace Prize winners Jody Williams and Thomas Gebauer of Medico International, who pressed ahead with their landmine campaign in Europe and who provided support for the Ottawa resolution.
Mr President, I would just like to say a couple of words on this important matter.
Our feelings, mine and my colleagues in the Alleanza Nazionale, are fairly contradictory at the moment because, while we have accepted the conclusions of the Ottawa summit and the treaty incorporating the requests made by our Parliament, a treaty relating to an international instrument that imposes a total prohibition on anti-personnel mines and the undertaking that the signatory companies will not use them under any circumstances, and while pleased with the number of signatory companies, which is clearly higher than expectations, at the same time we can only criticize the position of those states, including in particular the United States, Russia, China and India, which persist in not signing the Treaty and continue to produce and sell this horrible instrument of death.
In less than five years they and the active members of the public have achieved the success of getting more than 120 states to commit themselves to banning and destroying these mines.
The truth is that these mines are deliberately designed to disable people.
Fourteen EU countries have done so, but regrettably neither Finland, nor the applicant countries of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have done so.
To produce a landmine costs 3 dollars.
It is good that in its budget today the European Parliament has said that we should set about researching into this.
But we as individuals can also contribute in fact.
The risk is that Finland will start to consider very expensive alternatives to these anti-personnel mines.
The joint action of 28 November also introduces measures to implement a moratorium on the production of anti-personnel landmines and emphasizes the need, as has been stated by a number of speakers, for early ratification of the convention.
The European Union, along with other major donors and actors, expects to play a major role in achieving this.
At the same time I would expect that the Commission contribution to de-mining and related research will increase during the coming year and I would estimate that over ECU 40 million will be committed, drawing on various budget lines.
There is still much to be done; but we believe that there is still some cause for optimism; that with continuing commitment the worst of the problems, at least, can be overcome in the medium term.
Massacres took place in Burundi in 1965, in 1972, in 1973; and between 1993 and 1997 they never stopped.
But we do not say, or no longer say, that in that same country the present leaders assumed power through a military coup after democratic elections had taken place.
We rightly spoke of reconciliation and reform.
A not insignificant report by Human Rights Watch shows that dozens of countries are involved in this trade, including three EU countries: France, Belgium and Germany.
As regards Burundi, the Union should argue for an international bilateral arms embargo and supervise proper compliance.
The arms embargo turns out to be a complete sieve.
Countries such as Belgium, Germany and France are mentioned, and accused, but those accusations are left out in the compromise resolution.
But these are few suggestions in which we can merely co-participate.
But to my mind the Commission could take more concrete action.
With the permission of this House I should like to close by informing Parliament that a member of our party, who has prepared urgency debates through numerous discussions with other groups and who is very well known to the Parliamentary staff, namely Nadia van Hamme, is leaving us for Africa, although not Burundi, to carry out active peace work on that continent.
I would like to conclude with one remark, namely that if no political solution in Burundi is forthcoming, no embargo in the world will do its work.
The Commission has considered in the past the possibility of action against the uncontrolled sale of arms.
Naturally the Commission would support any action taken by Member States or the United Nations to restrict the sales of arms in the region, but it should be borne in mind, such is the complexity of the issue, that even the present economic embargo imposed on Burundi by the neighbouring states, which includes an embargo on arms sales, is patently not working.
The Commission agrees that the Organization of African Unity has an essential role to play in restoring peace and order to the Great Lakes region, which was confirmed by the Council when it decided last October that ECU 860, 000 should be allocated for logistical support to the OAU Conflict Prevention Mechanism to assist them in this work.
Furthermore the Commission continues to call on all parties to the Burundi conflict to start peace negotiations.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
We do so following the decision by the Council of Ministers at the end of last month to extend for one more year the sanctions imposed on Nigeria.
It appears for instance that two or three Member States are now issuing visas to Nigerians to do business overseas, contrary to the Council decision as we understand it.
Furthermore, many of us regret that Nigeria is to be allowed to take part in the Football World Cup next year, the denial of which could ironically have had more influence on the political situation in Nigeria than anything else.
So let us be clear: the situation in Nigeria continues to be extremely serious.
General Yar'Adua, a principal opponent of General Abacha, died in prison in mysterious circumstances.
Mr President, despite existing international pressure the so-called gradual democratization that general Abacha had promised, remains wanting.
Mr Moorhouse referred to the mysterious death of General Yar'Adua, one of the opposition leaders, and I wish to refer to the sentencing of the Nobel Prize winner Wole Soyinke who is living in exile.
It is a good thing that the Council has extended the sanctions against Nigeria by one year.
Furthermore, Mr President, Mr Commissioner, the Liberal Group remains in favour of the oil embargo.
First of all the Commonwealth Summit in Edinburgh failed to take firm action against Nigeria; then the Council extended sanctions by only one year; and then, as has been mentioned, there was the failure to apply visa restrictions with Nigeria being allowed to play in the World Cup next year.
All of these are failures on our part, as members of the European Union, and failures by the Commonwealth.
I was in Ghana recently with a mission from the European Parliament.
So we have to say to General Abacha that if he is serious, he can try to convince us of the return to democracy that he says he espouses.
For him the message is quite clear: if he is serious about this return to democracy, he must free Abiola and the other political prisoners and return to the democratic process forthwith.
The security police have confirmed the arrest and the place of detention and have cited "obstinacy' as the reason for the arrest.
Nigeria is a rich country where a large part of the population lives in conditions of total poverty, as the country's resources, particularly the income from oil exports, are used to keep a military clique and its loyal allies and servants in total luxury.
However, we have still not taken the only decision that would really affect the interests of the regime: an embargo on oil exports.
The same arrogant refusal to welcome a delegation from the European Parliament in Nigeria in October, which wanted to hold a series of meetings and visits, that would not submit to the restrictions laid down by the regime, bears witness to the absolute desire not to take positive steps along the road to democratization.
On this occasion too, the European Parliament has many requests to make to the Nigerian authorities.
Mr President, Nigeria is once more on our agenda as a result of the continuous violations of human rights and violations of democratic principles.
In the meantime new reports come our way like the death of one of the confidants of Mr Abacha, who with forty other political prisoners was incarcerated in rough conditions in a prison near Enubu, 500 kilometres from for example health-care facilities.
It is the umpteenth drama in a long series.
Worse still, Shell, which has been reducing its activities in Nigeria, is being replaced by other oil companies, which are keen to fill up the gap left by Shell.
Since that resolution, the European Union has confirmed the suspension of European aid, and the Security Council has established an oil and arms embargo against Sierra Leone and has prohibited international travel by members of the junta.
The democratic process in Sierra Leone has been described as exemplary, but we have left that country alone to cope with a thousand and one economic and social problems caused, as is often the case, by too rapid a programme of a structural change.
We therefore exposed Sierra Leone to a coup, which cannot fail to repeat itself tomorrow.
On 25 May last, the umpteenth military coup interrupted the already difficult and fragile internal negotiation process in the country and the attempts to restore acceptable democratic living conditions.
In particular, the sanctions decided in those circumstances are significant and should be applied and observed by all countries, obviously starting with those in the region, but the European Union as well.
We therefore ask the Commission and Council to take all possible initiatives to contribute towards a positive political development of the situation in Sierra Leone.
Mr President, on 25 May sections of the Sierra Leone armed forced staged a revolt.
This was the third coup d'état since 1992.
The process of democratisation introduced by the civil authorities and by the rebels of the United Revolutionary Front in March 1996, which also led to the holding of free elections with several parties participating, was destroyed.
Mr President, the population of Sierra Leone is experiencing disastrous times.
Thankfully, the European Union does give some assistance in those camps, but it now looks like more help is needed.
On that point we would like spur on the European Commission to take more political initiatives, particularly to support the tentative peace negotiations which have recently begun.
I would like to add that in Sierra Leone there are Nigerian soldiers to keep the peace.
The Tudjman government undermines democracy and freedom of speech in many ways.
I do not think President Tudjman expects the international community wishing to continue with Croatia this way.
The Liberal Group has also declared itself in favour of this.
Each time we discuss the situation in Croatia, that the number of reasons for supporting this suspension appears to have only increased.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Croatia is without doubt in a difficult situation.
In this sense we naturally support the resolution and call upon Croatia to do everything in its power to develop a fully democratic State.
Mr President, I will use my speaking time to express my support for the honourable gentleman and the other speakers.
I think it is true that in this House we feel that we want and that we try to ensure that the European countries whose ambition it is one day to become members of the European Union respect human rights.
We consider it therefore a gesture of friendship towards the Croatian people to remind them of their obligations, because in our eyes, they are the essential basis of the dialogue with countries which, I repeat, are destined to become members of the European Union.
Specifically at the moment, 100 cases are running against Globus, 45 against Feral Tribune, 32 against National, 51 against Novilus.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my Party supports this resolution because we too wish to assist Croatia in developing the type of society which we in Europe accept as normal.
The new right of association and assembly is now in line with European standards.
At any rate we find that the Helsinki Committee and Open Society Institute which have invested 30 million in the country, are not able to function openly.
I know only too well that Globus is in fact one of Croatia's keenest opposition papers, that it criticizes the Croatian Government in a manner which would not be tolerated in certain other countries, even democratic ones.
I do not even consider it unreasonable that action has been taken against Globus, since I am aware of a number of democratic countries close to Croatia in which similar events have also been reported, where editors of certain newspapers have even had to resign because they have offended the head of government.
And I would also like to remind everyone that the European community institutions, including this Parliament, continued to defend the Yugoslav utopia to its dying day, until Germany was the only country the have the courage to chose the side of the Croatian people.
Nor will I approve the resolution, as I refuse to put Croatia on a par with countries like China, North Korea, Nigeria, and so on, who are rightly admonished here.
I should also say that I consider the calls in this Parliament today for absolute political free speech in Croatia a little hypocritical.
After all, we adopt resolutions like clockwork in which political free speech within our Union is curtailed and rejected, for example, for anyone who questions the multicultural utopia.
When I consider all this, I can only conclude that Croatia should perhaps refine its democracy, but really has few lessons to learn from this Parliament.
Furthermore, in some of the translations it seems that a connection has been made between my request, or indeed that contained in the resolution, that in collaboration with the European Council an observer be sent to the Albanian Parliament, and the aid which we currently send to Albania.
The Speaker said that if the Constitutional Court did not make certain changes, then it would be dissolved on 20 December of this year, that is to say in two days time.
There is no doubt that what we understand by the rule of law is still facing many problems and, in this regard, the observations that have been set out in the resolution are based on information that we gathered when we visited Tirana within the framework of the Joint Parliamentary Commission.
The country has found relative peace and is trying to stabilize its economy in the wake of a huge scandal and it is also trying to stabilize its international relations.
Of course this in no way means that we must now forgive possible violations of democratic institutions.
The observations set out in the resolution are not erroneous, but they are rather one-sided and I believe that they are somewhat hasty because, particularly with regard to the constitutional court, our information comes only from the Albanian opposition party.
Mr President, the Liberal Group will vote against this resolution as, firstly, we oppose the idea expressed in the resolution as behaving like tutors in Albania and to see whether correct parliamentary procedures are followed or not.
In other words, Mr President, I think it a pity that hasty action by the EPP has in fact deprived us of the opportunity to produce a decent resolution.
Mr President, I would like to express my surprise at both the content and the advisability of the resolution pertaining to safeguarding law and order in Albania.
The European Parliament's delegation responsible for overseeing relations with countries of eastern Europe recently visited Tirana and, in my opinion, undertook an extremely successful mission to Albania, within the framework of the Fourth Intergovernmental Meeting between the European Parliament and the Albanian Parliament.
I had the honour of being a member of the delegation of the European Parliament and, together with the other members, I had the opportunity to identify the complex conditions prevailing in that country and the enormous economic, social and political problems that it faces.
Djibouti Mr President, the legislative elections due to take place tomorrow in the Republic of Djibouti will not bring any great surprises, because the opposition does not have freedom of expression and even Members of Parliament for the ruling party are invalidated or declared ineligible if they criticize the President, Hassan Gouled.
However, what seems exceptionally serious to this group today, is the repressive police cooperation between Djibouti and Ethiopia, both arresting each other's opponents and extraditing them so that they can be sentenced and imprisoned, as in the recent case of Mohamed Kadamy and his family and lawyers.
Rightly so, Mr President, but there are other countries in the world where the situation is equally distressing and which this Parliament in its sometimes selective enthusiasm passes over.
Such a country is Surinam, in the north of Latin America.
Mr President, in Surinam an economic drugs elite rules.
Only two days ago the head of state, General Abacha, announced the creation of a new government to replace the one he dissolved on 17 November.
The only question directly addressed to the Commission relates to the provision of a detailed report on the status of cooperation with Nigeria and the prospects for future cooperation.
I can already indicate to you that as of last week, a sum of ECU 326 million of 6th and 7th EDF funds foreseen for Nigeria has been decommitted from the last two national indicative programmes and virtually all EDF projects have been brought to an end.
The only exceptions relate to regional projects, where one project in particular - a regional air security programme - has been allowed to continue because of its importance for the region as a whole.
As for future cooperation, the Commission has not succeeded up to now in negotiating a mandate from the Nigerian authorities to mobilize some EDF funds for decentralized cooperation, as would be permitted by the 20 November 1995 common position.
I would commend Parliament for its initiative in approving at this session a new ECU 3 million budget line for democracy and good governance in Nigeria.
This position has been reflected in the four declarations put out by the Council presidency on behalf of the European Union.
Support for UN sanctions imposed on Sierra Leone has also been expressed, and measures have been taken by the European Union to implement them.
The Commission continues to recognize President Kabbah's government as the legitimate government of Sierra Leone and conducts day-to-day relations with that government in exile.
During President Kabbah's visit to the Commission at the end of October, discussions were held concerning the type of assistance which could be provided to support the implementation of the peace agreement.
The Commission is currently considering a request from a United Kingdom NGO for assistance to refugees in Guinea.
With regard to the humanitarian situation, the Commission has continued to provide humanitarian aid throughout the crisis and has recently approved a new package of mainly medical aid amounting to ECU 1.9 million, bringing the total for 1997 to ECU 3.7 million.
Of course we must focus on the quality of the aid as well as its quantity.
With regard to Croatia, it is clear from what has been said in this House that there are divergences of opinion and that there has not been a coming together of the political parties.
Having said all that, the Commission does share Parliament's concerns about respect for freedom of expression and association in Croatia, particularly with regard to recent laws and restrictions on the activities of NGOs and independent media in Croatia.
The development of improved relations between Croatia and the European Union depends on compliance with the conditionality of the regional approach, including respect for human rights.
There have been some positive developments in some areas, for example, recent cooperation with the International War Crimes Tribunal.
Until Croatia complies more fully with the conditionality of the regional approach, general economic and financial assistance through Phare will not be extended and negotiations will not begin on a cooperation agreement.
The Commission provides support for civil society organizations and to human rights monitoring and advocacy groups in Croatia, with projects to the value of ECU 2.2 million in 1997 alone.
So far in 1997 independent media projects to a value of ECU 1.67 including projects in the written press, for example, the Feral Tribune mentioned in the resolutions and Radio 101 have been approved.
The Commission intends to continue giving support in these fields.
Nonetheless I should say that the firm establishment of democratic culture in Albania remains a major problem given the heritage from the past, and that applies to the political parties, the institutions and society as a whole.
In accordance with the objectives agreed upon by Albania in the international community at the Rome ministerial conference in October of this year, the government and the opposition both need to be pressed to strive for political normalization and there has been a positive signal in the form of recent media agreements between the ruling party and the main opposition.
But it is the first half of 1998 which will be crucial because then we will see what progress is made with regard to the drafting of a constitution and the Commission considers that the participation of the opposition, in particular the democratic party in parliament and in the constitutional committee of parliament is essential for political normalization and for democracy.
This gives us a special commitment, and naturally a special honour as well, particularly on the point of consistency: consistency between saying and doing, consistency to this strategic matter, the promotion of human rights, particularly to avoid those contradictory aspects that cause harm at times, to our image as well, which is the result of the very essence of the European Union, fundamentally based on universal human rights, on respect for them and on their promotion.
In my report, I emphasize the requirements for information: information not just for the European Parliament - which we do need but we are privileged and do have information, though certainly not in real time as we would like but fairly quickly - but for all the bodies operating in the non-governmental organizations, on committed world cooperation for respect for human rights, organizations, including small ones, not just the well-known ones, operating in individual countries that do not have adequate information in time.
My report proposes that the Commission should use the new technologies more to circulate information on the measures taken by the Union for the promotion of human rights in the various countries of the world, so that anyone obtaining information can do so directly and in real time.
We need the Commission's delegations, country by country, to be able to provide us more clearly with the relationship between the initiatives conducted, the costs, the resources used and the situation of human rights in this or that country.
In other words, we need to know whether our investments serve any purpose or not, whether the situation of human rights in a country has improved or worsened after our initiatives and our intervention.
From this point of view, we need more appropriate information on the efficacy of our intervention.
I would also like to point out the proposals made in my report on the idea of organizing a large conference once a year to check the programmes drawn up by the European Union on democratization worldwide.
It would be interesting to know the difference between bureaucratic and administrative expenses and expenses intended for the promotion of human rights.
It was a positive experience and I think that it could also be done to check the effectiveness of our measures with regard to democratization and the promotion of human rights.
I will conclude by thanking all of you for your attention and by expressing my belief that, in the end, stimulated by this deadline of the 50th anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights, we can do something more and better.
Just one final word: if the death penalty was at least mentioned in this document at the Luxembourg Council - I know there is a problem in one member country - we might have taken a concrete step forward in relation to all the resolutions of the past.
The European Union should be one of the main institutions involved in providing effective and wide-ranging support for the cause of human rights, from individual projects to programmes promoting human rights and democracy.
The Treaty of Amsterdam consolidated the EU's commitment to uphold freedom, democracy, human rights, basic freedoms and constitutionality and established that the Union as a body is obligated to the principle of coherency in its foreign policy.
Council and Commission share this responsibility and the Commission has followed this up by submitting to the Council a proposal for a uniform legal structure which will serve as a framework for human rights and democracy.
Parliament's own "European democracy initiative' currently holds funding of ECU 96 million.
The fragmentation of budgetary resources for human rights and democracy projects into numerous budget categories and the lack of a coherent strategy and the division of responsibilities for its implementation within the Commission, have all contributed to this lack of transparency.
We both call for better information on the EP and on the efficiency, or failure, of the various programmes and projects, as measured against their impact on human rights and democracy in third countries.
So, what we need is more working opportunities, more resources, more objectives for the human rights policy, but by means of internal reinforcement, and in the long term - this is a very clear message we wish the Commission and our governments to hear - we need to create a post of Commissioner responsible for human rights, which would be the logical conclusion of this policy, to which we are very attached.
Mr Brittan, there is sometimes a delay of ten or eleven months, between an application for funding, in respect of a given financial year, introduced not by large companies, but by NGOs, which exist because of cofinancing, and which can be obtained, but only after months and months of red tape, which in my opinion, can be harmful.
We have only kept a few amendments - which I hope the rapporteur will be able to accept - the aim of which is to reinforce the text even more, and indeed, to make it into a good working document, of use to both the Commission and the Council, in its future deliberations.
Madam President, the Committee on Civil Liberties has made me responsible for the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control on this report.
As you know, our Committee is responsible for examining respect for human rights within the European Union.
I shall therefore confine myself to questions connected with human rights which relate to both the European Union and third countries, that is, anything relating to immigration, political asylum, the trade in human beings and sexual tourism involving children.
In particular, we ask the Commission to include, in future agreements with the third countries involved, a clause relating to the trade in human beings, and sexual tourism involving children, as is already the case for human rights.
We also consider that the joint action decided by the Council on 26 and 27 September 1996, which aims to extend the competence of the Europol Drugs Unit to the prevention of the trade in human beings, the prevention of paedophile rings and child prostitution, is fundamental.
We also consider it indispensable, within this context, for the Europol convention to be ratified as soon as possible by all the Member States.
Madam President, shortly after I was first elected to Parliament in 1989, I was asked to take part in a parliamentary delegation to observe the first ever democratic elections in Chile following the Pinochet dictatorship.
While I was there I was struck by the number of people who came up to me quite spontaneously to thank me and others in our delegation for the work the European Union had done in preserving and developing democracy in Chile during the years of the dictatorship.
That made a very deep impression on me because it made me realize just how important the European Union's work on human rights is, and the effect of often quite small amounts of money, especially the effect they can have on developing democracy in countries which are suffering from a lack of human rights.
Now, with the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Commission report which we are debating today, we should move towards a situation where human rights is much more closely integrated within the common foreign and security policy.
In particular, I am looking to the Council and the Commission, working on the development of the policy planning unit that is an essential part of the Amsterdam Treaty, to ensure there is an effective human rights dimension and conflict prevention dimension in the work of that unit.
In its document the Commission has tried to circumnavigate these problems by giving a kind of catalogue of the actual human rights and democratisation projects from a regional perspective.
I think it should be something like ECHO for humanitarian aid, but as part of the Commission.
The European Union itself is a stronghold of human rights and democracy; let us emanate this in an efficient manner throughout the world.
Madam President, though we may question whether the human rights policy pursued by the European Union is consistent, outside Europe it is experienced a great deal more positively, considering the many times appeal is made to our human rights policy.
That is why it is good that by coincidence the Commissioner who is to some extent an expert in the field is here tonight.
The proposal to establish a coordination unit very much appeals to me.
It gives the Commission, as well as this Parliament, more power in its functioning.
It will probably direct more individuals and NGOs in our direction, which will have to make us even more selective, and we will have to give more meaning to our programmes, but with these proposals as they are before us, this must be possible in the sense of coordinating them.
Our group supports the proposal for the setting up of one single service for human rights and democratization within the Commission.
Aid should continue to be part of the main thrust of the policy.
Annual evaluation conferences on human rights and democratisation programmes for third countries are much more effective.
However, the EU is still a long way from having a coherent civil foreign policy.
We support the proposal for setting up an office of human rights and democracy within the Commission.
I refer in particular to decentralized projects based on local initiatives which make a vital contribution to social stability and to human rights activities which seek to protect and restore the dignity of individual men and women.
I think we could have an annex and add 'to the bodies of the European Union' , because as some Members know, although a number of projects remain blocked in the Commission for many months, waiting to obtain the funding, which has been agreed, there are other projects.
I am very pleased that Commissioner Brittan is present, because some very important projects regarding democratization and human rights have been sitting in drawers in the Commission's departments for two years.
Madam President, the political systems are all the more democratic and pluralist as their political institutions become more effective and their legal systems more independent.
A European Union which, however, is not managing to provide the necessary transparency to make its overall effort for the promotion of human rights as visible as possible.
In our opinion, given its natural democratic specificity, the European Parliament should be more effective in defining policies on human rights, firstly by placing the financing allocated to the sector in one single budget entry and, even if this happened recently, exercising the additional budget power provided by the Treaty, which has still not seemed sufficient.
In addition to the managerial problems of aid for the sector, the practice of policies actually aimed at the protection of human rights seems lame to us.
Several examples include the Council resolution which, with regard to asylum procedure, provides for the application of the concept of the safe third country, actually requires the transit country bordering the Member States to readmit persons seeking asylum without providing sufficient legal guarantees, particularly for the victims of acts of violence, women and children, and belittles the quality of the protection of human rights, which we are deciding upon.
Another example of family protection is the protection of human rights in the sector, which is also a priority of our family policies, which is thwarted when we do not recognize that the immigrant citizens of third countries have the right to live in families, the right to reunite the family.
The European citizen asks us for assurance and we therefore consider it essential, in defining the policies on the right to the protection of human rights, to take measures to coordinate the criminal legislation of the Member States so as to establish a clause of universal extraterritoriality, which makes it possible to make inquiries, prosecute and penalize individuals committing offences abroad and then avoiding the punishment by hiding in the folds of an incomplete legal system which, in our opinion, should be defined as a matter of urgency on pain of our credibility in the protection of human rights.
Madam President, I wish to thank the rapporteurs for these reports on measures intended to promote observance of human rights.
In all agreements with third countries the European Union must continue to press for the inclusion of specific human rights clauses.
The fact that the European Union is the world's principal donor of humanitarian aid, is neither known nor understood by many of our citizens.
Unfortunately, the report does not compare projects for effectiveness, nor does it set down the criteria on which projects are or should be assessed.
In the context of the forthcoming negotiations on future relations between the European Union and the ACP countries under the Lomé Convention, a stable political system, full respect for human rights, effective participation by society, allied to good government and sound administration, should be recognized as fundamental foundations for sustainable development and the focus of our development policy.
These relate to paragraphs 6, 8 and 9 in the Imbeni report.
In addition the Commission should collect information from international organizations such as Amnesty, the OSCE and the Council of Europe.
Madam President, today we are discussing a document from the European Commission on the implementation in 1995 of its actions to promote human rights and democratisation.
It is curious that very large sums, fortunes in fact, have been invested in all kinds of projects, but that apparently there were no interim criteria to verify the usefulness of these investments, or in any case afterwards, and that no investigations were made either into whether the subsidized projects and organizations were also supported by third parties, for example the Member States, independently.
As far as that is concerned I can only agree wholeheartedly with paragraphs 16 and 17 of the report.
I am not saying that all the money in this budget area has been spent fruitlessly.
But I do question in a major way the lack of monitoring when subsidies are given, the lack of evaluation afterwards, the fundamental desirability of leaving the implementation of this policy, which should form part of a coherent foreign policy when it is deemed necessary, in the hands of the European Commission.
But I do know the way in which Commission officials in my own country use all kinds of subsidies to all kinds of organizations.
It would be good for human beings all over the world if those aims could be increasingly present and effective in the European Union's decisions and initiatives.
There is a lack of coordination of actions to defend human rights, and the available financial resources are patently insufficient and lacking in coordination to promote actions to defend the dignity of being human.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, human rights are valued very highly in Austria.
This will also see the adoption of action plan "Human Rights 2000' .
Better coordination within the Commission, a strengthening of the Council's authority over human rights issues and greater cooperation with the European Parliament, all these would be very welcome moves indeed.
The aim of the 1998 Year of Human Rights must be to underpin the respect of universal standards of human rights at national level by effective control, support and deterrence.
I shall now comment on some more general points.
I am not sure that would solve the problem.
The real problem is not so much that there are different Commissioners but that there are different considerations relating to geographical situation and a human rights consideration generally.
You cannot simply solve that by saying that the human rights aspect should be dealt with by a Commissioner responsible for human rights.
That would weaken the policy for human rights itself.
It is only handling China as such that one can have the proper balance in handling things between a broader policy and a human rights policy.
So that is not necessarily the most attractive solution although one can continue to reflect on it.
I am not sure that is the purpose of this debate but he happened to mention the Panchen Lama and I can only say that I raised that matter myself at the highest level.
And sometimes it is because of the question of access to money for the particular project.
Of course there are sometimes.
Finally, on these general points, I should say a word about visibility.
If you are advising people and helping people to build a bridge, it is useful and good for the image of the European Union that people should know that the European Union is giving help.
But, in the case of human rights activities, I would suggest that the visibility is a much more central feature of what we are doing.
It shows not only that we are doing something but also that our concern about the country is one in which human rights is central.
The Commission has restructured the departments of its Directorates General, managing the human rights budget headings by creating in each of them a unit in charge of ensuring that all activities carried out in the field of human rights, democracy and the rule of law dovetail with cooperation activities.
With regard to the request to be notified regularly by the Commission of action taken in non-member countries, I would like to point out that various reports take stock of such action, such as the reports on action taken on the resolution on human rights, democracy and development, and the annual reports on the implementation of action to promote human rights and democratization which review the use of all funds under Chapter B7-70.
Moreover, the Commission also draws up an annual report on the utilization of the headings: ' democratization process in Latin America' and 'Meda for democracy' .
The Commission takes the view that priority should be given to a professional approach - which a number of people have favoured in the debate - in terms of methodology, logistics and training.
Thanks to the funds that have been made available, pilot schemes have been carried out over the last couple of years.
We will also examine the proposal to create a European network for human rights and democracy in the light of experience gained and also taking due account of other networks such as the office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and that of the Council of Europe.
To respond to your concern about interinstitutional cooperation, I should like to point out that as early as 1989, the Commission approved the proposal aimed at facilitating interinstitutional contacts by creating a working group with the task of setting up an information exchange network and mapping out a joint action on human rights.
At the same time we have taken note of the proposal to amend the 1998 budget to create a consultative committee on human rights action programmes.
Let me stress that coherence, effectiveness and flexibility are the criteria which drive our positions in the various fields involving human rights.
Benchmarking The next item is the report (A4-0387/97) by Mr Murphy, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on Benchmarking - implementation of an instrument available to economic actors and public authorities (COM(97)0153 - C4-0387/97).
I am glad to say to the Commissioner that the rapporteur welcomes the Commission's intention to establish a European network of expertise for enterprises to ensure the availability of coherent, trustworthy and equivalent services, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises throughout the European Union.
The rapporteur believes that the full value added of benchmarking to the European Union will be best realized if the particular needs of small and medium-sized enterprises are taken into account as a priority and calls in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises to be directly involved in the High Level Group through participants specifically representing SMEs, and also with the establishment of the European Network of benchmarking expertise.
He calls for the European Parliament to be directly involved with the work of the High Level Group through observer status of a small number of MEPs, and reasserts the call for the European Parliament to be invited to participate in the annual tripartite Commission organized benchmark assessment visits to Japan and the United States of America.
High priority should be given to the interface between education and training on the one hand and the workplace on the other, as this is an area where the EU is clearly lagging behind other leading world economies.
Finally, the rapporteur congratulates the Commission once again and commends the report to the House.
When as far back as 1995 everyone was talking about European employment strategies and the European employment union, the liberals pointed out that the fight against unemployment is primarily a concern of national and regional authorities, and not Europe.
The rapporteur rightly argues for the direct involvement of SMEs in this context.
Finally, I would to like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report.
The Commission has already carried out a number of pilot projects and found that benchmarking is an enormously important method for investigating and finding out what shortcomings there are in the European business climate, and how we shall find solutions to these shortcomings.
I am very satisfied with what the rapporteur writes in paragraph 10 that people should not identify competitiveness and the connection between the Union's losses in industrial markets with wage conditions.
We should also consider that applying this method will show up both the strong and the weak sides of the European economy.
Paragraph 10 gives an example of this.
The link between the loss in market share and labour costs which are too high cannot be proven, it is true, but a reasonable case can be made for it.
The consequences of the mental impoverishment of future generations are child's play in the comparison with the present unemployment problem in Europe.
The communication that we are discussing today is in response to subsequent calls by Parliament and the Council for the development of pilot projects designed to give concrete expression to our contribution.
In this context and in agreement with Parliament's proposal, the Commission plans to give priority to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises in setting up a European network for the benchmarking of business performance.
Benchmarking the performance of sectors depends on the specific conditions in each sector and we duly noted Parliament's request to examine why some sectors perform better than others in their global competitiveness.
We would also like to draw Parliament's attention to our recent report on the benchmarking of competitive performance in Ireland and New Zealand.
This report could be regarded as a first step towards benchmarking the good performance of some Member States of the European Union as Parliament suggested in its report.
As indicated in its communication, the Commission will set up a high-level advisory group on benchmarking early in the New Year.
The Commission and the Member States have now launched this initiative for benchmarking the competitive performance of European industry.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
A glance at joint actions already taken by the European Union, particularly the administration of Mostar, followed by electoral monitoring, as in Palestine and Bosnia, mine-clearance, special missions such as that to Ruanda, and the Kedo actions, all portray an extreme lack of coherence in the way in which these activities are being implemented and administered.
This lack of uniformity also signifies a lack of transparency, a lack of structures and a lack of effective control.
This can be blamed on a constructional defect in the Maastricht Treaty, which, while determining that decisions in respect of a common foreign and security policy were to be made in accordance with the rules of intergovernmental cooperation, also ruled that such actions would be implemented from the Community budget - and therefore in line with conventional practice.
The interinstitutional agreement merely related to issues associated with the rapid provision of funds for joint foreign and security actions and rejected the Council's attempt to declare these budget monies as mandatory.
The many weaknesses in the system, particularly in the Mostar action, the lack of clarity on the management of funds and the collaboration between Commission departments in Brussels and special envoys in the field, indicate that the Commission must carry out its functions to the full.
To be able to assess the success of such actions, it is important not only to carry out an audit of the quota of funds allocated by the European Union, but also of course to have access to all available data associated with the project, particularly in respect of the contributions made by the individual Member States.
The additional arrangements provided under the Amsterdam Treaty are, in my opinion, not enough.
The development of an interinstitutional agreement along the lines I have proposed, which has also been basically endorsed by the Commission in its Committee discussions, can constitute the next small step forwards.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Müller not only for her report, but also for the thorough and unremitting way in which she has attended to the concerns of the common foreign and security policy, especially in the former Yugoslavia.
I would ask you to bear in mind that the Common Foreign and Security Policy is also our coat of arms, a coat of arms which the European Union displays to the world.
If there is confusion, if there is a lack of transparency, then let us carry out an internal examination of our budgetary control procedure, but you must see that the confusion which we find in this area is a sign, a symptom of a more far-reaching disarray, and this may well be seen around the world, even by people who do not even know that there is a Committee for Budgetary Control or even a European Court of Auditors.
The rapporteur has therefore been dealing with an area in which the temptation to be drawn into dogmatism, a religious war as it were, is very great indeed.
We in this Parliament would have liked the European Council to have shown a lot more courage here, rather than the fainthearted approach adopted to date.
The Court of Auditors has summed up the figures for previous years and the result is clear-cut: more than 90 % of the funds allocated for joint actions came from the EU budget.
We do not want to seize the reins of European foreign policy ourselves - that would not be the role of any Parliament, and certainly not a European one - but we also want to be able to monitor the situation and to satisfy ourselves that European taxpayers' money is being used wisely and well.
As ever, our main attention is directed at the former Yugoslavia.
Our Committee has developed an excellent relationship with Hans Koschnick, the former administrator of Mostar.
Also underlying this, however, is the question of what changes should be brought to the remit and to the work of the Commission in the former Yugoslavia.
One attitude is to accept the Müller report, which, based on an apparent concern for efficiency, sees in the financial provisions of the new article 28 of the treaty, a need to increase the communitarization of the whole of the CFSP, by reinforcing the powers of the Commission, and of course, the powers of the European Parliament, within the framework of a new inter-institutional agreement.
But if this Parliament is really concerned about the efficiency of the CFSP, and not only concerned with increasing its powers rapaciously, it should recommend a different attitude in order to overcome the contradiction between the institutional nature of the CFSP, and its method of financing.
It is therefore particularly important to emphasize, during the ratification debates which will take place in our various countries, the need to correct the division introduced by the Treaty of Amsterdam, as soon as possible, by finding the required technical solution so that the conditions of funding of the CFSP are suited to its intergovernmental nature.
The report also gives us a clear idea of the problems which exist in implementing our common foreign and security policy.
I would therefore like to make it clear that Parliament does not want to make foreign policy.
In sub-paragraph 5, the Budget Control Committee suggests the creation of an operational group under the responsibility of the European Commission.
And that, in my opinion, should be the additional role of the European Commission, together with the support it can give the Commission's delegations in third world countries to carry out joint actions, or the support it can give special envoys from the Union.
It is, after all, the Council that decides on joint actions and it then decides how they should be financed.
It is the presidency that is responsible for implementing them, as is very clear by article J5 of the Union Treaty.
So what have we done in 1997 to tackle the points made by the Court?
In the 1998 budget ECU 500, 000 should be on the line B 8014.
Secondly, in addition to that, the Commission has drawn up a special specific financial sheet for the CFSP which encodes the global context of each action, including financial contributions from the Member States and also from other international organizations.
Thanks to the interinstitutional agreement on the financing of CFSP, the delay for implementing a joint action will, in my view at least, be substantially reduced.
For example, there is no longer a budgetary reserve.
Finally, what still has to be done to improve CFSP joint actions?
There is some overlap in the budget between CFSP credits and other credits such as mine-clearing or electoral process actions.
Sometimes the Commission wishes to make a political gesture by giving resources to international organizations.
The debate is closed.
