The question of IPE IV and its completion has nothing to do with the agenda.
Mr President, I think it is a good idea to have a joint debate because I would not want to force a new debate tomorrow morning, to be followed by a vote on Thursday, 48 hours later.
The motion you quote comes from all the political groups in Parliament without exception, namely a total of 69 Members.
Thank you, Mr Fabre-Aubrespy.
The President of the Commission agreed to this proposal Mr President, Rule 34 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure states that the debate on a motion of censure shall not take place until at least 24 hours after its receipt is announced to Members.
I put to the vote the proposal that the two motions of censure should be taken in joint debate.
Mr President, our group requests that the debate on Agenda 2000, in other words the reform of agriculture policy, and the vote on the reports discussed should not be held at different times.
Thank you, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf.
I appreciate that there is simply not time to vote on over 400 amendments.
Parliament rejected the request Mr President, I quite understand that the vote on Agenda 2000 and the 400 amendments to it has been postponed.
So in any event, the number of signatures is above the minimum required for the vote on the motion of censure.
Mr President, on 17 December immediately after the vote on the Elles report I tabled a motion of censure on the European Commission on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of European Socialists.
It had been my public position in this House and in the media for some weeks prior to that vote that the decision on discharge of the 1996 budget was a clear statement about the financial competence or otherwise of the European Commission.
The motion of censure was tabled by me to demand that those who felt the Commission was culpable with respect to the 1996 budget should face up to their responsibility.
That is in nobody's best interest and certainly not of those who are depending on the outcome of European Union policies - the people of the European Union.
We had supported the demands of the Committee on Budgetary Control when it postponed discharge in March and asked for further clarification and action.
It must be said that there are colleagues in this House in all groups - mine included - who believe that such is the severity of the problems which was displayed by the European Commission over the 1996 discharge, that they could not grant discharge and they will vote for the motion of censure.
A major weakness in our constitutional arrangements which has been revealed by this current crisis is that, unlike executives in almost any other setting, the European Commission has no ability to come to this House and ask for a vote of confidence.
I listened with amusement to the reaction of parliamentarians on the eve of the Elles vote when the Commission made clear in its statement that it considered the vote a matter of confidence.
In the three weeks since the motion of censure was tabled, things have changed.
As I have already explained, the motion of censure was posited on the failure to grant discharge in December.
I should like to say to President Santer that it has been my view for some time - and I have argued this with him before - that the European Commission is at present the accumulation of 15 national administrative cultures.
In that respect this Parliament too has much to gain and learn from such an approach.
All of us here across this House are committed to weeding out abuses, using our powers to expose fraud and bring those responsible to justice in the proper way through the appropriate judicial authorities.
If we are to demand the heads of certain individuals on the basis of public campaigns before proper investigation is completed, or sometimes even started, then perhaps we should have resigned en masse when the media was at its most vitriolic in claiming that MEPs were abusing their allowances and expenses regime.
In the cause of Paul Van Buitenen both those responsibilities were breached.
It is in this area where I believe the Commission is vulnerable and must show great determination.
The time is right to acknowledge that such is the depth of concern that only an independent review can restore confidence and trust in the way in which the Commission deals with abuses in its own programmes.
President Santer, in early December, after two discussions between ourselves, you wrote to me offering the opportunity for Parliament to be involved in your management reforms.
So our third demand is for an independent review to assess and make recommendations on the detection and follow-up of abuses before the end of this year.
In the weeks leading up to the discharge vote, this issue became a major issue of confidence - rightly so, in my view.
There is very little as important as the way in which the Commission spends public money at a time when public funds are under desperately tight control for reasons which we all know.
It is simply unacceptable to say we do not trust the Commission with the spending of public money but we are not prepared to do anything further about it.
I must begin, however, by expressing my warmest thanks to the 60 Members who have had the courage to put their names to another motion of censure, a genuine motion of censure.
These 69 Members represent all the political groups in this House: nine from the GUE Group, one from the Socialist Group, 13 from the Green Group, two from the ARE Group, two from the ELDR Group, four from the UPE Group, 11 from the PPE Group - to be followed, I gather, by many more - plus 16 from the I-EDN Group and 11 from the NI Group.
In putting down this motion of censure which, unlike the Socialist motion, is an unambiguous motion of censure and not a motion of confidence in disguise, those Members who have signed it are, given the seriousness of the accusations levelled at the Commission, carrying through the logical consequence of the vote held on 17 December.
And we have just now received, for the first time, a document dated 8 January which I would invite you to read because it details all the facts of which the Commission stands accused, together with the legal procedures which have been instituted, albeit sometimes late in the day.
The issue here is not the position of this or that Commissioner, not even the position of the President of the Commission; what is at issue is the credibility of the European Parliament and the confidence of Member State citizens in the European institutions.
For this reason I would urge you, ladies and gentlemen, whatever happens in the next few days, to vote for the motion of censure, the only genuine motion of censure, which I and 68 of my fellow Members have put down.
We are undoubtedly - I think no one should have any illusions about it - experiencing a crisis of severe proportions in the European Union between Parliament and the Commission.
The first thing I must say is that the indirect or moral support given by the European Commission to the idea of a motion of censure was a major political blunder.
This, Mr Santer, is the first point made in our oral question: we want you to explain this to us.
I said here on 17 December, on behalf of our group, that we retained our faith in the Commission President that he would carry out the reforms which were manifestly an absolute necessity, and in that way restore real confidence between Parliament and the Commission.
So this is, in the true sense of the word, a debate on Parliament's confidence in the Commission.
I agree with those who say - and I shall say it in my conclusion - that confidence between Parliament and the Commission is vitally important to the European Union.
There is still, Mr Santer, a very large majority of more than two thirds in this House in favour of bringing this job of integration, this European Union, to completion under your inspiring guidance and on the basis of your proposal.
We cannot put down a motion of confidence.
Nevertheless - and I shall speak as objectively as possible - it is not the Commission's political activities which are at issue here today.
These are not the issue today, but objectivity requires us to say that this European Commission has done important work here.
What is in question - and the whole confidence issue relates to this - is management.
You will shortly be telling us that you want to make this Commission of tomorrow a reality and see it forged in cooperation with Parliament, with the combating of fraud, transparency and the bringing of legal proceedings where necessary being a matter of course in order to bring about this process of rationalisation and reform.
We believe it is vital to have codes of conduct: codes of conduct for Commissioners, codes of conduct for relations between Commissioners, their private offices and departments, codes of conduct for officials; we want close cooperation with Parliament in considering and debating the reform of the Staff Regulations; we want transparency and good faith in the appointing of officials, more specifically those of grades A1 and A2; we want clear rules and restrictions on outside appointments; we want clear rules for management of the budget, more specifically concerning technical assistance offices; we want reform of the Financial Regulation - here too, we want clear rules for outside personnel.
We want an undertaking from you that you will in the very near future hold an open discussion with Parliament on an independent OLAF and your promise to stand by this vis-à-vis the other institutions.
I feel let down, to find ourselves facing all this at the end of this parliamentary term, after we have introduced the euro, after the historic challenge of enlargement and the discussions we have had about our own remuneration.
For my group I want to say that we all share a consciousness about achieving the strategic agenda: the standing of the euro, the exploitation of the new powers foreseen in the Amsterdam Treaty, Agenda 2000 and enlargement, to name but a few.
In this regard, as institutions with a European vocation, the Commission and Parliament are natural allies.
But in addition to its legislative and strategic agenda the Commission is also responsible for the day-to-day management of EU affairs.
This House is the bar of public accountability before which the Commission is held accountable for its conduct in office.
In this domain it is natural to expect a certain degree of creative tension between the Commission, as executive, and Parliament.
We are holding this debate now because twice in the past 12 months the Commission has failed to win discharge for the 1996 budget, and because in advance of our vote on 17 December 1998 the Commission insisted that in the event of a negative outcome Parliament must clarify the situation by proceeding to a vote on a censure motion.
The Treaty confers on Parliament the right to censure only the entire college of Commissioners.
In every Member State cabinet government operates on the basis of collective responsibility.
Yet Article 159 of the Treaty anticipates the possibility of Commissioners resigning without reference to specific circumstance.
Article 160 provides for a tougher remedy in respect of individual Commissioners.
While I accept that the Treaty makes no reference to the right of Parliament to censure individual Commissioners, it is silent on the right of Parliament to demand an individual, clear political preference in respect of the conduct of Commissioners' affairs.
Last month the Commission empowered itself to demand of this House a vote of confidence through the censure route.
Today's debate, in a concrete way, challenges each individual MEP to consider whether politically the circumstances exist to warrant a clear political statement demanding individual responsibility.
The aim is purely and simply to neutralise the political impact of the vote we took in December by a very large majority - 270 for and 225 against - to deny the Commission a discharge in respect of the management of budget appropriations in 1996.
What is more, they appear to have been orchestrated by the Commission which, prior to the December vote, had challenged the European Parliament to table a motion of censure.
Their roots predate the time when the present Commission took office, but that fact does not exonerate the Commission as a whole from its own responsibilities, nor does it exonerate any one Commissioner individually, whether he held office before 1994 or since then.
But if, as a result of ongoing judicial or internal inquiries, serious clusters of presumptions suggest that present or past Commissioners or officials have failed in their duties, the Commission must have the courage to take the full consequences.
If members of the College of Commissioners are involved, it must ask them to resign, on pain of being compulsorily retired under the terms of Article 160 of the Treaty.
Besides, in our opinion there are no good or bad moments for rigorously and extensively tackling questions as serious as these on fraud.
The Commission itself brought things to a head and secured the support of Parliament's largest group in equating the refusal of the discharge with a motion of censure.
But the problem at the moment is not whether we need a Commission to take the Union forward, but whether a discredited and weak Commission is still capable of helping that European Union to survive.
The way in which the Commission has proceeded against its official Mr Van Buitenen is quite simply disgusting.
But however that censure motion goes, the Greens want in any event to back a resolution which is as tough as it can be, because this Union must operate with a Commission which is able to keep things in order and take up the challenges which face it, and the ability of the Commission to do that with its current membership is very much open to question.
We also need to know exactly whether there has been fraud or malpractice and, if so, who the perpetrators were.
But we can only do that by respecting the rule of law.
That is already a serious matter when the responsibility of the Commission as a body is under attack, but it is more serious still when individuals are being named and accused left, right and centre.
Thus there is no way we can approve a motion for a resolution of the kind which is doing the rounds in this House and which targets two Commissioners in particular, unless the judicial rules I mentioned have been respected.
Applause Mr President, in February 1997 when the European Parliament was launching its inquiry into mad cow disease, our colleague Jean-Claude Martinez criticised the Commission for its 'deafening silence'.
He criticised the gross errors, the lies, the maladministration and this silence, the purpose of which was not to imperil the 1993 single market and the single currency envisaged in the Maastricht Treaty.
If the French electorate had known the truth about BSE on 20 September 1992, what chance would there have been of securing the few thousand 'yes' votes needed for victory?
In his defence, Mr Santer may claim that the frauds did not start with him but under his Socialist predecessor, Jacques Delors, for whom stewardship was of no importance.
It is unacceptable and unjustifiable that an institution of this kind, which is irresponsible in the true sense of the word, should be demanding new powers as envisaged in the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties and, at the same time, should be wasting European taxpayers' money without punishing the black sheep.
Messrs Chirac, Seguin, Pasqua, Madelin, Bayrou, Jospin, Cohn-Bendit, Hue, all of you upholders of a federalist Europe and the shameful Treaties of Amsterdam and Maastricht, you are responsible both for the exorbitant powers of the European Commission, a truly totalitarian bureaucracy, and for the culpable weakness you show towards this institution which has so sadly lost its way.
But the Christian Democrats are even more hypocritical.
Ladies and gentlemen, voting to withhold the discharge from the European Commission and voting to censure it are two acts which are legally separate but which politically go together.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last December the European Parliament held an in-depth debate on the discharge for implementation of the 1996 budget.
For more than four years now, I have seen how vital it is to the European Union that a relationship of trust should exist between our two institutions.
The successes we have achieved recently would not have been possible without close cooperation between the European Parliament and the Commission.
Mr President, I have always said that I wanted to be judged on what I have done, on my track record.
I invite you to re-read my inaugural address to you in January 1995 and judge for yourselves whether I have kept my word.
In this battle, I have always had the confidence of Parliament, and it was vital.
We have spectacularly improved the speed at which directives are transposed into national law, imposing where necessary the sanctions provided for in Article 171 of the Treaty.
And thanks to the resumption of growth, thanks to the strategy put in place, unemployment is falling and in Europe it has now dropped below the 10 % level.
Cooperation between our two institutions was exemplary during the negotiations.
And that is reflected in the end result which, though it does not meet all our aspirations, is a good one.
Hence the importance of Agenda 2000, the expression of a global approach encompassing enlargement, policy reform and the financial framework.
We have made more reforms in four years than in the 40 years before that.
In 1994, UCLAF handled 220 inquiries.
Today the figure is 950 and the results are there to see, in UCLAF's annual reports.
There are important things for us to complete successfully under a true contract of trust between our two institutions.The Union is gearing up for new challenges.
I shall be putting our ideas and proposals on this matter to you before the elections to the new European Parliament.
This too is a question of confidence.
Another major dossier awaits us in 1999, justice and home affairs.
I shall implement this new overall concept before the end of my term, in agreement with the new president-designate.
This Commission was the first, on 22 November 1995, to lay down rules of conduct in interpretation of Article 157 of the Treaty.
The second code of conduct concerns relations between Commissioners and their private offices and departments.
I can tell you now that I shall be recommending a reduction in the number of staff in private offices, a greater mix of nationalities in them and a limitation of the number of temporary staff.
My fifth point deals more specifically with the question of appointments.
As regards the specific case of the technical assistance office for Leonardo, mentioned in a number of oral questions, a report by our financial controller was sent to the Committee on Budgetary Control before Christmas.
It is important to reach agreement as soon as possible, and I raised the question just this morning with the President of the European Council, Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schröder.
Lastly, I am altogether in favour of a plenary debate on the reforms, to be held in May.
Applause And I have to wonder if you would have said all this if we had not had this falling-out between Parliament and the Commission?
But I want to show good will, because we all need a strong Commission.
Now I am not suggesting that the Commission has not investigated many things of its own accord, but it has always taken a lot of debate and pressure from us too to establish transparency vis-à-vis Parliament.
Heckling It must be said once and for all that, yes, we admit our responsibility for the things that have gone wrong.
You have put forward proposals now, but why did you not do it a little sooner?
But the crisis is not always used to make a new beginning.
But the Committee on Budgetary Control and certainly my own group have never wanted to resort to destructive means, but to use constructive means of reforming things which have been acknowledged as wrong and have to some degree shaken confidence.
It is unfortunate that things reached the point where we postponed the discharge, setting you a deadline for giving us an explanation of how things stand in the Commission rather than just serving up half-truths to us.
Mr Santer, you promised us a number of things from the programme which the Committee on Budgetary Control put together and our rapporteur Mr Elles presented, although regrettably it was not voted upon.
Can you give us a list of the 27 cases which UCLAF is investigating?
Can you tell us if we shall be getting a reply from Mrs Cresson to the letter which the Committee on Budgetary Control sent her in November following a very inconclusive joint meeting?
Mr President, I want to say firstly to the President of the Commission that my group will study the detail of what he has proposed to us here this evening.
Applause In the context of this debate, Mr President of the Commission, as I said earlier my group believes this is a wider debate than merely the questions of the 1996 budget.
In the fight against fraud you proposed a new high-level group to do its work by the end of March.
Mr Santer, I fear you did not understand the message this House sent you on 17 December.
After the mission to Sarajevo on 21 February last headed by Tom Spencer, of which Edith Müller and myself were part, we sent you a severe reprimand in the critical report we drew up, and Commissioner van den Broek, who is present here, made some concessions, even though to our mind they are not enough.
Most of us want the Committee on Budgetary Control to continue its work; we want Diemut Theato and James Elles to be truly in a position to exercise their authority in liaison with the Commission.
There are very broad intentions in eight fields but these consist of measures with very little substance to each one.
Mr President, I have to say that listening to what Mr Santer has had to say in the midst of this crisis, things seemed almost unreal at times.
Secondly, as regards Mr Van Buitenen, I think it beggars belief to say that he is a whistle-blower by going to Parliament after all the avenues he tried.
Mr Santer, you put us in a dilemma.
Having listened to you, I recognise your good intentions and that we share the same objective of restoring confidence, confidence in the Commission.
But the record of what has already been achieved in the last four years is not precise, and I can see that the members of my group are hesitant.
But in our view the facts are there for all to see.
Mr President, Mr Santer, ladies and gentlemen, our group will of course consider the wide-ranging proposals and pledges you have made and decide on our position tomorrow.
So we shall determine in our group where we stand on them.
I would like to ask whether other members of the Commission are also prepared to accept a share of the responsibility?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with you, Mr Santer, that the issue here is confidence, trust between our institutions, but in my view, trust presupposes the clear acceptance of responsibilities.
Give a sign of good will in Paul Van Buitenen's case.
You have until Thursday.
Applause Mr President, I speak on my own account and in some disappointment.
But you always perform a cover-up.
The call for tenders for Leonardo was issued before I took office.
The TAO for Leonardo has on several occasions been the subject of observations and checks by DG XXII on a number of proposals or payment requests from that office.
Those requests were refused by DG XXII, and we have looked at the very long list of comments made by officials of DG XXII.
We have launched the European Voluntary Service, with Parliament's help, because I would never have got this from the Council without Parliament's assistance, and I think that in all these instances we can take satisfaction from the cooperation which has existed, for me and for my colleagues too, between the Commission and Parliament.
Ladies and gentlemen, if I have, in my 14 years of management activity, done some good things, I have doubtless made some mistakes as well.
And at the time, you said you were convinced that in not renewing the existing contract and freezing the programme until a detailed examination had been completed, the Commission had taken the right decision.
I am sorry, Mrs Müller, obviously, but that is how things are.
The problem was deciding whether or not we should take our officials to court.
But part of the work has been done.
But of course, Mr Martens, I assure you that I greatly regret the present situation.
I may have done things which in policy terms were wrong.
We also put UCLAF on more of an operational footing.
UCLAF is currently investigating 950 cases, only 27 of which concern the Commission.
Furthermore, it is thanks to the work of UCLAF, and thanks to the audits and inquiries carried out, that cases of fraud going back to 1992, 1993 and 1994 have been detected.
Anyone in his own Member State who reads the report of its national audit office will also find a number of irregularities.
This is why I say that we have not waited until now to begin the necessary reforms - we have MAP 2000, SEM 2000 and the increased staffing of UCLAF.
The first table was sent, I am told, on 23 November last.
Having said that, this debate will also provide the necessary incentive for us to find ways of ensuring that the conduct of our internal management is indeed transparent.
The European Parliament has a number of ways of scrutinising that.
The debate is closed.
