The resolution which I signed on behalf of my group on Tuesday included in the final paragraph a reference to Michelin.
The negotiated version of the resolution did not contain any reference to Michelin.
I would therefore suggest that a vote be taken on this issue in Brussels after the Strasbourg part-session.
If the reference to Michelin is there, that is the text we should vote on today.
Madam President, I too would like to say something on the matter as I dealt with this resolution on behalf of the liberal group.
Right from the word go, it was decided to omit the word "Michelin" from the resolution because it would otherwise be impossible to reach a joint resolution.
There was not a unanimous opinion at the Conference of Presidents in favour of removing the reference to Michelin in the debate.
As far as we are concerned, the matter is very simple: we put our signature to a document which specifically mentioned Michelin, and so for us the compromise is clear on this point.
And the question is very simple: those who are against this point being included in the resolution may ask for a separate vote.
And this extends to another problem which has arisen in relation to the fisheries agreement, to which there has been a modification without the knowledge of the signatories.
And also, I would ask you to inform the political groups who have signed this motion for a resolution so that they may know exactly what has occurred: whether it was a technical error on the part of those who presented it or whether it was a technical error on the part of those who allowed it.
And I would also like, Madam President, to tell you that the motion for a resolution will be debated this afternoon and I understand that, in accordance with Rule 37(3), the vote should take place following the debate, that is, this afternoon and not tomorrow, as you have said.
It is absolutely unacceptable for such compromise resolutions to be modified without the knowledge of their authors.
Anything else is pure confusion and we do not understand it and, anyway, we do not understand why something as normal as a minority group of MEPs supporting the majority groups, should be presented in such a problematic light.
The people who agree with Michelin should have the courage to say so, and those who do not agree with Michelin and with the layoffs should be able to say so, but let us not beat about the bush for hours on end.
This involves the following amendments: Amendment Nos 409, 471, 520, 621, 612, 565, 637 and 459.
Mr Bourlanges, I can confirm this, and I can tell you that the linguistic services have already been made aware of these problems, and will make the necessary corrections.
We shall now move on to chapter B1-400 which requires a majority of 314 votes.
So, if this compromise is adopted, we should still have to vote on the heading for line B1­4050, amendment 507, with a favourable opinion from the Committee on Budgets and in a split vote requested by the Group of the Greens, as well as the heading for line B1­406 on Amendment No 69, this time with a vote by roll call.
Thus, the compromise amendment concerns lines B1­400, B1­401, B1­402, B1­4030, B1­404, B1­4050, B1­406, B1­4070, B1­408 and concerns a total amount of EUR 115 million, or, more precisely, it deducts EUR 115 million from the margin.
Madam President, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I would like to thank the coordinators of all Groups in the Committee on Budgets for the fact that this compromise has been achieved.
We still have to vote on the heading for line B1-4050, Amendment No 507 and the heading for line B1-406 on Amendment No 69.
Amendment 69 did not present a problem for the coordinators in terms of the amount.
Thank you, Mr Bourlanges.
Relating to Amendment No 430 Madam President, may I ask how it is that there is a change to the voting order?
We have Amendment No 430 on the European Year of Languages as the next amendment to be voted on.
In terms of procedure, this means that amendments 647, 648, 649, 650, 651, 652, 653 and 654 must be voted on separately.
Amendment No 394 was tabled by a colleague of mine, Mrs Scallon.
Madam President, I think that there is no way that we can proceed to a vote on this amendment as it has not been re-introduced after being subject to a vote or, I might say, a transformation within the Committee on Budgets.
In other words, it is the European Women' s Lobby which remains and which gets the 600,000.
The year that we are currently living through has been characterised by two fundamental crises, the international crisis in the Balkans, and the crisis affecting our own institutions with the departure of the Commission.
I have received a request from the PPE Group for a referral to committee.
We therefore request that the report be referred back to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
With the intention of achieving a broad consensus on this important question, we therefore demand that the report be referred back to Committee.
In fact, it is an interinstitutional agreement which was signed by the previous President of this Parliament.
It was Mr Gil-Robles, the President of our Parliament.
And Parliament was in agreement.
And we have to honour our own acts.
From the point of view, not of my political group, but of the previous Parliament, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which unanimously approved this report, there is really no lack of clarity.
Articles 2 and 4 of the Annex to the Rules of Procedure contain conditions which are clearly in contradiction of the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities, which concern the status of elected representatives and which also, incidentally, lay down the rules governing the question of immunity aside from what is stated in the relevant regulations of the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities.
The remaining part of the report of the committee can be taken - that only requires a simple majority - to annex the Interinstitutional Agreement to the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, this is a very serious situation.
It is clear that this amendment to the Rules of Procedure is an essential element for the reference of a text which, having the importance of the Rules of Procedure, can only be adopted by an absolute majority.
We have just decided not to amend the Rules of Procedure and therefore, not to add this new Rule.
However, the rest of this report comes under Rule 186 of the Rules of Procedure which specifies that by a simple majority we are allowed to decide to add an item to the Annexes of the Rules.
We did not actually need the reference in the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, the first part of your ruling is absolutely right.
But Mr Corbett has a very strong point.
Mr President, in the name of the principle of transparency, I must make one observation on the course of events.
Anything which affects Parliament' s right to self-regulation affects a core element which allows it, or rather enables it, to perform its sovereign functions as the people' s representative.
Ladies and gentlemen, after listening to all the opinions, I do not believe that we can proceed to the vote on the draft decision, because the draft decision was drawn up on the basis of the amendment to the Rules of Procedure.
I would like to say that the work is so positive that no amendment will be rejected and, to this end, I am happy to say that the Commission accepts Amendment Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13.
Therefore, the Commission practically accepts all of the amendments and with regard to Amendment Nos 7 and 8, it cannot accept them as they stand, but it accepts the spirit of their content.
The chief problem area can be found in the Budget.
Clearly, we need to avoid a repeat of the debate which we had this morning, both as regards the agreement existing between the Groups on whether we should mention the firm we discussed at such length this morning and also as regards the specific question of whether the signatories of a specific compromise text were aware of the fact that a part of the text had been changed.
If there are no objections, I can also put to the vote the part of an agreed text with regard to which there is a difference of opinion over whether or not it exists in the compromise text.
I repeat - I can only go ahead with this vote if everyone agrees.
However, I also led the majority of the group inadvertently into voting against paragraph 8 due to an incorrect voting indication.
Mr President, I voted against the proposed budget of the European Parliament for the year 2000, as it seemed to lack rigour, unlike the Council proposal.
In doing this, the European Parliament is moving its pawns in an illegal manner.
Mr President, unlike the vast majority in Parliament, I think that the Union should finance its possible activity in Kosovo, East Timor and Turkey with appropriations that remain within the excessiveness threshold for Category 4 of the Financial Perspective.
The same goes for the adoption of the fisheries agreement with Morocco.
Regarding point 11 in the report, I think that Parliament, for its part, committed to reviewing its statute already last spring, so that travel expenses would be paid according to bona fide costs incurred.
I was therefore disappointed to hear that Parliament did not adopt my amendment. . (EL) Budget 2000 marks a major turning point in the whole question of funding for Turkey.
The vote on the budget is a key point in the parliamentary calendar.
Indeed, how could we sanction any reduction in the amounts allocated to the prevention of AIDS when it is known that 25 million people on the continent of Africa are already condemned to die from this scourge?
This is why, while being fully aware that the increase in Community spending is occasionally hard for the public finances of Member States to bear, I voted, in spite of everything, in favour of the resolution proposed by the general rapporteur for the budget.
Insufficient funds and programmes are provided in the Budget 2000 for real problems such as, for example, the high rate of unemployment.
On the one hand, it has totally destroyed the area with its unprovoked and criminal attacks on Yugoslavia and, on the other hand, it is now bending over backwards with its restructuring endeavours, without prejudice of course, while at the same time demanding that the perfectly legitimate government and the President of the country be overthrown.
For these reasons, we shall once again be voting against the draft budget. .
Parliament today has debated this issue and the vote continues this monopolistic arrangement.
People are well aware that sometimes it is necessary to take a stand on the principle of transparency and fairness in our democratic structures.
Napolitano report (A5-0036/1999) Mr President, I would like to state that I have voted against the referral back to Committee of the Napolitano report and in favour of the inclusion in the Rules of Procedure of the Annex which appears in the said report.
For these reasons, I have voted in favour of the Napolitano report and against its referral back to Committee.
It puts us in an intolerable position.
Mr President, I see that at the last minute there has been an avalanche of explanations of votes regarding referral of the Napolitano report to committee.
The institutional agreement explicitly mentions the members of institutions, true, but if you take this expression in context you see that it is more a matter of paid members, such as the members of the Commission, and that the terms established are not appropriate for elected members like those of the European Parliament.
Besides, Mr President, the Annex was, in my opinion, related to the main body of the text and, consequently, it was not possible, as you quite rightly decided, to vote on the Annex after rejecting the main body of the text.
These new details must be integrated into our internal Rules of Procedure.
Indeed, the European Union has a central role to play in the development of culture and the arts in Europe.
This programme will, I hope, contribute towards permitting all citizens of Member States to discover this wealth and this diversity.
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group will always support programmes intended to promote exchanges, to develop the appetite for culture in the citizens of our Member States.
We all know that the European Union must face up to decisions, painful decisions perhaps, but crucial decisions, in order to ensure its enlargement.
But, at the same time, competition in terms of wages marginalises the least qualified personnel in developed societies, and this is something we cannot accept.
Of course, in the first place, the European Parliament must, in this specific instance, strongly condemn the Michelin management, and request that the firm reconsiders these job losses, and assure the group' s employees of its solidarity.
Cases such as that of Michelin in France, of Renault, Grundig, Siemens and Texas Instruments, amongst others, in Portugal, have made it clear that it is crucial to strengthen European legislation and legislation in the Member States in order to protect workers' rights, particularly their jobs, and to prevent multinationals from continuing to act in an arbitrary way, in order to achieve greater profits.
Unfortunately, some EU Member States, Greece for example, are included in those countries.
Therefore, and in order to ensure a high level of safety for national and international transport operations and to guarantee the elimination of distortions of competition, the European Union has adopted Directive 96/49/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States with regard to the transport of dangerous goods by rail.
The main purpose of this Community legislation is to extend the above-mentioned regulations concerning the international carriage of dangerous goods by rail (RID) to national transport, i.e., to transport operations within the national territory of each Member State.
The reason was that the European Committee for Standardisation (CEN) had not yet completed work to standardise the construction and use of tanks and receptacles.
The reason for the postponement is that, due to delays in the standardisation work being carried out by the European Committee for Standardisation, the 1999 version of the RID does not incorporate standards for the construction and use of tanks and receptacles for transporting Class 2 gases.
The second objective of the present proposal is to amend certain provisions in Article 6 concerning derogations and to specify their acceptance procedure in more detail.
In all Member States, there are various provisions in industrial and transport law concerning the packing and transportation of these gases.
We therefore need common regulations which are as strict as possible, also for the transportation of dangerous goods.
The risk of accidents has increased concurrently with the growth in the number of consignments of this kind in recent years.
We do not need to justify to the citizens of Europe the fact that we need a common European environmental policy or a European safety policy in this field relating to dangerous goods.
The truth is that the framework directive entered into force in January 1997 and the current Commission proposal attempts to resolve the problems of application of the transitional provisions concerning containers for the transport of gases and tanks.
The time limit for this provision causes problems and therefore we will have to see how this situation can be resolved.
In this case, the instrument necessary to amend a directive is another directive.
It is true, as he has said, that in certain areas of the network we have a situation of overload, with infrastructures which are already very well used, particularly for the transport of persons, which is the form of use which is currently the priority of all the Member States in terms of their railway policy.
In recent years, when the Member States have supported the railway it has mainly been with regard to the transport of persons.
But in fact we still have the problem of the transport of goods by rail.
This increase will be the result of increased development and growth in our countries and, in a way, if it did not happen, it would be a bad indication with regard to the performance of our economy and therefore of our society as well.
But this problem also has its equivalent in the field of air transport.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to express my regret, firstly at the fact that the Council cannot reply to this oral question which had originally been formulated by our Committee for both the Commission and the Council.
I hope that these debates can take place during the sittings on the "important days" in Strasbourg, because fishing deserves it, and an agreement of the importance of the one we will discuss today, even more so.
Therefore, we now have a mandate for negotiation of the fisheries agreement with Morocco.
And, at the moment, I call on the Finnish Presidency to go ahead in the next Council with the FIFG Regulations and on the Commission, Mr Fischler, to be flexible in this text so that it may come closer to the position of the European Parliament.
It is urgent that we foresee these contingencies in our structural aid and also, in exceptional cases, both for shipowners and for fishermen.
Commissioner, the European Parliament will support you politically and financially.
For our part, all the arrangements to be able to start these negotiations had been made a long time ago.
Thank you, Mr Varela, for the good luck you wished me in this matter.
The objective of these negotiations is to seek new forms of cooperation in the fisheries sector together, which are in harmony with the development of the Moroccan fisheries sector and with maintaining the catch capacity of the European fleet.
It will therefore be important for an appropriate decision to be taken in Council in good time so that we have a legal basis for having available, at least, an instrument to be able to guarantee financial support to the fishing firms and fishermen affected in that event.
By means of this agreement, around 500 boats from the European Union, of which 50 are Portuguese, have access to Moroccan waters in return for an annual payment of around EUR 125 million.
It is also important to remember here that this fisheries agreement with Morocco is part of a larger framework of cooperation and partnership by means of which the European Union also grants Morocco major commercial concessions and considerable support for its development.
From the European Union' s point of view, it is important to point out that there are some Member States that feel that the cost to the budget of the European Union' s fisheries agreements with third countries is excessive.
Secondly, it is important to remind those Member States of the Union that are less enthusiastic about these fisheries agreements that a study made recently by independent experts shows that in return for the EUR 485 million spent by the Union in payment for access to third country waters, we gain a volume of business of around EUR 1500 million, which means that the benefits gained from the international fisheries agreements are three times greater than the costs they incur.
Thirdly, I would also like to highlight the fact that these agreements create an added value of EUR 107 million for these third countries, generating around 18,000 jobs, which means that as well as respecting the biological balance of species, the European Union' s fisheries agreements with these countries have contributed to their long-term development.
Mr President, on the initiative of the Socialist Group and with the support of other groups, the Committee on Fisheries has formulated this oral question to the European Commission and the, once again, absent Council of Ministers, so that European citizens may learn of the current situation with regard to the contacts with the Moroccan authorities, with a view to the negotiation of a future fisheries agreement between the European Union and Morocco.
You will be aware, Mr Fischler, that the current agreement will expire on 30 November and that the following day the activities of the Community fleet which is fishing in the waters covered by this agreement will come to a halt.
That is to say, Mr Fischler, that on 1 December 7,000 European fishermen will lose their jobs, 477 Community ships will remain moored in our ports, 10,000 jobs in the preserving and processing industries will be under threat, as well as many thousands more, relating to marketing and dockyard activities, will also be at risk.
In Galicia, which is my region, extractive fishing plays a part in 45 of the 56 Galician economic activities.
The Community fleet which fishes in this fishing ground, Commissioner, has been decreasing agreement after agreement in terms of the number of ships and fishermen.
Four years ago this Parliament declared itself in favour of creating a line specifically to deal with halts of fleets, unforeseen crises and circumstances such as a delay in the renewal of agreements.
But the Council is also doing a dreadful job, especially in view of its incomprehensible inactivity with regard to providing the Commission with a mandate for negotiations with the Moroccan Government.
The European Parliament, which will have to express its opinion on the future agreement by means of the assent procedure, must - I believe - be involved with the other institutions during the negotiations with the Moroccan government.
Within the future agreement the Community must offer its technical services so that Morocco may also put its fishing fleet in order.
You are still an unknown Commissioner, and I say "started badly" because of your unfortunate début of announcing the probable disbanding of the Directorate-General for Fisheries which, as you well know, caused a real storm in the sector.
But I would like to tell you, Commissioner, that we are not going to take that into account.
Mr President, first of all our group did not sign this resolution for a number of very important reasons.
We Greens believe it is up to Morocco to decide how best to benefit from its resources in its own waters.
The border of the Western Sahara is established at 27º 4' .
There is no EU country that has recognised Moroccan sovereignty over the Western Sahara, but according to the Saharoui people, at the same time the EU pays EUR 500 million to Morocco.
EU vessels fish hake and other species in waters off Morocco, and Morocco has no legal jurisdiction in these waters.
Most people subscribe to this in theory but not in practice.
The second criteria is that the regional approach should be followed.
Control is also a very big problem in most of these agreements.
The third countries simply do not have the resources to ensure that the vessels from the EU and other distant water fleets respect the rules.
We know the problems that the Member States have in their own waters, so it must be very difficult indeed for these other countries to be able to tackle these problems.
In 1997 the Council requested an in-depth analysis of the EU third country agreements.
The summary report is now available.
Some of the conclusions of the report are questionable but at least it provides some hard information and figures on the agreements.
Another point I want to make, as previous speakers have and, I suspect, most of the following speakers will, concerns the importance of this and other fisheries agreements to certain regions of the Community which are heavily dependent upon fishing.
Finally, to come back again to the point of Morocco' s right to make its own decisions.
On behalf of the Green Group, I went with the Committee on Fisheries last year to Morocco and the Moroccans were very clear: they did not want to sign the last agreement.
Mr President, just a few brief observations - as Mr Salvador Jové Peres will be speaking next on behalf of my group - to say that this is an issue that is becoming extremely important and extremely relevant today, both in terms of what it means for fishing stocks, and in terms of the number of jobs that it involves directly or indirectly.
And as far as this is concerned, I cannot fail to highlight the mistake made four or five years ago by establishing a fisheries agreement outside the broader framework of the cooperation agreement established between the European Union and Morocco.
Next, we cannot make more concessions or give more compensation in the area of agriculture, and the current jobs in the fisheries industry must be guaranteed.
Mr President, Commissioner, the fisheries agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco is by far the most important ever signed by the European Union by virtue of the number of Community vessels which it affects, the fishing opportunities which it opens up and the jobs which depend directly on it, more than 8,000 fishermen and 20, 000 workers.
But it must be possible to integrate this requirement properly, and respect it fully, within the framework of a new agreement.
Yet, has the Commission made our Moroccan friends sufficiently aware of the formidable consequences that Member States of the Union would have to deal with as a result of the non-renewal of this fisheries agreement with them?
The Commission was very tardy in requesting its negotiating mandate.
This is to say, Commissioner, that the issues involved in the negotiations with Morocco are particularly important to the very future of the common fisheries policy.
We therefore hope that in Brussels, Strasbourg or Seattle, you will give it all the priority attention which it demands.
Mr President, Commissioner, the matter of renegotiating the EU-Morocco fisheries agreement which is due to expire on 30 November has been referred to us.
This is one of the 29 fisheries agreements signed by the European Union with around fifteen countries of Africa and countries bordering the Indian Ocean.
Technically, Morocco wants comprehensive negotiations on fishing, the preservations of fish stocks, on local industry and even, more generally, on our agricultural dealings with Morocco.
The position of our countries is essentially a budgetary position, with a cost of EUR 125 million per year.
It is true that the Community budget allocated to fisheries agreements is not inconsiderable: EUR 300 million, or 5% of the budget for European external policies.
If IFREMER is to be believed, then, for every euro invested, the turnover generated for Europe would be around three euros, and the added value would be 900 million.
On the European side, we could make concessions on the development of the local Moroccan processing industry, on aid for scientific research and on landings in Moroccan ports.
There are still two stumbling blocks: firstly, the matter of abandoning community preference in the field of agriculture, and we already know the problems affecting the sectors of tomatoes, early fruit and vegetables or horticulture, and secondly, another point, on which we cannot yield involves trading the Spanish fleet' s fishing rights for an increase in immigration in a Europe which already has 18 million unemployed.
These are not negotiations regarding just fishing, but are far wider-ranging negotiations, Euro-Mediterranean talks, or even WTO talks.
And at least we have a good mandate, above all in view of its ability to seek different forms of possible cooperation and even new legal formulas which may allow us to maintain satisfactory fishing relations for both parties.
However, we should regret the delay, which has created public alarm and a nervous state within the fleet which could have been avoided, and the speculation and declarations which may do more harm than good to negotiations which, given the importance of the agreement, should be held in a discreet, calm and cordial environment.
For this reason, like the industry itself, I believe that this time - and in this case I am particularly sorry that the Council is not here, because it is to them that I mainly address my comments - we must stand firm and show that, even though we have spent years asking and begging to be able to take part, as simple observers, in the negotiations of the fisheries agreements, this participation can no longer be postponed, Mr President.
It is the case that, within the meagre budget which fishing represents in Community funding, the agreement with Morocco implies a relatively significant amount, so much so, Mr President, that it is the only agreement for which we are asked for our assent.
Therefore, Mr President, I hope that the question of observers, which appears in at least one of the motions for resolution also signed by my group, is taken seriously for once.
In recent years, including Spain' s time as a democracy, we have experienced various situations where fishing has always been an unresolved issue between the parties because of the contentious issue of defining our territorial waters in relation to the neighbouring continent of Africa.
In any event, I hope that the diplomacy of the European Commission will adequately defend the general interests of the Community fishermen who are affected by this future fisheries agreement between the European Union and Morocco.
Mr President, I am participating in this debate in order to demonstrate my position and also to demonstrate our desire to support any positions which will contribute, both in Parliament and in the European Commission, to the achievement of the new agreement between the European Union and the Kingdom of Morocco.
I wish to express our support for the signing of the agreement for two fundamental reasons.
It affects the way of life of our coastal populations, in the same way that agriculture affects the populations of our inland regions and - why not say it - it affects a fundamental part of the food requirements of the entire European Union.
We clearly want these agreements to respect the conservation of resources.
We clearly want them to defend and respect the interests of non-EU countries.
But I would like to say that the agreements should not only refer to poor non-EU countries, that is, Morocco, Angola and other countries, but that they should also refer, and this is also a European Union Policy, to agreements with Canada, the United States, Australia and Argentina, countries with which my country - specifically Galicia - has a direct relationship.
In Galicia, specifically, you know that 120,000 jobs rely directly or indirectly on fishing and that the agreement with Morocco especially affects three very significant areas: Ribeira, O Morrazo and A Guarda, where there are approximately 150 ships and 1,500 sailors who depend on the signing of the agreement with Morocco.
I would like to remind you here that on 15 November 1995 the economic and social cooperation agreement with Morocco was only signed after Morocco had agreed that a fisheries agreement had to be signed.
The small-scale and inshore fleet would be of no interest to Morocco in terms of establishing joint enterprises; this would mean, in areas such as ours where employment problems are very serious, the scrapping of small vessels and a reduction in employment.
Frequently, these concessions are granted as a contribution to the development of non-EU countries.
And in the case of Morocco, 85% of tomato production and exportation is carried out by five companies; the largest of them is Domain Royal, which belongs to the royal family, and the other four belong to the Moroccan aristocracy.
Traditionally, Morocco does not negotiate until the previous agreement has run out and the fleet is halted, with the social tension which that causes.
My group wishes for a just and balanced agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco on the part of the European Union, but we also think that, in order to prevent this periodic bartering which causes our fishermen enormous anguish and places them in a difficult situation, the future agreement should be established within the framework of the Association Agreement.
Mr President, Commissioner, firstly let us address the situation in hand.
On 30 November, Portuguese boats that currently fish in Morocco will stop doing so.
The agreement expires on 30 November and the mandate for negotiation does not extend beyond October this year.
We cannot even guarantee our right to fish, we, who are a maritime nation, nor can we guarantee our right to handle our own affairs, we who are a neighbouring country of Morocco.
And this is what I am asking for in the name of the principle of subsidiarity, with a view to a revision of the common fisheries policy: a member country of the common fisheries policy must be able to make bilateral agreements with third countries as long as an agreement is not already in place between the European Union and those third countries.
If you have the misfortune to go to that beach one day, you will see that the Portuguese fishermen will tell you politely that you are a persona non grata in my country.
The Commission, the Council and the different institutions are obliged to defend this common fishing policy, which of course includes agreements with non-EU countries.
Parliament, this very morning, fulfilled its obligation to include in the 2000 budget an item of EUR 125 million, which had not been envisaged in the Financial Perspective negotiated in Berlin, in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement between the Council and Parliament, but which is fundamental to the starting of the negotiations.
This European Community has to be concerned not only for its own future but also for the future of the neighbouring countries.
At the moment, we are dealing with the future of the neighbouring countries of Central and Eastern Europe by means of incorporating them into the European Union, but we also have to concern ourselves with the future of the neighbouring countries on the southern side of the Mediterranean.
It is not a matter of trading one thing for another.
We have a critical situation within a few minutes of our own shores, within an extremely short distance.
I believe that in the negotiation, the Commission, on behalf of the European Union, which is rich, is probably able to offer sufficient compensation to Morocco so that the fisheries agreement may become a reality.
Mr President, today' s sitting has been dominated by talks about the Budget 2000.
The fisheries agreement with Morocco has also been on the agenda this morning in this context, when we talked about external action expenditure.
The agreement with Mauritius was subject to a simple, consultative procedure.
Mr President, the question of renewal of the fisheries agreement between Morocco and the European Union perfectly illustrates the general policy of Europe enshrined in the budget which we discussed this morning and whose rationale we denounced.
Europe is directly affected by the desperate situation in Africa.
Firstly, as a former colonial power, but also for having continued to plunder the wealth of these countries even after they became independent.
In the case of Morocco and this particular fisheries agreement, it is no longer possible to once again ignore the rights of the Western Saharan people, starting with their right to self-determination, their right to establish an independent state, if they so wish, and to protect the natural wealth of their territory, whether it be phosphate deposits or the specific resources of its shoreline which are threatened by this agreement.
I would, finally, like to draw your attention to the particularly tense social situation in the Moroccan fisheries sector.
Mr President, at this point in the debate, I believe that nothing new nor original can be added but, as a member of the Committee on Fisheries and representative of the citizens and interests of Spain and Andalusia, I would like to make two brief points.
Andalusia, my region, has the highest rate of unemployment in the Union and almost 50% of the boats which fish in Moroccan waters are Andalusian.
The second is that Morocco is a priority country within the framework of Euro-Mediterranean relations.
The Commission, the Council and Parliament must act together, in a coordinated and transparent fashion.
Mr President, Commissioner, as has already been said here, it would be hard to say that the end of this agreement comes as a surprise, given that this scenario has been foreseen since December 1995.
In article 17(3), concerning financial compensation in case of a temporary stoppage in activity, it excludes fishermen from any compensation and imposes ridiculous limits on boat-owners.
To conclude, I would like to say that I agree wholeheartedly with two things said here by my friend and colleague Manuel Medina Ortega.
More than this, we are also extremely concerned, as my friend António José Seguro has also said here, about the support to Morocco, and not merely in terms of its commercial aspects, as has been suggested by certain speakers.
Mr President, Shakespeare wrote that Bohemia was located on the seacoast.
All European problems are the problems of all EU states, and I therefore wish to say that this fisheries agreement is a problem for Europe as a whole.
Of course we must safeguard the interests of the fishermen concerned, but we must recognise that there are general ecological problems in connection with this fisheries agreement and general problems relating to both foreign and security policy, affecting the whole of the EU.
The European Community was therefore forced to conclude international agreements in order to retain access to fishing grounds and thus ensure the livelihood of the Community' s fishermen.
Today we are discussing the renewal of the agreement with Morocco.
The previously applicable compensation payments of over EUR 400 million to Morocco over the course of four years make the agreement the most significant fisheries agreement in the Community Budget.
The economic and social consequences in the event of expiry of the agreement for Community fishermen are sufficiently known.
I would like to stress, in particular, that it is essential to look upon 15 October and the formulation of the mandate for negotiation in the right light.
On the matter of aid following 30 November: I have already pointed out, too, that we wish to proceed on the basis of potential support in principle, as we already did last time.
The last question, why at this stage have we applied for EUR 125 million in the Budget?
Mr President, it has just come to our attention that the Conference of Presidents of the European Parliament has decided by a large majority to award the Sakharov Prize to Xanana Gusmão.
The European Union needs to address this issue.
