This was due to Air France notifying my travel agent that my flight from London City was cancelled.
Madam President, my name is also not on the attendance register, yet I too was here yesterday.
Madam President, there was a preliminary discussion of this yesterday.
In the last few hours, significant legal decisions have been taken in my country which affect this debate.
According to the most recent estimates, almost 100 European citizens were assassinated by General Pinochet's government.
Therefore, this Parliament must immediately give its opinion on the issue.
Having heard one speaker for and one against, I now put the request to the vote. (Parliament approved the request) Decision on urgent procedure The next item is the vote on the request for urgent procedure concerning the proposal for a Council Directive amending Council Directive 94/4/EC and the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Council Regulation (EC) 355/94 and extending the temporary derogation applicable to Germany and Austria.
I would also like to thank my fellow rapporteurs from the relevant committees for their close collaboration.
The 1999 European Union budget we are debating today, the first in euros, falls within an unusual context compared with previous financial years.
Therefore, in its guidelines for the budgetary procedure, voted on at the beginning of April, Parliament came out in favour of making the 1999 budget a transitional budget, a bridging budget, rather than one representing a fresh start.
In its preliminary draft budget, the Commission notes an increase of 6.4 % in commitment appropriations over 1998.
However, a figure of 1.09 % of GNP is specified to finance the Council's draft budget - 0.18 % below the ceiling of 1.27 % - yet we must take account of the fact that, in accordance with the Council's forecasts, compulsory expenditure commitment appropriations have increased by more than 11.5 %.
The Council's apparent rigour as regards the overall figure is, nonetheless, conditional on compliance with the unilateral decisions of the Edinburgh and Cannes Councils, whose funding is strictly met by the Council with no thought to the effectiveness of the expenditure, while other policies suffer significant and apparently arbitrary cuts.
Let me give one very telling example: in the explanatory statement to its first reading of the budget, the Council recognises the undoubted success of the Leonardo da Vinci programme but it then immediately moves on to cut the programme by the reasonable sum of EUR 100 million.
The infinite consistency of the Council becomes even clearer if we take the trouble to read the Cardiff conclusions of 16 June and contrast them with the Council's first reading.
Moving on to Category 1 - agriculture - I would point out that, for the first time in a budgetary year, Category 1 and Category 2 expenditure is almost balanced.
This responds on the one hand to the compliance with the last year of the financial perspective and on the other hand, and most important, to the development of the ad hoc procedure that has made it possible to reduce agricultural expenditure over the last few financial years, clearly demonstrating that, in the past, the Commission has overestimated budgetary needs.
In its resolution on the ad hoc procedures provided for in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 29 October 1993, the European Parliament stresses the importance of a number of longstanding issues that, in its opinion, ought to be included in the procedure.
But, as rapporteur, I really must express my disappointment at the development of the ad hoc procedure for the 1999 budget.
The Council is thus postponing crucial parts of the debate until the Commission presents its Letter of Amendment after Parliament's first reading.
This stance by the Council will not facilitate negotiations ahead of second reading where the agenda is already full.
But it must be clear that Parliament confirms its commitment to the ad hoc procedure - by way of derogation from Article 14 of the Financial Regulation - which should take account of Parliament's requests, irrespective of the category of the expenditure.
Consequently, Parliament is obliged to reiterate at its first reading the requests presented in the conciliation on the Council's first reading.
The same amendment reduces the payment appropriations for the Funds by EUR 500 m, given that this decision is compatible with the forecast of needs and above all with Letter of Amendment No 2/98 to the supplementary and amending budget and the Notenboom procedure which increases the payment appropriations by EUR 871 m.
However, before any Member States rub their hands with glee, it must be quite clear that the amendment sets out some explicit conditions.
Within this category, Parliament is committed to financing the PEACE initiative for Ireland, aware that the Stormont Agreement represents a historic step forward.
It accepts the Commission proposal on this, but readjusts it in line with Parliament's decision on the RECHAR, REGIS and RESIDER initiatives.
In its guidelines, Parliament states that it wants to adopt a budget which takes account of its priorities, and that it must be a budget for the citizens.
The human dimension of the budget is nowhere more tangible than in Category 3 concerning the Union's internal policies.
However, at its first reading, the Council transforms this category into the ultimate dogsbody, cutting it to levels below the 1998 budget.
The view of the Committee on Budgets is that even in a strict regime, the activities financed should demonstrate to the citizens the importance that Parliament attaches to their priorities: employment and other social actions, education and training, the protection of the environment in accordance with the Kyoto commitment, consumer information and, finally, transport safety.
First, I call on the Council to reach an agreement quickly with Parliament on the financing of the fifth framework programme for research, and to permit an exact allocation of the funding for the programme during the 1999 budgetary procedure.
At first reading, Parliament is opting to allocate the amount proposed by the Commission in its draft budget.
Secondly, with a view to the forthcoming entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, and Article 73k in particular, Parliament is creating a European Refugee Fund under Category 3, taking account of the common interest to the Member States of a European Union asylum policy.
If I were cynical, I might say that the cuts are simply due to the need to square the accounts now that the PHARE programme has grown by an additional EUR 150 m.
It is somewhat strange that the Council forgets budgetary rigour when increasing a programme that has serious difficulties in terms of absorption capacity, with implementation figures well below the amount allocated.
In total consistency with its guidelines for the 1999 budget, Parliament proposes to distribute EUR 200 m of PHARE funding to all chapters on external actions.
It turns out that up until 1997 the Member States only partly paid, and indeed before 1982 did not pay at all, the employer's share of the premium for the staff's pension scheme, with the result that the intended budget for pensions is still in deficit in 1998.
Parliament is therefore proposing the budget structure for an adequate pension fund for the staff of the institutions and bodies of the Union, and is calling on the Commission to present a proposal for a pension fund before 31 March 1999.
And we should also remember that the British Presidency already recognised, during its first tripartite dialogue with Parliament, the need to find a solution in this respect as soon as possible.
That is why Parliament is asking for this matter to be included in the negotiations on the new Interinstitutional Agreement.
Parliament realises that is necessary to make the Council aware that time is pressing and that an agreement should be reached before the European elections in June 1999.
It must thus be understood that these amendments to reserves are simply intended to safeguard the rights of Parliament in case there is no agreement on the financial perspective.
But as I used pyrotechnical terms earlier, I must make it very clear that these amendments are not, however, the result of fireworks from Parliament.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the total for Category 5, administrative expenditure, has been set at EUR 4.7 billion, with an increase of 4 % - or EUR 182 million - over 1998.
Of this sum, EUR 1 579.5 m represents the total budget for the 'other institutions', with an increase of just under 1.55 % as compared with 1998.
Despite the option of purchasing IPE IV in Strasbourg, Parliament has curbed its expenditure, registering an increase of just 1.7 %.
Parliament's budget is EUR 923 779 000, with an unused margin of almost 21 million, which confirms that we have always understood this margin not as a target but as an expenditure ceiling.
The most significant decisions have been the introduction of a new chapter and a new Article 390 - to be appropriately named to cover the new arrangements governing parliamentary assistants, which are currently being drawn up by the committee responsible and the Council.
It was not the Conference of Presidents, but the Bureau of Parliament.
In the light of the decisions taken by the Bureau, our committee took it upon itself to adopt by majority vote an amendment which, on the one hand, recognises that Members' travelling allowances must be reimbursed on the basis of the real costs, with a detailed breakdown of these costs, and, on the other, links the implementation of this decision to the Statute for Members, to be brought before this House by 15 December.
As far as the next elections are concerned, the impact on the budget will be approximately EUR 17 m, fully in line with previous years.
This is provided for in the amended financial regulation discussed in the Budgets Committee, and with some justification, I believe.
With regard to the Court of Justice, which had requested a sizeable increase in posts for the translation directorate, in line with the Council's wishes we have allocated ten new LA posts for translators and four new B5 proofreader posts.
As for the Court of Auditors, its budget has been increased by 11.69 % in view of the decision to allow an extension to its building, for which such a commitment is necessary, and for which total funding of EUR 25 m over five years is planned.
Moving on to the Committees - the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions - it is worth stressing that the role of the latter is much enhanced under the Amsterdam Treaty, which is why we have seen fit to increase the appropriations for meetings, as emerged from the implementation of the 1998 budget.
Thank you, Mr Viola.
In fact, the ECSC coffers contain ECU 1.2 billion which will basically be enough to finance the operating budgets until 2002, when the Treaty expires, and to pay for the last pensioner until 2026.
It may well be possible, in view of the very high volume of funding, to allocate additional appropriations, in line with the positive opinion of the Committee on Budgets, in order to establish an additional ECU 3 million for redeployment aid which could help, as stipulated in Article 56 of the ECSC Treaty, to create new activities capable of reabsorbing the redundant workers into productive employment.
In the same respect, it may be possible and desirable to carry out the proposal in the Communication of 9 June which would allow ECU 60 million to be transferred from the operating budget of the ECSC to the Union's general budget in order to reinforce the Rechar II and Resider II Community initiatives.
Finally, on the initiative of our colleague, Joan Colom i Naval, paragraph 12 of the motion for a resolution before you calls on the Commission to earmark appropriations from the PHARE programme for activities in conjunction with the coal and steel sectors of the applicant countries.
The first is that the ECSC will certainly expire on 23 July 2002 and that the ECSC assets and their management will most likely be transferred to the remaining communities in the final days of the ECSC.
The second point relates to economic and industrial policy aspects.
The Committee on Budgets unreservedly supports the Commission's proposal to allocate all the interest earned on the assets to the promotion of research in the coal and steel sectors.
To conclude on these two reports, I must acknowledge that they have gained the virtually unanimous support of the members of the Committee on Budgets, unlike last year when the fee problem divided the House.
Both texts concerning the ECSC in 1999 therefore have a broad consensus and their adoption on Thursday should not pose any major problems.
In preparing the 1999 budget, we must be aware that anything is possible, but nothing is guaranteed.
Besides, the European Parliament committed itself to this by accepting, in its March resolution on the budgetary guidelines for 1999, a budget whose rate of increase would not be higher than that of the national budgets.
Although the draft budget presents an overall increase of 2.8 % in payment appropriations and 6.1 % in commitment appropriations in relation to last year, actually, by keeping the budget at 1.10 % of the GNP ceiling - whereas, strictly, 1.27 % is available - and by limiting expenditure in the headings which are the most decisive for the future development of the European Union to the ceilings fixed by the Interinstitutional Agreement, the Council is ensuring that future budgets will be paralysed.
The rigour required of the budget must be compatible with the development outlook, and the 1999 budget must prepare for the budgets of tomorrow by allowing the Community to meet its commitments, particularly with regard to enlargement.
This is why we support the rapporteur's approach which aims to establish special reserves as viable calculation bases for forthcoming financial perspectives in the 2000-2006 period, in accordance with the provisions of the Interinstitutional Agreement.
If the Interinstitutional Agreement is renewed, it must have adequate bases so that the future financial perspectives ensure the development of Community policies and, should the renegotiation of the Interinstitutional Agreement fail, the re-application of Article 203 of the Treaty should not condemn the European Union to the planned spending paralysis.
However, we do not want Parliament's assertion of its prerogatives to cause it to make an unfortunate exception for agriculture expenditure by seeking to limit the appropriations to well below the ceiling of the guideline, in other words to reduce the actual financial requirements of the CAP.
Answers phrased in hackneyed, Soviet-style language have now taken over from the initially condescending replies.
The scorn displayed by officials towards the Members of this House will only strengthen our resolve.
In this Parliament, in our group at least, we are not ready to let the electors believe that we are only interested in retaliation, and we are therefore waiting to find out exactly what happened with ECHO before adopting any position.
More generally, the Council, the Commission and, unfortunately, Parliament too are suffering from Fontainebleau syndrome, each fighting its own corner in pale imitation of Margaret Thatcher, each considering that the State which it represents must reassert its position, regardless of the Community policies founded on solidarity.
We will return to this matter in detail when we discuss the report on own resources.
However, on behalf of my group, I would like to prepare the ground.
Because the common agricultural policy is the cause of certain imbalances, and based on the Fontainebleau agreements among others, the Commission's proposals include reducing the Community contribution to direct aid to farmers and introducing cofinancing for this direct aid between the national exchequers and the European Union budget.
The rest of the common agricultural policy as we know it would then be reduced to a vague agricultural structural policy.
Mr President, as the budget procedure for 1999 progresses it becomes clear that the broad consensus among the institutions of recent years on general budgetary stability for the Union will continue in 1999.
At the same time the obligations of the Union in particular with regard to the decisions of the Edinburgh European Council have to be respected.
Discussions continue on some aspects.
The budget procedure has already shown that the agreement works.
It is the result of many parliamentary initiatives.
I understand that the European Parliament wants to change certain practices immediately to improve transparency and control.
The Commission has put ideas forward in its communication and in its working paper on renewal of the financial regulation.
With regard to the financial consequences of the expiration of the ECSC Treaty, I note that solutions are emerging which have both the approval of the Council and Parliament in many respects.
The Commission will submit a further contribution to these discussions before the end of the year.
I note that the draft opinion already foresees an alternative solution based on Article 56 of the ECSC Treaty.
These funds should gradually descend to the level which can be sustained in the medium term after the expiraty of the ECSC Treaty.
Let me again thank the rapporteur, Mr Giansily, for his substantial work.
It is for the same reason that we are supporting the Masters degree in human rights, which is intended to provide training and instruction in human rights, and in which numerous universities are already participating.
We have made proposals on stepping up cooperation with Latin America, Asia and South Africa, as have the other committees involved, either directly or through the appropriate institutes.
Yesterday, there was a heated debate in the Committee on Budgets about whether this chapter should serve external relations, external experience, or something else.
As draftsman of an opinion on the 1999 farm budget, I think it is my duty to ensure that the efficient procedure set in train by Messrs Tillich and Mulder for the 1998 budget is used for the forthcoming budget too and further clarified if necessary.
So it is not right, for example, to include in our resolution on the 1999 budget pronouncements about lowering or at least stabilising farm spending.
It proves that our new approach to the budget is right.
That is why the European Parliament is advocating an increase in appropriations here.
A further important point is the construction of trans-European transport networks.
I believe that investment in this sector will not only create new jobs in the short term, when this infrastructure is built, but also, and more significantly, that the knock-on effects will open up entirely new opportunities.
The second point is research policy.
Here, of course, we are faced with the huge task of implementing the fifth framework programme in the 1999 budget.
The situation with the fifth framework programme is more difficult.
Once again, I should like to thank colleagues for their constructive cooperation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more than two thirds of the amendments tabled by the Committee on External Economic Relations were accepted either in full or in principle by the Committee on Budgets.
Finally, I am grateful to the advisers to the Committee on External Economic Relations, Christian Augustin and Francisco Gomes Martes, especially for their excellent cooperation.
The Committee on Regional Policy also expressed doubts about the level of payments, after having presented proposals aimed at guaranteeing adequate capital flows.
Our second main objective was to restore appropriations for Community initiatives.
If the other Members of this House are willing to endorse the amendments which the Committee on Budgets has already approved, we shall of course be very pleased.
We in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection proposed that 10 per cent of MEDA be allocated to the environment, and this was agreed.
That amendment was not approved by the Committee on Budgets, which is why we have tabled it again to be voted on in plenary.
It will make for greater consistency in the budget if we extend this line to TACIS and PHARE.
Lastly, Mr President, I believe we must not only take account of the environment in all areas of European Union policy; it must also be systematically integrated into the everyday internal activities of the European institutions.
Through an amendment to the Viola report, we call on all European institutions, including our own European Parliament, to draw up an action plan for a more environmentally friendly internal administration.
Energy, mobility, recycling, all these aspects must be reflected in the way in which the European institutions manage their own affairs.
If we improve our own behaviour in this way, we can make our institutions into a model for other organisations, not just in Europe but worldwide.
Mr President, I wish to say that the initial Commission proposal was a slight disappointment to us, specifically in the culture sector where we saw a cut of 43 %.
However, the Committee on Budgets, and specifically Barbara Dührkop Dührkop, who understands the need for a strong cultural sector within the EU, have given it priority.
Of course the whole process this year has been dogged by conflicting reports on the interpretation of the Court judgment on the legal base but, somehow or other, we have managed to find a way through.
In the audiovisual sector, we are slightly disappointed that not more money has been made available for the experimental actions to help to develop a stronger, more vibrant audiovisual sector in Europe.
The problem is that people do not know about it, which is why we need to develop a better information policy.
The second priority for our committee was the continuation of measures to combat violence against women and children, sex tourism and the use of the Internet for criminal purposes.
The rapporteur took our request in this particularly sensitive area into consideration and we thank her for that.
The third priority for our committee was the integration of refugees and the fight against racism and xenophobia.
These budget lines were in a delicate position because they have no legal basis and the rapporteur proposed a solution with whose wording and amounts we are satisfied.
Mr President, until now, the procedure in the Committee on Budgetary Control has meant that, every year at the October part-session, we would vote on a motion for a resolution on the implementation of the current budget.
That is why this year, the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets have agreed a new procedure, namely that we should give a more comprehensive opinion on the coming year's budget, and ask the rapporteur and the Committee on Budgets to take account of this opinion in their deliberations.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Dührkop Dührkop, for doing just that.
At the same time, however, I should like to repeat my request to the Commission and the Council to actively work on those areas where they have given us assurances that the legal bases still required will be established, both those for the 1998 budget - before the end of 1998 - and those for 1999.
On Category 3, we have a request for the Commission.
One further comment on Category 4: the Commission itself refers in internal documents to the fact that it is having considerable difficulties utilising the appropriations in MEDA and PHARE.
We have therefore put forward an amendment concerning the allocation earmarked for controls under Item B2-901, namely an increase from ECU 41 m to ECU 45 m.
We are, however, still waiting for this principle to be applied consistently, as shown by several working documents on the 1998 and 1999 budgets, and as I can prove - for the areas in which the Committee on Women's Rights is competent - from extensive correspondence with 15 of the Commissioners.
The Daphne programme is being discussed in the meantime, but as I recall, we in this House - namely 350 Members - supported calls for a European Year and a campaign to combat violence against women by signing the Declaration in May.
A new amendment is before the House, and I hope that all our colleagues will be consistent and vote in favour of it.
The Treaty on European Union gives every citizen the right to petition, and to lodge complaints about the European institutions with the Ombudsman.
The Treaty of Amsterdam provides a more solid basis for Union citizenship.
The right of petition and complaint is an important instrument for a democratic Europe.
The proposed solution to the problem - treating the Ombudsman as a separate institution for the purposes of the budget - allows additional posts to be created.
We are grateful to the Committee on Budgets and Mr Viola for this idea.
In my report, I have made it clear, for example, that only 20 % of steel's potential as a material has been exploited, which means that both from the quantitative and, especially, the qualitative point of view, steel has a bright future.
The ECSC Treaty of 1952 has a more developed sense of social issues, a stronger competition policy and an exemplary statistical system.
We know from analyses of research in the steel and coal sectors that, by virtue of being closely connected to industry, this exerts a particularly large influence on the development of European industry and has, in broad areas, inordinately strengthened the competitiveness of this European industry compared with the United States, and also Japan.
The proposal that has been presented contains the idea that the interest income on the capital of the ECSC should be used for research programmes within the coal and steel sector.
It is perhaps precisely this sector which is in the greatest difficulty in Europe today.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to preface my remarks with two pleasing points.
Firstly, on behalf of the presidency, I should like to congratulate John Hume who, together with David Trimble, has been awarded the 1998 Nobel Peace Prize.
I believe that Parliament can be proud to have Members of such calibre in its ranks.
In that sense, it was particularly important for me to hear about the matters of particular concern to Parliament, and of course to understand them.
By the same token, we have not had the ad hoc procedure which we should have had.
This is a breakdown in communications between our two institutions and it needs to be rectified next year.
Having said that, I thank the President-in-Office for the work he has done on the legal base.
As you know it is our insurance policy, as the Commission has said.
As the Commissioner said, if we adopt that strategy the Commission will have to call on own resources from the Member States earlier in the year.
I would like to add the part that the peace programme funded by the European Union has played in Northern Ireland.
The recommendations made by the rapporteur on the pilot programmes and on the preparatory actions have taken a lot out of the debate.
The vast majority of actions on the lines that have disappeared have been placed elsewhere on other lines.
So, all in all, between the Commission, Council and the rapporteur, a decent job has been done in getting over the problem of the legal base.
If we get an agreement in which it is less than the PDB - and if we are realistic, it probably will be - if, in second reading, we then reduce that figure we may have a gap and that affects our strategy for the bridging budget.
One thing that crosses my mind - and it has not been discussed in our group - is that we may have to frontload the Fifth Framework Programme in the 1999 budget to make sure that the margin is kept to an absolute minimum.
Concerning Category 4, I should first like to mention Turkey.
My group and I consider that putting actual humanitarian aid in reserve is the wrong thing to do.
We will therefore be voting against that amendment and if we vote against it, it will not get 314 votes and consequently the money will go back on the line.
We went along with the reduction proposed by the rapporteur because there are many other lines which have the facility for de-mining those areas which cause a danger to personnel in those areas.
What is the situation with tropical forests?
On the anti-personnel mines, do we really need a plethora of lines for this action or can it be concentrated in one area?
We voted against an increase in personnel there because we are being consistent.
All the political groups have had a policy of no increases in personnel in all the institutions, and that should also apply to the Court of Justice.
Mr President, this budget debate is the last one of this particular House before the elections next year and, indeed, when we come back to discuss the year 2000, we should have an institutional agreement and a financial perspective which will be different from those we have today.
Before coming to my remarks on institutional budgets and the Commission budget, there are two general remarks I wish to make about the 1999 budget as a whole.
We have a budget which is very stringent: it has shown how, over a seven-year period, the figures that one is now voting on are very different from the financial perspective which we negotiated back in 1992.
Let me move now to comments on other institutions.
In budgetary terms it can be said that Parliament has made much progress, together with the Commission and the Council.
As far as the legal base agreement is concerned, we have now done precisely what we promised.
The structural problem is that the General Affairs Council, as the presidency itself recognises, is no longer a Council of arbitration.
Ministers of Foreign Affairs have lost overall control of general policies in the Community.
That means that the Budget Council, in this particular case, remains the accounting body it has always been.
It is the financial cooperation which still does not have a legal base.
It is against that background that we were very happy indeed that on one of the key issues of our time - asylum and refugees - Parliament has taken an initiative which is supported by all groups in this House.
On the issue of ECHO, I only want to repeat what others have said before.
It is important that we have a real approach of substance.
It is simply that in the first reading it is important to give a concrete signal.
But our group has taken a very specific position - which is shared by many, but not all - namely, no other organisation tolerates travel costs higher than the real costs.
We can do no better at this stage than take a concrete position which will finally be a position of courage and give a signal that this House is in order.
Mr President, you may remember that about two years ago in 1996, when the House was debating the 1997 budget, the Council and the Commission made a statement designed to overcome the European Parliament's objections at that time.
The social dialogue shows a very small increase, just ECU 50 000.
Funding for solidarity between generations is almost halved, in terms of both commitment and payment appropriations, from ECU 4 million to ECU 2.4 million.
For health issues, payment appropriations are down on the previous year, including in the areas of training, the fight against cancer and the fight against AIDS.
I congratulate Mrs Dührkop Dührkop on her hard work and the trouble she has taken, but my own philosophy is different from hers and from the philosophy of the Council and the Commission.
The current budget procedure has to be tackled by two distinct but inseparable approaches: not only, as you would expect, as a forecast of revenue and expenditure for the next financial year but also as a reference for the new financial framework due to be introduced at the end of that financial year.
In the light of this twofold approach the Commission - and the Council, even more so - have presented an extremely tight budget which, as a percentage of GNP, represents a sharp reduction compared with the 1998 budget.
The final value of this budget - after first reading but without taking into account the special reserves - is lower than was set out in Agenda 2000 for the current 15 Member States and for the next financial framework.
On this score, it is obvious that the proposal approved in committee to set aside a special reserve of ECU 500 million for Russia only scratches the surface, because it is not just Russia that is at stake, and in any case I do not think that this is a matter for a special reserve.
I should also like to voice our dissatisfaction at the backward step in the ad hoc process.
In this area, we also essentially go along with the position adopted by the European Parliament, although we have to point out that certain budget lines by which we had set considerable store, especially in the social field, have been sacrificed.
Even so, we consider that the tripartite agreement reached means we can salvage something of significance that would otherwise have been lost.
Putting into reserve certain amounts for Structural Fund authorisations and payments is acceptable to us, since negotiations on their future use are scheduled and because the actual take-up of the funds by the different Member States is being taken into account.
As for the ECU 500 million reduction in payments, although that is technically understandable, at first reading we would have preferred it to be limited to the ECU 250 m placed in reserve.
Two more issues result from votes in the Committee on Budgets, both of them in the field of cooperation.
The first concerns humanitarian aid and the ecu.
The decision to select a given heading and initially place the total amount of aid in reserve, leaving the final decision to the Commission provided that certain conditions are met, shows how the European Parliament caved in on its initially successful demands.
The situation would be different if, as we have always contended, the reserve was more limited (albeit significant).
The Council statements that we have just heard on this subject, which we welcome, should enable us to do something about this issue in the current budget procedure.
The decision of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, in the context of the Agenda 21 process, to support the promotion of renewable energies, sends out an important signal.
The fact that we managed to top up research funding in the fifth framework programme by 33 % marks the start of a genuine new trend.
The much-discussed reserve for ECHO has had the effect that, from now on, the Commission has to make the UCLAF report and all future UCLAF reports available.
For the future, it would be helpful if the Commission were to be more specific about the staffing problems it regularly reports in this context - being well aware that in the case of ECHO this was no ordinary mini-budget - and if it were to discuss these with the Committee on Budgets to see whether the Liikanen facilities or alternative possibilities might provide a solution.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to congratulate Barbara Dührkop Dührkop for the excellent work she has accomplished, under conditions which were particularly difficult this year, on a budget which is effectively the last of this legislature and therefore full of ramifications, particularly in view of the expiry of the Interinstitutional Agreement.
In this respect, my group and I subscribe to one of the strategies proposed in this document, which involves reminding the Council of the political, moral and even legal arguments in support of the commitment to conclude a new Interinstitutional Agreement.
I believe that we have opened the way to a more comprehensive agreement which will allow a, shall we say, healthier view of things for many lines and several projects which are very important to the future of the European Union.
I believe that our control role must be exercised with the greatest possible rigour if we want healthier, more transparent institutions which are more capable of responding to people's expectations.
If there are problems, such as fraud or misuse of Community funds, we must of course resolve these using the instruments which are available, but we must not act emotionally or make a big song and dance about them, because this always leads to a lot of coverage in the press.
Our group is hoping, in any case, for an end to this blackmail which is undermining one of the most fundamental and important programmes that the European Union has managed to develop in six years.
This has led the Committee on Budgets to propose to us today not a budget, but a negotiating document with a view to concluding a possible future interinstitutional agreement with the Council.
The Council, probably because it alone knows the real value of money, has rightly recommended that the structural measures should also be subject to the same discipline as everything else.
Parliament, however, intends to continue to give structural measures a privileged status, with an increase of over 16.6 % in commitments, yet everyone knows that these appropriations have been underspent.
Budget expenditure other than on structural measures and internal policies has been strictly limited by the Commission, releasing sizeable margins compared with 1998.
The Council has applied even greater rigour.
In real terms, this expenditure is actually lower than 1998 and will, this year, represent no more than 42.2 % of the total commitments.
Internal policies, which the Council insists must also be subject to budget discipline, have been increased by more than ECU 300 million by the Committee on Budgets to a total of ECU 6.15 billion, an increase of over 7 %.
This is far removed from our budget guidelines of the spring which recommended a maximum increase of 2.5 to 3 % on last year's figure.
The creation of four special reserves, totalling ECU 1.6 billion in commitments and ECU 4 billion in payments, is unacceptable.
The draft budget has been artificially increased to 1.17 % of GNP to serve as a calculation basis for the 2000-2006 period, but this is an increase of 7 % over 1998, or 12.5 % if you consider just the non-compulsory expenditure.
Finally, we condemn the scandalous manoeuvre in the committee which resulted in the removal of subsidies to banana producers in the ACP countries and the pseudo-ultimatum issued to the Commission by placing appropriations for humanitarian aid into reserve.
However, it is clear that this is a transparency measure which should not be linked to the Members' Statute.
Mr President, the proposal before us today is not a budget, it is an exercise in budgetary inflation, a ballooning of appropriations.
We have a 6 % increase in commitment appropriations and a rise of nearly 3 % in payment appropriations in the draft budget, and an increase of over 7 % for commitments and nearly 4 % for payments in the budget which the European Parliament is preparing to vote on.
The bulk of agricultural expenditure will fall in real terms.
The increase can also be explained by the growth of over 8 % in the budget for internal policies, whereas under the principle of subsidiarity the responsibility for this should lie with the Member States, the regions or the local authorities.
Unjustified for internal policies, harmful for external measures and a source of waste for the Structural Funds, this inflationary budget will cost taxpayers dear: FRF 95 billion for French taxpayers alone, which is one third of income tax revenue, with an annual increase of nearly 4 %, more than any of the other main headings in the French budget.
This being the case, the National Front Members intend to vote against this draft budget, which is a budget for the Europe of Maastricht and Amsterdam and which is not in the interests of the taxpayers or citizens.
The 1999 budget is also a rather special budget for me, because it is my last whole budget in the European Parliament as chairman - and also a member - of the Committee on Budgets; as you know, I intend to leave this august assembly next year.
These colleagues should tell us why we should enter the money there when it is tantamount to putting it in a bank, because in the last three years - 1996, 1997 and 1998, as explicitly stated in the Tillich report - we have consistently had utilisation rates of below ECU 27 million.
Nobody in this House really wants to spend this money in the 1999 budget.
We are prepared to go the way of a rigorous budget.
But you must see: if an interinstitutional agreement is not concluded, then the basis for the Article 203 calculations, the 1999 figures - which will, after all, determine expenditure for the next seven years - has to be on a par with that provided for in the 1993 Interinstitutional Agreement.
No, the opposite is the case: this arm of the budgetary authority, the European Parliament, has pursued a sensible budgetary policy of trying, as far as possible, to fulfil the aims of the Community, while taking account of the restrictions which exist throughout the European Union.
In connection with the Notenboom procedure and Supplementary and Amending Budget No 1/98, we did in fact agree to a reduction in payments for the Structural Funds of the order of ECU 500 million.
In reality, the 15 Finance Ministers will be sitting there, but those sitting opposite us in the conciliation always have to telephone you.
I would kindly request that, on 10 November, you spend a long time in the places where you can be reached by telephone, so that the people with whom we are dealing are finally able to reach a decision.
It is unacceptable to prepare forecasts for a budget which is still fluctuating between total expenditure of ECU 14.3 billion on the one hand, and ECU 16.3 billion on the other.
We are, after all, playing with sums of up to ECU 200 million; the budget is either 200 m more or 200 m less, and that has a significant impact, both on Category 3 expenditure and on general spending trends within Category 3.
That is why I repeat my request: when the first man rings up, keep hold of the receiver and tell your other colleagues - especially the British, Spanish and German ones, who are still very hesitant on this issue - to give an answer as quickly as possible, so that we can find a solution in the conciliation on this expenditure before your second reading in the Council.
That is necessary and important, so that we have a clear amount with which to plan Category 3 expenditure.
On Category 4, I should like to return to the subject of ECHO.
Unlike other colleagues here in the House - who do not yet have such a clear understanding of this matter - I have put a great deal of trust in the President of the Commission, whom I did not elect.
I have said that the letter we received relating to the UCLAF report is sufficient for me, because I believe him when he says that this guarantees that the condition will be met, as we decided in a conversation with Mrs Theato, the President of the European Parliament, yourself and Mr Santer.
Commissioner, it would be very much easier for us - and I believe that the whole House would find it much easier to give up this reserve - if you were able to give an immediate undertaking that you will respond to this second condition by making a declaration in the Committee on Budgetary Control at the next available opportunity, in camera, away from the public debate.
My final point concerns the issue of the other institutions.
Ladies and gentlemen, I can understand it: those who listened to this House in the past and are now in the Court of Justice or the Court of Auditors, have certain interests.
Once again, I tell you quite plainly: our approach - and I am saying this in the light of the discussion about ECHO, on which my views are also entirely personal - our approach assumes that it is only by redistributing tasks, and not by constantly supplying new staff, that one can be sure that additional expenditure is required.
Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for noting these points.
Mr President, it gives me the most enormous pleasure to be able, on behalf of the Socialist Group, to pay tribute to our colleague and our comrade, John Hume, who, as you know, is now a Nobel Peace laureate.
John Hume's contribution to the peace process in Northern Ireland is without question the basis on which the Good Friday Agreement, which we all hope is going to lead to long and lasting peace in Northern Ireland, was founded.
In saying all that, we pay tribute as well to David Trimble who shares the Nobel Peace Prize this year with John, for the courage he has shown in more recent times in moving forward on the peace agreement for Northern Ireland.
But to John, our dear John, who has been a member of our group for some years now, we want to say how proud we are of him, how difficult the years have been, how we understand he has been subject to physical attack himself but also to vitriolic personal attack as a result of his efforts to open up the peace process.
Your path of non-violence has finally, please God, won forever the sort of peace we have all been praying for in Northern Ireland for a great many years.
The country is proud of you.
The world is proud of you and especially also, of course, this Parliament of which you are a distinguished Member.
I congratulate him and his ever-supportive wife, Pat, personally on this achievement.
We wish you God speed in everything you are trying to do. (Applause) Mr President, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, I would also like to express our delight at the award of the Nobel Prize to our dear colleague.
And he has set an example for us all.
For Europe, the Irish situation was a terrible wound in the very depths of its own political body.
And the determination of men like John Hume has made this light and this hope possible.
Some say that peace and a normal democratic situation have not been fully achieved in Northern Ireland, but he has made the objective of peace and political normalisation irreversible.
Like all the parliamentary groups, we believe that this prize actually bestows more prestige on the Nobel Prize than it does on John Hume.
The Nobel Prize gains in stature when people like John Hume receive the prize from the Academy.
And we are sure he can count on the whole of the European Parliament to go on working for peace in every corner of Europe and the world.
Thank you, John Hume.
Less than five years ago when I came to this Parliament it was still very difficult for John Hume, and there was a lot of opposition from the mainstream media in some countries, including my own, to the initiatives he had taken.
John Hume will have contributed to that.
He has sent out a clear message to other people in the world that we must take courageous action.
We hope that the peace agreement will hold firm and be permanent.
I should also like to congratulate my own leader, David Trimble, who has shown remarkable fortitude and courage as the leader of the Ulster Unionist Party.
I know better than anyone else the risks he has taken and, indeed, the challenges still before him.
His courage should not go unnoticed. (Applause) I also wish to say that, as someone who has been in political life in Northern Ireland for the last 25 or 26 years, I know the difficulties, risks and challenges and what it is like to plough a long, lonely furrow through the last 30 years in Northern Ireland.
We have an opportunity in this Parliament to recognise the work and the task and the deeds before us.
But, most important of all, I have to say that, as far as I am concerned, the peace process in Northern Ireland has been most heavily inspired by the example of this House.
I stopped and I thought: 30 years ago if I had stood on this bridge and said: 'Don't worry, although there are 25 million dead for the second time in a century and for centuries these peoples of Europe have slaughtered one another, now it is all over and in 30 years they will all be together' I might have been sent to see a psychiatrist.
Finally, in paragraph 31, second indent, the term 'anomalies de genre ' should be replaced by 'anomalies sexuelles '.
The proposal aims to allow the European Investment Bank to lend ECU 100 million over a two-year period to projects in such fields as transport, energy and the environment.
That is not good enough, and it shows how necessary it is that the European Parliament and the Commission's own anti-fraud unit, UCLAF, should not be prevented from doing the work that is required in a democratic system.
This once again demonstrates the importance of Europe's role on these major issues, and also the prominent role of the European Parliament.
A consistently high level of safety demands that all advisers satisfy stringent requirements.
Although I have doubts about possible variations in the difficulty of the examinations, I think this proposal represents an advance on the existing situation and for that reason I voted in favour.
However, I would like to use this opportunity to support Commissioner Kinnock's drive for more effective use of our railways, as long as they too have adequate safety rules and inspections.
I wish the Commission success in its drive for high standards of training and enforcement of safety rules for goods transported across Europe.
McKenna report (A-0284/98) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, obviously we supported the McKenna report, because today the European Parliament has made it clear that the game is up for the agricultural well-poisoners.
The Commission has neglected to implement the action programmes on cleaning up groundwater.
In almost 90 % of the agricultural area in the EU, nitrate concentrations in groundwater exceed the guide value.
The Commission must insist on the dilatory Member States keeping strictly to the maximum quantities of animal manure stipulated in the directive and, if necessary - and this is very important - also bring them before the Court of Justice.
I would therefore congratulate Patricia McKenna on the quality of her report.
Firstly, we should remember that the current water situation is the result of a policy pursued over many years, the basic principle of which was to subsidise intensive production and therefore the excessive use of fertilisers.
In all conscience, I believe that if the common agricultural policy continues as it is, or even slightly altered, nothing will change with regard to the ecological risks run by both the environment and the consumer.
However, we should note that many farmers seem to have got the measure of the challenges, aware that changes must be made in this area as consumers may no longer be happy to subsidise certain excesses.
I therefore believe that it is vital, in the context of Agenda 2000, that we realise the importance of promoting good-quality agriculture which respects the environment.
The Commission's report highlights the almost complete failure by all Member States to meet the terms of the 1991 Water Directive.
The Irish Environment Minister, Noel Dempsey, must comply with the terms of the directive and publish the results of the government's most recent study on nitrate levels in Irish drinking water.
While the problem may not be as serious in Ireland as in other countries, we cannot afford to be complacent.
The Minister should complete the follow-up monitoring study as soon as possible and let the public know whether nitrate levels in Irish drinking water are still below recommended levels.
Fortunately, a public inquiry managed to avert the danger but that was no thanks to my own Government.
I agree with the view expressed by Commissioner Kinnock that the present situation is grossly inadequate.
Rather than establishing an intensification rate calculated on the basis of a number of animals/surface area ratio, it is essential to carry out a comprehensive analysis.
The recent example of swine fever clearly shows us the risks of allowing over-specialisation and concentration.
Jensen report (A-0281/98) Mr President, this is an extremely important report because of the health implications.
Amendment No 11 states that 'sounder scientific data is therefore needed before relevant legislation can be drawn up' regarding the setting of limits values.
It is quite clear that this goes completely against a precautionary approach which should, firstly, ensure that even without sounder scientific data precautionary measures are taken to ensure that people's health and the environment are protected.
It is clear that those amendments weaken the report because industry's research departments should be involved in research.
The rapporteur's text describes a large number of potentially harmful effects of chemical substances on the endocrine balance in humans.
In it, she stresses the importance of research.
I voted against his amendments in order to avoid duplicated and impossible pieces of wording.
But I also strongly endorse the call made in paragraph 19 for openness and transparency in connection with legislation on the environment.
It is no longer a question of more or less safe or unsafe data, it is a question of adopting a precautionary approach in legislation, which does not even need to involve added costs to industry.
The future of our agricultural systems and the profession of farming itself, the health of our citizens and those who are employed in the food sector are dependent on the modernisation and development of our agricultural structures in a balanced and even-handed manner.
It is pointed out in this report that there is a need to take into account the issue of biodiversity in the reform for the Common Agricultural Policy announced under the Agenda 2000 programme.
I feel that this matter should be dealt with at the level of the European Union so as to ensure uniformity in the rules which apply within all the Member States and territories of the EU itself.
I am happy to give my support to this report which calls for our attention to be more focused on preserving the biodiversity of our natural environment.
Mr President, I would like to take up the debate where the previous speaker, the socialist chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Samland, left off.
He argued very clearly in favour of placing the humanitarian aid in the reserve in view of the Commission's refusal to let Parliament have the UCLAF information and that concerning the financial control of the so-called 'serious irregularities' in ECHO.
And that is why last night, in the Committee on Budgets, the common factor of the speeches of all the members of the Group of the European People's Party was raising the reserve.
Yes, yes, it has been said that we are holding them hostage in our private war with the Commission.
The 1.27 % of GNP is worth a great deal more.
Mr President, the European Union budget now being discussed is a very responsible and disciplined one.
Secondly, the budget also contains a review of Members' travel expenses.
The largest reserve is the ECU 1 500 million for the Structural Funds.
The biggest political reserve is for humanitarian aid, all ECU 330 million of which have been put into a reserve fund for further investigation and continued action by the Commission.
The second sizeable reserve is for the TACIS programme.
One of the options under consideration which alarms me somewhat is that 25 % of direct income supports for European Union farmers be directly paid out by the exchequer of the Member States of the Union.
Agriculture as an industry is three times more important to Ireland's economy than to that of many other European States.
If it were to be implemented, this proposal would lead to the renationalisation of the CAP.
Let us be abundantly clear about one thing: the renationalisation of CAP would lead to a fragmentation of the CAP itself which would fly in the face of the social and economic policy objectives of the Union.
The decision to reduce the allocation for structural fund programmes in 1999 is certainly not to be welcomed.
In particular I want to welcome the proposal to provide another ECU 100 million for peace and reconciliation which was referred to so many times today by our Nobel Prize Winner, John Hume.
Mr President, the policy buzz-word in today's euro economy is discipline.
The European Parliament is imposing conditions in the budget for the provision of aid for Russia under the TACIS programme.
In Russia reform and poverty go hand in hand.
The European Parliament's resolution therefore wanted poverty, racketeering and corruption to continue in Russia before we supply it with the TACIS new technology aid.
The best human rights policy for Russia would be if the EU ended aid to Yeltsin.
There are a lot more victims of Yeltsin in Russia and Chechnya than of Pinochet in Chile.
In the Nordic countries a politician cannot earn more than ECU 10 000 net per month after expenses for public duties, as I, for example, am getting today in this Chamber.
Mr President, I have a comment on what Mr Seppänen was just saying.
The Danish contribution will top DKK 15 billion by the turn of the millennium.
Consumers and taxpayers pay high prices for products which encourage the use of pesticides and growth promoters, which gives rise to new expenditure for storage and destruction, without the farmers getting a reasonable income for their daily toil.
After Edinburgh, where it was decided that the EU budget for economic and social cohesion would be raised to 0.46 % of GDP, we are today being presented with a tight budget, one justified by the need to assist the Member States in their efforts to gear up for the euro, but above all to provide structural support for enlargement.
Unfortunately, we hear all too much nowadays of poor financial management in the case of the PHARE and TACIS programmes, and even of fraud and irregularities in that of ECHO.
My group has asked me to concentrate on the link between the Interinstitutional Agreement, the financial perspective and the present budget - the one we are debating - which is a fundamental concept for the rapporteur and our Socialist Group.
Mr President, nobody is more convinced than I am of the general usefulness of a budgetary interinstitutional agreement and some medium-term prospects.
I think the 1988 and 1993 agreements were a sign of progress.
They were agreements on major decisions that allowed the harmonious development of the principal European Union policies to take place in peace and serenity at important times of change, such as the single market, the single currency, etcetera.
But I do want to highlight two negative aspects of the financial perspective the Commission is proposing that are relevant today: if Article 203 of the Treaty were strictly applied and the increase in gross national product were 2.5 % a year, as the Commission assumes, the Member States' budgets would, in fact, have to fall annually by 1.1 % to equal your proposed figures.
A higher percentage - for example, if the fall were only 0.5 % - or even any positive percentage would mean that the Article 203 option would turn out to be more advantageous than the Commission's financial perspective.
There are two areas where we can make progress: one is the resolution of old disputes, such as classification, which has dragged on since 1982, but above all there is flexibility.
The Council does not seem to understand that to sign an interinstitutional agreement there must be at least two parties, usually three, but at least two, and one of these two is Parliament.
The next Belgian Presidency is in the year 2001.
Or rather, joking apart, their objective is for Parliament to do its duty properly and bequeath to the new European Parliament, which will be elected in June 1999, either an adequate and flexible agreement or a sufficient basis for non-compulsory expenditure allowing the new Parliament to define its budgetary priorities easily if it has to do so using Article 203.
After a great fuss, it turned out that last year - or the financial year in progress, 1998 - the Member States increased their budgets by more than the European Parliament increased the Community budget.
It has spent ECU 80 billion less than was agreed with you for the 1988-1999 period.
If we had put that in a savings bank, we would now be paying for the enlargement in cash, but we gave it back to the Ministers for Finance, representatives of the Council.
In this context, you will understand that I was opposed to an amendment seeking to create a reserve of EUR 500 m for emergencies in Russia and the former Soviet Union.
Its aim is undoubtably laudable, but it lacks any legal basis and contravenes the agreement on legal bases that we signed on 17 July last.
If it were approved, it would weaken and undermine the negotiating capacity and the credibility of this institution in the negotiations in progress on the Interinstitutional Agreement.
The other point I would like to make relates to the famous 100 % reserve of part D operational appropriations.
You cannot call for action in Kosovo or Russia and at the same time put the necessary appropriations in a reserve which begins on 1 January and so prevents us taking action in Kosovo or Russia on 1 January.
The only plausible explanation, in my opinion, is that it is easier to vote this reserve through in public than to shoulder the political consequences there would be for the discharge procedure if there were a real belief in the statements made.
As the rapporteur for the 1998 budgetary procedure, I know what is on her mind at present, and what will be on her mind in the weeks to come, because we have entered the decisive phase of the budget deliberations.
This year, the rapporteur has made a more radical proposal - in itself a good idea - to move this expenditure into part A of the budget in connection with the BUTS.
In the course of the 1998 budget, the Commission has responded to this and taken measures.
It has not only introduced criteria for the subsidies in part A of the budget, but has also decided on some for part B and introduced them.
Now we have a problem - the problem which is overshadowing the whole of the deliberations on the 1999 budget - namely spending by ECHO and spending on PHARE and TACIS, where the Liikanen facility is concerned.
At its first reading, the Committee on Budgets decided to enter a reserve for humanitarian aid.
We in the Group of the European People's Party invite all Members of this House to fight with us for the principle of transparent expenditure.
Because - and, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control, I should like to recall this for the sake of all those who have forgotten it again today - we concluded in letter K, that there has been a substantial increase in payment appropriations earmarked for humanitarian aid, in view of the developments in the sector in the last years, and that we are, therefore, in favour of an increase.
However, in the light of UCLAF's inquiries in connection with irregularities in the execution of contracts for humanitarian aid, such funds should be put into a reserve in order to encourage the Commission to give Parliament full information on the situation between the first and second readings of the budget.
Mr President, I was very pleased to see how much importance the rapporteur attaches in her text to continuing the procedure we used last year in setting the farm budget.
I think this is most important, because the agriculture budget has to be based on the best forecasts available.
Mr President, I welcome the opportunity to speak briefly in this debate.
I welcome in particular proposals in the draft budget for an 8.8 % increase in appropriations which would provide adequate funding for the current round of structural funds.
I do not have to remind the House of the importance of structural programmes as an instrument for the economic and social development of the regions.
I hope that these programmes continue into the future.
From an agricultural perspective this Parliament is now aware of the serious threats to the European farm model based on family farming.
We are aware of the role of farmers as guarantors of food security and quality.
Mr President, the constraints linked to the introduction of the single currency in 1999 are weighing on the national budgets and on the Community budget.
We cannot debate the 1999 budget without considering the European Commission document on future financing.
This is particularly true both with the extension to other countries of the rebate on the UK contribution and with the partial renationalisation of aid to farmers.
Mr President, I certainly would like to make a small contribution to this debate.
However, the whole future of the structural funds has to be borne in mind as well and there will be a fair battle ahead in this Parliament over the next six to nine months when we discuss Agenda 2000 and the entire reform package.
The situation is impossible.
Mr President, I should like to examine certain aspects which, in truth, represent only a tiny percentage of the budget but are of major relevance to Parliament and its relations with the European citizens.
This year the budget discussions have been especially tough in this field, and my colleagues and I are very satisfied with the agreement reached on the legal bases.
Although this agreement is positive in respect of interinstitutional relations and at last clarifies thelegal options and creates transparency in the budget, it has placed the rapporteur in a considerable dilemma.
I hope that, at second reading, the Council will not assess Parliament's decisions in its traditional manner, but will comply with the undertakings it made when drawing up the agreement on the legal bases.
As the rapporteur said this morning, education and training shape the future of our young people, enabling them to find their way in this frontier-free Europe and look forward to a brighter future.
The first is to underline the structural development of this budget.
I believe that this represents considerable progress which may partly, but only partly, calm the fears of those who consider that the budget has traditionally been too concentrated on agriculture, i.e.
The room left for non-structural internal policies is still relatively inadequate and joint measures should be developed in this area so that all the taxpayers of the Union can be represented in the budget.
We were keen, I believe, to restrict ourselves to an extremely limited increase in expenditure, even though the increase in structural commitment appropriations gives a slightly different impression and even though, for the strategic reasons which have been indicated, we have put a certain number of appropriations in reserve with the aim of bringing pressure to bear in the interinstitutional negotiations.
For the future, I believe that achieving greater flexibility in the interinstitutional negotiations is essential.
Having said that, Parliament must not ignore the fact that more flexibility also means genuine co-decision and that if we are to play a bigger role in the future in the area of compulsory expenditure, we must accept that there should also be genuine co-decision here.
We must therefore find a balance and I hope that the Interinstitutional Agreement which we are trying to negotiate will help to achieve this.
I hope that the Interinstitutional Agreement will put an end to a situation which, in the community arena, has blocked the activities of the most committed people in our society and withheld aid from those who most desperately needed it.
In this respect, I am very pleased that the Committee on Budgets accepted our amendment about the republication of the Nuremberg records in the various languages of the European Union.
Although the sums reserved for this may seem derisory, they are still evidence of our desire to substitute our duty to history for our duty of remembrance, given that our memories are failing and history, when widely taught and understood, constitutes the best protection against the pollution of revisionism and denial.
Just over a year ago, I tabled a proposal here in this Chamber for a campaign to be undertaken in 1999 to combat violence against women.
There was a large supporting majority in the House and the Committee on Women's Rights put forward a proposal for a very modest budget of ECU 5 million to fund the campaign at EU level.
A majority in committee then rejected the proposal.
To give Parliament maximum room for manoeuvre, the rapporteur is seeking in 1999 to have the margins beneath the expenditure ceiling carried fully as reserves in the budget.
The talks on an interinstitutional agreement envisage the management of expenditure.
Firstly, B1-3800.
Secondly, I hope we will support line B2-518N which would help fund the creation of future jobs involving the exploitation of sheep wool.
Sheep farmers all over Europe are having serious problems.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, overall this has the potential to be a sound budget, and I should particularly like to thank the rapporteur for her commitment to this budgetary procedure.
It is a bridging budget to the next financial perspective, and it should also be a budget which will help to prepare the ground for introducing the necessary flexibility in the future agreement between the institutions.
We have plenty of time before the second reading.
But anyone whose resolve is weakening today will basically take us into a difficult discharge procedure in December.
Otherwise, the money will stay in the reserve until the second reading.
Secondly, the Bureau's proposal does not solve the problem, but is actually a further step towards the realms of the absurd, with obvious preferential treatment for particular groups.
Once again the Commission and the Council have become exponents of monetarism at the cost of social policy and the social rights of working people.
The Commission and the Council have learned nothing from the continuing worldwide financial crisis which is already a threat to the real economy, to development and to employment.
They have learned nothing from the dramatic consequences of the restrictive policy squeezing Europe's citizens.
The European Parliament, as the Union's only elected body, must at some point speak up for Europe's citizens and send out a message denouncing this policy and demanding that it should be reversed by voting against this austerity budget directed against the peoples of Europe.
On the other hand, we have the impression that, despite everything, the Council wants to advance very carefully, as if it were already convinced that the financial perspectives would be even more unfavourable than at present in terms of resources.
We are therefore at an impasse and I cannot exclude the possibility that we may attempt an agreement with the Council for just one year, 1999, and defer the overall agreement for the following four years of the framework programme until after the revision of the financial perspectives.
Finally, I would draw your attention to the fact that the operation of phasing the ECSC into the budget of the framework programme for research has still not really been dealt with, as we are not sure whether the framework programme will include research on coal.
In other words, it has basically been a policy instrument, and its manifestations and expressions at various levels demonstrate as much.
The 1999 budget is very important because it can become the basis on which financial perspectives are developed.
In the draft budget we are now discussing there is a proposal for a new item covering measures to combat social exclusion.
ECU 10 million has been allocated for the measures for next year.
When the Treaty of Amsterdam comes into force and places obligations on the Union in this area too, we must be ready and willing to commit much larger sums in the future.
It is as if they had been bitten by a millennium bug which sets the clock back to 1980 and before.
There are some who have sought zero growth even in their own national budgets.
Looking at how the budget has developed in recent years between Parliament and the Council, I see that the budget has developed in a very controlled manner, that it has been very close to zero growth and would even have been below that had it not been for the Council - the Council - deciding to make a considerable increase in the Structural Funds, which in fact I welcome, and which led to this extra growth.
We are in favour of enlargement.
Payments out of the Structural Funds will fall due after 2000 which are not included in the financial perspective.
In short, then, it is not possible to meet all the challenges facing us if at the same time we decide on this zero growth which is so popular at present with a minority of the Council.
The difference is about ECU 4 billion, soon to be four billion euros.
Mr President, if you want problems over this in one or two Member States, that is the right way to go about it.
I will put off any solution for ever and a day.
Lastly, Mr President, mention has already been made of this, but for the sake of political clarity I will refer again to Turkey.
The Socialist Group advocates scrapping the reserve in the budget line for financial cooperation with Turkey.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 1999 budget reflects current European policies as they were enshrined in the interinstitutional agreement leading to the Delors II package.
When negotiating the next interinstitutional agreement and Agenda 2000 we should bear those results in mind.
I should also like to welcome the fact that, in the chapter on the Structural Funds, the European Parliament's budget proposal calls for more money to help the ultraperipheral regions - in the case of my country, the Azores and Madeira.
I hope that current discussions on CAP reform will bring an end to this scandal.
In effect, the European Parliament has done what the Council was loath to do.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to reiterate what Mr Böge said about ECHO.
Mr Liikanen, please take this matter seriously.
In a few days, the summit on the European Union's responsiveness to citizens will take place in Austria, and I believe that it is legitimate, in this context, to ask how responsive the European budget is to citizens.
I recently read the following - and I will quote it in English - in the Financial Times : 'Opening up the whole budget system to make it more simple, more fair and more transparent is a political nightmare, far easier to keep it complicated.' In this context, I particularly welcome the European Commission report, 'Financing the European Union', on the operation of the own-resources system.
After all, we have cancelled 16 budget lines without a legal base amounting to some ECU 124 million.
Look at the Leonardo programme - seemingly a priority in Cardiff - now cut by ECU 100 million.
I believe that to be our rapporteur's achievement in the 1999 budget.
By contrast the national governments elected with smaller numbers of people and having less mandates than we have in so many ways control 50 % of public spending throughout the European Union.
Agricultural spending has maintained the same level for the last ten years, while the number of farmers has dropped from something like 12 million 10 years ago, to 6 million today.
In real terms we have maintained spending without resolving their problems.
Thank you, Mr McCartin.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last budget of this parliamentary term.
It has been my first term in Parliament and in the Committee on Budgets.
I have greatly admired the massive expertise on budgetary matters and the dedication shown by my fellow members of the Committee on Budgets, but I should add that I do not think this expertise and dedication have had enough of a political impact in shaping the major policy options chosen by Europe.
In so doing, we have done a very important job, but that is not enough as a political authority.
The reports of Mr Colom I Naval contain enough material to serve as a specification against which any negotiating result can be measured.
The extra reserves built in provide a good basis which we can fall back on, if we need or want to switch to Article 203.
The next six months will be crucial, not only for the budget of this Parliament, but for the future of the European Union.
The Interinstitutional Agreement, the financial perspective, Agenda 2000 and the debate on own resources are all up for discussion and are indissolubly linked together.
We must at all costs avoid a situation in which the European Parliament connives at renationalising European policy and European politics.
We must try, as the European Parliament, to rise above national interests and exert firm pressure on the European Council to overcome the unanimity rule and secure a reasonable new package.
Lastly, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has sadly lost credibility.
John Hume has proved here how noble a project Europe is.
If there is one point on which we can show exemplary credibility, it is our own Statute.
Mr President, the rapporteur has handled a complicated budgetary exercise quite brilliantly.
The rapporteur is right to get Parliament working on a hypothetical failure of the negotiations on the Interinstitutional Agreement.
If these negotiations were to prove fruitless in the end, we would find ourselves faced with an Article 203 under the worst conditions for us.
The rapporteur calls this the 'flag and amount' mechanism, tying a reserve in Category 2 to the degree of uptake of the appropriations in each of the Member States.
In theory, this will prioritise budgetary effort and good implementation.
But bear in mind that, for the first time, this Parliament is going to accept a change to the Edinburgh Agreement which could result, in the worst case, in payment problems in Objective 2 in 1999.
However, in the end, we are going to rely on variables outside our control, such as whether the Council does or does not approve an amending and supplementary budget or, more simply, how the Notenboom transfer evolves.
In other words, we are going to give the Council a negotiating advantage without keeping any for ourselves.
Finally, I want to express my very sincere thanks to the rapporteur for her goodwill and the open and conciliatory way she has handled the whole parliamentary procedure.
As he said this morning, unlike previous years, there has been a unanimity of views in the Committee on Budgets.
I am delighted that the Commission has proposed that Article 4 should be used to accommodate Parliament's concerns and that this money should not be lost in the budget, or be subject to any complicated and costly procedures and that in this way we can maintain, specifically, targeting in relation to ECSC funds.
By failing to authorise the transfer of ECU 30m for use in time to be able to commit appropriations by the end of next year's budget, the Council is failing to support the aims expressed by Parliament to help create jobs in areas suffering from the consequences of sectoral closures, principles echoed so clearly in the Amsterdam Treaty.
I hope the Commission will make every effort in line with Articles 49 and 56 of the Treaty to use its powers to implement the proposals by other means.
I want to remind this House that we are looking at a predicted 17 000 job losses in coal and steel for 1999.
Parliament has expressed its awareness of the problems and its desire to take positive action.
At a time when there is turbulence in Asia and Russia and when the Americans too are panicking a little, the European Union, thanks to the euro, remains an oasis of calm and stability.
So the idea of a spendthrift European Parliament is a misconception.
The budget lines for social policy and employment are up on the preliminary draft, at ECU 48.3 million and 14 million respectively.
I think Parliament has now largely succeeded in clearing up the confusion, but it has complicated matters very much this year.
For Category 3 this is a great deal of money, and the size of the sum may even put the rest of it in jeopardy.
Happily, the Committee on Budgets has reconciled the various parts of internal policy.
One last thing, Mr President.
In two respects, the text really is no good and to my mind not altogether consistent with what was agreed in committee.
The ECSC Treaty might not expire for another three years, but Parliament has already spent some time considering the question: what actually happens afterwards?
The ECSC's political aim has undoubtedly been achieved, namely to secure peace in Europe by putting the coal and steel sector - which played a decisive role in post-war economic regeneration - under supranational control.
But its economic achievements should not be underestimated either.
In providing economic and social assistance and supporting structural change in the coal and steel industries over the past decades, the ECSC Treaty has overall proved itself to be a very flexible, very effective, and thus very helpful tool.
Without it, it would have been very much more difficult to manage the dramatic structural change in these two sectors in a socially acceptable way.
Moreover, the importance of the coal and steel sector will again increase with the admission of the first Central and Eastern European countries into the European Union.
Bearing in mind the points I have mentioned and in keeping with them, we have put forward our proposal for the ECSC budget.
We urgently call on the Council to give the go-ahead for our funding of conversion activities in the coal and steel industries and regions.
We are expecting the Council to approve the EUR 30 million for 1999 and to bring in the 30 million from 1998 through the supplementary and amending budget.
Areas of coal and steel production are in particular need of our help.
Mr President, first I want to congratulate the rapporteurs, Mr Viola and Mrs Dührkop, on their excellent work.
To give a simple example, the Basque Country, which I represent, will receive 37 billion pesetas under those headings - covered by Objectives 2, 3, 4 and 5 - for next year.
It is a joint effort that is giving rise to a real convergence in terms of the Community income.
And, to give you an example, the Basque Country's GDP has risen from 79 % to 91 % of the Community average over the last 12 years.
This budget also strengthens the Union's internal policies in the face of the Council's planned cuts.
ECU 4 million is inadequate from any angle, but maintaining it against the Council's intention to cut it is a step towards consolidating a stable programme of support for these languages at European level.
There has been controversy, in the approval of this budget, about placing the amounts intended for the humanitarian aid office, ECHO, in the reserve.
This is a necessary measure from any point of view, because our duty as managers of public money is to fight fraud and corruption and there was enough information to indicate that a clear misappropriation had taken place.
We have not taken the weakest people hostage, those who need humanitarian aid, by establishing this reserve because, first of all, the reserve affects next year's budget, so we have not paralysed any project today given that we are at first reading.
Mr President, this is probably the most important work Parliament does in the whole year.
The fact is that four agents are involved on the European scene when trying to deal with fraud and irregularities: the Court of Auditors; UCLAF; and the Parliament in the form of the Budgetary Control Committee and the Committee on Budgets.
If the Budgetary Control Committee cannot get satisfaction, the teeth of this House are in the voting on the budget.
That temporary system has been working for 19 years.
I realise that the present Council had nothing to do with the origins of the problem, but I look to it and its immediate successor to make the Members' Statute fair for Members of this House.
Mr President, in making my comments, I should like to focus on Category 4, external actions.
It decided that we should focus our external policy in particular on our immediate neighbours in Central and Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean basin.
I still think this is questionable, for two reasons.
A few words on ECHO from the point of view of development policy.
That is why I am very disappointed by the statements Commissioners Marín and Bonino have made on this subject in recent days and weeks.
That is why I tabled an amendment to exclude multinational concerns from this budget line through its legal base.
That is why I support the Budgets Committee's proposal not to withdraw the appropriations from this line, but to consider whether they can be taken from Category 1 or from the European Development Fund, where we have surpluses every year.
One final remark on the subject of population policies, budget line B7-631, an important area which Parliament has always supported.
My colleague, Mr Le Gallou, and I have tabled nearly one hundred amendments to the Committee on Budgets, based on three guidelines.
We also wanted to guarantee the concept of Community preference, in other words ensuring priority for aid to nationals of the Member States, which seems the least that we can do.
The federalists, or rather the fusionists, will therefore continue to enjoy the ongoing campaign in favour of the euro and the forced integration of states within a single supranational entity known as Euroland.
The enviable expectations of growth in many countries, and in the European Union too, mean that we ought to give greater consideration to sectors that are likely to create more jobs.
And tourism is one such sector.
At the same time, we have to acknowledge that currency devaluations in a number of South-East Asian countries will make it harder for our own tourist industry to be competitive.
I am thinking in particular of conference tourism, which is very important for jobs in our countries.
The Austrian President-in-Office of the Council has reassured us that the action programme for tourism currently under consideration will be approved by the end of the year.
I think that the many, still far too many, people in our countries who are out of work have a right to expect that.
I wish to begin by expressing my pleasure at the broad participation in this debate: we have been here more than five hours.
If the action has a legal base, the title of a budget line is secondary.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, Representative of the Council, the European Council report for 1997, pursuant to Article D, adopts, as in previous years, the purely perfunctory approach of listing the legislative and other activities carried out in the year under review.
Disregarding the criticism of the European Parliament, it makes no assessment of the progress achieved, the problems encountered, or the shortcomings still to be remedied, even though Article D itself requires the Council to generate the impetus required for the Union's development.
The Committee on Institutional Affairs has therefore decided to focus on the elements that appear to give the necessary impetus to the Union's development.
I call on the Council - and I am not sure whether it is present and listening - to give us its opinion on this matter.
Public opinion supported the political impetus given by the founding fathers because after two terrible wars that united the victors and the vanquished in the same disaster, the peoples aspired to peace and democracy.
So two generations have passed, during which time the European Community has established free movement, the single market and the single currency, ratified treaties and authorised the accession of 15 new Member States.
The whole raison d'être of this great adventure escaped them because, as President Delors himself said, one does not fall in love with a single currency.
The aim today - and this is something that needs to be reiterated clearly and emphatically - is for the European Union to be a unique political project in the world, because it is based on peace, democracy and values: human rights, solidarity between peoples and generations, the establishment of a model of society that allows the people in it to blossom and prosper as much as possible.
This morning, John Hume gave us a wonderful example of these values when he said that one of the things that Europe and the European Parliament have taught him is respect for difference and diversity.
This is the great weakness of the Amsterdam Treaty.
Furthermore, the objectives of this reform should be included in the Community acquis .
Thank you, Mrs Spaak.
A third criticism is that no real progress was made in 1997 on crucial topics such as foreign policy and internal security.
Firstly, there must be a solution to the permanent stagnation in the Union's foreign policy.
The fifth priority concerns the question of refugees and asylum seekers.
Well, Mr President, it would have been better if this problem had been expressed more clearly, not least in the Council's report.
I sometimes have the impression that the Council is developing more and more into a gathering of 15 Heads of Government, who merely place the individual interests of their countries at the centre of their political intentions and objectives.
I consider this to be a dangerous development because the Council is the political centre of the European Union, and the political initiative for further integration in Europe should come from it.
The first is a clear declaration that we are really seeking to achieve enlargement of the European Union.
That is the first clear objective that the European Union, the Council and all of us must tackle.
The second is Agenda 2000.
We must realise that Agenda 2000 is the most immediate objective that needs to be met in order to be able to keep enlargement on track and also to maintain the ability to make decisions within the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in order to prepare my speech I went on a journey in time back to 1997.
Paragraph 11 deals with finding a different approach to 'closer cooperation', a new concept to be found in the Amsterdam Treaty.
In any case, I have to say that if we deepen the European Union we must respect what the different States want.
Unfortunately this report makes no substantial reference to the role of the national parliaments, contrary to what is specifically said in the De Giovanni resolution already adopted by the Committee on Institutional Affairs, to be voted on tomorrow.
As for Council deliberations, this report contains a proposal to boost qualified majority voting.
Mr President, the rapporteur is naturally right to draw our attention not to European Union progress in 1997, but to the numerous unresolved problems that lie ahead, and she expresses the impatience and discontent of this Parliament that have been reflected in dozens of resolutions of this House, though without particular success.
We have not managed to put any real political pressure on the Council and Commission.
This Parliament is urged to exert greater political pressure and to exert a firmer influence on the Commission and Council in order to remove the blockade to enlargement towards the East, the blockade to the development of political union, and the blockade to the establishment of a European democracy.
I therefore draw your attention to a paragraph of this resolution which focuses on two measures that could be taken and that in our opinion would by their very nature increase the European Union's standing in the world.
The first is the creation of a military and civil intervention corps - particularly a military one - for the European Union as a whole; the second is the idea of establishing joint diplomatic representation at Union level by means of setting up joint embassies where fewer than four Member States have diplomatic posts.
Mr President, the European Council's report on the progress of the Union gives a perfunctory list of measures taken in 1997 and, from this point of view, is of little more than historic interest.
However, it does remind us that time is passing and that the draft treaty adopted in June 1997 by the Amsterdam Council has still not been debated by the French Parliament, less still by the French people.
Indeed, once the French Constitutional Court deemed it necessary to review the Constitution, our government was unable to proceed, as was the case in many other countries where the debate has unfortunately been avoided.
But if we were to reveal the true essence of the Amsterdam Treaty to the citizens of France, it is quite possible that they or their parliamentarians would reject it one way or another.
We know that the majority of our citizens do not want over-hasty enlargement that includes neighbouring states.
A few days ago, when my assistant requested a Commission document on my behalf, which incidentally was quoted in an answer to a question, the official in charge refused to forward the document because the Members of Parliament only mess around with them anyway and because that gets 'on his nerves'.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have three remarks to make on the Spaak report, which will in a way be an advance discussion of the subject of our talks tomorrow with President Santer and the Austrian Chancellor, Mr Klima, and on the basis of which we will be adopting the De Giovanni resolution.
I should like to begin by expressing my warmest thanks to Mrs Spaak for her commitment in her work on her Europe, and I add in this connection - because this was mentioned just now - that this is, I think, also our common Europe.
The third subject and my third remark indirectly concern what we have heard again and again today and in recent days.
That is why I, like Cato in ancient times, always try to take the caeterum censeo line.
That is why the second indent of paragraph 8 of the resolution on the Spaak report calls for greater control in this common Europe.
Mr President, I should like to raise two matters.
For this reason it is very important to demonstrate that this Parliament wants to reject the concept of 'juste retour' for future developments.
Paragraphs 22 to 24 deal with justice and home affairs.
Mr President, I think that the majority of us support the report under consideration here.
The rapporteur is stating the obvious but failing to see the real point, which is that the European Union today is not suffering from a growth crisis but from a real infirmity.
So we need to be specific about what it is our citizens want.
The fourth indent of paragraph 20 seems to imply that the Institutional Committee thinks that the European Union is a member of NATO.
I think there is nothing for it but to recognise, once again, and in spite of the criticism last year and in previous years from both Parliament and the Commission, that this report by the Council is actually limited to presenting a balance sheet of activities that is merely factual and often lacks the political scope it ought to have in accordance with the actual spirit of the Treaty.
In fact, the challenges we have to face in each of these fields are well-known and the responsibility we all have is to see how we can put the citizen at the centre of our concerns, how issues as important as growth and employment can be renewed and how the European Union can prepare for enlargement, in both financial and institutional terms.
And at that time I expressed some disappointment, which has probably become much more muted with the passage of time, because there was a series of questions and it seemed to me that if the plans that were on the table a week earlier had been adhered to, we would probably have obtained different results from those that were achieved as a result of some amendments that were introduced in the last 72 hours.
All the same, my disappointment was probably most intense at that first moment and the passage of time has made me see things more calmly and see the more positive side of the Treaty.
And I also think we should remember the efforts that have been made to strengthen the role of fundamental rights and the impact of society in the European Union, not forgetting the responses the citizens expect from the Union.
Mr Brinkhorst - who is not here now - mentioned this issue just now.
A moment ago, someone mentioned that some progress had been made on issues relating to the common foreign and security policy.
The instruments are there.
And in this connection, the Commission has already announced, in Agenda 2000, that it wants a new Intergovernmental Conference to meet immediately after the turn of the century.
Moreover, the arrival of the euro, the opening of the enlargement negotiations and Agenda 2000 are also long-term projects initiated in 1997 that commit us to the future.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.15 p.m.
Mr President, the Asian financial crisis has reminded us that investment and other financial flows can have a dramatic effect on the growth of competitiveness.
The transparency that any general framework of rules would bring with it in this area would be very helpful to combat corruption, unacceptable practices and, indeed, crony capitalism generally.
Meanwhile, of course, negotiations on a multilateral agreement on investment, the MAI, have been in progress since May 1995 in the framework of the OECD.
The EC and its Member States have participated in these negotiations on the basis of a strategy adopted by the Council in April 1995 and accepted by the European Parliament in its resolution of 14 December 1995.
We often follow the Americans anyway, and it seems to me that we are also following the Americans in this area, instead of going against them, which in my opinion would be the better position for Europe.
You were right to say that it must be in our interests to strengthen Europe's international position, and in this respect this would be a step in that direction.
We have not learned to include sensitive issues, such as culture, the environment and agricultural policy, in international negotiations, with the result that we always discuss them in a negative sense only.
We always say simply that we do not want them to be included, which is also right, and that we want the acquis communautaire to be preserved, which is right too; that is our position.
We always assume that they are cleverer than we in the European Union are.
I believe we must now, with the help of an extremely open strategy, learn how to deal with this and perhaps also to convey the message that both the European Commission and the European Parliament are capable of formulating very good and very firm positions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I accept the basic statement by Mrs Mann, who made a personal remark on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, namely that we need an international agreement on investment.
No, we need an international agreement on investment.
The European Parliament must always be fully included in this issue, and you always do so, Sir Leon Brittan; I know that you like to be praised, as I am doing here.
Yet, as an industrial nation, France will not in the end be able to avoid making a clear statement here on what we all want.
Secondly, it seems to me logical that a multinational agreement on trade should be complemented by a multinational agreement on investment.
But the developing countries too will benefit from this agreement.
To take just one example, wage increases in Taiwan and South Korea: whilst the hourly wage there in 1975 was on average just 6 % of that in the USA, by 1995 the figures had risen to 34 % and 43 % of it respectively.
This positive development is a direct result of investment.
There are of course countries which pay no heed at all to social and environmental standards in their efforts to attract investment.
The developing countries must be directly involved in the negotiations on the agreement.
The dispute-resolving procedure must be more balanced, so that the host country is able to take action against the investor.
But for the rest I am convinced that the agreement on international investment needs to be concluded as speedily as possible.
The MAI is aimed at protecting investors' rights and guaranteeing stable rules of operation.
Neither do they respect the social and environmental standards laid down by the European Union, less still the sovereign right of the Member States of the European Union to determine them.
In the OECD each state negotiates on its own behalf and, in this way, the US seeks to undermine the solidarity between the states of the Union.
On the other hand, if the Union grants Sir Leon Brittan a mandate to negotiate this matter within the framework of the WTO, which is what we want, this mandate must include the exception clauses, for example the cultural exception that the Baladur government fought so hard to obtain in 1994, along with the other clauses that we do not want to retain.
Mr President, I have noted that the Commission persists in supporting the philosophy behind the MAI, according to which private investors have all the rights, the states have all the duties and all countries are subject to US domination.
I would like to remind you that on 11 March Parliament called on governments not to accept the MAI in its present form.
Following a six-month suspension of negotiations, the French Government, through its Prime Minister, concluded that this agreement could not be reformed, and announced that France would not resume the MAI negotiations.
This far-reaching decision is a noteworthy example for any government concerned about its sovereignty.
The MAI should not simply be replaced by a newer version inspired by the same principles, such as the PET, which you, Sir Leon Brittan, negotiated without a mandate in London on 18 May, and which to me amounts at the very least to an abuse of power.
The content of the MAI must therefore be discarded.
Any new negotiations must take place on an entirely different basis and within a framework other than that of the OECD, which brings together the richest countries.
It is not American or Japanese multinationals that should lead the world, but governments that have been elected by the people.
As rapporteur on the legal framework for the MAI, I am extremely pleased by this, Mr Kittelmann.
The European Parliament's resolution in March established clearly that the draft agreement not only has serious shortcomings, but that it even goes completely in the wrong direction in many areas, because it gives priority to the rights of investors over everything else, for instance.
The Commission's answer to this was certainly incredibly disappointing.
Sir Leon Brittan, you now have clear evidence that European politicians, European governments and European civil society do not share your line on free trade!
Mr Jospin rightly said last week that the MAI cannot be reformed.
Please inform the French Government of this, Sir Leon.
Mr President, the MAI as formulated by the OECD is dead.
France, quite rightly, has definitively rejected this MAI in the light of Catherine Lalumičre's excellent report, which showed the extent to which this pseudo-agreement attempted to strike a fatal blow to the social, cultural and environmental acquis .
But if we want to be as efficient as possible - and here I am specifically referring to the millennium negotiations - we should consider a more democratic way of monitoring the WTO.
If the French Government has dealt a fatal blow to the OECD's MAI, it did so in order to better create a new dialogue, one that involves all actors, both large and small, who have a part to play in the globalisation of the economy.
These initiatives have in my opinion contributed to a significant shift in position for some Member States, including France, and of course I welcome this.
We shall therefore once again have to be extremely vigilant: the Council must be very precise in the way it draws up the new mandate that it will grant the Commission, and we in the European Parliament and the national parliaments must monitor its implementation rigorously so that in the long term investment flows benefit all our populations.
The structure of the MAI programme has made every democrat aware of how quickly fundamental democratic rights can be lost.
Multinationals no longer make their profits predominantly from production; up to 70 % of profits are now a result of speculating in money.
Mr President, the MAI can be reduced to a simple formula: multinationals have all the rights and the states have all the duties.
However, at a time when some multinationals have bigger budgets than some Member States of the European Union, I do not think it is the multinationals that need protection, as Mr De Clercq proposed.
As it was the cultured men and women in France who immediately took action to preserve the cultural exception, it very quickly became clear that this MAI affected every area and that, had the agreement been signed, a national parliament would not in future be able to adopt a text that was not in line with the provisions of the MAI.
In short, democracy should still have a purpose and a future.
Mr President, I welcome Sir Leon Brittan's statement.
These companies will normally engage in transfers of know-how and technology, providing better support for long-term development than national exchequers could achieve by means of transfer payments.
Following the French Government's decision to withdraw from negotiations, it seems quite clear that political conditions are no longer appropriate for these negotiations to continue.
The Belgian Government was greatly disturbed by what happened in Paris, and the future government of Germany is also questioning the relevance of a project that is evidently flawed.
I therefore think that if future negotiations take place within a new framework, the conditions in which they take place should be discussed democratically, and that Commissioner Brittan and the European Commission should be given a clear mandate that is monitored democratically; otherwise we are in real danger of misleading ourselves totally in this debate.
Mr President, an agreement on investment is doubtless needed, but not simply any agreement.
The present draft MAI treaty almost caricatures the concept of ultra-liberalism.
But this protection is to be put before the rights of citizens and the rights of the states.
This would give non-national investors the opportunity to question any government policy or action that might reduce their predicted profits.
No, world peace is the result of an agreement between democratic governments who create and protect it.
So it is understandable that some are keen to create the conditions which would destroy this democratic construction by imposing other laws, such as the law of money, or even that of the United States.
Not because of a touchy reaction, Sir Brittan, but in order to start again at a later date, for example within the framework of the WTO.
Mr President, I should firstly like to thank Sir Leon Brittan for continuously helping to objectify the debate.
I believe it is essential that we settle conflicts satisfactorily in this area.
In my country alone, Austria, 8 % of the gross domestic product is apportioned to investments from abroad.
If we are concerned about those who are suffering from the Asian crisis, if we are concerned about the fact that there are in a country like Indonesia literally millions of people who are now below the poverty line because of that crisis, then we have to be interested in attracting investment to those countries, because that is one of the ways to recover.
So it is not a frolic of our own that we have gone on, but a responsible negotiation in a responsible place.
I have made it clear in this House time and time again - and most recently today, for those who are prepared to listen - that we, on behalf of the Member States of the European Union, were not prepared to complete a negotiation and to enter into an agreement which did not provide adequate protection for the concerns that have been expressed about the environment, for the concerns that have been expressed about audiovisual and other cultural matters and for the concerns that have been expressed about the observance of ILO labour standards.
The sole question was whether there was a reasonable chance of completing those negotiations with an acceptable agreement or not.
I believe that we will never know the answer to that question because the negotiations are likely not to be concluded in that way.
I have said that we regard that, in any event, as the preferable forum and as the main place in which a negotiation should take place.
To achieve that we have to persuade everybody that there should be a new Millennium round and we have to persuade people that a negotiation on investment should take place in it.
If you take this argument about sovereignty or au pied de la lettre in the way that has been argued today, you would never have an international agreement on anything.
But the argument about sovereignty is an appeal to the emotions and a contradiction of everything that we have achieved in the European Union over the last 40 years, because if that argument had prevailed, we would never have started and none of you would be here today.
Mr President, I am sorry the honourable Member has had a problem with the translation but as it happens I was following the text very closely and I will repeat what I said about the French Government and the only thing I said about the French Government.
Mr President, Sir Leon Brittan, of course it is absolutely clear to everyone in the House that international treaties, including the Treaty on European Union, limit sovereignty in certain areas.
But the EU is much more than purely an internal market.
Mr President, I do not know whether you share my opinion.
I should like to support you, Sir Leon Brittan, on one issue and pass on your conviction.
and resumed at 9 p.m.) Emissions from diesel engines The next item is the report (A4-0364/98) by Mr Lange, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive amending Directive 88/77/EEC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from diesel engines for use in vehicles (COM(97)0627 - C4-0194/98-97/0350(COD)).
With this legislation, emission limit values for these vehicles have become 95 % stricter in Europe over the last fifteen years.
The result is that today 50 % of all nitrogen oxide and particulate emissions in Europe are from lorries and buses, and not from the far more numerous passenger cars.
Looking at the figures, there are about 200 million passenger cars on the roads, and lorries and buses add up to just a fraction of this number.
But, because until now attempts to comply with exhaust emission limit values involved only making technical adjustments to the engine, the most significant consequence was increased fuel consumption, due to the fact that we were only targeting NOx and not CO2 emissions.
By fitting a de NOx catalyst, to reduce NOx emissions by means of a catalyst, we can achieve a reduction of approximately 10 % in consumption in lorries.
I think that a 10 % drop in consumption, given rising lorry traffic in Europe, is certainly going to contribute to reducing CO2 here.
As rapporteur on air quality, I simply want to highlight the importance for air quality of these issues.
This report probably has to take the prize for lengthy and difficult titles but it is a very important measure in the battle to improve air quality and, as a result, the health of our citizens.
The limit values which are being been laid down in the first daughter directive on air pollution which is currently between first and second readings in this House depend on the whole package of measures under Auto-oil of which this is really an intrinsic part.
The air quality directives have emission limits for 2005 and 2010.
In Britain around 80 % of our goods are now moved by road compared to rail, waterways and other means.
Heavy lorries, therefore, have major implications for the health of our citizens.
We know all about those problems.
The research studies which have been carried out on particulates, or black smoke, underline the necessity to specify 2005 under this proposal, precisely so that industry will have to create the necessary anti-pollution devices such as particulate traps, and have the lead-in time to be able to do so.
I simply want to emphasise, in conclusion, how essential it is to maintain the toughest possible emission limits as we have demanded in other parts of the Auto-oil programme.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am glad that in the last few months we have been able to discuss and approve a number of interesting reports in the House, some of them by means of the codecision procedure, which gives meaning to the single market in the areas of transport and mobility as well.
The amendments to the Commission proposal incorporated in the report are altogether consistent with the amendments which Parliament pushed through earlier through the conciliation procedure when we looked at the other part of the Auto-Oil programme, passenger cars and light commercial vehicles.
Looking at the Lange report, the proposals - the standards for 2005 in respect of diesel fuel - would seem to be realistic.
I have seen the documents with my own eyes.
But we in Parliament have already stated in the Auto-Oil programme that we wish to give a clear signal to industry and, with that in mind, we want binding limit values, as Mr Lange proposes.
What we need to do now is to think seriously about the decisions reached in the Auto-Oil programme.
But it has already been mentioned in the discussion that, following preliminary consultations, the Commission - and also incidentally the Member States - started out from a different basic idea.
And all the more so, Mr Lange, because we have committed ourselves to presenting values for a second stage by the end of 1999.
That means that we - or industry - have another five years.
We can accept Amendments Nos 11 and 12 fully, we can accept Amendments Nos 6, 16, 17 and 24 in principle, in other words we shall have to look at the wording again, but we still have time to do that.
I think that because we are at the first reading stage here, I do not need to go into each amendment and explain in detail why it cannot be accepted.
Secondly, if you put forward a proposal for the 2005 stage in autumn 1999 at the earliest then, in view of the experience with the first Auto-Oil programme, where it took over two years, and considering also that the time needed to develop the engines of heavy goods vehicles is about twice as long as that for passenger cars (about five years), how much time are you estimating for legislation?
So it took six months to cover the 200 metre distance between the Commission and Parliament!
I do not think that now is the time for us to deal with the question of why it took several months to cover 200 metres.
The debate is closed.
The aim is to reduce these emissions by 67 % in comparison to the 1990 rate.
This means that thresholds or values are indicated for each industrial sector and undertakings must respect them.
Secondly, Member States could implement national plans giving the same results across all industrial sectors as those obtained through the first method.
The third method involves implementing reduction systems as defined in Annex II B, allowing each undertaking to use solvents containing fewer VOCs, either by changing processes or treatment materials or by using a combination of both to achieve the same results as those obtained through the first method.
Amendments Nos 2 and 8 demonstrate our concern to safeguard the health of people who by virtue of their occupation are exposed to organic solvents.
Amendment No 3 calls for the best available techniques to be promoted in accordance with Directive 96/61/EC.
Amendment No 4 calls for solvents used by painters in the building trade or for DIY to be included since these solvents account for 30 % of total emissions.
Amendment No 6 is designed to enable certain Member States to impose more stringent restrictions.
Amendment No 7 calls for the time period in which regulations are implemented to bring existing installations up to standard, to be extended to two years.
Amendment No 9 aims to allow volatile organic compound emissions to be measured by any method equivalent to continuous measuring.
Amendment No 10 provides for wagons and trailers to be included under 'vehicle refinishing', a clause that will be easier for professionals to apply and is just as effective in terms of results.
Amendment No 12 provides that the solvent management plan should be done every three years, which appears far more understandable and more easily applicable than to request an annual management plan.
Lastly, Amendment No 13, which mistakenly bears my name but was in fact tabled by the PPE, refers to the principle of the best available techniques, as already mentioned in Amendment No 3.
I think Amendment No 15 has been withdrawn.
To conclude I would simply remind you, Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that this Directive concerns more than 400 000 undertakings and 10 million jobs across a broad range of industrial sectors.
His first report at first reading was very balanced and achieved a very high standard of protection for human health and the environment whilst, at the same time, recognising the needs of industry and the difficulties it has - certainly small and medium-sized enterprises - in achieving some of the standards laid down in this proposal.
It has for the most part taken in a large number of the amendments we tabled at first reading.
The rapporteur has quite correctly addressed some of the deficiencies of the common position and the Socialist Group will certainly support the amendments he has tabled.
They will undoubtedly bring about a significant improvement in the technical proposals within the directive will continue to strengthen protection for human health and the environment and fully and properly establish a level playing field across the Union, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, in such a way that they can achieve the objectives of these proposals and at the same time remain viable, effective and functioning businesses.
I would urge the Commission and the Council to accept these amendments and give us a directive that we in the European Union can all be proud of.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Council text on the common position is a considerable improvement to the original Commission proposal.
The proposed measures can achieve the goal of an EU-wide reduction in the emission of VOCs resulting from the use of organic solvents in the biggest industrial and commercial sectors by at least 50 % by the year 2010, by comparison with 1990.
Mr President, the late hour stands in stark contrast to the importance of the proposal we are now debating.
We therefore have good reason to thank both the Commission and the Council for not bowing to the massive pressure from industry, which was in favour of getting the matter shelved.
As good and necessary a thing as that may be 10 km above the earth, it is harmful at ground level.
The aim is straightforward: VOCs must be replaced by a better product, and that is precisely what Amendment No 1 demands.
The common position merely stipulates that values which have been in force in the Federal Republic of Germany since 1987 should be implemented in the EU only by 2007.
Mr President, the present Directive is a further step towards a strategy to combat ozone, one which the European Union desperately needs.
I also think that it is very important to worry not only about the health of the general population, but also to direct our attention to those people working in factories and workshops, and who come into contact with such substances.
For this reason I should perhaps limit myself to talking in greater detail about the 15 amendments.
I think that this flexible instrument is so clearly limited now that it can be accepted.
As for Amendments Nos 3 and 7, we want to avoid incompatibilities between the instrument proposed and Directive 96/61.
Amendment No 7 would in our opinion lead to an inappropriate discrepancy between the definitions of 'existing installation' and No 3 would cause confusion with regard to the concept of 'best available techniques'.
The Commission fully agrees with the comments made in the debate about health risks and the damage to health which has already occurred, particularly among people who work with these solvents.
But as this proposal does not deal with occupational health risks, we cannot accept Amendment No 2.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.15 p.m. (The sitting was closed at 10 p.m.)
