Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 19 April 1996.
Yesterday, as on many previous occasions, there was no interpretation into or out of Finnish or Swedish in the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, despite the fact that a member of the committee from Finland was presenting a report and had to deal with very detailed amendments.
All speakers in this Parliament are entitled to speak in their mother tongue whether that language is spoken by many or by few.
Mr President, following on from Mr Macartney's comments, I would like to report that Mr Forsyth, while refusing to fly the European flag from public buildings in Scotland, has a party of Scottish Office officials visiting this Parliament to learn more about the European Union and the workings of Parliament.
To be clear I should like to say that the question I have in mind is No 14975 of 10 November 1995.
Welcome Ladies and gentlemen, 46 years ago tomorrow, on 9 May 1950, Robert Schuman, who was then the French Foreign Minister, made a historic declaration.
First of all, the Council reaffirmed that the ban on exports from the United Kingdom to other countries of the European Union and to third countries is a transitional measure and that its gradual lifting depends on the implementation of those measures introduced, or yet to be introduced, in Britain to combat BSE, and I am thinking here of the so-called additional slaughter programme.
Secondly, the Commission, in collaboration with the Member States, carried out an inspection visit to the United Kingdom from 22 to 24 April 1996.
The inspection report gives a basic seal of approval to the measures taken in Britain but also indicates that various measures have not yet been implemented to the required extent and that there are particular shortcomings with regard to the identification of animals.
Thirdly, the United Kingdom has submitted an additional programme of selective slaughter.
This programme was subjected to technical scrutiny during the Council meeting, and the Commission, to which the elements of this proposal had been presented beforehand, took the view that there is essentially no recognizable alternative to the programme but that it is also necessary, of course, to discuss any technical additions to this programme in the Standing Veterinary Committee.
These talks in the Standing Veterinary Committee are taking place this very day.
These conditions were decided upon by the Commission this morning, and I have undertaken to submit to the next meeting of the Standing Veterinary Committee a Commission proposal for the committee to discuss.
We need Britain's solidarity in order to ensure that the measures decided upon and those yet to be adopted will be given the utmost priority and will be properly implemented.
Solidarity within the European Union means taking initiatives, making the necessary decisions and financing a considerable amount of the ensuing costs in order to solve the BSE problem in Britain and to alleviate the crisis endured by meat producers in the other Member States.
Urgent political matters (continuation) Mr President, thank you very much for looking in this direction.
I have also said already that this precept is being applied to the conditions that have to be met in the United Kingdom so that these products can be marketed again.
Commissioner Fischler, you know as well as I do that, at the present time, cattle under the age of 30 months are contaminated, and that cases of BSE are being found in cattle under the age of 30 months, in other words in cattle which would not normally have been fed contaminated feeds.
And so, Mr Fischler, these feeds keep turning up.
Yet again, I am going to ask you the same thing as I asked the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development last week: Articles 129 and 129a of the Treaty on European Union make it obligatory for you to ensure a high level of information.
I would like to thank Commissioner Fischler for coming here once again and giving us an up-to-date statement.
Commissioner, I have learned that over 300 calves from diseased cows were housed at an experimental centre to the south of London for the purpose of research into the ways in which BSE is vertically transmitted.
This research programme is scheduled to last for a number of years.
I would ask whether you will listen to the majority opinion in the Standing Veterinary Committee, even if that committee is not unanimous in recommending a lifting of the ban on gelatine and tallow, and whether you will make sure that it is the politicians who are taking the political decisions and not the scientists.
This proposal will be tabled at the next meeting of the Standing Veterinary Committee, which we have scheduled for 15 May.
If the Council does not reach a decision, jurisdiction will be transferred back to the Commission.
That would seem to me to be very important for the future.
Moreover, I should also like to remind you that in connection with these announcements and in their immediate aftermath various public assertions were made in the United Kingdom, some of which went so far that people were openly discussing whether all English cattle, or British cattle, should be slaughtered.
This additional slaughter programme is also about reducing the chances of future BSE outbreaks.
As far as the differences in the Member States' views of how best to eradicate BSE are concerned, it must not be forgotten that 99 % of all cases of BSE throughout the world have occurred in the United Kingdom, and that is why this issue cannot be compared with others.
We were promised that in Luxembourg and now we are having this for tallow.
It is correct that the number of BSE cases that have occurred in Northern Ireland is distinctly below the UK average.
I should like in the first instance to express my appreciation of the Commissioner's efforts in handling the BSE crisis and, in particular, his commitment to compensation for farmers outside the United Kingdom who are facing economic ruin as a result of the crisis in Britain.
This also means that I shall be submitting proposals for that purpose to the Commission next Wednesday.
Mr Herman, one component of the decision that was taken is that the unilateral measures adopted at national level should be revoked without delay.
These measures have been taken by quite a number of Member States, including the United Kingdom, which enacted a unilateral order regarding the import of cattle to Britain.
As far as human health and the transmissibility of BSE to humans are concerned, let me also remind you that there is still no scientific evidence that such transmission has occurred or that it can occur.
Moreover, we have been cooperating with Directorate-General XII and my colleague Mrs Cresson in order to develop a coordinated research programme for the various aspects of the issue that require closer study.
I know that in a regional hospital in my home state ten people died of that disease last year.
The control networks in all of these countries have been dismantled and I would like to ask the Commissioner what authority has substituted the national authorities since the single market came into force - in that certification now takes place in the country of origin and we the consumers have no confidence in certificates of origin awarded in the country of origin?
The question of feeding animal, meat and bone meals is clearly regulated.
First, could you confirm from what you have said already that the earliest date for the ban on products such as gelatine and tallow to be lifted would be 15 May if there is a favourable recommendation from the committee that is meeting that day?
This proposal will be presented to the Standing Veterinary Committee on 15 May for discussion and approval.
Your second question concerns cattle that can be guaranteed never to have been fed with such dubious products.
Firstly, exactly what is wrong with the identification system in Britain?
Mr President, although we are talking about the problem of 'mad cows' and of the controls which need to be instituted in this matter, I am taking the opportunity since the Commissioner is here to report that five lorries carrying perfectly legal products such as fruit and vegetables from Spain were brutally attacked on 26 April in the French district of Le Boulou, with the French police unable to stop it.
I think these facts demonstrate the impossibility of guaranteeing free movement of goods in Europe.
But what about the origin of a bull that is born in one country, sold as a calf to another country, raised there and then sent to a third country for slaughter?
This question is more complex than is generally believed.
With regard to cattle feed, in connection with the revised ban on the feeding of meat and bone meal we also introduced appropriate labelling provisions.
There are cases in which this connection cannot be proved.
You spoke about a decision taken in 1993.
Secondly, in the measures to assist beef producers who have lost money, will he be proposing that all beef producers who have suffered serious loss will be compensated.
Unfortunately the first democratic president was murdered on 21 October 1993.
It is also clear that the events in Rwanda are having considerable repercussions on development in Burundi.
One American newspaper wrote that proposals from the United States, obviously more interested in peace in Africa than Europe, and other countries in the United Nations, are blocked by European countries.
The last of them was on 15 February this year.
Peace cannot be made only between the moderate forces but must also involve the extreme wings in the Burundian conflict, and here I am referring clearly to Nyangoma and Bagasa, the two men who more than any others are fomenting the civil war.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again Parliament's attention is drawn to the situation in Burundi, which has recently been deteriorating.
The situation is strongly reminiscent of that which recently occurred in Rwanda so Commissioner Pinheiro was quite right when he said recently that the country was facing a genuine hidden genocide.
The question of the part to be played by the European Union therefore assumes greater proportions, particularly after the refusal of the United Nations Security Council to create an international force to intervene in the event of escalation of the violence and after the emergence of differing and even contradictory policies between the various States intervening on an individual basis in that tortured region.
What is involved is not only preventive diplomacy but also the right and duty of the Council, very recently emphasized by this Parliament, to intervene in the internal affairs of any State where there are serious humanitarian grounds or a breach of human rights.
In short, the enormous financial commitments undertaken since 1993 by the European Union in favour of Burundi cannot fail to imply also the Union's strong and decisive political presence.
In the first place then, the priority for the Council must be to coordinate European efforts to prevent a fresh crisis from breaking out in Burundi, along with the initiative at present being pursued by President Nyerere and the USA, but not without making a clear request to the United Nations Security Council to review its own position.
In the second place it is necessary also - in accordance with the request of the European representative Aldo Ajello to the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs - to involve in the peace process the extremists on both sides and not only the moderate parties.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy now taking place in Burundi, as shown by the last massacre on 26 April at Buoro, is a horrible testimony to the violent and insecure conditions in the country.
I think it is extremely important for a plan of action to be finally agreed in cooperation between the United Nations and the European Union since the terrible situation which is emerging involves all humanity and is on such a serious and tragic scale that it is not possible to face it alone as we have done until now.
Apart from that we need to send as soon as possible a contingent of 35 human rights observers as already agreed for some time past.
I should like to know what, briefly, are the concrete initiatives which the Council is willing to undertake to help Burundi to emerge from this spiral of violence in which it is trapped.
In that respect many chances have been gambled away in Burundi.
Mobutu is interested in disorder and can play a part again on the international scene only by not solving the conflict.
Mr President, since the beginning of the crisis in the region of the Great Lakes the European Union has operated a policy of preventive diplomacy and humanitarian aid with a view to easing the situation.
To that end it adopted on 24 March 1995 a common position on Burundi and between February 1995 and February 1996 four missions have gone there.
In a later effort aimed at helping to find solutions for the problems persisting in the region of the Great Lakes, at the meeting on 26 February 1996 the Council decided to appoint Mr Aldo Ajello as the European Union's special envoy in that region.
Mr Nyerere is proposing to organize further talks between the political parties in Burundi on 22 May next at Mwanza in Tanzania.
As confirmed in the declaration of 16 January 1996, the European Union is ready to help the recovery of Burundi.
It is ready to help it in particular by supporting measures in favour of peace and reconciliation between the various groups, measures which ought to be adopted by the Burundi authorities.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will all remember that from October 1993 until January 1996 a real genocide of enormous brutality took place in Burundi, starting in the capital and carried out by Tutsi extremists, then spreading to the rest of the country by means of violent actions carried out by Hutu militia.
As of January 1996 and, I believe, as a result of action taken by the international community, in particular the Organisation of African Unity, the European Union, former President Carter and other leading figures, the situation did calm down and negotiations were even carried out between the government and some military units, in order to find a solution to the situation facing the country of Burundi.
However, this promising situation, which showed signs of encouragement has since 15 March of this year begun to deteriorate significantly.
For our part, we have reiterated our determination not only to continue to maintain humanitarian aid but also to promote, as far as the security conditions permit, and if other conditions are met, the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the country.
Finally, in respect of economic aid given by the European Union, this is continuing and will continue and can be substantially reinforced once the conditions are in place for it to be executed.
From this point of view I think that support given to President Nyerere, which has already been expressed by the Council, the Commission and so vehemently by the European Parliament, is a prerequisite for success.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there were more of you here just now when we were talking about cows, but of course I do realize that we were dealing with very important economic issues.
People accuse us of meddling in things that are none of our business, but we can also sit back and do nothing.
Mr President, we are helpless spectators of the hellish spiral of violence in Burundi.
The Member States represented on the Security Council must talk the same language, in New York and in Brussels.
Dispatching a special envoy to Burundi is an excellent step in itself, and we can only congratulate Mr Ajello on his determination.
Finally, as other honourable Members have already said, I would like to emphasize the inadequacy of the budget allocated to the Ajello mission: ECU 950, 000, Mr President, and even that has still not been released by the European Parliament.
It really is a disgrace!
It is time we stopped pretending to be anxious to help Burundi with all our fine words while at the same time cutting off the financial aid that could enable this mission to achieve the success we hope for.
It is true that Tanzania and its former President, Julius Nyerere, are offering a pale glimmer of hope.
Then there is Uganda, which goes to the polls tomorrow, and it is also true that the presence of President Museveni is probably a relatively stabilizing factor.
A military presence on the borders of the country - even though the European Union cannot even be bothered to exert pressure on a warmongering government like that of Zaire; a unilateral cease-fire, probably, by the government troops; secret contacts with the heads of the armed factions; and also, most of all, a strengthening of intra-governmental cohesion which may, in a second stage, make it possible to open further negotiations once the State itself has once again become a strong State that can finally bring credibility to a negotiating table.
Mr President, at this stage of the debate virtually everything has already been said.
And afterwards I shall make some proposals for action to the Commission in the hope that when it comes here next time it will be able to describe a more positive balance between of the effectiveness of our institutions in the fields of both aid and prevention.
The provinces most affected are Gitega - the most important province in the country - Rutana, Civitoque and Macamba.
Fourthly, decisive support for a regional solution which was raised during the meeting in Tunis from 16 to 19 March this year.
As others have mentioned, a ban on arms and perhaps travel restrictions and visa restrictions are some of the ways in which action could be taken, as well as very strong action against all those who continue to incite violence.
Thirdly, we need more resources and support for the process of national dialogue.
All donors, including the European Union, must now make bilateral and multilateral support dependent upon the implementation of these measures.
I shall reply in detail to a number of points which have emerged in the debate.
In fact there can only be a lasting solution if it is African and allembracing, that is, if it can initiate a type of development, a model of political, economic and social development, which must be inter-ethnic.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I should first like to pay tribute to the Commissioner and his staff for the great cooperation we have had from them.
Indeed, I would go so far as to say that there is something in it to please everyone, including members of your group, Mr President.
We refer to the fight against unemployment as being a priority task, in that way picking up and echoing the results of the Turin Council and the Lille G7 Conference which took place on 1 April.
The committee believes that the European Union needs employment-orientated and investment-led growth, leading to a substantial fall in the unemployment rate by the third millennium.
One is that there is a lack of forecasts for 1996 and we regret too that there is no evidence in the Commission's annual economic report that it has looked into, for example, the significant regional disparities in the level of unemployment, such as in northern Italy and Baden-Württemberg.
It would have been interesting to know why the Commission believes that unemployment is so much lower in those places.
Here we are rather controversial because we point out that there is a grave danger of the European Union entering a vicious circle of mutually reinforcing business and consumer pessimism which could put in danger the programme leading to the single currency in 1999.
For example in paragraph 6 we reckoned that the Commission should have examined other factors such as wages, labour market flexibility, public fixed investment and social security costs which we point out, echoing the Commission, are in some instances using up as much as 50 % of Community GDP which is equal to the total share of government spending, something which you will find in paragraph 23 of our resolution.
We are asking that wage rate increases should be compatible with price stability and we believe that wage differentiation should be according to skill level, training and regional needs and work experience in accordance with page 55 of the Annual Economic Report.
I should like to end with one question to the Commission.
I believe there is a point here that we really must take very seriously.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as long ago as 28 February this year you were kind enough to invite me to attend the debate on the economic situation.
Today, I am happy to be able to continue the dialogue with you on the occasion of the motion for a resolution on the 1996 Annual Economic Report, drafted by your Commission on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
The opinion that you adopt at the end of this debate will, of course, be taken into consideration for the purposes of defining the broad guidelines of economic policy.
The exercise of multilateral monitoring is becoming increasingly important, and in that context I welcome not only the quality of the text presented by your rapporteur but also the convergence of views between Parliament and the Commission as regards both the analysis of the situation and the lessons to be learned from it.
Admittedly, the present rate of economic growth is disappointing.
However, the underlying trend is still upward, and the indications of recovery in the second half-year are real enough.
According to the data presently available, the increase in GDP in 1995 is unlikely to exceed 2.5 %, whereas we initially hoped for 3 %.
In 1996, too, activity seems lower than expected.
The first two quarters of 1996 have fallen short of the forecasts we made last autumn.
On 28 February I suggested to you that growth would probably be below 2 % in 1996.
You know the reasons for this decline in 1995 and early 1996.
Indeed, you yourselves have endorsed the main factors cited in the Annual Economic Report.
Those fluctuations accounted for about 20 % of the job losses incurred in the Union between 1993 and 1995.
There are two major types of factor that seem to me to be important.
First, the improvement in the basic economic data.
The rate of inflation is also exceptionally low: 3.1 % in 1995.
All these are essential factors, but they will not be sufficient unless the economic actors regain confidence.
Without confidence in itself, Europe has no future.
Furthermore, this return of confidence is based on very firm political commitments.
First, 1996 is notable for the determination of several Member States, including France and Germany, to reduce their public deficits.
Secondly, and I would stress this point, which seems to me an essential one, preparations for economic and monetary union have gathered momentum since the European Council in Madrid last December, and even more so since the informal 'Economic and Financial' Council in Verona during April.
From this situation, with its weaknesses and its encouraging signs, I would draw various conclusions which must guide us in determining the guidelines of European Economic Policy.
Before it can once again be clearly oriented towards growth, Europe must set its sights on three objectives.
Your rapporteur welcomed the reduction in public deficits since 1993, but he also noted, quite rightly, that the debt-to-GDP ratio now amounts to 71 % of GDP.
That is the only way in which we can preserve the European social model and European living standards in the future.
Only a single currency can bring Europe's citizens the full advantages of the single market in terms of growth and employment.
Having a single market without economic and monetary union is much the same as issuing a credit card without providing any way of using it.
The decisions will have to be taken at the European Council in Dublin in December.
In the short term, though, Europe also desperately needs an active policy to promote employment.
This is our third objective.
The Union's initiatives have been launched.
The first steps have already been taken.
The initiative by the President of the Commission for the signature of a European pact of confidence for employment is essential.
The next step will be the Joint Council of the Ministers of Finance and Social Affairs, then the tripartite conference, then the European Council in Florence.
The Commission fully supports these two ideas.
It is unacceptable that no start has yet been made on implementing a decision taken, in principle, at the European Council in Edinburgh more than four years ago.
But it is unreasonable to defend this idea while at the same time refusing the necessary funds for its implementation.
Furthermore, acting in response to your request, the Commission has just adopted the ELISE programme for utilizing the credits which the European Parliament included in the 1996 budget with a view to encouraging specific and additional schemes to stimulate the creation of jobs by the SMEs.
In conclusion, let me say that I can see no objective reason liable to prevent a rapid improvement in the economic situation in Europe.
The presentation of the broad guidelines of economic policy will be an opportunity to specify even more clearly the means recommended by the Commission for continuing to put the European economy in order and force down unemployment.
As I said earlier, we shall have the opportunity to discuss this again in your committee on 21 May this year.
It is worrying that economic performance forecasts are repeatedly hyped up, only to be adjusted downwards without a single unemployed person having found a job.
We share the concern expressed in the annual economic report about the lack of confidence among the economic players.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's annual economic report for 1996 clearly shows that the European Union is in a difficult economic situation.
An upturn can certainly be expected in the second half of this year, but even if economic growth accelerates somewhat, it will certainly not be enough to make inroads into the high unemployment figures which are our most pressing problem.
The report on the Commission's annual economic report for 1996 is an example of democratic control by the European Parliament, although I believe that such control is not yet exercised enough and that further provision needs to be made for control mechanisms.
On 18 June the European Parliament will present its opinion on the broad economic policy guidelines, and its views, or so I hope, will be given due consideration by the Council of Ministers at their meeting in Florence.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Brian Cassidy's excellent report prompts me to make a few brief comments.
This analysis is sound in principle, and naturally receives our support.
Secondly, the report's evaluation of the economic policies reflects a broad convergence of views with the Commission and the Council.
The translation, in budgetary terms, without trying to anticipate the procedure in course for 1997, gives the impression of a high degree of consistency between Parliament's economic report and the draft budget for next year.
In conclusion, I would like to address our two rapporteurs more directly.
A few days ago, the Keynesians celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the death of John Maynard Keynes, the guru of most economists and finance ministers of the States of Western Europe in this second half-century.
I hope to assist them by telling them that, today, I as a liberal am disconcerted, not to say dismayed.
However, all those factors, which ought to have provided the basis for a process of strong economic growth - as the Commission had envisaged until a few months ago - have not brought the expected result.
Mr President, the Commission's economic report coincides with the beginning of the process of reviewing the Maastricht Treaty.
Mr President, I have access to facts and figures from the Commission, but also form a British body that investigated the circumstances of Greece's economy, and which concludes that for Greece's economy to be able to conform with even some of the criteria, unemployment will have to double, from 9 % to 18 %.
Mr President, the Commission's Annual Economic Report notes a further erosion of growth within the Union and a further reduction in employment, without really succeeding in allaying our fears about future trends.
But the Commission draws few conclusions from this as regards the possible realignment of its policies and recommendations.
Yet, if its policies are sound, and even if they have not yet been pursued completely to the end, they should at least be beginning to produce a few beneficial effects on employment.
A good example of this lack of clarity is to be found in the treatment of investment, the driving force behind growth and job creation, as the Cassidy report rightly notes, but a subject virtually ignored by the Commission's summary.
Clearly, this poor state of health of European investment would not be improved by taxation on capital, especially through the device of possible harmonization.
To the contrary, what is needed now - absolutely needed - is a reduction in the taxation of labour.
In particular, we need to develop vocational training, encourage rapid availability for employment, reduce the non-wage cost burden on labour, etc.
These two types of action, internal and external, are perfectly complementary and even mutually essential.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Annual Economic Report covers everything: monetary policy, budgetary policy, wages, the labour market and, just in case we might have forgotten it, Mr de Silguy finished off just now with the single currency, etc.
And we find that the central problem is unemployment, which is a major breakthrough.
Now the single market exists, and there are 18 million unemployed.
Mr Cassidy, in paragraph 33 you tell us that we need to reduce the fiscal burden on labour.
And I do not stress the reduction of the rate of taxation on companies, which cannot have been very beneficial to private individuals, or even on pension funds, as mentioned in paragraph 34 of Mr Cassidy's report.
Mr Cassidy, Commissioner, you have taken us back to the nineteenth century.
From that standpoint, you have all my admiration.
The one significant thing about the Commission's annual economic report is its breathtaking complacency.
The Commissioner comes before us today and says that we can expect a growth rate of markedly less than 2 % within the European Union this year.
He then talks about the need to consolidate confidence in the European economy.
Many economic experts are telling the Commissioner that there is no paradox in Europe's economy.
I seriously suggest to the Commission that it looks very carefully at the recommendations in the Cassidy report because when that report is voted tomorrow in this House it will win a substantial majority across all the political groups.
We will not be satisfied when the Commissioner comes before us again if the broad economic guidelines are simply a further example of chanting this mantra that we must wait and things will get better in the months and years ahead.
There has to be a better balance between monetary policy and fiscal policy in the European Union.
But we have to recognize that we have to gain public confidence for this project.
Unless there is a change in the direction of growth and unless unemployment is reducing in the European Union, we are going to get to the Spring of 1998 and there will be little public confidence in the important initiative of the single currency.
Mr Donnelly in his contribution said he was waiting for the Santer Commission to deliver better not just less.
I would suggest that in some respects that is like waiting for Godot.
This debate is happening at two levels.
The critical level, in terms of real force and substance, lies at the level of Member States.
If we look at our respective Member State budgets, they range each year between 40 % and 70 % of GDP.
The EU budget, as an instrument of economic policy, amounts to 1.25 % of European GDP.
All the measures the Commission is talking about in a confidence pact - and so far as they go, they are welcome - are still very small in relation even to the EU budget.
They amount to about 1 % of that budget and therefore to about one hundredth of 1 % of EU GDP.
This report today points to a whole range of social security costs; the interaction between the taxation system and the social welfare systems in Member States in terms of the uptake of jobs among those who are long-term unemployed; the tax wedge, the gap between what it costs employers to take people on and what they get to take home after tax.
Mr President, the debate on the Commission's annual economic report for 1996 is particularly timely because we are already towards the end of the first half of the year in question, a six-month period in which economic activity has been particularly disappointing and when it appears that there are attempts being made to affect or offset this objective evolution by raising hopes through a recovery in confidence among economic activists.
For example, what is happening in Portugal is a very clear illustration of this situation since, based on a prediction of economic growth of more than 3 % for 1996, all revisions have been continually made in the artificial prospect that 'everything will turn out all right, or better' and with the virtual refusal to lower the expectations to a gross rate of 2.25 % even though, for several months now, it has been forecast (and warned) that this growth rate in reality will barely scrape above 1 %.
The aim of achieving greater economic growth is central in this report.
There are environmental conditions and social boundaries which economic development must observe in order to be lasting.
So let us strive for sustainable economic development.
If we look at the way in which the political leaders of the European Union have been focusing primarily on economic and monetary union, it is surely reasonable to speak of the EU having its priorities wrong.
The annual economic report certainly highlights this situation.
This means on the one hand that companies are deterred from engaging new staff and on the other hand that confidence in Europe as a location is dwindling.
On that point, the Commission presented us with three positions: the position that we must cut deficits, the position that the single currency itself is a weapon in the fight against unemployment - a position which I accept - and the structural measures to fight unemployment, which in some way are a summary of Essen.
We have arrived at a situation characterised by more social and political costs on the way towards the single currency than its institution, as it is also certain that with it there will be a natural harmonisation of prices and interest rates.
Mr President, first I should like to welcome Mr Cassidy's report which gives us the opportunity to discuss the state of the Union economy at a particularly important time for the Union.
In the first place the trend of the economic situation over the past few months is showing, as has been said several times this evening, a lull in the economic recovery which has led to a revision of the growth forecasts, particularly in the Union's weightiest economies, such as France and Germany.
In the second place unemployment, as has also been said here throughout the evening, is continuing at unacceptably high levels.
In the third place it must be stressed that that remains the position in spite of continued wage moderation, in spite of the progress made in controlling inflation - which is at present at a minimum level which we might regard as historic - and in spite also of efforts at budgetary consolidation which, on the other hand, is hampered by the slow-down or lull in growth.
With regard to this feature of lack of confidence or weakness of internal demand, it is appropriate to call attention to one fact: the economic recovery which began in 1994 on the basis of exports was followed by a revival in investment.
But the trend of economic recovery stopped with household consumption, with workers' consumption - still at low levels - particularly as regards consumption of durable goods.
The increase in the GDP in 1994 and 1995 was converted, in the case of household economies, into savings and not into a recovery of consumption levels.
This very afternoon Commissioner de Silguy, in his opening speech, told us that to tackle the present situation it was impossible to deny the need to deal with the question of social protection.
What, on the other hand, seems wrong to me is the unilateral and reductive nature of the approach, that is, that when structural reforms are discussed, only this question is mentioned - deregulation and reduction of social protection - whilst on the other hand other important aspects, such as, for example, the debate on working hours, are ignored.
In the second place it must be said that, apart from the structural measures - which generally, as I said, are expressed from the point of view of the supply economy - we must not forget policies for revival of demand which, in spite of all that is said about the death of Keynesianism, remain applicable even today, and which must be organized or coordinated at European level, at the level of the Union as a whole, since there is very little margin left at the level of the Member States for anti-cyclic policies.
In the third place I should like to stress the need for a less strict monetary policy.
In spite of recent reductions, interest rates in Europe are still very high as compared with those of the United States and Japan, particularly if the low levels of inflation and the contractive effects of fiscal policies are taken into account.
I think, in conclusion, Mr President, that these are the points on which Parliament ought to insist so that they may reflected in the general guidelines for the economic policies which are shortly to be presented by the Commission.
As long as such wrong priorities determine the future of the EU, confidence in European cooperation will also be low.
Mr President, I want to say something about Amendment No 15, which says that general tax reductions do not bring down unemployment.
Economic studies have shown that, in the OECD for example, there is no link between the level of tax in a country and economic growth.
Paragraph 23 conveys a certain surprise that public expenditure in the Union amounts to around 50 % of GDP.
Lower taxes create more problems than they solve.
I am in a position to reassure those of you who wanted special emphasis to be placed on employment in this year's guidelines: we have devoted a great deal of space and thought to this subject.
The Annual Economic Report will provide you with all the 1996-1997 projections, together with the guidelines, but at present those projections have not yet been finalized by the Commission.
There is a regular report on regional policy which answers your question.
As regards wages and non-wage labour costs, the matter was dealt with on pages 53 onwards of the Annual Economic Report, and I would refer you to those pages.
Regarding another question which has been put to us on the relative profitability of investment in Europe and abroad, my answer is that investment in Europe is profitable, since ECU 1, 200 thousand million per year is invested in Europe, whereas the outflow of direct investment in foreign countries is no more than 20 or 30 thousand ECU per year.
But the only way to create the necessary conditions for the creation of jobs is to restore confidence.
We cannot go on raiding savings, which, let me remind you, we now do to the extent of 40 or 50 % of domestic saving, we cannot go on doing this when too much of the take goes to finance public deficits.
As far as monetary turbulence is concerned, I would remind you that according to our estimates the fluctuations of 1995 cost Europe half a point's growth in 1995 and 1996.
After all, net job creation in Europe in 1995 totalled 800, 000.
Employment means, first and foremost, getting to grips with the structural causes of unemployment, because growth alone, even sustained growth, will not be sufficient to solve the problem of unemployment we face in Europe.
The debate is closed.
So the Committee on Transport can vote for those parts of the common position.
With regard to some four other matters, however, the Committee on Transport maintains its original viewpoint.
According to the common position the required experience of an applicant for a boatmaster's certificate may in certain circumstances be reduced by a maximum of three years.
The Committee on Transport was astonished that the Council took this approach.
The second feature which the Committee on Transport wishes to retain is the comparability of examination requirements in the Member States.
The Committee on Transport thinks, in accordance with the Commission proposal, that intervals of three years are sufficient.
Possibly the Commission can go further into this question in bilateral contact with the countries concerned.
To sum up, the Committee on Transport is concerned to retain a number of matters which were mostly already contained in the Commission proposal.
The measure follows the Council directive of December 1991 on the reciprocal recognition of such national certificates and the present directive is clearly a second step in securing the harmonization that is necessary to improve safety in inland waterway transport and to avoid distortion of competition.
The Commission therefore accepted amendments proposed by Council and I now seek Parliament's approval of the common position which, despite our current divergencies, I hope it will give on further reflection.
To be more specific, Amendments Nos 1 and 6, which aim to ensure that the required knowledge and skills are tested at the same level in all Member States are already reflected in Article 8 and in Annex 2 of the directive.
Amendment No 3 proposes that medical examinations of boatmasters over the age of 65 should be at three-year intervals.
For safety reasons the Council considered that boatmasters aged 65 and over should be required to undergo an annual medical examination.
Amendment No 5 seeks to ensure that a Member State can only impose additional requirements concerning local knowledge on a boatmaster with the Commission's approval.
The Commission accepts that provision for prior consultation as proposed by the Council will in reality be sufficient to achieve the same purpose.
Thankfully it is rare for me to have to come before this House with the news that I cannot accept any of the amendments tabled by my friends in the Transport Committee at second reading.
My second point concerns the actual question of Amendment No 2.
Possibly the Commissioner can confirm that he will make bilateral contact with the Member States concerned on this matter.
The question we had to ask ourselves was whether the further amendments put by Parliament, and put with sincerity, were either covered adequately in the course of the legislation as it had evolved, taking into account the first reading amendments and the consideration of Council or whether that had not occurred.
The debate is closed.
The application of the provisions, scheduled for 1 October 1998 and 1 October 1999, depending on the class of utility vehicle, gives the industry sufficient time to enable it to make the necessary adaptations to low-powered vehicles.
Finally, on the other hand, since this directive is a Parliament and Council Directive, the European Parliament must obviously be associated with the Council in connection with the provisions which are to be applied from the year 2000 and the Commission proposals which will define those provisions.
In conclusion, therefore, we shall be voting against the rapporteur's Amendment No 2, but we shall be in favour of Amendments Nos 1 and 3.
In first reading we tabled 18 amendments and the Commission has adopted only four of them.
But fortunately the Council was more progressive.
But in any case we are now at the point for Parliament to deal with this in second reading.
Mr President, I should like to explain the absence of Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz, who is at present engaged in an attempt in Germany to block the transport of radio-active materials - which we have all read about in the newspapers - which has caused a truly incredible reaction on the part of the German police.
I can begin by saying the following to Mr Eisma: as I said when we first spoke about this question, we intend to present the new proposals for the year 2000, as well as for the second stage, beginning in 2005, before the summer holidays, in other words before the end of June, so that Parliament has time to deal with these proposals.
However, I do not know whether the Council sees this in the same light, and that is precisely where our doubts begin to emerge.
I do not know off-hand whether the Council has accepted more amendments than we have, but if there is one single occasion when the Council is more progressive than the Commission, I too can express my delight, because that happens so seldom that there is every reason to rejoice when it does happen.
The debate is closed.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights wishes the committee which is to be set up to be in a form that enhances the democratic accountability of this committee.
We accept that at present there is a modus vivendi between the three institutions but we assert that wherever possible Parliament should be consulted and that the Council should also be involved in changing legislation.
Once directives have been passed, in this case relating to the capital adequacy of investment firms and credit institutions and the Council directive on investment services in the securities field, and even if they subsequently need to be amended, we insist there should be some form of democratic accountability.
In this case we have proposed that the Council acting by qualified majority can take a different decision.
I personally await the Commissioner's comments on this principle of comitology, democratic accountability and the spirit of openness as laid down in the Maastricht Treaty and how we can take this forward in the context of the Oddy report.
Hence we also support the report.
As regards the amendments proposed by Parliament, I can confirm that we are ready to accept Amendment No 2, which adds a useful recital referring to the modus vivendi I have just mentioned.
For that reason, therefore, the Commission can only reject Amendments Nos 1, 3 and 4.
I hope Parliament will be able to support our point of view on this problem so as to present a joint position to the Council in future discussions in order to get the type IIIA procedure through.
The debate is closed.
When the West, as in the case of Sweden in Liberia for example, over-exploits these countries' natural resources and then more or less leaves them to their fate, a situation develops which is conducive to the collapse of state structures, military dictatorship and social breakdown.
I think it is important in this case that it is the Committee on Development Cooperation which has itself seen that there should be a report about this.
It is naturally entirely bound up with the fact that 90 % of those with HIV infections are in developing countries.
The Commission has already done a great deal in this area, and the presentation of this proposal for a Regulation is just one element of a concerted action undertaken by the Commission over several years.
I remember a Joint Assembly, in 1986, when I and some of my colleagues wanted to raise this problem of AIDS, and we met with very hostile reactions from the developing countries.
There are a lot of preconceived notions, cultural obstacles and difficulties of how to approach these very sensitive problems that have to be overcome before any effective action can be instituted on the ground.
We really must pay special attention to them, especially in terms of prevention, because they are particularly vulnerable targets.
The Committee on Women's Rights emphasizes this point.
Secondly, I believe that women are extremely important in all preventive schemes, not only in themselves but also because many of them are concerned with health care.
The epidemic is affecting north and south alike, but the developing countries are by far the worst affected, with 80 % of those infected living in those countries.
In 1986, the WHO set up a global programme to combat AIDS.
Europe picked up the baton in 1987 and 1988.
The programme has been extended to all the developing countries. 220 projects have been financed for 85 countries, partly from resources supplied by the European Development Fund (ECU 55.2 million), which is virtually the only instrument permitting the implementation of a common development policy towards the developing countries.
In May 1994, the Council of Development Ministers adopted a resolution in this area.
In my capacity as rapporteur, I wanted to define, on the basis of all these findings, the priorities we need to maintain in order to ensure that the AIDS epidemic in the developing countries is no longer an inevitability.
Hitherto, the available resources have been inadequate, and that is deplorable.
The inadequacy of funding is a guiding theme of European development policy, although Europe is in fact the primary source of funding for development aid.
If a new drug were to be developed to combat this disease, its exorbitant price would not allow us to treat millions of HIV-positive individuals in the third world.
The effectiveness of the programme depends not only on a genuine political commitment at all levels and active collaboration between all those involved but also on a considerable increase in resources.
The Commission, however, had reasserted to the ACP countries that the necessary resources would be committed to face up to the problems.
The Council, in its resolution of 6 May 1994, acknowledged that it would be necessary to top up the resources, if appropriate by re-itemizing the budget.
AIDS is a particularly heavy burden to be borne by the health services in many developing countries.
The lack of education is mainly responsible for these scourges.
In conclusion, I should note that researchers at the African Medical Research Foundation in Tanzania have, with the help of a programme for combating sexually transmitted diseases, succeeded in achieving a 42 % reduction in the incidence of HIV infection.
These results are genuinely encouraging, and should persuade the European Union to increase its budget in order to put an end to this worldwide AIDS epidemic.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Development and Cooperation has been particularly touched and pleased, at the same time, by the results that have been achieved.
It is true that we have done a great deal, but there is so much left to do.
We should do everything possible to get the problem under control, including the use of this method.
This applies, for example, to Amendment No 17, which could be misinterpreted to mean that systematic screening for the virus is perhaps related to more or less compulsory testing, which the European Parliament, of course, has always opposed.
According to United Nations estimates, around 20 million people around the world have been infected with the HIV virus and we are still seeing an exponential increase in the epidemic in most countries.
However, the rapid increase in new cases in Asia tends to point to the fact that, at the turn of the century, it is in this continent that most HIV positive people will live.
These epidemiological data enable us to conclude with increasing certainty that the consequences will be felt in various areas, in particular at social and economic levels, in that the affected population is an active one.
The Commission began its actions in the field of HIV/AIDS in developing countries in 1987, at once endeavouring to ensure close co-operation with the special WHO programme launched in the same year.
Over these years the programmes have evolved, moving from prevention activities in an emergency context towards strategies and policies in which HIV/AIDS is considered as a structural problem requiring a long-term strategy and a multisectoral response.
Co-ordination efforts led in 1994 to the presentation to the Council of a Commission communication on policies and strategies in the field of HIV/AIDS in developing countries and was the object of Council resolutions in 1994 and European Parliament resolutions in 1995.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as for the 39 amendments which the House is going to vote on, I should like to point out that most of them can be accepted in full or in essence by the Commission.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendments which fall into this group are Amendments Nos 18, 28 (2), 29, 30, 32, 35, 38 and 39.
It may be as well to recall that the European Union is the world's leading commercial power, the main signatory of international conventions, the principal donor of development aid, to the extent of 40 %, but also one of the main polluters.
This responsibility, on a global scale, shows us the extent to which the European Union can face up to it, specifying, with a methodological requirement imposed by the scale of the problems and the limitation on resources, how the European Union can face up to its responsibility.
The first is that in the year 2000 15 cities will number more than 11 million inhabitants, and that 13 of those 15 cities will be situated in the developing countries.
The declaration of principle signed at Rio in 1992 outlines the framework of the action to be taken to halt this process and restore destroyed areas.
The Van Putten and Verhagen reports by the Committee on Development and Cooperation add details to these principles.
The exact number of living species is unknown, but is estimated at between 3 and 30 million.
These facts constitute a strong argument in favour of a voluntary policy of ecosystem preservation.
These points having been established, the slenderness of budget line B7-6200 imposes upon us the second methodological requirement.
With an appropriation of 15 MECU in commitment credits and 13 in payment credits, it will not be sufficient to cover all the requirements.
The generous and high-quality contribution made by members on the Committee on Development and Cooperation, and the contributions of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on Budgets, have enabled us to arrive at a clear definition of the criteria to be considered.
All this is in perfect conformity with the terms of the framework principle of the Rio declaration, which stipulate that, in order for sustainable development to become a reality, environmental protection must form an integral part of the development process and cannot be viewed in isolation.
That indicates that special efforts need to be made in urban areas and that, in particular, there are a number of alarming facts we need to take into consideration with regard to access to drinking water.
At all events, this report, a collective effort by the Committee on Development and Cooperation, states in the clearest possible manner the responsibility, commitments and possible actions of the European Union in combating the destruction of the environment and ensuring sustainable development for future generations.
I should like to send just two or three messages to the Commissioner - whom I greet - and the Commission.
The first is the budget for this project.
The Commission, which must now draft the preliminary draft budget for next year, ought to think about Parliament's amendment and gradually build it up to reach 50 million ECUs in a maximum of two years.
But with this regulation we should not fall into the trap into which Tacis, Phare and other major co-operation projects have fallen, in other words that of a huge bureaucracy, making it very difficult for practical urgent and local projects to be implemented, as they get drowned in an enormous list of consultants, a huge list of money paid in cash and very little action on the ground.
It is necessary for projects from NGOs and small communities to continue to be given a priority so that Europe's pressure can contribute to safeguarding the environment, sustainable growth in this world which has been hit so hard in recent years by one form of destruction after another.
I believe this is an extremely important approach, one which gives the true meaning to the programme that we are trying to defend through this Regulation.
I stress this point because, in point of fact, among the priorities that have been indicated I can see three that meet this requirement of sustainable development for the men and women living in those countries.
It is an essential element of human life, not just because we consume it but because it is also a factor in health care.
I would also like to mention one aspect which has not yet been stressed.
This is a problem which concerns us all, the sinews of our war.
I hope the comments we shall make and the support we are giving this report will help to develop programmes which seem to us to be of the greatest importance.
The developing countries will be hit far harder by such a disaster than we.
This aspect is addressed in the Taubira report, but many other important points are raised there too.
The priorities are clear.
May I also ask the House to support another amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, partly because of comments made by the Commission in other contexts, for example in connection with the André-Léonard report on AIDS.
If that applies to AIDS, it must also apply to the environment, which is why I consider it important that we should coordinate this programme with the efforts of international institutions too.
It is Amendment No 28 which, at least in the Spanish version, refers to prior consent of the indigenous peoples when they are affected by pilot projects.
We should like the European Union, when it agrees to grant sums for these countries in the field of development cooperation, to take great care that none of these projects have any connection with a decree like that.
I have always said that Community law is amongst the most advanced in the world if we were able to see that it was enforced.
The budget line itself, however, which was created at the height of the Rio debate, has been cut from 50 million to 15 million in the 1996 budget.
Secondly, this future instrument will certainly give a higher profile to the importance of environmental policy, to the importance of EU environmental projects in developing countries, even if the projects subsequently have to be supported from other budget lines.
This cooperation is reflected in Amendment No 3 in which we ask for a stocking-up of the budget by the year 2000 to ECU 50m.
Biodiversity is not only a case of protecting the third world it is also an important issue for the future of all humankind.
In that area I wish to support Amendment No 21 by Mr Liese.
That is what we are discussing at present with DG XI of the Commission and its fifth environment action programme.
Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for this report and also thank the Commission for the proposals in the first place.
I agree very strongly with the proposals to provide funds for an information campaign to make local people in developing countries aware of their natural environment and the measures they can take to safeguard and protect it.
In conclusion, the damage to the natural environment in these developing countries not only causes long-term problems for the local inhabitants but destabilizes the ecosystem for our whole planet.
The European Community, with the active participation of the European Parliament, has been behind the development of environmental policies both in the Community and supporting developing countries in their attempts to achieve sustainable development.
Against this background the proposal for a regulation on environmental measures in developing countries is aimed at promoting yet more application of the principle of sustainable development and contributing to the integration of an environmental dimension into the process of the development in developing countries - bearing in mind, as always, the desire to improve the living conditions of the local population.
The measures are put into practice under the regulation of environmental measures in developing countries and clearly reflects a new Community and international context which stems from the United Nations Conference on the Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro, held in June 1992.
Moreover, the measures which have been mentioned will complement other Community instruments as well as certain actions carried out by Member States or at international level, all aimed at making the most of co-operating in the field of the environment and acting as a catalyst, in particular through training programmes and strengthening capacity as well as pilot projects which are aimed at testing and promoting new approaches and innovative methods.
As for the amendments which have been tabled, I should like to say that 33 of the 49 amendments tabled, i.e.
Amendments Nos 7, 19, 30, 41, 42, 44 and 48 will be partially withdrawn by the Commission.
I should like now to refer to the main aspects of the Commission's position in this respect.
As far as more substantial questions are concerned, some of the amendments, in particular Amendments Nos 20 and 27, contain elements which from our point of view introduce a certain rigidity which would not be compatible with the aim of launching pilot activities in the field of the environment, in particular with concern for flexibility, something mentioned here by Mr Pimenta.
Finally, some of the amendments tabled would bring about a change to the current committee procedures, Amendments Nos 38 to 40, or else they would affect the very organisation of the Commission, as is the case of Amendment No 36.
Obviously, we share a common aim: sustainable development in terms of the environment, as already stated and emphasised in Parliament's report.
The adoption of the Regulation on environmental measures in developing countries, with certain amendments as the European Parliament's request -if we introduce those which the Commission can accept - will mean a significant advance in this direction.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this proposal, for which by chance I was appointed rapporteur by the chairman of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, is to extend to the agriculture sector the generalized scheme of preferences already applicable to the industrial sector.
The European Union's generalized scheme of preferences, set up in 1971, has in fact several times been extended and adapted, above all in order to keep up with changes in trade currents and to take into account the results of the various multilateral trade negotiations, the latest of which was the Uruguay Round.
With a view to continuing a long tradition, the objectives of this proposal are to simplify the agricultural scheme, to reweight it in favour of the countries which need it most, to encourage those beneficiaries to develop progressive social and environmental policies, by granting them additional incentives extending beyond mere neutrality and finally to extend the new scheme to new products to take account of the changes in international trade.
The scheme of generalized preferences, in short, as constantly emphasized by the European Parliament and by the Committee on Development and Cooperation, must be regarded as an instrument intended to promote the trade of developing countries and in particular of those less advanced.
The features of the proposed new agricultural scheme meet four main objectives: simplification of the scheme; reweighting of the scheme in favour of countries most in need of it; neutrality of impact: the new scheme as a whole must have overall effects at least as positive for the beneficiary countries as the old one; and encouraging the beneficiary countries to develop progressive social and environmental policies by means of additional incentives.
It is a matter therefore of tariff reduction levels, progressive exclusion of major production sectors for certain countries, social and environmental clauses and withdrawal clauses - all identical to those in the industrial scheme - and finally a gradual implementation and transition period all as in the industrial scheme.
In reality such a measure - the provision as a whole -benefits both the developing countries' trade and the European consumer.
Mr President, I am addressing the House in support of the proposal from the Committee on Fisheries aimed at excluding from the system of generalized preferences tuna loins and preserved tuna, a proposal which was rejected, as the rapporteur has already said, by the Committee on Development.
This system envisages for the 11 Latin American countries - the only ones whose exclusion we are requesting - the possibility of exporting to the European Union 20 000 tonnes a year of tuna loins and preserved tuna fished, as the regulation says, in their waters.
The outlet for this tuna is the European market, but through Annex V countries.
It is calculated, I would emphasize, that only between 15 and 20 % of the tuna imported from the Annex V countries complies with the rules of origin.
They are third countries for which this system is not even intended but which use it as a front for a very well organized fraud.
For all these reasons, Mr President, I ask on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries for support for Amendment No 1 submitted on behalf of the EDN Group, which reflects exactly the content of what was presented at the time by the Committee on Fisheries to the Committee on Development and was rejected by the latter.
However, in this overall context we must also consider - and I would also ask the Committee on Fisheries to take this into account - that we cannot keep on demanding that the developing countries take every opportunity to stand on their own feet and then turn round and prevent them from taking opportunities which do present themselves, as in the case of these quantities.
It would also make good sense to use this system to eliminate child labour, to reduce environmental destruction and to ban inhumane or ecocidal forms of production, like the flower trade as it is practised in Colombia.
What I mean is that we did not have any text at all to discuss in the Committee on Development Cooperation.
It is the second most important subject next to the aid that countries can be given by means of development policies, but it has been made to appear totally insignificant.
A text that we did not see in committee, a text the substance of which we were unable to work on properly, a text which, in institutional terms, is an affront from the Commission and the Council because it was simply not presented to us - no Parliament can possibly approve such a text!
Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal which takes into account, as has already been said, the outcome of the Uruguay Round, extends to the farming sector the principles applied in the industrial GSP set up on 1 January 1995.
Like the industrial system, the farming system proposed using mechanisms which modulate preferential law in accordance with the sensitivity of products and a graduation of countries for the sectors in which they have objectively reached a level of sufficient development, in order to export in normal trading conditions.
Therefore, we are offsetting the preferential impact in favour of the countries most in need.
As far as South Africa is concerned, the proposed system gets rid of all exceptions which this country was entitled to for certain products.
In addition, with a concern to maintain Community support to efforts to fight the drugs trade undertaken by Andean and Central American countries, the proposed system extends special preferences and gives them a certain uniformity.
On the other hand, the system includes the same social and environmental clauses as the industrial chapter, clauses which must be applied as of 1998 and, in favour of which, the European Parliament gave a favourable opinion a long time ago.
Moreover, and also in response to the European Parliament's concerns, the system includes - as in the industrial sector - provisions which make it possible to withdraw - fully or partially - preference for beneficiary countries resorting to unacceptable practices (such as slavery, in particular in the form of forced labour or the export of products manufactured in prisons), or countries breaking the projected administrative co-operation rules vis-à-vis product origin, or failing to carry out necessary customs controls in respect of the export or transit of drugs or obstructing the aims of international conventions concerning the preservation and management of fish and other marine stocks.
The debate is closed.
