In view of the significant role played by the Duma in recent developments in Russia, it is particularly appropriate that the European Union-Russia Joint Parliamentary Committee should be meeting here in Strasbourg today and tomorrow.
International financial crisis and political developments in Russia The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the international financial crisis and political developments in Russia.
These developments demand exact analyses, direct crisis-management measures and political choices which will ensure long-term political and economic stability.
Europe has specific interests.
That is why I consider today's discussion with the European Parliament to be especially important.
May I begin with a few words on the developments that have been largely responsible for the present situation.
The European Union and each of its individual Member States played a very active and disproportionately large part.
The International Monetary Fund put together a substantial financial package by way of emergency aid, and this was supplemented by means of bilateral credits.
This could lead on the one hand to a rise in budget deficits, but on the other hand could also restructure the economies of the countries concerned and their social safety nets.
In this context, I should highlight an EU initiative that is designed to help solve the social problems.
In order to create the conditions for renewed growth, radical alterations to the political system are indispensable.
The impact on Europe of the Asian crisis cannot yet be fully assessed.
The favourable underlying statistics gave us reason to hope that Latin America would prove immune to the financial crises in Asia and Russia.
However, it also emerged from talks I held in Vienna with Latin American experts a few days ago that the euro is expected to have a stabilising effect on other parts of the world too, provided that cooperation with Europe is developed.
The European Union has always accorded special priority to its relations with the Russian Federation.
In its statements of 21 August and 6 September on the situation in Russia, the European Union re-emphasised the great importance it attaches to the political stability and economic recovery of Russia.
For that reason, great importance attaches to intensive political dialogue between the European Union and Russia at all levels.
The Austrian Presidency has also been endeavouring over the past few days to arrange a high-level meeting with the new Russian Government at the earliest possible opportunity.
Mr Wolfgang Schüssel, the Austrian Minister of Foreign Affairs, will travel to Russia tomorrow at the head of a troika mission.
The mission will meet with Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov and other Russian leaders in Moscow only a week after the new premier's appointment was approved.
In its statement on Russia of 6 September, the European Union referred in no uncertain terms to the importance of social cohesion in Russia.
A stable government that is able to expedite the essential reforms can play a vital part in restoring confidence among the Russian people and international financiers.
We are convinced that political and economic stability are mutually dependent and are a prerequisite of economic growth in Russia.
By continuing the reform process, Russia will demonstrate to us that it is committed to democracy and the free market and to its own integration into the world economy.
Responsibility for these reforms rests with Russia.
We are confident that Russia will continue to follow the path of structural reform with a view to establishing a social market economy.
The Union and its Member States have already done much to promote the process of economic and political transition in Russia through the IMF, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other international financial institutions, through the Council of Europe and through its own instruments such as TACIS and the Member States' bilateral technical support programmes.
We are prepared to go on working with the Russian authorities in order to assist them in their efforts to achieve stability and reform.
Our troika of political directors met with representatives of the Russian Foreign Ministry in Moscow on 10 September for a dialogue which included discussion of the Kosovo crisis, Cyprus and the OSCE.
The troika was also received for talks by Yevgeny Primakov, who had just been nominated for the office of Prime Minister.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, you expressed a wish for me to take part in your debate on the Russian situation, and I should like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak today, here in Strasbourg.
As you know, the Commission is holding its ordinary meeting this morning.
I will therefore be unable to stay as long as I would have hoped, but my colleagues Hans van den Broek and Yves de Silguy will be available until the end of this debate.
This is particularly true given that the Asian crisis, although more worrying for Europe on a strictly financial level, remains less important than the situation in Russia, according to European opinion.
The increase in our exports to Russia in recent years has been spectacular and this trend should continue as the provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement concluded with Russia in 1994 are implemented.
This agreement, which entered into force last year, must allow our relations with Russia to be organised coherently around two key principles: democracy and the market economy.
Russia itself has made this choice and we have solely provided European technical aid, designed from the outset to help Russia manage this transition.
The European Union is undoubtedly a pole of stability on the continent.
You must all have noticed that the prospect of the euro is already providing a very firm element of stability.
We only need to make a comparison with the Mexican crisis of 1995 and its impact on the European monetary systems to measure this protective effect.
Europe can and must export its stability and prosperity.
I firmly hope, as do we all, that the appointment of Yevgeny Primakov as Prime Minister and his confirmation by the Duma last Friday mark a turning-point which will allow Russia to restore confidence at home and abroad.
Europe itself could take part of the blame for this, since after all, the weaknesses of the Russian system did not go unnoticed either by our businesses or our banks, or all the European experts in Russia.
The fear of provoking a crisis of confidence, the legitimate hope that a credible reform process would finally be undertaken or even the personal relations which we had with the Russian leaders prompted the international community to remain silent.
Now and in the future, I therefore believe that we all have a duty of vigilance.
Even though this is hard to say, Russia must be judged on its choices, on what it is and on what it wants to be, without excessive alarm but also without complacency.
It would be a tragedy for the future of Russia if the current situation were to discredit the very principle of reform.
The appointment of the new Prime Minister, a man of experience and a builder of consensus, is in itself a very positive factor.
I therefore hope that a plan to address the crisis and a coherent economic and social programme will soon be presented.
According to our analysis, emergency measures to restore the budgetary situation must be established together with more longterm measures, particularly on tax reform, the operation of the financial markets and the strengthening of the institutions which manage the economy.
I mention these two examples because the old solutions, whatever their inherent dangers, are sometimes favoured by the man in the street.
Firstly, I would point out that the direct effects on trade are limited, as our bilateral trade, although of increasing importance, still represents only 3.5 % of our exports and 4 % of our imports.
The same situation applies overall for the applicant states in Central Europe, due to the reorientation of the bulk of their trade towards the European Union.
Agricultural and food exports from the European Union to Russia represented around 20 % of our total exports in 1997 - over ECU 5000 million out of a total of ECU 25 000 million.
The meat sector, beef in particular, may be sensitive to a reduction in exports to Russia.
As for the direct financial effects, even though European banks are more exposed than American and Asian banks, their lending in Russia represents only 8 % of their international lending.
The indirect effects of the financial crisis are more marked but are compensated for in a way.
The fall in the prices of raw materials and in long-term interest rates is actually advantageous for Europe.
We are even witnessing a phenomenon of capital returning to the bond markets of the euro zone.
Since the beginning of September, the Commission has been considering the aid which the European Union could give Russia to overcome the crisis.
The Foreign Ministers, during their informal meeting in Salzburg, also worked out some guidelines which are contained in the declaration which they adopted on 6 September.
Senior officials from the states participating in the group of leading industrialised countries met the day before yesterday in London.
The European Commission and Austria - which currently holds the presidency of the Union - participated in this meeting.
I have a few initial comments to make on these discussions.
However, I must stress that it would be absurd to oppose economic reform and social measures.
The first social measure is to prevent inflation and a slowdown in economic activity which would dramatically heighten the poverty of the Russian population.
Poor economic decisions are also poor social decisions.
Russia must strengthen its institutions and operate according to the rule of law.
The transition in Russia over the last ten years has been a complex process which must be assessed over its whole term.
In this high-risk situation, the dialogue with Russia must be constant.
However, the adoption of a coherent economic and social programme is actually a prior condition for the reorientation of our aid to Russia.
Firstly, you know that the TACIS programme has provided Russia with nearly ECU 2000 million since 1991.
Secondly, in addition to the technical aid, certain cooperation actions may provide very significant results.
I am thinking in particular of customs cooperation.
The joint work programme which we adopted in January with Yevgeny Primakov, then Foreign Minister, involves a number of other joint initiatives, particularly in the areas of space, scientific, transport and energy cooperation.
Thirdly, it is obvious that the return to growth requires, as a first step, the return of private investors to Russia.
We are therefore continuing to encourage contacts between European and Russian industrialists in order to facilitate direct dialogue between businesses.
In addition, the TACIS programme for training young Russian managers in European companies should next year allow approximately two thousand young Russian business people to learn European business practices.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have given you a few ideas to start your debate.
There is no doubt that the future of Russia will come to your attention again during the coming months.
The Commission will keep the European Parliament regularly informed of the development of the situation and of the actions which the Commission may propose, as soon as the programme of the new Russian Government is known.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, quite some time ago, when we discussed the forest fires in Indonesia and I pointed out that there were other reasons for the situation, some of them social, I received a written reply from the Commission, stating that the European Union was already trying to obtain more money to assist the fire services in Indonesia.
The future President of the European Bank in London recently stated that we in the West were pleased about many of the spectacular privatisations in Russia and did not see that the essential economic and political institutions were not being created.
We must also be openly critical of regimes that are partly corrupt, of combinations of economic, political and military power in the hands of certain elements within the administration and of inattention to social needs and human distress in some countries.
We in the PSE Group find it intolerable that there should be a free economy and free movement of capital without even any elements of an international regulatory structure.
We ought to strengthen the IMF and the World Bank, but they would have to be reformed at the same time.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I look at the many political and financial crises in the world, I have to conclude that Euroland is a land of stability.
I am pleased that we did not follow the advice of those who, in the spring of this year, were still speaking of the euro as a premature birth.
In my speech I should like to concentrate on the situation in Russia.
That sort of Russia, as an equal partner of the European Union and of NATO, can make a decisive contribution to stability and constructive development in Europe.
I believe in a social market economy which takes account of all the national structures and is designed to strengthen small and medium-sized businesses, which are the basis of economic development in Russia.
I hope, Mr van den Broek, that the aid from the European Union, such as that provided through the TACIS programme, will be tailored to these requirements, but we shall surely have the opportunity to discuss this in greater detail.
Mr President, the Russian crisis cannot be cured in the way that you would cure someone with a cold.
Also, simply pointing the finger at those responsible - or those supposedly responsible - for the current Russian crisis, whether this involves the IMF or other agreements, will not help Russia to escape the impasse.
I can only heartily applaud the analysis of the current situation in Russia presented a few moments ago by the President of the Commission.
It also seems essential to me, in the long term, to increase cooperation in all areas: political, economic, administrative and, I would add, between the citizens of the European Union and the citizens of the Russian Federation, so that progress can also be made on the local, micro-economic and humanitarian level.
Since 1992, power in Russia has been in the hands of two opposing legal rulers: the President and the Duma, both of which are elected by universal suffrage.
To resolve this, the 1993 constitution gave the President considerable powers and left the Duma with the power to block all decisions and all reforms.
This systematic blocking of reforms, in particular tax reform and land ownership reform, has had dramatic consequences.
By refusing tax reform, the Duma has deprived the State of the means to levy taxes and therefore to function, and a State without financial resources cannot exist.
If there is a famine in Russia, this will not be because of the reforms but because reforms were not implemented.
Despite the dual dangers of a population which no longer has confidence in its political leaders or in politics, despite the country breaking up as the regions turn in on themselves due to the lack of an effective State and the possibility of division, despite all this, Russia has not sunk into civil unrest, anarchy or a political adventure led by an apprentice dictator.
The agreement between Mr Yeltsin and the Duma on the appointment of Mr Primakov has halted the crisis, at least for the moment.
Also, the appointment yesterday of a reforming Deputy Prime Minister, Alexander Shokhin, is clear evidence that Primakov is not simply, as has been said, a head of the KGB, but a man of authority who is not a hostage of the Duma.
This must be understood so that Russia can be helped in a sensible manner, and not just by pouring in limitless amounts of aid.
The world is an electronic casino, where the stakes are the various products of the stock exchange.
The IMF is asking its member countries to increase their subscriptions and for a special NAB system.
Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office, the example of Russia teaches us that a process of economic transformation must follow directly from successes in the development of democracy.
The West has ignored this fact and has continued to back Boris Yeltsin as the guarantor of democracy.
Western economic relations, however, must be modelled in such a way that they foster stability within an economic system that is subject to ecological and social conditions rather than undermining the reform efforts in Russia.
The purpose of Western support must therefore be to help overcome this profound crisis of confidence; the West must recognise that the reconstruction of the social security system and the reinforcement of democracy are every bit as important as its economic priorities.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I will be speaking about Russia and my colleague, Henri de Lassus, will deal with the Asian financial crisis.
The economic, financial and social crisis is so severe that it could be viewed in terms of bankruptcy.
In a country whose democratic traditions are still shaky, this is a not insignificant point which we must underline and encourage.
Faced with this multi-faceted crisis, we must re-examine, or revise, our policy towards Russia.
Having said this, our cooperation and aid must themselves be reformed.
President Santer has just acknowledged this, as have several colleagues.
This is not the first time that Members of the European Parliament have expressed their reservations, indeed their criticisms, not only about the policy followed by the IMF, the World Bank and the West in general, but also about the policy followed by the Union, for example with the TACIS programme.
Russia is not Poland or Hungary or Czechoslovakia, for example.
For historical reasons which should never be forgotten, Russia did not have in 1991 either the foundations of a true rule of law or the attitude and public-spiritedness to prevent the free market from turning into a wild jungle where anything goes, including large-scale organised crime.
Mr President, in January Mr de Silguy announced in this House that the Asian crisis would have only a marginal effect on our economies.
If the State is now powerless and unable to regularly pay its officials, this is surely primarily because the Duma refused to adopt the tax code and buried the proposed tax system under a mountain of amendments.
Mr Primakov is facing two major challenges: to restore the authority of the State and the unity of the country.
The political crisis in Russia means that the process of market liberalisation and democratisation of access to the market has not really been taking place over the last few years.
In fact, since the collapse of the Communist system, the privatisations have not been implemented for the benefit of the population, but have been an instrument of immense profit and power for certain castes of the nomenklatura and, in some cases, have served to enrich parallel organisations in the criminal world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Russian State Duma, in my capacity as chairman of the Delegation for relations with the Russian Federation, I can assure you that this Parliament constantly follows developments in Russia with great interest and goodwill.
A sigh of relief resounded through Russia and the Western world when our colleagues in the Duma took the first step out of the political crisis by unanimously electing Yevgeny Primakov as Prime Minister.
This political crisis, however, is but a reflection and a symptom of the structural crisis in the entire country.
The measures taken to date have not succeeded in creating a new legal framework within which economic activity can be pursued.
Moreover, since the conditions are not there for a proper trade cycle to develop, only certain groups in Russian society have been fully involved in the reform process.
Too many people in Russia live in grinding poverty.
It is crucial to the future development of Russia that, under the new Prime Minister, a stable government is formed which enjoys the backing of Parliament.
As you know, the Joint Parliamentary Committee, which my colleague Vladimir Ryzhkov and I have co-chaired since the entry into force of the partnership and cooperation agreement, is meeting at the present time here in Strasbourg.
In that context, I should like to assure our Russian partners of the solidarity of the European Union.
We ourselves in the European Parliament will do everything in our power to support the continuation of the reform process through the constructive dialogue to which we have become accustomed with our colleagues from the State Duma.
But we must also consider whether the TACIS programme in its present form meets the requirements arising from the situation in Russia.
May I call on our colleagues from the Duma to make responsibility for their country their guiding principle in the coming weeks and months and to play their part in helping to solve the delicate problems confronting the Russian nation.
Now, what is the cause of this global collapse?
We must continue to follow the best way forward for the economy, namely free trade and a world investment system under the aegis of international institutions such as the World Trade Organisation, The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
This financial crisis can probably be averted by coordinated cuts in Western interest rates, by collective action to help third countries financially where they can use it, and by better international regulation and prudential supervision in the banking sector.
Last month Commissioner de Silguy was sounding like Cliff Richard: 'We're all going on a summer holiday' .
The economic and social situations in our own countries would not emerge unscathed from a long-term fall in world growth.
It would be logical for Europe in turn to take one of these spectacular initiatives, by reorientating its priorities towards boosting real growth.
The European Parliament would be within its rights to exercise democratic control over this institution and to develop, during a debate, its own vision of the situation on behalf of the citizens who elected us.
Even senior representatives of the IMF speak of the need for control of capital movements as a key element in a new international financial edifice.
In short, the issue today is about social and ecological regulation of the world economy as the common denominator in the enlightened self-interest of a Europe strengthened by the proper implementation of a single currency, and in the interests, which are forever being violated, of the peoples of this world, who are not prepared to be the pawns that are sacrificed in pursuit of capital accumulation.
To this end we need tailor-made transitional programmes, embedded in the necessary broad social and political consensus that only a historic compromise can achieve, to take the place of an economically and socially destructive policy of structural adjustment.
Mr President, the Group of the European Radical Alliance does not wish to be associated with the joint motion for a resolution on the global economic and financial crisis which will be voted on tomorrow morning.
Faced with these problems, the motion for a resolution is restricted to calling for reform of the international financial institutions, without saying from where these institutions should draw their authority and allowing the assumption that they can simply remain technocratic.
The force of the observations made this morning by President Santer specifically on the situation of the institutions and the Russian economy shows the acuteness of the problems which we are facing.
Only a very firm political stance taken by the European Union can transform the current crisis into a useful step towards world progress.
We hope that the move towards a social market economy is assessed in each country concerned according to the institutional capacity of these countries to manage and regulate this.
The role of the Union should be to help accelerate the potential increase in the rule of law and democratic institutions which is essential to the vitality of the nascent market economies.
We believe that this is the role which the people of the world expect us to play.
Mr President, I should first of all like to welcome the delegation from the Russian Duma which is here in Strasbourg, and I must immediately denounce the hypocrisy of the West in its relationship with Russia.
For us in the West, it is too often wealth and human rights which concern us and we are encouraging our Russian friends to imitate us, as if we were a superior being.
The Western fear of Russia, even though it is often hidden, is perfectly real.
These interests are the same as those which are pushing for transatlantic integration, which would result in Europe accepting a situation of permanent subordination to the American superpower.
And yet, cooperation and friendship between Europe and Russia are needed more now than ever.
However, this cooperation cannot take the form of costly and ineffective financial operations such as we have seen in the past.
The Russian economy must find solutions within Russia itself and the economic crisis cannot, under any circumstances, be resolved without the prior political condition of the end of anarchy.
The Kremlin can no longer ignore the patriotic majority in the Duma, because the State will keep its authority only while it heeds the interests of the Russian people as represented by their parliamentary assembly.
The Russian crisis, for it remains unresolved, is primarily political in nature and is the result of a political sham in which the genuine reforms which are needed have been neglected.
The Russian people are now paying the price for that omission.
Our influence on developments is somewhat limited, but our interest is considerable.
Russia still has to put her house in order.
Russia has yet to find her place in the world economic order.
Today we are witnessing a return to perestroika in Moscow, which is reflected to some extent in personnel policy.
Today in Russia we are experiencing an economic and also political Chernobyl, but we cannot respond this time by entombing and isolating the problem.
What we need is an open, stable and democratic Russia with a social market economy.
The question is not only about the composition of this government; it is also about the influence its members will have and retain over the reform process in Russia.
The Russian Communist Party remains strong.
But nor do we wish for a return or a seizure of power by military despots.
However, one point of particular importance in this situation, a point that has yet to be addressed, is that developments in Russia make it absolutely imperative to press on with the enlargement of the European Union in order to stabilise the heart of Central Europe, so that this stabilisation can also have an impact on the situation in Russia.
We in Murcia are also suffering the consequences of the crisis caused by the collapse of the pork sector, which incidentally should be receiving aid from the European Union.
And yet, when the democratically elected representatives of the people, the Duma, challenge Mr Yeltsin, the West - the European Union - backs him against the voice of democracy.
That is why I believe it is important for the European Union to support this Russian democratic channel, whilst also providing the necessary humanitarian aid which will be so crucial in the coming months.
Mr President, I would like to focus on the way the European Union and the international community have approached the situation in Russia.
Furthermore, privatisation in itself cannot be a cure for a situation where the private sector does not function rationally as a whole, but in a way that does not make it possible to include the social dimension, amongst other things, in the market economy.
Do you think for an instant that Mr Milosevic could continue to flout the whole of the West, the European Union, the WEU and even NATO if he were not assured of the tacit and more or less secret support of Russia?
I sincerely apologise, but Milosevic must laugh when he hears us making our speeches.
As for the international financial crisis, it is time to forget Russia.
Mr President, the gravity of the financial crisis, with its especially serious repercussions in Asia and Russia, but also in Latin America, demands our closest attention.
And it calls in particular for Europe to assume its own position regarding the crisis, rather than simply echoing the ideas aired during the meetings of the G7 and between President Clinton and President Yeltsin.
And we consider that the European Union can and should pursue a positive line of action based on treating Russia as a privileged discussion partner, not exerting pressure to implement economic measures that have proved to be inappropriate, but concentrating instead on achieving stability at home and in Europe.
I believe that, in the first place, we must take the lead alongside the United States and Japan, whom no one has mentioned and on whom everything depends at present.
Secondly, we must also act jointly.
I am concerned that Europe is currently making its voice heard through the G7 - no longer the G8 - rather than through ECOFIN and the Commission.
The difficulty is that the Latin American economies, which had strengthened their foundations in recent years, have suffered a major setback.
I believe these are very important issues and if we do not address them, we will just end up subsidising the speculators, both those who created predatory capitalism in Russia and those who operate on an international scale.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I share the view of the President of the Commission that any assessment of the situation in Russia will certainly also have to take account of the fact that the European Union has perhaps failed on occasion to manage the provision of assistance as efficiently as it might have done, but there again we are only human and are not infallible.
On the other hand, from my experience as a member of the joint delegation of the European Parliament and the Russian State Duma and Federal Council, I can tell you that on many questions of Russian reform policy, we have effectively been conducting the same talks with our Russian colleagues since 1994.
Mr President, in my view we need an in-depth analysis of Russia and a search for fundamental remedies for the situation.
I do not know if it is true that only 8 % of Russian citizens pay taxes, but this would imply the dismantling of a whole political system: there is no going back, obviously.
So we need to rediscover a serious and lasting economic and political approach, and our work together with our Russian partners must be geared to making a concrete contribution which will improve the current situation.
Mr President, of course I share the view of those in this debate today who have said that the global economic system is in danger.
Secondly we must show our willingness to ensure that Russia remains an active player in the global economic system, but without any big aid programmes which will go into unknown pockets.
Recognising that this is a long-term strategy, I agree with President Santer that we must coordinate our position before the next G7.
President Santer said democracy is very important.
Mr President, on behalf of the Socialists on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy I should like to welcome the Members of the Duma.
As my colleague, Hannes Swoboda, recognised in his excellent speech, there is a financial and economic crisis in parts of Asia as well as Russia.
The situation in several Latin American countries is also precarious.
Developed countries need to contribute to a rapid and lasting recovery in these countries and the EU has a key role to play in this respect.
If we could go beyond ideology and all agree on this objective, the present crisis will have at least had one beneficial outcome.
We ask for a reform of international financial institutions, greater transparency of markets with more financial information, better supervision and regulation of the financial sector and controls over short-term lending and speculation.
In this reform process, Europe should play the leading role.
There is a need for better dialogue between richer and poorer countries.
There is a need for greater acknowledgement of social objectives in the development and reform process, be it in Russia, Indonesia or elsewhere.
The social and human costs have been and still are enormous and unacceptable.
Otherwise we face the risk that public opinion in such countries will force their governments back into protectionism and nationalism.
I therefore urge the Council and the Commission to engage in a close dialogue with the European Parliament as well as our international partners, in order to establish a sounder basis for globalisation.
Mr President, Madam President of the Council, representatives of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, as the PPE Group coordinator for Asian affairs, I should like to confine my remarks to the financial crisis in Asia.
In other countries such as Indonesia it is not just a matter of banking systems but of the entire economic order.
We welcome the fact that the People's Republic of China has not devalued its currency, but we must also ensure that this situation does not lead to upheavals in trade relations.
We Europeans can and must help to overcome the crisis, but what some speakers have said about Russia I should like to extend to Asia, namely that the key to the resolution of the crisis lies in these countries.
The critical pressure for reform must develop in these countries.
The danger that a crisis in the system can be triggered by short-term capital movements is too great for us to allow those short-term movements to continue in the same unimpeded and uncontrolled way as in the past.
It is very difficult, Mr President, to continue believing that we can impose economic systems which suit us on a society not prepared for them, ones appropriate for traditional and true democracies, but which are not suitable for a country and society which somehow has never had such experiences.
Only in this way will we be able to avoid what now looms as a great risk, the risk that the Russian people will come to think that its difficulties stem from the striving towards democracy.
Mr President, our debate this morning is rather curious.
It consists of two closely related aspects: the Russian crisis on one hand and the global economic and financial crisis on the other.
Faced with globalisation and the resultant risk of a general crisis, everyone, including economists, bankers and politicians, is moving towards more voluntarism and more regulation.
Politicians of all persuasions are finally realising that we cannot talk in abstract terms about people, their misery and unemployment and that we cannot leave the market to look after these.
The European model in this respect is telling.
As one French minister has said, for example, the euro is a formidable pole of stability in the world financial chaos.
Mr President, the European model must be a compromise between market economy, openness, liberalisation and the political will to manage and organise the market.
I should like Commissioner de Silguy to inform us of the Commission's proposals in this respect.
Mr President, the internal cohesion of the euro zone is an important political factor faced with the rest of the world.
The market for more than half of our autumn beef exports has been lost and the collapse of pig prices in Ireland is partly due to the fall in demand from Russia.
However, whatever the consequences for existing EU members, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe must view current developments with growing alarm.
The Russian crisis could roll the clock back in spite of the great historic changes that have taken place.
As far as helping Russia itself is concerned, there can be no more financial aid without a genuine commitment to economic and political reform.
The Commission has an opportunity to plan for a programme of substantial food aid and it should do so without delay.
The Commission can also provide badly needed technical aid and expertise to help Russia restructure its economy.
European stability should serve to enhance the security of the world economic system as a whole.
Although we are talking about Russia today, the fact is that one third of the world economy is in the depths of recession, that living standards in the countries concerned are plummeting while unemployment rises.
In relation to Russia, this has meant that about one in four employees throughout the country has virtually received no pay for six months.
The structural aid has to be approached in a sensitive manner.
Mr President, the good thing about this first globalisation crisis which we are experiencing is that it is making us face facts: we need to manage the market and we need economic regulation, otherwise the market economy will turn against its own logic.
This is clearly no longer an adventure, but proof of great wisdom, which gives us a certain responsibility in the analysis which we will make of the crisis today.
One lesson we must take to heart is that, whatever more stringent measures we think we can introduce against Russia, events in that country have a huge bearing on our own development.
The most important factor was the excessively careless lending of money by private banks.
The question is, though, whether it is actually possible entirely to prevent a funding crisis under the current system where banks are obsessed with making maximum profits?
I can see two candidates: a reformed IMF with more democratic voting or the Bank for International Settlements, which would first need to have a democratic supervisory board.
Mr President, if there is anything certain today in Russia, it is uncertainty.
The crisis is both a political and an economic one.
The EU now has to focus on humanitarian aid for its neighbouring regions.
It is also important to see that aid reaches its proper destination without border or customs officials hampering operations or the goods ending up on the black market.
Mr President, it was significant that when the President of the Commission spoke to us this morning he talked about the Russian crisis and not the overall problem that we face in the global economy.
That is a very worrying sign for the European Union.
I would like to see Parliament, the Commission and the Council take an initiative early in the new year to press for reform of the Bretton Woods institutions.
We have got to use institutions like the Bank for International Settlements to bring about greater supervision of cross-border lending, which would also help to bring stability and transparency in the system.
The liberalisation and deregulation of financial markets, as well as progress in communications technology and the complete withdrawal of the State from financing have allowed the national finance markets to become intertwined.
A common international economic policy would admittedly be difficult - of that there is no doubt - but it is necessary and must involve appraising the roles of the International Monetary Fund, the Bank for International Settlements and the World Trade Organisation, without calling the institutions themselves into question.
Above all, a regulatory system must include measures for the compulsory disclosure of financial data of a comparable standard, for transparency in all finance market transactions, for more efficient financial markets, for better supervision by creditors and borrowers, for measures to reduce the volume of short-term borrowing and to curb speculation, as well as incentives for long-term cross-border loan agreements.
Exchange rate stability will also be important in these globalised markets.
But one thing can certainly be achieved, namely close cooperation between the European Central Bank and the US Federal Reserve, which is in the interests of all of us and will serve to promote stability.
Manchester-style capitalism has been too much for Russia to bear.
Every possible step must be taken to ensure that a social market economy is finally established in Russia and that a socially acceptable transformation is effected.
We have heard many wise words today about the world economic crisis, but especially about the situation in Russia, which the presidency and the Commission President have also covered in detail.
Let me round off this debate with a few observations, and my colleague Mr de Silguy will add a few more words on the economic and monetary aspects of the world crisis.
I would say to begin with that all today's speakers have expressed great concern, but also great solidarity with Russia in her time of trouble.
Specific examples include programmes intended to revamp the tax system, banking supervision, investment safeguards which would also give foreign investors more confidence to put more capital into Russia.
A start has been made on many of these programmes, but the fact is and remains that on the Russian side their transposition into new legislation, checks on implementation or actual programmes which actually convert the reforms into real deeds, real practice, has been only fragmentary.
With many of these programmes, once the management committee, which represents the Member States, has given its approval to certain programmes it then takes about ten months before a contract is actually signed.
Just as we did in consultation with Parliament over reconstruction in Bosnia, where the same complaints were heard, we are more than willing to try to speed up these procedures, whether or not this involves changing the regulation, though that would seem inevitable.
But I wish to avoid giving the impression that our aid programmes or even those of other international organisations, including the IMF, or insufficiently effective action on the part of the international community are in fact responsible for the crisis.
No, Mr President, the solutions have to be sought in the first place from within Russia herself.
There are countries which have had far more success with their reforms, but these are also countries with a different history, a different culture from Russia's.
I am saying, by way of encouragement to Russia, that the present situation as such has to change if the political leadership and parliament in Russia are genuinely and jointly dedicated to pursuing true reform.
The G7 are particularly busy and are getting ready for possible new measures.
Relations between Tunisia and the European Union are based on the principle of European Mediterranean cooperation, and our contacts at parliamentary level have demonstrated our common wish to cooperate as widely as possible in vital areas.
International financial crisis and political developments in Russia(continuation) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the short amount of time which I have, there are two sets of comments which I should like to make on the economic situation in Europe and on the Russian situation.
As a result, it is clear that the euro has already had its initial success - the monetary stability experienced by our currencies.
I remember a year ago that we discussed in this House the effects of the Asian crisis and we wondered what was going to happen in Europe.
I believe that the way to maintain the current dynamism is to maintain the policy mix.
We must adapt the IMF to the new order and we must see how its financial programmes must and can be supported on the social level.
Firstly, more transparency of transactions, whether these are financial, commercial, public or private.
Secondly, it seems essential to me to examine the rules of banking supervision and surveillance, to ensure that the standards which we apply in Europe can also be broadly applied throughout the world.
The Member States still need to accept this, and the coming months will place a heavy responsibility on our shoulders, on your shoulders and on those of the Austrian Presidency of the European Union.
Europe must work within the international system so that this is representative and therefore effective.
Finally, before ending, a word about Russia.
The problem with Russia, unlike the problem with Europe, is that Russia must restore confidence.
However, the Russians must also restore the confidence of the international community.
We will judge this programme when we receive it.
I believe that confidence will be based not only on the political consensus which will support this programme, but also on four simple principles, on four analytical keys which are: the capacity to contain inflation, that is to stabilise the rouble; the capacity to remedy the budgetary situation; the capacity to consolidate and restructure the banking system and, finally, the capacity to honour its international financial obligations.
Remember that despite the crash of 1987, growth in Europe in 1988 was 4 %.
I have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to Rule 37(2) concerning the international economic crisis.
I have also received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to Rule 37(2) concerning political developments in Russia.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the vote is about to be taken, allow me to avail myself of the customary prerogative of the presidency to say a few words in conclusion.
On the one hand the Council is naturally aware of the role that Europe is called to play on the world stage by virtue of its economic and financial strength.
This applies especially to the provision of European know-how in the areas of banking and finance, in administration, in the establishment of structures that will guarantee the rule of law and in the fight against organised crime.
The Commission will naturally also develop more proposals for ways of helping Russia to overcome these complex transitional problems, especially through TACIS but through other programmes too.
However, I should like to re-emphasise what has frequently been stated in the discussion and has also been referred to by the Commission, namely that the reforms must of course be initiated in Russia and that we can only provide assistance.
I consider it very important that the mechanism of the partnership and cooperation agreement should be used to intensify our dialogue with Russia.
The reflections of the EU Finance Ministers should naturally take full account of the human and social dimensions of the situation in Russia - another point that has been raised time and again in this debate.
Through our joint monitoring of developments in Russia and through their assessment by the Foreign and Finance Ministers of the EU as well as by the Commission, the coherence of the EU's actions can be guaranteed.
Allow me to address a few key points that surfaced, so to speak, in the debate.
Both sides should continue to conduct their relations on the basis of cooperation, partnership and of a dialogue between equals.
As you know, the troika of Foreign Ministers is to be received tomorrow by the Prime Minister, Mr Primakov, and on 27 October the EU-Russia summit will take place in Vienna; thorough preparations are already under way for the summit, at which we shall discuss all the matters that have been raised in the debate here today.
The debate is closed.
VOTES I should like to begin by informing the House that I have received a formal letter of opposition to the simplified procedure applicable to the sale of genetically modified maize in Austria, Doc.
This motion was tabled in accordance with Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure by Mrs Flemming and others.
The proposal is therefore referred back to committee pursuant to Rule 99(2).
I should also like to inform the House that I have received a formal letter of opposition to the simplified procedure applicable to the sale of genetically modified maize in Luxembourg, Doc.
This motion was tabled in accordance with Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure by Mrs Roth-Behrendt and others.
The proposal is therefore referred back to committee pursuant to Rule 99(2).
On 24 June, the coordinators of the Committee on the Environment did in fact discuss the Commission's decision on the sale of genetically modified maize, but the proposal has not been examined in committee.
But I cannot help pointing out that the Green Group in the European Parliament tabled the selfsame motion before the summer recess, and those very Members who have now tabled the motion refused to discuss it at that time in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
The Rules are very clear.
Mr President, this is a very complicated report and it would be to the benefit of the House if I briefly explained that the European Parliament is to vote now on two Commission proposals to modify the same regulation on financial and technical cooperation with the Gaza Strip and the West Bank.
The first proposal was presented at the beginning of the year and the second in July.
The Commission, however, insists on maintaining the two proposals separately.
Here Parliament is examining the new Commission proposal on comitology and requires that what is decided in that context be applied here.
Therefore, before proceeding to the vote, the Commission should here in plenary first of all confirm that the Amendments Nos 1, 2, 7 and 8 to A4-180/98 voted by the Group of the European People's Party last June to the first Commission proposal have been incorporated already in their second proposal.
Secondly, it should commit itself to modify rapidly its second proposal to take in Amendments Nos 5 and 12, already voted last June, as well as the compromise Amendment No 1 to the first proposal, which is in the batch of 6 new amendments tabled for voting today, and also Amendment No 6 to the second proposal.
If the Commission can both confirm the first and commit itself to the second, I would recommend to the European Parliament that of the new amendments in Document A4-300/98 it should vote in favour of compromise Amendment No 1 and Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 6, and Amendments Nos 2 and 3 can then be withdrawn in favour of Amendment No 6.
The success of this agreement will depend on the rapid presentation by the Commission of a modified text of its second proposal respecting the political position of this Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must first express my gratitude to the Committee on Budgets, and especially to the rapporteur, Lord Tomlinson, for their painstaking work.
The Commission had proposed an eight-year programme, from 1999 to 2006; but we can now agree to the five-year period, from 1999 to 2003, in the second proposal.
Secondly, the Commission also agrees to accept the other three modifications to its second proposal suggested by the House.
I am referring to Amendments Nos 5 and 12, to compromise Amendment No 1 suggested by Parliament for the first proposal, and to Amendment No 6 to the second proposal.
As a result of this compromise, from 1 January 1999 the Commission will have at its disposal, thanks to the European Parliament's help, a much more flexible and pragmatic method of maintaining the European Union's support for the Palestinian people and the peace process.
I have to point out, however, Lord Tomlinson, that unfortunately the success or failure of this ambitious programme for the peace process will depend on how that peace process develops, and we should be very much aware that at present, the situation is critical.
The Commission will therefore propose these instruments immediately, but it has to be quite clear that the implementation of these instruments on Palestinian territory will depend essentially on the peace process.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe the wording is clear as it stands.
The word at issue here is 'political' in the last sentence which, and I quote, ' urges that such nationals...' - the nationals being discussed here are legally residing in the Union - ' that such nationals be treated in the same way as EU citizens with regard to their political, social and economic rights'.
On behalf of the French members of this group, I would like to call for a separate vote on the word 'political' since, whilst we are in favour of their right to vote at local elections, we are not in favour of the right to vote in national elections.
So in short, if a separate vote is authorised and the word 'political' is deleted, then we will vote in favour of this amendment.
Today I arrived without the new card which I received in June and I went to the offices at the back of this building to obtain a spare card.
The Court of Justice made this very clear in paragraph 26 of its judgment of 26 May and only excluded non-significant Community actions that do not require this basis.
There are two main criticisms of the draft interinstitutional agreement we have received.
The first criticism is that it provides for appropriations entered in the 1998 budget to be implemented without a legal basis, whereas the Court only allowed this for appropriations which had already been committed.
This concept of action limited in time was condemned by the Court, which specifically stated that there is nothing to stop significant Community action incurring limited expenses, or taking effect for only a limited period of time.
This is precisely the principle we followed when the Interinstitutional Agreement that is now being put to the vote was concluded by the 15 Member States, the Commission and the European Parliament.
However, I am compelled to ask for a vote against them, because they do not belong in the text we are referring to.
The same applies to Amendment No 5 by Mrs Ewing.
I am therefore opposed to all the amendments.
Mr President, I thank the rapporteur, the content of whose report is consistent with the position of our group.
Mr President, the motions for resolutions discuss problems linked to economic information and these are directly related to the Echelon system.
Moreover, there was an unfortunate mistake in the vote on the Schaffner report.
You said it was an oversight by the services in not passing on the motion for a roll-call vote on Mrs Schaffner's report.
But you, as the President of the sitting, are able to have the vote taken again as a roll-call vote.
I therefore request a roll-call vote on the Schaffner report.
However, the problem is that people leave and enter the Chamber and we will not have the same presence now as had when we took the vote.
Mr President, I refer again to Mrs Schaffner's report.
You have said that it is not possible to vote again now because the composition of the House may have changed.
But it is possible for you to defer this vote until voting time tomorrow, and that the groups themselves, knowing that the vote is taking place, can ensure that they are duly represented.
But it is quite clear that once a vote is declared in this House you cannot at a subsequent date go back on that vote.
Mr President, I just wish to respond to the comments made by Mr Killilea.
The fight against organised crime will be most effective if Europe's police forces work together.
Europol is there to facilitate police inquiries in the individual Member States by providing a framework for the rapid exchange of information between police authorities.
COM in rice (C4-0276/98) As we give our opinion on the Council regulation on establishing an integrated management system and control system for certain regimes of Community aid and in particular for rice growers, I would like to ask my colleagues, the Commission and the Council to bear in mind the tragic situation of French rice producers who are mainly based in the Camargue region and in French Guiana.
Indeed, we have had lengthy debates here in the House highlighting the Commission's failings in its management of the cereals market.
Schaffner report (A4-0108/98) Mr President, we have rejected the Schaffner report, although it deals with a very important subject, and all because of a number of unacceptable amendments, not least those tabled by Mrs Zimmermann, which explains why her Social Democratic Party is freefalling towards the 20 % mark in Bavaria.
French citizens must be on their guard: the Amsterdam Treaty allows for decisions on the international movement of persons to be taken by qualified majority voting in the Council, in codecision with Parliament.
We cannot support the Schaffner report under any circumstances.
The Schaffner report shows a contempt for national democracies that is inadmissible - for example in paragraph 1, where it proposes that the Council implement Article 7a, which covers the removal of internal frontiers and the strengthening of controls at the Union's external frontiers, without any noticeable concern for national law.
At the same time we can only call on the Danish Government to stand firm in the Council and continue to block the Commission's proposal to extend Regulation 1408/71.
The Danish Prime Minister even stated, in the context of the referendum on the Amsterdam Treaty, that a vote for the Amsterdam Treaty would mean fewer refugees in Denmark.
We are in no doubt that the Schaffner report is to be seen as yet another brick in the construction not just of the United States of Europe but also of a 'Fortress Europe'.
The Council has in fact adopted the amendments voted through at first reading.
The common position, adopted by 14 votes to one, seems to us to be a good compromise.
The French Socialists will therefore accept the common position without amendments, as will the majority of the Socialist Group.
It is essential that both citizens and firms in the internal market can have full confidence in the insurance industry.
It is regrettable that despite Parliament's almost unanimous approval of the amendments to the Green Paper on combating noise proposed by myself as rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment, we should now be presented with these modifications which are far from adequate for achieving noise reduction in the air transport sector.
Amendment No 5 to the Commission's text does seem reasonable.
Christodoulou report (A4-0396/98) Mr President, last July the Europe of Nations Group spoke out against the actions of the Commission which, having been condemned by the Court of Justice for implementing expenditure without the appropriate legal basis, then came to Parliament and asked for its support.
Today there is absolutely no reason to deviate from this principle, other than the Commission's wish to intervene in all areas and to build up a grateful client base.
Our position of principle was made clear in July and was strengthened today when we read the text of the draft agreement.
The text endorses all the Commission's requests to implement expenditure on its own initiative for hypothetical pilot schemes or preparatory actions or even for specific or indefinite measures resulting from its institutional prerogatives, and this last category does not even have an established maximum limit.
We consider this draft agreement to be unacceptable and we call on the Council to reject it.
Mr President, I voted against this report both for legal reasons and on a matter of principle.
The Court held that actions limited in time or with a restricted budget could be other than nonsignificant.
The draft interinstitutional agreement does not comply with the Court's decision.
There is no democratic accountability of the activities of Menwick Hill base and in view of all the evidence I believe it should be closed immediately.
It is self-evident that the two largest trade and economic powers in the world can and should develop a dialogue.
Campoy Zueco report (A4-0235/98) Mr President, waste management is an extremely important matter for public health.
The rapporteur is therefore right to be concerned over a certain degree of laxity being shown by the Member States.
The only two legal cases pending against the Irish Government include one with regard to the provision of waste management plans (similar cases are being taken out against several Member States).
The EU is now demanding a major overhaul and a national hazardous waste plan with individual local authority plans.
Babies born within two miles of landfill sites where hazardous waste is dumped are at serious risk of birth defects.
If the polluter pays, this means a revolution with waste reduction and recycling playing the primary role and decreasing the need for landfill to 20 %.
Agriculture is the biggest cause of river and lake pollution in Ireland and yet agricultural waste has been ignored in previous waste management plans.
The Commission is specifically aware of this.
It is also particularly regrettable that the Member States do not implement the common policy on waste adopted through the four directives in question more effectively, let alone honour their obligations on reporting to the Commission.
On the one hand, we do not feel that waste should be regarded as a commodity that can be traded across frontiers and hence be regulated as part of the internal market.
A genuine and responsible environmental policy cannot be forced through by legislation - otherwise many more Member States would have honoured their obligations - but requires a fundamental change of attitude.
Also, I would like to show my support for the requests made by Mr Campoy Zueco and point out a few environmental truths.
It is very likely that the next few years will be particularly rich in terms of environment policy, and we will have to show our strength, in this field as in others.
Despite the good intentions of the Campoy Zueco report and despite the critical matters the report deals with, we cannot support it.
This means that the Member States often choose to set aside EU legislation, despite the fact that they themselves joined in adopting it.
The Campoy Zueco report addresses breaches of the EU rules on waste management.
Let there be no doubt that we find it reprehensible that EU countries - and moreover other countries too - resort to sloppy practices in their management of waste, to the detriment of their own citizens, the national environment and the global environment.
Thus we can only call on all countries, not least the industrialised countries, to take their global environmental responsibilities seriously, also where waste management is concerned.
Our position is that the proposals of the Campoy Zueco report on an increased role for the Commission and the EC Court of Justice with respect to the Member States are unlikely to help all that much.
They are not proposals that will strengthen the EU's legitimacy in the eyes of the citizens of the EU Member States.
The best means of strengthening the will of the countries to take their environmental responsibility seriously is to strengthen national and local democracy, so that the citizens themselves can ensure that the elected authorities are aware of their responsibilities.
Firstly, on behalf of the Europe of Nations Group, I wish to protest at the fact that, at Commission level, the definition of 'waste' in the European Union was deliberately omitted, even before the single market was established and therefore before customs checks were abolished on commercial transactions.
Our group has tabled two amendments on ecotaxes.
Finally, on a more general note, the Europe of Nations Group can only regret the fact that European legislation is so cumbersome in the field of waste management.
Consequently, we would like to ask the Commission to fulfil its proper role, rather than constantly creating a role of political initiative on all matters for itself, which it is not meant to do.
Mohamed Alí report (A4-0167/98) Mr President, we all agree with our colleague Mr Mohammed Alí in that Averroës is an important figure, just as the Arabian Montesquieu, Ibn Khaldun, was an important figure.
So, to use this strong and free spirit to represent the new dogma of multi-ethnic society or the sentimental defence of human rights is an affront to his memory.
The world of Al Mansur dominated the West through its intellectual superiority, but today's Muslim world dominates us through its barbarity.
Mr President, I voted against the Mohamed Alí report, but not because I could not wholeheartedly endorse its underlying intentions.
I merely believe that a report which is so short that it only scratches the surface of its subject simply cannot do justice to this highly complex issue with which we are confronted.
There is much in the report that I can wholeheartedly support, for example its representation of the situation of women in Islam, but there are also parts with which I cannot agree.
The various societies of European countries are indeed different, but they have some very deep-rooted common references which come from their Christian identity and, if we go further back in time, from their Celtic, Gallic, Roman, Greek or Germanic roots.
Also, it concludes with some absurd proposals, such as calling on Member States of the EU to 'promote the vocational and academic training of imams and other religious leaders in Europe'.
I do not think that Islam will betray its own nature in this way.
Aristotle was more successful in the West than Averroës was in the Islamic world.
This is why Averroës was more successful in the West than in the Islamic world.
In my home town, on the border between the French and Belgian Hainaut regions, when a mother-to-be is late giving birth, we say she will give birth to a donkey.
By introducing us to Abu-l Walid Muhammad ibn Ahmad Ibn Rushd as Averroës, the rapporteur portrays him as a link between Islam and the Graeco-Roman civilisations.
Secondly, Averroës was rejected by Islam and severely criticised by Christian theologians.
We voted against the report drawn up by our colleague Mr Mohamed Alí on 'Islam and European Averroës Day'.
The report maintains that Islam does not identify with fundamentalism and that, on the contrary, it is based on principles of tolerance.
I agree with this appeal on the part of Islam to Europe.
It is time for Europe to emerge from its passivity and remoteness, acting as though Islam were nothing to do with it, as though Islam were not already part of Europe.
Since the Member States of the European Union must live together in intercultural harmony, its peoples should: respect each other and become familiar with one another's cultures, -live in accordance with their own values in private life and in accordance with the common values of society in public life, -create conditions of openness and social dynamism which permit all individuals of all races and creeds to join the group with which they identify.European society, and I am thinking of the Portuguese situation with which I am most familiar, is today already extremely complex and multicultural.
The European West would still be a nonentity today if it had not been able to develop over many centuries as the protégé and 'poor relation' of the rich and civilised Orient.
Madam President, during the debate in the European Parliament in the autumn of 1995 on Parliament's assent to the Customs Union with Turkey, the Commission undertook to submit an annual report to Parliament on the evolution of relations with Turkey.
That was to include consideration of the economic and political aspects - among them the democratic process and the human rights situation in Turkey.
The Commission forwarded its first report to Parliament on 30 October 1996, followed by a second report on 3 March 1998 and then the European strategy for Turkey in July of this year.
The Commission's reports were divided into five sections: functioning of the Customs Union; other aspects of implementation of the agreements; economic situation in Turkey; the political situation; and human rights.
In both reports the Commission gives a favourable assessment of the functioning of the Customs Union, remarking on positive aspects such as the setting up of a competition authority, the signing of free trade agreements with a number of Central and Eastern European countries, progress in harmonising tariffs, and so on.
Mention of course is made of the political difficulties within the EU in making operational the financial instruments agreed by the Council.
As far as the economic situation in Turkey is concerned, the Commission notes the strong growth achieved but, at the same time, points to the difficulties in sustaining that growth - Turkey's ability to control inflation, currently at about 100 %, its public deficit and other structural problems.
The European Parliament voted in favour of the Customs Union in December 1995 despite considerable reservations in the light of the political situation in Turkey.
In so doing, Parliament wanted to stress the importance of this partner in the geopolitical context (Turkey is a NATO member, a WEU observer and a participant in the new Euro-Mediterranean partnership), and, at the same time, to register a gesture of confidence in the Turkish Government, to encourage it to pursue the anchorage of Turkey in the democratic values of Europe.
Parliament has also reached an agreement with the Commission that a joint working party of the two institutions will examine whether the MEDA programmes with Turkey are in accordance with its resolutions, particularly that of 15 September 1996.
It should also be remembered that the Luxembourg European Council, on 12 and 13 December, confirmed Turkey's eligibility for EU accession and stipulated that it would be judged on the same criteria as the other applicant states.
Turkey was also invited to take part at the European Conference on 12 March - confirmation that it would in future figure in the enlargement process.
The entry into force of the Customs Union is an essential stage on the road to Turkish accession.
Although Turkey does not at present meet the accession criteria, its eligibility to join the EU at some stage has never been in doubt.
The Union's general objective must be to help Turkey overcome its problems and continue its integration into the EU.
As part of this process the EU must give special emphasis to the following points: firstly, moving Turkey towards full democratisation and safeguarding human rights; secondly, establishing good neighbourly relations between Greece and Turkey; thirdly, observing the principles of international law; and lastly, finding a solution to the Cyprus question.
I would like to be able to say today, as Jean Giraudoux said, that 'the Trojan war will not take place' and that the efforts made over recent years by the Turkish authorities are enough for us to open the doors of the EU to Turkey.
However, there are still a few remaining obstacles which are included as amendments.
The Committee on Budgets first asks that we examine in more detail the budgetary impact of the implementation and strengthening of the Customs Union in relation to the EU's revenue.
In the third amendment, the Committee on Budgets calls on the Council to notify Parliament of initiatives jointly undertaken with the Turkish authorities to unblock the adoption of the financial regulation on special aid for Turkey.
Amendment No 4 highlights Parliament's interest in Turkey's participation in the Youth for Europe, Leonardo and Socrates programmes.
Lastly, Amendments Nos 5 and 6 note the need to use the European Union's budget to consolidate the Customs Union, which was also highlighted by the Commission.
Every step taken by the European Union and Turkey, separately or together, to solve the problems relating to the Customs Union and to develop accompanying policies injects fresh impetus into political cooperation and brings eventual Turkish membership a little closer.
It is therefore particularly gratifying that, in its memorandum of 23 July 1998, the Turkish Government responds to the proposals of the Commission and Parliament, abandons the path of confrontation with the European Union and returns to the step-by-step approach as formulated in Cardiff by our side, by the European Council.
We are also gratified to note that the Turkish side is favourably disposed to our proposals on the opening-up of the market in services and calls for a relatively high consistent level of integration in the framework of the association agreement.
Initial steps towards this goal are a technical study and negotiations on the mutual recognition of diplomas and certificates.
However, the Committee on External Economic Relations also calls on the European Union and Parliament to remove obstacles and prior conditions where they still exist and to ensure that the accompanying measures provided for in the agreement on customs union are adopted at long last.
In his extremely interesting report, Mr McMillan-Scott addressed a number of such points, on which I should like to reiterate three fundamental observations that played a significant part in the debate on the Customs Union back in 1995.
These debates were invariably dominated by three points.
Firstly, the intensification and advancement of democracy in Turkey is an indispensable condition for the development of the Customs Union into an instrument of ever closer cooperation.
Secondly, as a regional power, Turkey also has an obligation to proceed on the principle of peaceful resolution of external and internal conflicts and to be active in search of solutions.
Nevertheless, I do not wish to deny that Turkey has made progress, and we can only appeal to the politicians in Turkey to keep trying to achieve still higher levels of compliance with the criteria I have enumerated.
As far as general principles are concerned, there are three elements in this report which we believe should form the basis for relations between the European Union and Turkey.
On behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties in particular, I would like to express my pleasure at finding two requests in this report which match our priorities and which have already been pointed out by other speakers: the enlargement of the Socrates, Leonardo and Youth for Europe programmes and the need for the Turkish Government to cooperate fully and actively with the European Union in the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking.
Before giving the floor to Mr van den Broek, I would inform the House that he unfortunately has to leave us after his speech for pressing reasons connected with the situation in Russia.
We share your view that generally speaking the Customs Union is working satisfactorily, despite a very considerable trade surplus in the European Union's favour.
At the same time, we note that progress has not been good enough in the areas of democratic reform and human rights, though I am happy to agree with Mr Schulz that there are signs of improvement here and there.
The European Parliament has always followed the progress of relations with Turkey very attentively and has played a very prominent part in them.
Your report urges the Commission to submit an annual report on the functioning of the Customs Union to the European Parliament in advance of the budgetary procedure, before the end of October.
As you know Turkey did not - much to our regret - take part in the first European Conference in March 1998 and also decided at the very last moment not to attend the proposed Association Council meeting in May.
And Turkey's decision following the European Council meeting in Luxembourg to break off political dialogue with the European Union in areas we regard as very important, namely Cyprus, Greek-Turkish relations and issues of human rights and democracy, naturally did little to move forward our relations in general.
I am convinced, Madam President, that the European strategy for Turkey which the Commission adopted in March and which received the blessing of the Heads of State and Government in Cardiff points the way towards a deepening of ties between the European Union and Turkey.
Turkey herself reacted positively to this document and the two sides will shortly be consulting on a programme and timetable for implementation of this strategy.
Cardiff reaffirmed that Turkey's future lies in Europe.
It was stated in Cardiff that this report had to be based on Article 28 of the 1963 Ankara Agreement and on the conclusions of the European Council meeting in Luxembourg.
I think it is in Turkey's interest to take part in the second European Conference scheduled for 5 October, given that issues of mutual concern will be discussed there.
But I understand, if the rumours are correct, that Turkey is not at present intending to take part in this meeting on 5 October.
The Member States also acknowledged that in Cardiff.
Thus the Commission is currently, also at the request of the Heads of Government, studying the various ways and means of putting a proposal to the Council accordingly and it goes without saying that the European Parliament too will play an important part in that process.
The Customs Union is part of the strategy which, as Commissioner van den Broek has indicated, the European Community has been pursuing since 1963.
We still have to state constantly and categorically our concern for human rights and democracy in Turkey.
We also have to make it clear that Turkey has to recognise the right of Cyprus to negotiate to join the European Union if we are to develop relations.
Madam President, it is most unfortunate for the European Union and for the Turkish people that the leadership in Ankara and their lackeys in the occupied parts of Cyprus have no intention of complying with the basic principles of international law, or indeed with the rationale of pragmatism.
It will soon be a year since the Luxembourg decision which defined very clearly the conditions that would allow Turkey to extend its association with Europe and improve its prospects of accession.
The Commission's reports give us every opportunity to trace the pattern of developments in Turkey.
The Turkish Government's refusal to take part in the European Conference and Turkey's action in breaking off the political dialogue with the Union are bad and regrettable developments.
Commissioner van den Broek was right in identifying them as such.
Turkey is and remains a candidate for membership.
The impasse over the MEDA funds and the financial protocols is a cause for concern, but we hope that creative thinking on Europe's part and moves towards democracy on Turkey's part will lead us out of the impasse.
The Customs Union was not only about free markets, but also about European aid to Turkey.
Only then can we find solutions to the problems we share.
Only then can we make progress along the road to Turkey's accession.
In December 1995, the European Parliament gave the green light to the agreement on a Customs Union with Turkey, but it laid down specific prerequisites concerning human rights, which are constantly being violated, the Kurdish problem, and the more general issue of relations between Turkey and Greece - a Member State of the European Union - and the situation in Cyprus.
The Commission is still responsible for strict monitoring of the situation and for keeping Parliament informed well in time before the next year's budget is considered, and it is encouraging that Commissioner van den Broek promised to do this a little while ago.
Unfortunately, however, as we all know, nothing has changed in Turkey since the Customs Union.
Europe, they say, has major economic and strategic interests in Turkey, so large, it seems, that it often sets aside some of its principles to accommodate them.
There has been no progress concerning democratic principles nor in respect for human rights.
In this sense, we did not send out the right message when we approved the Customs Union in December 1995.
We have to be in favour of a relationship on equal terms between the European Union and Turkey.
There is a great deal of truth in Mr McMillan-Scott's report, although it is, in my view, too weak.
It is somewhat surprising to hear from the Commission or read in the Commission's dossier that more than two years on from the introduction of the Customs Union between the European Union and Turkey, that Customs Union is working satisfactorily.
I well recall hearing a majority view during the debate here in the European Parliament that this Customs Union ought to benefit to both sides.
Lastly, I hope that in the interests of the Union and the Turkish people, relations within the framework of the Customs Union will help to foster prosperity and democracy in both areas.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if the European Union was as it should be, we would not be here today debating the Customs Union with Turkey.
And the reason for this is very simple; Europe should be European and Turkey is not European.
Yet the fact that we are indeed doing this shows how dangerous the current idea of Europe is, since it misjudges our identity completely in order to concentrate on purely commercial needs.
Worse still, on a purely economic level, all the indications are that bringing Turkey further into the EU will damage our productive apparatus because of major structural differences between Turkey and Europe, in particular the low labour costs in Turkey.
And this is without mentioning the fact that Turkish immigration in western Europe is destabilising the social balance of our nations.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are examining the success or failure of the Customs Union with Turkey.
But Turkey should also make greater use of the existing Customs Union in order to carve out its own path towards the European Union.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that relations between the European Union and Turkey have deteriorated over the past few months.
Madam President, the McMillan-Scott report provides a basis, it contains a few ambiguities, but I believe that with the amendments it will turn out to be a good resolution.
Like any other European country, Turkey indeed has a right to become a member of the European Union, but it also has corresponding obligations.
One concerns the fact that with the presence of Turkey's Minister for Foreign Affairs the Denktash regime has rejected the UN basis for a solution to the Cyprus problem, in other words a federal two-zone entity, and is talking about a confederation and separate states.
Madam President, we expressed the view on 15 December 1995 that the vote on the Customs Union with Turkey could be nothing other than an act of political flexibility in recognition of that country's key strategic role, given the upsurge in intolerable and highly dangerous religious extremism affecting a number of Turkey's neighbouring states.
Therefore, although the Commission's report points out that there has been little progress concerning human rights and democratisation in Turkey, Europe is still of the opinion that Turkish accession is a useful and sensible aim; the Customs Union was a significant step in this direction.
I read Mr McMillan-Scott's report very carefully and I must say I find it very good.
I would also like to remind the House that when it approved the Customs Union on 13 December 1995, it specified a series of conditions such as compliance with international law, democratic functioning and the protection of human rights.
The third comment concerns our working party.
The answer is ready to hand.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, almost three years ago this Parliament assented to the Customs Union with Turkey.
At the same time as we gave our assent, we expressed four expectations.
Some Members have already referred to these, but I should like to list them again: progress on human rights, progress in democratisation, a constructive contribution to the solution of the Cyprus problem and a peaceful resolution of the conflict with the Kurds.
I can see today that our 1995 decision was based on a twofold error of judgement.
Let me categorically express my regret that relations between the EU and Turkey have reached this new low, because I was one of those who consented to the Customs Union at that time in the hope of bringing Turkey closer to the EU and offering her a chance of future accession.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Unfortunately, as it turns out, the international community's efforts here have proved inadequate.
After President Milosevic failed to respond to the peaceful policy of the Kosovo Albanians under Ibrahim Rugova for seven years, the province found itself in a kind of apartheid situation with the abolition of its autonomy and the Kosovars turned radical.
Some people have cautiously returned to their villages and towns in recent days and weeks, but they are heavily outnumbered by those forced to abandon their houses and villages by Serb police and military action.
That is a fact that the EU presidency is constantly trying to impress on both sides.
Only when these two conditions have been satisfied can the third priority be achieved, namely the start of meaningful negotiations.
But since both sides still seem to believe in a military solution, these endeavours have not so far proved successful.
Of course, military intervention by the international community could change the situation.
The European Union has joined in the efforts of the international community from the outset.
Via a number of Member States and the current presidency, the EU is closely involved in the contact group that has drawn up a document setting out the options for the future status of Kosovo, which it has transmitted to the warring parties.
Furthermore, the EU presidency is in close contact with what is known as the Council of Europe's Venice Commission, which is looking the constitutional aspects of the problem and trying to identify possible solutions.
The EU is also supporting the efforts of Christopher Hill, the US special envoy, who is currently examining the possibility of a three to five-year interim agreement, after which negotiations would begin on the final status of Kosovo.
At the informal Salzburg Council meeting of 5 and 6 September, the Foreign Ministers cautiously welcomed Milosevic's acceptance in principle of an interim agreement of this nature.
Although this negotiating team includes only representatives of the self-styled President Ibrahim Rugova's KDL party and its coalition partners, the political parties opposing Rugova have not objected to it.
That is encouraging and means that the months of attempts by the EU presidency to persuade the parties in Kosovo to form a united political platform have succeeded to a degree that should not be underestimated.
In order to implement these returnee projects, the current European presence of 28 observers will be stepped up to 44.
The presidency is aware that so far the sanctions have not had any real impact on Yugoslavia's attitude.
But more incisive measures can be taken only if a qualified majority of EU states so decides, which is not the case at present.
Moreover, there is an EU-wide consensus that the sanctions must not harm the civilian population or the neighbouring states which have close economic ties with Yugoslavia and would find themselves in serious difficulties in the event of an embargo on Belgrade.
At the informal Council of Foreign Ministers' meeting in Salzburg, the European Commission agreed to investigate any loopholes in the current sanctions by the time of the October Council summit and to propose improvements.
The neighbouring states of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are already suffering severely from the Kosovo crisis, especially Albania and FYROM.
We hope that the elections on 18 October will produce positive results.
In view of the current situation, I must add a few words on Albania.
After the disturbances at the beginning of the week, the situation is now a little calmer.
Yet the situation remains extremely tense, not least because Fatos Nano's government, which has gained strength again, is threatening ex-president Sali Berisha with arrest and proceedings for high treason, which is punishable by death.
The fact remains that Albania is still not really stabilised, that there is still a high risk of violence and uprising, so that unrest may erupt again at any time, and that neither Nano's government nor Berisha's opposition have behaved openly.
At any rate, Berisha was certainly largely responsible for the deterioration in the situation.
Yesterday the presidency appointed a special emissary, who left for Tirana today.
Moreover, the EU presidency is taking part in a joint mission of the presidencies of the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the EU, which will be travelling to Tirana on Friday.
Madam President, the presidency has made a comprehensive statement, so for the moment I need only add just a few brief remarks.
Firstly, the Commission is liaising very closely with the presidency to coordinate everything we can do by way of humanitarian aid as effectively as possible, not only with the presidency but also of course with a wide range of international organisations with which we routinely cooperate in this area.
My second comment is that the Commission is of course undertaking an important task in putting forward proposals for a package of sanctions and the like; as the presidency intimated just now, we shall be examining the feasibility of a joint front on that.
I hope that a solution can be found to the problems which two Member States had with earlier decisions on the boycotting of flights by Yugoslav carriers, because it is naturally not credible first of all to have a joint decision to impose that boycott and then to have a number of Member States unable to take part in enforcing it.
Since March of this year we have had the problem of what is going on in Kosovo.
And the Commission feels that the European Union should push for a firm, clear position in favour of a tough Security Council resolution with chapter seven paragraphs.
Lastly, I should say that developments in Albania, which the President-in-Office also commented on, make it a matter of even greater urgency to seek an end to the fighting in Kosovo.
Three months after the intensive debate, which produced no consensus, we then had a 'coalition of the willing' led by the Italians and a stabilisation force was sent to Albania.
But the Commissioner's words suggest a certain dissatisfaction that more stringent measures were not taken.
I am in favour of stronger measures.
Secondly, the situation is Macedonia is very precarious.
Thirdly, Madam President, let me add a small footnote in regard to your approach to Albania.
As you indicated, Berisha is exploiting the situation in Kosovo to the hilt in order to destabilise the situation in Albania too.
But what does that mean?
Madam Presidentin-Office, this is not your fault, but we only have you to talk to here.
We cannot send these people back home without guaranteeing their safety.
Only then is there a chance of finding a negotiated political solution.
Mr President, as we have heard yet again today the Cardiff Summit has reiterated the foundations of EU foreign policy in Kosovo, which calls for the cessation of violence, a return to the negotiating table and engagement in a vigorous political process as the only solution to the Kosovo crisis.
The situation has altered substantially.
Gestures will not halt his aggression any more than our words or resolutions.
A cessation of violence was the fundamental precondition for the creation of a climate for political dialogue at Dayton.
We have the moral, ethical and political duty to act.
As far as my group is concerned, the purpose of the European process is to ensure that this kind of horror never happens again.
Let us establish the true facts: firstly, the population of Kosovo is under attack from a criminal known as Slobodan Milosevic; ethnic cleansing is being perpetrated by a criminal who goes by the name of Milosevic and wishes to rid Kosovo of its Albanian population, which - as is well known - holds 90 % of the area.
Secondly, I have heard it said, even by distinguished colleagues, that we cannot discuss the refugee question because we have already discussed the Albanians; rather, we should send them back to the villages razed to the ground by Milosevic.
Our foot-dragging is allowing Milosevic to pursue his belligerence in the face of total impotence from the international community and Europe.
The tragedy is worsening.
Mr President, I have listened to what the Council and Commission representatives have said, but in my opinion, the events in Kosovo call in addition for a short digression into history.
Moreover, throughout these ten years, the appeals for help to the international community from the Albanian political leaders in Kosovo have fallen on deaf ears, and non-violence has been taken for impotence or slavish acceptance of Serbian oppression.
A ceasefire is vital, both to prevent the conflict spreading to neighbouring countries and to initiate a dialogue leading to a real peace process, one which cannot overlook the legitimate aspirations of the Kosovo population for real autonomy in their own lands.
In conclusion, Mr President, the Green Group hopes that the Council and Commission will become more active in promoting a peaceful settlement of this conflict within the very near future.
It is a war he has planned, a war he is organising and implementing little by little and which he will see through to the end, so that 50 or 60 % of Kosovo is completely free of any Albanian presence.
Currently, there are already 250 000 Kosovar refugees.
There is constant talk elsewhere, as here, about tougher action by the international community.
I am more inclined towards forcing the UN Security Council to pass a resolution which will open the way to possible military intervention, and both the President-in-Office and the Commissioner have hinted at that.
What we want, and this remains the starting position of the Socialist Group, is to keep trying for a political solution, because we do not believe the situation can be resolved by military means alone and we think that military intervention must always be part of a political approach.
Fatos Nano is not observing the principles of the rule of law.
The absolutely unacceptable and foolish violence exercised by Belgrade and the atrocities by the Liberation Army must be stopped by any possible means, and a satisfactory solution must be sought for Kosovo without the right to break away, as the President-in-Office said.
Mr President, each time we in the European Parliament speak about the situation in former Yugoslavia, or in the Balkans more generally after the break-up of the former Yugoslavia, for which the European Union bears a heavy responsibility, militaristic voices abound in the European Parliament, with calls for military solutions to the problems.
There is one thing we must all realise: there is no military solution to the problems faced by the Balkans and Kosovo, the only chances lie in the direction of a peaceful political solution.
Our shameful policy of cowardice has given them victory time and again over the past several years.
No, Mr President, we must not permit a repetition of the mass murders in Srebrenica, where 7000 men were sacrificed to our policy of cowardice.
We must now show a minimum of courage, we must at least insist on aid to the victims without turning them and ourselves into hostages.
Mr President, it did not take much political acumen to realise that the desperate situation in Kosovo would have a negative and destabilising effect, as has happened in the entire area and in Albania.
The statements made, the policy of containment and the sanctions announced by Mr van den Broek have failed; as has been recalled in this House, not even the Cardiff agreement has held.
Madam President-in-Office, you said that armed intervention is unthinkable.
I wonder whether it would be possible to step in with a policy of stabilisation, deploying troops along the Kosovo border, putting on pressure and, above all, achieving stabilisation in Albania, where the wrongs and rights are not so clear-cut - although Berisha has wrong on his side, so too does the Nano government.
Ladies and gentlemen, clearly this debate is not just about Kosovo but also about the common foreign and security policy and what we can do in institutional terms.
Unfortunately I have to say the same of the Security Council.
So we are still in a situation where military threats are empty words.
I am glad to hear, which I did not know before, that unlike in the past the French might after all be interested in drafting a new Security Council resolution, for that could of course bring about at least some change in the situation.
The question of safe havens was raised.
Of course we know the events that led to disaster in Bosnia cannot happen again in Kosovo in the same form.
I myself have discussed the refugee problem at length with Emma Bonino and, believe me, we too realise that what has been proposed so far is little.
I believe we also more or less agreed that only when these two preconditions have been achieved will it be possible to engage in meaningful negotiations on the future status of Kosovo.
Mr Bianco, this is a particularly important debate, it is true, but that rule should apply to all our discussions.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, I shall begin by protesting at what you have just said.
Mr Secchi, in that case we could postpone your introduction until 9 p.m.
Mr President, I am presenting the report adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the proposal for a Council directive on a common system of taxation applicable to interest and royalty payments made between associated companies of different Member States.
This brings me to Amendment No 3, which has been adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and argues that the phased adoption of the various elements of the package should not be used as a tool by Member States to delay its implementation.
The purpose of the measure before us is to eliminate double taxation between associated companies of different Member States in the single market.
The Committee on Economic Affairs also proposes, in Amendment No 2, that this system should gradually be extended to all companies operating in the single market so as to avoid double taxation.
In Amendment No 1, we stress the importance of this measure, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are less well equipped to face such problems.
We therefore believe that the rapid adoption of this directive will speed up the process of Europeanisation and allow full advantage to be taken of the internal market.
Mr President, I should like here and now to express my opposition to four amendments tabled by the Green Group: No 7 is superfluous and open to misinterpretation, No 8 repeats ideas already contained in Amendment Nos 1 and 3 by the Committee on Economic Affairs, No 9 is better worded in our Amendment No 4 and, finally, No 10 seems to me contradictory, in that it grants the Member States two additional years to implement the directive.
Thank you, Mr Secchi.
Question Time (Council) The next item is questions to the Council (B4-0482/98).
I thank the President-in-Office for her reply.
The difficulty with Ireland is that it already has freedom of movement between Ireland, Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom.
Therefore, if Ireland were to ratify the Schengen Agreement without the United Kingdom, we would impose new restrictions on the movement of Irish people which would create great difficulties.
My concern is that the Single European Act, which both countries have ratified, obliged all members who ratified it to eliminate all borders by 1 January 1992.
Mr President, Mr Gillis, the Council shares the honourable Member's concerns about the continuing violence in Algeria, whose main victims are innocent civilians.
At the same time, given the criticism that has been voiced about the measures the Algerian Government is taking to combat terrorism and fundamentalist violence, the Council has emphasised that these measures must comply with international human rights standards and the principles of the rule of law.
I myself took part in the Council's troika mission on 19 and 20 January 1998 and familiarised myself with the situation at first hand.
The Council also hopes that the recent visit of the group of senior officials appointed by the UN Secretary-General - led, as you know, by Mr Soares - will strengthen the cooperation between Algeria and the international community and further improve the situation.
For the rest, the presidency remains in active contact with Algeria with a view to preparing for a broadly based dialogue.
Indeed we are expecting a meeting between the troika and the foreign minister Mr Attaf in Vienna in the near future.
I should like to thank the President-in-Office for her answer.
Of course they included the question whether the European Union could provide humanitarian aid, which Algeria rejected out of hand at the time.
As you know, Algeria kept returning to the question of aid to combat terrorism, to which the European Union replied that the Union as such is not competent here, although the individual states could of course assist Algeria in this respect.
Question No 4 by Alexandros Alavanos (H-0728/98) Subject: Inspection of vessels in the Dardanelles, in violation of the Montreux Convention The rules governing the passage of vessels through the Bosporus and Dardanelles straits are set out in the international Montreux Convention.
Mr President, Mr Alavanos, I am sorry to have to tell you that it is not the Council's business to give its views on the interpretation of an international agreement and, in particular, on the scope of the contracting parties' rights and obligations.
Secondly, is the Council considering the possibility of discussing with Turkey the subject of the International Convention on Maritime Rights, which the European Union has signed but which Turkey rejects?
Article 7 of EC-Turkey Association Council Decision No 1/95 of 22 December 1995 on implementing the final phase of customs union provides that import, export and transit bans or restrictions are admissible for, among other things, reasons of public law and order and security.
These bans or restrictions may not, however, be applied either as a means of arbitrary discrimination or as a disguised means of restricting trade between the contracting parties.
With regard to the possibility of settling this dispute, let me point out that Turkey has accepted neither the binding jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice nor the dispute settlement procedure under the Convention on the Law of the Sea, since it is not a contracting party to that convention.
Question No 5 by Friedhelm Frischenschlager (H-0731/98) Subject: Road-use charges Traffic within the EU has increased sharply in recent years.
The Commission presented this proposal, commonly known as the 'Euro-Vignette' directive, in July 1996.
Mr President, Mr Frischenschlager, let me go a little further into this question.
At the Council of Transport Ministers on 10 and 11 December 1997, the ministers called on the Commission actively to pursue the negotiations with Switzerland, while strictly observing the principle that Swiss charges, like Community charges, must be geared to infrastructure costs.
So the Commission regarded the transport negotiations with Switzerland as concluded, although Austria and most of the other Member States do not agree.
As the author is not present, Question No 6 lapses.
At the same time there is a debate on the consequences if Sweden voted against the third stage of EMU in a referendum, and whether this could put the country on a course to leave the Union.
Mr President, Mrs Eriksson, pursuant to Article 240 of the EC Treaty, that Treaty is concluded for an unlimited period.
Mr President, Mrs Eriksson, I can only add a few theoretical comments on what the doctrine is in principle, but it has in fact never been applied and no provision is made for it in the Treaty.
But the withdrawal of one Member State would require the agreement of all the others and would probably require amending the Treaty and observance of all the general requirements set out in the Vienna Convention on treaty law.
To consider a theoretical, hypothetical case is one thing; the real situation is another, and in general terms, as I indicated, there is the Vienna Convention on treaty law.
Thank you very much, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner.
If you insist, I can give you the floor for one minute, but I must remind you that subjects cannot be prolonged when no further discussion is possible.
I agree entirely with you, Mr President, in that the President-in-Office has given an answer to the effect that, if all the other Member States agree, a Member State can terminate its membership, and that is, I suppose, selfevident in law.
I believe if you want to go into this question in more detail, you will have to consult an expert in international law, not the Council whom I represent here.
Mr President, Mrs Lööw, the Council is well aware of the serious problems raised by the increasingly worrying phenomenon described by the honourable Member and has taken a number of initiatives aimed at putting a stop to it, both in the general context of trafficking in human beings and with specific reference to trafficking in women for the purpose of sexual exploitation.
On 29 November 1996 the Council adopted a joint action on the basis of Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union, establishing an incentive and exchange programme for persons responsible for combating trade in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children, what is known as the STOP programme.
On 16 December 1996, the Council adopted a further joint action, also on the basis of Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union, extending the mandate given to the Europol Drugs Unit to cover, inter alia , the exchange of information and intelligence in relation to crimes involving clandestine immigration networks and traffic in human beings.
On 24 February 1997, the Council adopted a joint action on the basis of Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union, concerning action to combat trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation of children.
It also establishes forms of judicial cooperation in the investigations and judicial processes relating to trafficking in human beings.
From 24 to 26 April, an EU ministerial conference was held in The Hague with the aim of drawing up a list of measures in line with the UN General Assembly's Resolution No 5/66 on combating traffic in women.
These measures are summarised in the final declaration of the High Ministerial Declaration and European Guidelines for Effective Measures to prevent and combat Trafficking in Women for the Purpose of Sexual Exploitation.
In addition, the Council is following with great attention the developments taking place in this matter within the United Nations, specifically the initiatives aiming at the conclusion of universal instruments against trafficking in children or trafficking in illegal immigrants.
Concerning trafficking in women for the purpose of sexual exploitation, in particular, in April 1998 the European Union launched two information campaigns in Poland and Ukraine, together with the United States - and in the framework of the new transatlantic agenda - to combat such trafficking.
Mr President, Mrs Lööw, I certainly have a few more comments to make on this particular question.
After the very positive feedback from this initiative, it was agreed with Italy to pursue this initiative jointly, with the Italians concentrating mainly on the question of trafficking on the high seas.
With a view to formalising the negotiations on this framework convention and the protocols, the UN General Assembly's Commission on crime prevention recommended the adoption of a resolution providing for the creation of an ad hoc committee to draft a framework convention.
This committee was tasked immediately to start negotiations on a trafficking protocol on the basis of this Austro-Italian initiative.
At the first informal meeting of the ad hoc committee in Buenos Aires from 31 August to 4 September this year, Austria and Italy submitted a draft protocol on trafficking supported by the EU, which was endorsed by the 60 or so delegations who attended it.
The convention is scheduled for completion in the year 2000.
In addition to specific provisions on police cooperation and combating trafficking on the high seas, the protocol provides in particular that the traffickers must either be punished or extradited to other treaty partners, aut dedere aut iudicare .
Question No 9 by Nuala Ahern (H-0744/98) Subject: Proposed measures by the Council on the unacceptable risks to citizens and the environment posed by nuclear plants What steps will the Council take during Austria's Presidency to intervene in cases such as Mochovce in Slovakia and Sellafield in the UK, where nuclear plants pose unacceptable risks to citizens and the environment of neighbouring states?
It pays special attention to this question in external relations and in particular in its relations with the Central European countries that wish to join the European Union.
The Council has regularly monitored the progress of work on the Mochovce nuclear power station and taken every opportunity to draw Slovakia's attention to the importance of nuclear safety.
After the Austrian Government informed the Council at its meeting of 25 May of the imminent entry into operation of the Mochovce nuclear power station, the President of the Council wrote to the Slovak foreign ministry to repeat his concern and at the same time to express his confidence in the competence of the Slovak nuclear supervisory authority and his conviction that the Slovak authorities would cooperate closely with the International Atomic Energy Agency.
In this respect, it should also be noted that this directive applies in all Member States, so that it covers the Sellafield nuclear plant to which Mrs Ahern refers in her question.
Your attention is also drawn to the provisions of Chapter III of the Euratom Treaty concerning health and safety and Chapter VII on safeguards for nuclear plants within the European Community.
Let me assure Mrs Ahern that these questions really are of central concern to the European Union and our presidency.
I give the floor to Mr Smith to put his supplementary question.
Thank you, Mr Smith.
I ought to warn you, however, that if you continue to move towards what you term the left, you will find yourself in the Group of the European People's Party.
Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, you now have the floor to answer Mr Smith's supplementary question.
But in general terms, let me tell you once again that of course the Council will always check to ensure very stringent compliance with the Community standards and international principles that are in force in the nuclear sector, especially with regard to accession negotiations.
Mr President, Mr Falconer, the European Union is extremely concerned at the continued deadlock in the Middle East peace process, which is a constant threat to stability in the region.
In this context, the Austrian Presidency is seeking a dialogue with all the conflicting parties.
The EU will therefore continue to give strong support to the US mediation efforts in every way and to coordinate its own approach closely with that of the United States.
With the appointment of an EU special envoy for the peace process in 1996, the Union considerably enhanced its commitment and presence in the region.
The EU is also preparing input into the final status talks on the autonomous area.
Since early 1997, the EU, through its heads of mission in Tel Aviv, has been monitoring Israeli settlement activities, the situation in Jerusalem and the human rights situation in the West Bank and Gaza.
The Union has made public the information it gathered in extremely summary form.
An agreement to that effect would enable the parties to resume the negotiations on the final status of the Palestinian autonomous area, which are due to be completed by 4 March 1999 according to the original timetable.
The Israelis reject them on the grounds of security interests, but have proposed a 10 + 3 % formula, which provides that 3 % of the land around Israeli settlements would be a nature conservation area over which Israel would retain final responsibility for security.
And we are endeavouring to make the European Union's role in the peace process more visible too, because the foundation stones for resolving the conflict remain - and I agree with you here - the principles of Madrid and Oslo, in particular 'land for peace', full implementation of the existing contractual provisions of the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement and the relevant UN Security Council decisions.
For the second report on the implementation of Council Decision 731/93/EC on public access to Council documents suggests that the proportion of documents transmitted rose from 58.7 % in 1994/95 to 78.3 % in 1996/97, although the number of documents requested had increased substantially.
This trend reflects the experience the Council and its General Secretariat have gleaned in the practical implementation of this policy and proves - as indeed the Council noted in the conclusions it adopted on 29 June 1998 - that Decision 731/93/EC on openness and transparency has been effective.
In this context, in its conclusions of 29 July this year, the Council expressed its resolve to ensure as wide as possible access to documents relating to acts that it issues as legislator and only to apply Article 4(2) of Decision 731/93/EC where absolutely necessary.
But in the latest report there is a tiresome tendency for the argument, which we really hate in Parliament, invoking the confidentiality of discussions to crop up more and more often as a reason for making refusals, which are - it is quite true - relatively fewer, but that justification - the secrecy of discussions - does crop up increasingly often, and I find it difficult to see what valid arguments support this view.
But by and large, I believe that these Council figures - and I am only speaking for the Council here - show that we are taking a quite different approach now from in the past.
Let me add that on 19 March 1998 it was decided to make a data register available to the public as soon as possible to supplement the existing system of electronic data transmission.
Mr President, Mr Dupuis, when signing the partnership and cooperation agreement with Georgia on 22 April 1996, the EU stressed the common values it shares with Georgia and recognised that both sides wished to strengthen existing links and widen established relations.
The partnership and cooperation agreement established regular political dialogue on bilateral, regional and international issues of mutual interest and supported the wish of Georgia to establish closer cooperation with European institutions.
Pending the ratification and entry into force of the partnership and cooperation agreement, the European Community, wishing to ensure the rapid development of trade relations with Georgia, concluded on 29 April 1997 an interim agreement with Georgia, which entered into force on 1 September 1997.
I should like to thank the Minister for the long answer which she gave, but I fear that once again, although a great deal has been done, we have not done what is really necessary.
There is also the parallel problem of Abkhazia in Georgia, or the problems in Ossetia - in fact there are many problems, but there are also some positive aspects.
Mr President, Mr Dupuis, let me point out first of all that an application for accession represents a statement of political will on the part of a third country to become part of a wider community of states such as the EU.
Prior to taking any other steps, the EU must first act within that framework and develop its economic relations and extend its cooperation with Georgia.
Let me also tell you that the Austrian Presidency of the Council did indeed initiate a new discussion of principle, at the informal Salzburg Council, where we considered how we could involve states that do not at present have any prospect of accession in a special partnership system, for instance a partnership for Europe, similar to the NATO partnership for peace.
The Council notes that Articles 21 and 23 in particular of that agreement contain provisions for monitoring whether the contracting parties are fulfilling their obligations and ensuring that they do so.
That means the contracting parties can do so, but not the Council.
Mr President, Mr Rübig, this is a question the Council has not considered so far.
Mr President, Mr Pirker, in general let me say that this and similar questions are of course raised during accession negotiations, in particular the question of nuclear safety.
The Council will always ensure during accession negotiations that the Community norms in force, and in particular all the international principles in the nuclear sector, are stringently observed.
As the author is not present, Question No 14 lapses.
I thank the President-in-Office for her reply.
I am encouraged to hear of the Council's concern over the situation in Iraq and in particular the death of these four clerics.
Bad as these four murders are, there is a strong suspicion that Saddam Hussein's government is seeking to eliminate the entire leadership of the Shiite Muslims in that country.
Question No 16 by José Apolinário (H-0758/98) Subject: Political situation in East Timor In view of the latest developments concerning East Timor, and, in particular, the positions taken by the Council, can the Presidency state what initiatives it intends to take over the political situation in East Timor?
The European Union sent a troika mission to East Timor, which was there from 26 to 30 June.
Secondly, a dialogue should be opened without delay, which should include the representatives of the East Timorese people.
Let me also emphasise that the all-inclusive intra-Timorese dialogue has now been held three times, with Austria acting as host on all three occasions.
The next round of talks is scheduled for October, again in Austria.
I believe it is enormously important that we make further progress in confidence building among the various East Timorese groups, and I believe that in future we must play an even greater role in seeking a satisfactory solution acceptable to all parties.
I should also like to raise the matter of the steps the presidency intends to taken in the light of Parliament's insistence on the unconditional release of all political prisoners, particularly Xanana Gusmão, and given that, in the context of relations between the European Union and the ASEAN countries, it is becoming necessary and desirable to enhance the protection of human rights and respect for fundamental freedoms and, finally, to secure the right of the Timorese people to self-determination through consultation.
On 22 July, shortly before the summer recess, I myself spoke with Ramos Horta in Lisbon; he told me he was prepared to support the proposed autonomy provided this was only an interim solution, and that a referendum would be held on East Timor's final status in a few years' time.
Last week this matter was discussed in the Asia-Oceania working party.
The presidency's representative in Djakarta is in constant contact with the Red Cross, which keeps him up to date on the health of all the prisoners on hunger strike.
According to the Austrian embassy in Djakarta, which represents the presidency, a doctor visits the hunger strikers regularly and has confirmed that the health situation is under control.
On Xanana Gusmão, let me point out that of course the question of the prisoners and the release of Xanana Gusmão was also raised during the talks with Ramos Horta, but clearly there will have to be further talks under the aegis of the United Nations in New York.
Here too, we are seeking a solution acceptable both to the East Timorese and to the two conflicting parties.
Madam President-in-Office, I have two quite specific questions.
The first concerns the proposal to demilitarise East Timor that keeps coming up in the discussions.
Mr President, Mr Posselt, on the first question, demilitarisation, I can tell you that the talks held under the aegis of the United Nations in New York are quite certainly aimed at the withdrawal of the Indonesian troops so that the first stage of demilitarisation can commence.
On the question of political parties, all I can say is that the Austrian Presidency is seeking to invite as many future parties as possible to the dialogue in East Timor in an attempt to move forward here too, as there is little chance of a future peaceful settlement without political parties.
As the author is not present, Question No 17 lapses.
Question No 18 by Jan Andersson (H-0765/98) Subject: Structural aid to larger countries Aid to particularly deprived areas of major cities is a completely new feature of European structural policy.
Mr President, the Commission has submitted no proposal to the Council for a programme for cities in the European Union.
By its nature, this initiative falls solely within the remit of the Commission.
Furthermore, on 18 March 1998 the Commission submitted a proposal for a Council regulation laying down general structural fund provisions, which include structural aids for deprived urban areas.
I can point to my own country, Sweden, as an example - although the problem undoubtedly also arises in Austria and several other countries - since only two per cent of the population can benefit from this aid, which in my country means 185 000 people.
Article 9 provides that, in exceptional cases, urban areas in fairly small cities - i.e.
Article 10 of that European Commission communication defines this rule more precisely and provides that, in duly justified cases, support can also be given for actions in small and mediumsized cities suffering from general economic decline.
Thank you, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner.
Since the time allotted for Question Time has now come to an end, Questions Nos 19 to 43 will receive written answers.
However, an alternative approach was adopted and I should certainly say a few words about that too.
If the Commission were able to make progress along these lines, then we could actually achieve political success in this otherwise very technical sector.
Mr President, we are beginning to make progress with the agreement to monitor fiscal differences, which are so counterproductive for the economic future of the single market.
I think that this report by my colleague Mr Secchi, whom we should thank for his work, should give a certain impetus and specify dates and undertakings.
Fiscal harmonization requires maximum political support - which this Parliament is giving - and maximum legal security.
As you know, this proposal is one of three measures contained in a package adopted last December by the Ecofin Council, and I shall say a few words at the end on the state of play concerning the other two measures.
Like you, I too regard this instrument of Community law relating to interest and royalty payments as very important because, at present, neither unilateral measures introduced by the Member States nor bilateral agreements outlawing double taxation have succeeded in eliminating completely the phenomenon of double taxation on such payments.
The Commission shares the spirit of these two amendments, Mr Secchi, and will endeavour to ensure that it is reflected in the wording adopted by the Council.
The other amendments from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, Nos 3 to 6, stress that the approach designed to produce a package of measures should not be used as a means of destroying the various elements making up that package.
Indeed, the proposal for a directive was submitted in its present form after much thought, with the intention of balancing the interests of the various Member States: those wishing the directive to apply to all types of companies and those standing to lose a considerable amount of tax revenue following the abolition of withholding tax; those wishing this directive to be closely linked with the other elements of the package and those wishing it to be taken in isolation.
In any event, the amendments have been carefully noted and will all be taken into account during discussion in the Council, once the Member States' positions have become clearer.
I shall conclude with a few words concerning recent developments on the other two measures included in the taxation package, because we are all convinced of the need to preserve a close linkage - both logical and political - between these measures.
With regard to the Code of Conduct, all the Member States have emphasised their commitment to the principles of the Code drawn up last December, and have agreed a work programme and timetable ensuring that an initial report will reach the Ecofin Council by next December.
In general terms, the Commission is to report on progress made with the various elements of the package in time for the Ecofin Council on 1 December 1998.
There will be no lack of opportunities to report back to this House, but let me take this opportunity to thank Parliament once again for its support on this difficult voyage which is in all of our interests.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Professor Monti has just explained that tax policy in Europe is an example of how not to take the easy way out.
I would particularly like to thank you on behalf of all my colleagues here, because you belong to that group of Commissioners who set such a good example in fostering cooperation with Parliament.
But I believe that, once we have a single European currency, the Member States will be no longer be able to maintain their delaying tactics on harmonisation of VAT and other excise duties (Mr Miller's report follows a similar line to my own).
The President of the Court of Auditors, during a hearing of the Subcommittee on Monetary Affairs four months ago, estimated the amount at about DM 150 billion - the sum total of the European budget.
In Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs there was widespread support for this proposal.
The Federal Republic of Germany has said, with reference to Article 99 of the Treaty on European Union and Article 23(2) to (5) of the German Basic Law, that the unanimity principle could be circumvented and the co-decision powers of the German Bundesrat no longer observed.
I consider that to be a superficial argument, because all the fundamental decisions will in future still have to be taken by a unanimous vote in the ECOFIN Council.
If this Committee is to have greater powers, then we would like the Commission to draw up annual reports on its work.
Furthermore, we would like to see the administrative and legal provisions transposed by 1 January 1999, in other words when the single European currency comes into force.
I understand that, as Mr Langen has pointed out, there is a compromise position going to the ECOFIN Council in October.
Turning to the report on excise duty which is in front of us, one of the problems that a report like this highlights is that much of the decision-making within the EU is surrounded by secrecy, which, I am sure, a lot of citizens are very worried about.
At the moment there are about 43 comitology committees dealing with indirect taxation.
The other amendment I have tabled concerns the Plumb/Delors agreement, which, if my memory serves me right, was six or seven years ago.
The current transitional system of VAT has done a great deal to help the development of the single market, but administrative procedures in the Member States and the different interpretations they have given to the basic directives affect the operation of the single market and the legal certainty that should be guaranteed.
Until there is a uniform interpretation and the VAT rules are applied uniformly the neutrality of the VAT system cannot really be guaranteed and we shall continue to have a problem.
Mr President, I should also like to welcome the comments from the Commissioner and, in particular, from the two rapporteurs.
The sixth VAT Directive, which was originally designed to allow the abolition of tax frontiers and the creation of a common tax system, is a very important political message, particularly now when we speak about a market of 340 million people.
However, as those speakers have mentioned, very little progress has been made on this, partially because of the unanimity requirement under Article 99 but also because of a lack of action on behalf of the Commission and other institutions to force out the boat with regard to giving proper representation to the true ideals of the single market.
The Commission, instead of submitting a proposal to Parliament and discussing with Parliament how to overcome this problem, referred the matter to the quango of unelected, unrepresentative officials from Member State governments, to make a decision in secret and not refer it back to Parliament.
Finally, as my Liberal colleague said, we need to have a differential VAT regime to allow for employment creation and employment growth, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Mr President, we are discussing the proposals for Council directives amending the Community's taxation system.
In such a fast-changing world as that of the new market which is taking shape, as little as five years can render a directive obsolete, causing it to need updating in the light of a Community framework that is constantly moving closer to companies - especially small ones - on the one hand and, on the other, to consumers.
You are right, Commissioner Monti, to appreciate the political impetus which this unanimity between the groups gives Parliament.
And you should also take advantage of the impetus, the élan vital that is going to permeate so many areas of the economic life of the European Union once we have the euro, in order to try and speed this process up a little.
I think that, in this era of the euro, if the single market is to be efficient, VAT needs to have a definitive procedure.
This morning, for example, we talked generally about comitology and debated the need for this House to be included in the process of formulating objectives, and now with the Miller report from the Committee on Excise Duties, we have the possibility of putting this into practice.
This Committee is a very important instrument.
Our concern is with preserving transparency and the rules of democracy, particularly because Parliament deals with common legislation.
The procedure envisaged for the committee is that of Article 2(III)(a) of Council Decision 87/373/EEC, the so-called 'comitology' decision.
The proposal is a response to the demands put forward unanimously by all economic sectors.
Indeed, operators wishing to transact business in other Member States find themselves facing difficulties caused by divergent application of Community legislation on VAT.
For some operators, especially those whose turnover is on the small side - and, as has been recalled, future economic growth and employment in Europe depends very much on these firms - the lack of uniform application of Community rules on VAT is an insurmountable barrier to the European market.
The remedy consists in adopting the right measures to ensure uniform application of the Community rules on VAT throughout the European Union.
The proposed procedure allows the Commission, together with the VAT Committee, to address and overcome these difficulties.
I am nevertheless rather uncomfortable about replacing it with 1 January 1999.
There are, therefore, two reasons to call for increased regulatory powers.
The first of these additions basically seeks to confer legal status on the informal agreement of 1988 on transparency in the activities of committees, known as the Plumb/Delors accord; the second aims to implement the Commission decision setting up the Advisory Committee on Customs and Indirect Taxation.
As far as the first addition is concerned, I would point out that last June the Commission submitted a proposal for a decision to the Council, amending Decision 87/373/EEC which governs the activities of committees.
Nevertheless, the Commission would prefer not to mention this committee in the proposal for a directive now before us, the purpose of which is to increase regulatory powers in respect of excise duty.
In this context the Commission has issued a call for tenders for a feasibility study to be carried out next year.
There are so many linkages between the different taxation initiatives under review this evening, Mr Wolf, that I can well understand how easy it is to confuse them.
Without improved coordination of taxation it will be extremely difficult to create new jobs in Europe, especially for young people, who are so much in need of these job opportunities.
The votes will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what the ambiguous title may lead us to believe, the report we will be debating today deals with the harmonisation of VAT rates in Europe and, more specifically, with areas eligible for reduced VAT.
As you know, current Community legislation on harmonising VAT rates provides for a minimum standard rate of 15 %.
It also authorises Member States to apply one or two reduced rates which may not be lower than 5 % and which may apply solely to the provision of goods and services described in the categories referred to in Annex H to the Sixth VAT Directive.
Every two years, the Council reviews the scope of reduced rates on the basis of a report from the Commission.
The last report, drawn up in 1997, has been submitted to us for consideration.
For our part, we strongly believe that the current situation of reduced VAT rates within the EU is unsatisfactory.
It is not even in accordance with the changes to fiscal policies required in order to keep pace with developments in economic and social needs.
Next year, when VAT-inclusive prices are displayed in euros, at least in participating countries, the lack of neutrality of VAT rates in intra-community transactions will become apparent and will cause distortions in competition and increased deflection of trade.
The Commission proposal is still to replace the country of destination principle in VAT with the country of origin principle.
Although different rates can easily continue to apply for goods or services in which there is little cross-border trade, such discrepancies will largely have to disappear for products in competitive sectors.
I would like to hear from the Commissioner what the timetable is for these plans and whether this will be one of the first jobs for the VAT Committee in its new capacity.
With regard to the Castagnède report, the basic idea, as the rapporteur explained very well, is to try to harmonise reduced VAT rates.
I would point out that I had the experience of being a rapporteur in the Spanish Parliament when VAT was introduced as a result of Spain joining the European Union, and I know of the enormous pressure that comes from every sector to be included in the reduced tax rate band.
This puts us in an uncomfortable position when we come to debate certain amendments, such as those which propose incorporating some specific points into certain articles.
We in the Liberal Group, despite the fact that it is a rather unhelpful political position to take, will not support this, but we will support all the amendments and the rapporteur's suggestion that the Commission should draw up a proposal for genuine harmonisation of the reduced rate at European Union level.
As shown in the amendment tabled with my colleague Mr Edouard des Places, our group believes that the lack of VAT neutrality in cross-border transactions is the result of inadequate administrative procedures which cause problems in applying and controlling the rates.
I realise that some people here would like to see VAT rates harmonised and they see this as the next stage in the development of a federal super state as such a step would restrict national governments' decision-making powers in both financial and fiscal matters.
The solution suggested here - harmonisation of VAT rates - does not solve this problem at all, and is irrelevant.
The real solution to the fraud problem lies in developing better administrative follow-up, in improving control procedures and in developing a harmonised system of sanctions.
The administrative procedure established as part of the single market has serious shortcomings which have already been highlighted by national administrations in different meetings held with the Commission.
And I am sorry to note that the Commission, instead of trying to find a lasting solution to its own operational shortcomings, prefers its tried and tested method of running away and using technical problems as an opportunity to promote a political project which is not mentioned in the Treaties: VAT harmonisation.
The Commission would use its time more wisely if it were to provide a technical answer to a technical problem, to present a report on the problems with existing procedures and to draw up a draft regulation transposing the requested improvements as soon as possible.
Mr President, it is important for Parliament to remind the Commission of its duties.
There was also talk of harmonising VAT on catering, depending on whether the sandwich was eaten in a fast food restaurant or in a bar.
The French government, for example, wants to apply a rate of 2.10 % on refunded medications.
The main point made by the Castagnède report, which is well-observed, is that, six years after the arrival of the single market, VAT rates have still not been harmonised.
The standard rate varies between 15 or 25 % for Denmark and there are ten or even twelve points difference in the reduced rate.
Between 1990 and 1993 the Socialist government reduced VAT on caviar, diamonds, Porsches and fur coats by 15 percentage points - in other words on socialist goods.
We lost billions which could have been used to cut taxation on employment.
We were also told that VAT should be charged in the country of origin.
Yet the single currency of the dollar does not stop New Jersey and the State of New York having different local tax rates.
In a large transatlantic market, can the pressure on taxation allow there to be ten points difference in compulsory payments?
And I would like to end there, with the ultimate question: should we have included a fifth criteria for the transition to the euro - a ceiling for compulsory payments of, for example, 40 %?
This is why I personally am in favour of creating a zero rate or at least of keeping it in place where it has already been introduced and even, eventually, of the EU considering a super-reduced rate.
VAT must also be reduced and the scope for reduced rate eligibility broadened in labour-intensive sectors.
I would hope that Parliament will be slightly more radical and include categories such as housing, social housing, catering in all its forms and, in short, extend reduced rate eligibility to include all labour-intensive sectors.
But it is precisely here that this House and its Members have to choose.
Mr President, each time we talk about VAT we end up having a repetitive debate that would not bear serious analysis.
I have been involved in tax administration in Navarra, and I know how difficult it is to decide which products should be included in each of the tax categories.
This could ensure a certain level of social justice, also through VAT, for non-profit-making organisations.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth time Parliament has produced a report supporting the necessary tax harmonisation.
However, this European tax has not managed to keep pace with developments in the economic structure of the Union.
The Member States and the European institutions, which have succeeded in completing the single market - as will become even more apparent with the advent of the euro - have not been able to agree on a definitive VAT system which corresponds to the demands and the philosophy of the single market, and so, unfortunately, we still have the transitional system.
This report on the conditions for applying reduced rates forms part of this strategy.
I find it extremely useful that the House has taken the initiative of producing this report, which gives the Commission a full understanding of the European Parliament's opinion on the need for further harmonisation of VAT rates.
In the Commission's view, the resolution before Parliament today shows an understanding of the position outlined in its report of 13 November 1997 on reduced rates of VAT.
Clearly the subject of VAT rates cannot be dissociated from the general issue of the new common system of VAT, and I believe that this House has fully understood this link.
The Commission has begun drawing up a legislative proposal relating to VAT rates, and will present it as soon as possible.
I can confirm that the Commission, which last year aired this hypothesis in its communication to the Luxembourg European Council on Employment, hopes that the idea will not remain a dead letter.
The Member States have not yet managed to agree on the scope of this measure.
On the one hand, we would like more harmonisation of VAT rates; on the other, we are tempted by the idea of allowing the Member States to experiment with reduced VAT rates for highly labour-intensive services, even though this would admittedly establish a basis for less, not more, harmonisation of VAT rates, should some Member States but not others avail themselves of this opportunity.
So, I wonder, is there a contradiction between these two approaches to taxation policy?
I think not, given the nature of the idea floated by the Commission regarding reduced VAT rates on highly labour-intensive services: this concession to Member States would by definition affect services with very little or no cross-border content, and so would not distort competition between Member States.
I therefore believe that, in a limited field such as this, a reduced rate of VAT could be granted on an experimental basis in support - we hope - of employment, without it conflicting with the general approach of seeking greater harmonisation in VAT rates.
We consider that this would be very difficult to apply; indeed, it would infringe the fundamental principle of free movement for capital.
As to the other point, namely your call for a proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings - in other words taxation not on capital movements but on income from capital - I can tell you that such a proposal was adopted within the Commission on 20 May of this year and forwarded to the Ecofin Council on 5 June.
Moreover, this House has already appointed a rapporteur on this proposal for a directive.
We are therefore moving, at least in part, in the direction you desire.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
We know that one in four insolvencies are attributable to late payment; one in five businesses would export more if this problem were solved.
SMEs' cash flows are disrupted and the problem is worse when trading across borders in the single market.
The situation in the UK is one of the worst in the European Union.
The average EU delay is 13 days, but in the UK it is 23 days after the due date.
Incidentally, the New Labour Government has introduced new legislation which outlaws late payment by introducing a statutory right to interest.
Late pay is paying late after the agreed payment and slow pay is widening the payment period between the invoice or delivery date and the agreed payment date.
Examples of 300 days payment periods are demonstrated, for example, in supermarkets in Spain and they are amongst the biggest culprits.
But the late pay directive does not tackle slow payers as opposed to late payers except in respect of public procurement and public authorities, although it does introduce a 21-day payment period in the absence of contracts or where contracts are silent on the point for ordinary contracts.
In conclusion, this directive, if implemented, could be the Viagra of the single European market, allowing SMEs to grow and expand to the satisfaction of all.
The situation of SMEs does indeed deserve this emphasis.
But we all know that this process cannot occur overnight in the applicant countries.
The project is not reserved only for the seven countries currently included: other applicant countries could also be brought into the programme very soon, once the administrative and financial requirements have been fulfilled.
Sufficient equity capital, however, is essential for the long-term success of a company.
I particularly welcome the fact that it is not only large companies, but also governments and therefore also the EU that are to lead the way.
Mr President, employment is top of Europe's agenda and SMEs form a crucial part of this job-creation strategy.
We have seen today how various regions in the EU Member States are approaching the issue of SME capital markets as a catalyst for SME growth.
As the author of the European parliamentary report on the issue of capital market SMEs, I wish to outline what European institutions and, in particular, the European Parliament are doing to improve the environment for growing small firms.
The United States has proved itself far more effective than Europe in backing new ideas with ready cash.
Investors are earning returns of over 50 % a year for the average firm and more than 100 % for the most successful.
To get some answers to this and other questions I visited the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq at the end of last year.
If a company is successful in a home market of 250 million customers, who speak the same language and use the same currency, this can finance several years of expansion.
More importantly though, Americans are much more prepared to accept risk, for example by investing in small companies.
Finally, stemming from this, the US has Nasdaq, a stock market for SMEs that makes it easy to invest in small firms to fund their expansion and development.
Moreover, final preparations are now being made for the launch of the euro, a logical conclusion to the single market.
We have seen massive demands for shares during the privatisation of state utilities, such as telecom companies, but now we must extend this demand to the high-gain but higher risk stocks on SME capital markets.
The liquidity that comes with institutional trading is essential to small capital markets.
Above all I believe that Europe must take note of the lead that the US enjoys in these matters.
The simplicity with which American private investors can buy shares and the new opportunities offered by electronic commerce are trends that Europe has to follow.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first like to thank the European Observatory for SMEs for the consistently high quality of its work which makes it such an important reference point in both economic and scientific circles.
It allows us to analyse issues relevant to 19 million active businesses in Europe in very different sectors and conditions.
These SMEs, which employed nearly 78 million people in 1997, face the same challenges as larger businesses: globalization and its effects on competitiveness and fair competition, adapting to rapid technological development - an essential element in competitiveness - and practical preparation for the new size and conditions of the European market following the transition to the euro and the enlargement of the Union.
Faced with these new challenges, SMEs must be able to mobilise the necessary human and financial resources rapidly.
They therefore need a long-term strategic vision, but must not sacrifice the key to their dynamism, namely their rapid reaction.
It is Europe's responsibility to develop a plan of action which will help SMEs make the most of these qualities.
We must also adapt the administrative rules to the specific constraints faced by SMEs.
I therefore call on the Commission to submit proposals on these matters.
We also paid particular attention to the chapter in the Observatory's report on SMEs and the environment.
The development of SMEs in these areas can often lead to important joint local initiatives.
Ladies and gentlemen, SMEs are difficult economic subjects for legislators to address in Europe due to their diversity and large numbers.
The Observatory's report allows us to fully grasp the complexity of this issue and should help to improve the necessary Community instruments to make them more flexible and more accessible.
I would also like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for having asked the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights to give an opinion on this proposal for a directive, and also for ultimately accepting the majority of the amendments that we proposed.
The Committee fully supports the aim of the Directive, but we cannot agree with all aspects of the proposed measures.
There are two points in particular on which we take a different view from that of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
As the representative of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and of my party within that Committee, I would therefore recommend voting against Amendments Nos 8, 12 and 25 and in favour of the rest, especially No 25.
They often find themselves with their hands tied, specially in public sector contracts, by large companies who impose disproportionate payment periods on them in their contracts - which they can 'take or leave' - despite the fact that the authorities are generally already obliged to pay the large companies within a certain period.
We therefore welcome the fact that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has approved three specific amendments which propose improvements to the Council and the Commission such as banning the main companies in a public contract from asking or demanding that their subcontractors waive their legal rights, and requiring that the obligation of transparency demanded from public authorities should also apply to the relationship between the main contractor and the subcontractor in public procurement contracts.
In our opinion, more specifically in the opinion of the Spanish socialists, these three proposals from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy deserve the support of the Commission and the Council if we really want to guarantee the survival of these companies in the public contracts sector.
I shall focus on the points which my group feels should be given particular attention at the vote or by the Commission.
We can also see that there is common ground with the proposal before us, but we do not think that rules on the free provision of services by debt collection agencies can simply be introduced just like that by amending this directive.
We are quite happy to consider the question of additional guarantees with excessively long payment periods, but 45 days is really not all that long and a bill of exchange is not an appropriate instrument.
Either some arrangement should be reached with the groups now so that we can discuss the matter again at second reading, or else my group will be forced to vote against paragraphs D and E of Amendment No 14.
My group would also like to do something to improve payment periods for public contracts.
The PPE Group can accept the procedure provided for in Article 9 for charging interest for late payment and it can accept the level of interest, but not the change to the ceiling that determines the scope of the simplified procedures for taking legal action for the settlement of debts, a figure which is vital for the way in which the Member States organise these special procedures.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to begin by congratulating the four rapporteurs on their excellent work.
I should like to talk today about the subject of capital markets for SMEs.
Some of the enormous potential which the pension funds have at their disposal, estimated at ECU 10 000 billion by the year 2020, must be directed towards venture capital funds, which in turn will help rapid growth businesses with funding and know-how.
Some Member States already have special tax arrangements, but these should be extended to investments in other European capital markets.
Finally, I should like to ask the Commissioner whether the Commission has already investigated other innovative financial instruments which it mentions in the multi-annual programme and the on the final page of its communication?
Mr President, our group will be voting in favour of the Hendrick and Scarbonchi reports on smalland medium-sized companies.
Up to 98 % of our non-farm businesses employ under 50 employees.
Some 90 % of small businesses employ fewer than 10.
Under the development programme a target of 4 600 enterprises was established.
Mr President, I will begin by saying that I have been eagerly awaiting a report which would promote discussion on giving SMEs access to capital.
However, the Hendrick report is not that report.
Given the manner in which they operate, capital markets are of no use to SMEs, particularly the small and micro-enterprises which make up some 99 % of European businesses and account for over 50 % of employment, and they therefore do not serve to strengthen the economic fabric of the Member States of which SMEs are the backbone.
Paragraph 13 of the motion for a resolution, which rejects the Tobin tax, appears out of place in a report on SMEs and access to markets.
This was why I supported the proposed amendment to paragraph 13 of the motion.
I would also like to say a few words on the Scarbonchi report, since the Annual Report of the European Observatory for SMEs contains information and analyses of their situation in the European Union from which an assessment can be made of the situation and dynamics in the European Union, and also of the effectiveness of the instruments which it has available.
The situation of SMEs is not improving, but worsening.
That is why, in the reports, there is also what I would call the 'fallacy of misplaced concreteness'.
The entrenched economic downturn expresses itself in different ways, including late payment.
Mr President, in this joint debate on small and medium-sized businesses I should like to talk about the report by Mr Scarbonchi.
If you add up the figures it mentions you can see that the number of jobs in Europe is supposed to have increased by almost twelve million in just one year, which would mean that unemployment had fallen by 65 %!
This fact is clearly stated on page 14 of the annual report.
I would therefore recommend that Mr Scarbonchi withdraw recital B.
The figures he quotes from the 1996 and 1997 annual reports are based on different definitions of the size of SMEs.
The fifth annual report gives a useful overview of SMEs in Europe.
It is now September 1998 and we are discussing the 1997 annual report which contains figures mostly relating to the situation in 1996.
The last annual report was already out by October 1997.
Mr President, I would like to focus on one particular aspect which appears to me to be important and which is dealt with for the first time in the report by Mr Scarbonchi, namely the need to concentrate aid on SMEs in tourism.
Mr President, I have asked for the floor in order to speak about the Harrison report on late payments.
We strongly support this draft directive and we also support the amendments made to it in the Harrison report.
I am referring, for example, to Amendment No 24 to Article 7(d), and Amendment No 28 and others which tackle this problem - in my opinion - in the right way, correcting certain defects in this draft directive.
Mr President, when assessing any draft regulations, we first have to establish what objectives we are pursuing and what aspect of life in society we are trying to put in order.
For these reasons, we should welcome a European initiative in this field, and particularly this draft directive.
However, I must point out, like other speakers before me, that it contains legal problems that have to be tackled and I trust that these will be resolved in the dialogue between the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
Firstly, I wanted to stress the need to tackle head on the problem of delays in contract payments in general, not just in public procurement contracts.
I therefore think that it is essential to approve section d) of Amendment No 14 with the idea that, between the first and second readings, we will have to try to reformulate this amendment in a way which is reasonable and acceptable to the different Member States and their national legislations.
Secondly, I would like to stress that, from a legal point of view, it is essential to overcome the problems posed by the retention of title as established in Article 4, if only because it confers different rights and powers in the different Member States.
Another aspect which requires serious thought is the question of the debt recovery procedures in Article 5.
Mr President, the introduction of the single currency on 1 January is a positive step on the road to European integration.
The elimination of transaction costs and the lowering of interest rates is good news.
The Council's decision in this matter must be overturned.
We need a positive operational environment for SMEs.
In Ireland we are developing a nationalist strategy to ease administrative burdens and small businesses, relieve burdens on small businesses and improve access to finance, as well as support business start-ups.
I refer in particular to small businesses operating in disadvantaged zones and rural areas, where they must work under extremely difficult conditions because of the lack of infrastructure, the remoteness from markets, the almost total absence of new technology and computer systems, and a shortage of vocational training.
In some Italian regions falling under Objective 1, for example, banks lend money to SMEs at a rate 3 or 4 % above the rate offered in other more economically sound regions of Italy.
We therefore appeal to the Commission to strive to eliminate such impediments to the growth of SMEs in some parts of the European Union.
There is no point in you talking about Members speaking for a short time or speaking within their limits when you have allowed that last speaker to go 60 % over the time accorded and, indeed, other speakers as well.
You are the President.
Mr President, this evening we are talking about small and medium-sized enterprises.
One of the major problems for small and medium-sized enterprises is that they have been forced to bankroll large companies in two ways: through long payment periods in contracts, and through non-payments.
I believe, in any event, that I have spoken enough about SMEs over the past four years.
The problem of late payment does not affect small businesses alone; it affects SMEs more than any other businesses.
The Commission's proposals are reasonable and acceptable.
In the absence of a written contract, we think that payment should be made at the latest 21 days from the invoice date; this would apply only when the payment period is not laid down in the contract.
Public institutions are the real problem: here, the proposal is for a maximum payment period of 60 days from the invoice date.
Allow me just to read out the amendment, to prove how ineffectual it is: 'where the due date specified in the contract or in the seller's general conditions of sale is longer than 45 calendar days, the buyer shall provide the seller, at the buyer's cost, with a bill of exchange, specifying explicitly the date for its payment...' .
Mr President, the EU has quite correctly focused on the role of small and medium-sized companies both generally and more especially as creators of job opportunities.
The United States has managed substantially better than Europe in creating an active venture capital market for SMEs.
This is very clearly visible from the difference in the figures for unemployment in the world's two largest economic areas.
We also welcome the reference to concrete measures in such different areas as social security, reducing bureaucracy, access to the capital market or adapting to the launch of the euro.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Third Multiannual Programme of the European Union is a cornerstone of our policy for SMEs and that is why Mr Rübig's report is terribly important.
I cannot accept that these countries are being singled out for non-participation for formal reasons.
I hope that this will change in future.
It is therefore important to try and eliminate all constraints liable to undermine express contractual freedom in any way.
Amendment No 26 states that in public authority contracts the main contractor has to grant conditions to the subcontractor and suppliers which are at least as favourable as those granted to the main contractor by the public authority.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the European Parliament is considering four reports concerning SMEs.
I will begin with Mr Harrison's report on late payment.
That phenomenon has serious consequences for all European companies.
The Commission proposal for a directive on late payment comprises a package of measures to combat this problem in trade operations within the European Community.
The measures relate to late payments between all companies and between companies and the public sector.
In particular, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 10, 19, 20, 22 and 31 as they stand.
In contrast, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 5, 6, 8, 12, 17, 23, 25, 27, 29, 30, 33, 34 and 35.
First of all I want to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work.
Indeed, in recent years the number of SMEs has increased in all those countries and today account for over 90 % of all companies.
In past years the PHARE programme has played an important part in supporting the development of SMEs in those countries and I am sure that this will continue.
Today, in most cases, the policy on promoting the development of SMEs needs to be made more clear and, in my opinion, more specific.
Developments in that area since then have been particularly positive, though I believe there is still much to be done.
As you know, both the EASDAQ market and the Euro-Nouveau Marché have continued to expand and they now deal in the shares of around 200 companies.
The result of their incorporation in a stock market has been to increase their working capital over these two years by an average of about 30 %.
Moreover, the successful expansion of those two markets has contributed generally towards stimulating increasing cooperation between stock markets and towards encouraging the creation of capital markets for SMEs in other Member States as well.
Now, as for future action, we will focus our efforts on implementing the plan of action which was part of our statement at the Cardiff European Council in June 1998.
Fourth, new measures on seat capital, which will be called CREA.
