Bennasar Tous report In principle it is desirable that there should be a common measure for support for the Philoxenia programme because the tourist industry is an important factor in economic and social development in the Union.
Very briefly, I am pleased to see that Amendment No 28, which I tabled, has once again been approved in the context of PHILOXENIA.
Nor is it necessary to create more units in the Commission to be responsible for monitoring the application of the principles of a common tourism policy.
It is important to promote the tourist industry in Europe but this is in the first instance a matter for the respective Member States.
The EU should, however, be able to take on a coordinating role in respect of national, regional and local authorities, the tourist industry and various consumer organisations.
Harrison report The manner in which the Commission's DG XXIII carried out the previous action plan has been the subject of considerable criticism, especially as regards administrative and operational questions.
They are an extremely valuable asset and it is becoming every more necessary for us to deepen these relations in view of the international problems facing us and which will also increase.
Madam President, my Group views with satisfaction the proposal for a Council regulation on protection against the effects of extra-territorial legislation.
From the outset this Parliament, via the REX Committee, considered that these proposals, which were in fact put forward for domestic political reasons, were dangerous to the future of the trade rules signed in Marrakesh, and a politically intolerable challenge.
Both approaches are right, although the Council, as too often happens, forgot that this Parliament is an important part of Community institutions and its opinion could have been sought in a more timely manner.
We believe that unanimity is essential in this dispute, and, in line with international commitments undertaken, and with an approach entirely different from that of the United States, we believe the World Trade Organization to be the proper forum for settlement of the dispute, since its members include other countries whose interests have also been damaged by the arbitrary nature of these measures.
In recent days, Madam President, we have been disturbed to read reports that suggest that Denmark may delay the adoption of this legislation on the grounds of a challenge on the legal base.
Madam President, I believe that in supporting this regulation which protects the interests of companies and the trading interests of the European Union as a whole, Parliament is merely following a tradition which has been producing political and commercial effects since the time of the 1993 Melandri report.
Madam President, although the issue is not to show how other-worldly we are, since the Sierra Madre, since the barbudos , behind their comandante , descended on Havana, things have changed a great deal in Cuba.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is glad that the European Parliament is prepared to invoke the urgency procedure in connection with the Community antiboycott provisions which the Commission proposes to adopt in order to protect European operators from the extraterritorial effects of the American Helms-Burton and d'Amato laws which came into force this year.
The Commission is fully aware of the fact that the European Parliament has on numerous occasions, most recently during its plenary sitting of 24 May 1996, called for such provisions to be adopted.
The Commission believes, like Parliament, that it is now necessary to protect the interests of the Community, its citizens and the undertakings established within its territory against the illegitimate extraterritorial effects of the laws adopted by the United States.
Moreover, the European Council in Florence on 21 and 22 June this year adopted the following conclusions: it regretted the fact that political circumstances in Cuba had not enabled any progress to be made in relations between the European Union and our country.
The debate is closed.
We shall now proceed to the vote. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) After earlier reticence because of the American presidential elections the Commission decided in favour of a tough political response to the trade measures taken by the United States against Cuba.
Especially since like the United States we deplore the ruling dictatorship in Cuba.
Under Article 12 of this regulation it was previously not permitted to include regional indications in a guarantee of quality.
Article 12 is therefore to be amended such that this special case can become eligible for funding under the FIFG sales promotion measures.
The fishermen's distrust of EU legislation is undermining their sense of justice.
This must be supported by setting up a satellite control system in the Member States by 1999 at the latest.
These measures proposed by Parliament can, however, only partly help resolve the problem.
A word about the technical measures before I proceed to my report.
I now come to my own report on the Fisheries Agreement with Seychelles.
This commission covers not only the Indian Ocean seaboard States but also all States fishing in those waters, and its recommendations regarding species conservation will be binding on all members.
As regards the relations between Community industrial fishing and non-industrial fishing, it is important to bear in mind that the Seychelles Government has adopted stringent measures to protect zones where non-industrial fishing takes place.
The country's largest cannery, set up as a joint venture by the State, a canning company and a marine fitting-out company, employs 600 people.
There are plans to double its capacity in 1997, which will create an additional 900 jobs.
Finally, I must thank my colleagues on the Committee on Fisheries, who adopted this report unanimously. (Applause) Madam President, I wish to place on record my appreciation of the interest shown by my colleagues in the Committee on Fisheries in this report on the communication from the Commission on the implementation of technical measures in the common fisheries policy.
I am convinced that technical conservation measures are essential for the protection of juveniles and spawning adults.
The Fisheries Committee believes that more attention should have been paid in the past to this important aspect of conservation.
Furthermore, I am convinced that this Parliament will support me when I say that it is vital for technical measures to be simple, that they should be cost-effective, that they should be technically feasible and practical for operation in commercial conditions.
Technical conservation measures must be accompanied by other measures such as TACs and quotas.
Only a few Member States have made proposals to the Commission.
Before I refer to the other reports and wear my national cap, I want to again thank all of those who took such an interest in technical conservation measures because I believe that such measures can play an important role in the conservation of fish stocks for the future.
I would like to point out that Ireland has the best fishing grounds in Europe: we have 4 % of EU quotas; 44 % of our fleet is upwards of 25 years old; 64 % of our fleet suffers from safety deficiencies.
We should be given the opportunities to develop our fishing industry, remembering full well that in addition to having a common fisheries policy, we have a regional policy, we have a rural development policy.
I realize that the Norwegians gave a commitment at a recent meeting in London with a view to ensuring that the production in the last quarter of 1996 and the first quarter of 1997 would be on the 1995 basis plus 10 %.
Madam President, the difficult situation in which the Community's salmon fishing industry finds itself, particularly in Ireland and Scotland, is not news for this Parliament.
There were already serious malfunctions in the Community market last year because of imports of Norwegian salmon at abnormally low prices, which resulted in heavy losses for our producers.
The minimum price was welcomed by the sector as a first step towards a proper resolution of the crisis.
Irish producers in fact experienced a 10 % fall in sales of their products after the introduction of the minimum import price.
In 1995 we pointed out that imports from Norway had risen by 27 % in the preceding nine months, and that the price of Community salmon had fallen by 21 %.
Our question today is justified, since in the last eight months imports from Norway have increased by 22 %, with a matching 21 % further fall in prices as a result.
This means that, overall, European selling prices have now fallen by about 35 % as compared with last year, whereas, as everyone knows, production costs have risen.
There appear, therefore, to be grounds for believing that exports of Norwegian salmon to the Community in such massive quantities and at such price levels are only possible because dumping is taking place.
We are talking of an important sector, for salmon production accounts for about 5, 000 jobs in the United Kingdom and around 2, 000 in Ireland.
These are jobs in Objective 1 coastal peripheral regions, where there are few or no sources of alternative employment.
These suspect Norwegian imports are therefore a serious threat to jobs which would be very difficult to replace.
This group believes that there are various measures which could be adopted immediately, all of them consistent with the legal framework of the World Trade Organization and the European Economic Area.
The Commission can also take steps under Article 24 of Regulation 3759/92 on the COM in fish products, which, in the event of serious disruption of Community markets, enables it to take suitable action on trade with other countries until such disruption or threats to the market are removed.
A new minimum import price is the least which can be envisaged, but on the basis of past experience we remain sceptical if the circumventing mechanisms which the Norwegians have imaginatively put in place are not taken into consideration.
If quantitative restrictions are necessary - regrettably, as I say - then they must be adopted.
But meanwhile, in the precarious situation in which Community producers find themselves here and now, the action we request is the only possible response to the emergency conditions we are experiencing, since the future of the salmon farming industry demands these decisions.
Madam President, there are two points I must make.
Article 35 of that Regulation requires an annual report to be drawn up.
It is the first report of its type, and is therefore very important.
The Commission's general conclusion is that much remains to be done in order to institute an effective monitoring system.
Specifically, the main conclusions of the report are as follows.
As regards at-sea inspections, the figures are quite alarming.
Published estimates show that, for more than fifteen species, the extent of undeclared catches is in excess of 10 %, while for three species it is over 40 %.
That problem is the capacity of the fishing fleets.
We have to be alert to this situation.
Finally, there is one problem that has not been mentioned, except very much in passing, which is the monitoring of fishing in international waters, or in third countries' waters, under the Fisheries Agreements.
Unfortunately I have to note that our Parliament was only consulted on this agreement four months after the end of the negotiations in mid-January, to be precise on 9 May.
A month later the Council then decided on the provisional application of the agreement.
The Committee on Budgets and this House have repeatedly protested vehemently against this way of proceeding on other occasions.
In any case, these events show once again how necessary it is for the Council and the Commission finally to sign the code of conduct we proposed on improving information and budgeting in relation to international fisheries agreements.
Madam President, I shall go for keywords: the issue of monitoring is a very sensitive one.
We have to take account of technological instruments but also of biological particularities when reforming the common fisheries policy, given that it can be reformed by applying the principle of subsidiarity but also by means of a number of social policies designed to support fishermen's incomes, an issue already covered in the common agricultural policy.
Let me say that the monitoring and control of the common fisheries policy is extremely important and I hope that Parliament is covering the matter adequately today.
In the last few days I have had the opportunity of looking at this problem and recognize that minimum import prices could be implemented straight away.
Madam President, the McKenna report assesses the first of a very important series of reports by the Commission on the effectiveness of the common fisheries policy in the area of monitoring.
One of the things that I would stress is that our group considers that this situation illustrates how the common fisheries policy in its present form cannot conserve fish stocks.
First, yet again, Parliament is in the process of holding a debate on a decision which has already been taken.
My second comment relates to the fact that there is no regional approach on this.
Thirdly, we are talking about an agreement with no quotas, which is a somewhat obsolete form for a fisheries agreement to take.
For all these reasons, we shall be voting against.
Madam President, I am glad we are having this debate, even if it is on a Friday.
The minimum import price is not a very good instrument as we know from the past, but it is the only one that can be implemented immediately.
Parliament needs the Commission's reply as a matter of urgency, for, as you know, we have the Council in the background pressing for a response.
Thank you, Mrs Izquierdo, but I have to inform you, in the kindest possible way, that you have used almost double your time allowance.
But in micro-economic terms at the level of the salmon industry consider the implications of Norway, a state outside the Union which produces a massive surplus for export - and has the potential to produce much more in the immediate future - and floods our market to such an extent that the anti-dumping case when it is examined will hold.
It has totally destabilized the prices and on four occasions since 1989 we have tried the minimum import price response and it has not worked.
Frankly, if we are to give these coastal communities a chance to survive, there is only one probable long-term answer: get tough, bring in quantitative restrictions.
The Council dodged the issue; we should not.
Mr President, I want to refer to the issue of salmon prices and thank Parliament for its solidarity on this issue over the years.
Visiting the peripheral regions of my own constituency which have traditionally depended on fishing, I have very little to offer them.
I am in favour of maintaining resources, among other reasons so that the sector can remain viable in the medium and long term.
That is also what the Council of Ministers wishes to see.
To summarize, Mr President, I would like Parliament to know that the Commission will carefully study the recommendations made in this report.
As for the proposal for a fourth amendment to the Council Regulation bearing No 3699/93, regulating structural assistance in the fisheries sector, it proposes the introduction of three amendments.
The second makes reference to Article 7 of the Regulation on common organization of the markets in fishery products.
And the third confirms that the conversion rate for the ECU is in fact the budgetary rate, the budgetary ECU, in accordance with the wish expressed by the Council on 21 December 1993.
With regard to the amendments, the Commission rejects Amendments Nos 2 and 6, because they run counter to established thinking regarding the nature of fisheries agreements and prejudice the Commission's negotiating powers.
Secondly, the principle of conservation of stocks is a matter of the law of the sea, which the Community has signed and which is already enshrined in all the framework agreements on fisheries, in particular that with the Seychelles.
As for the role of Parliament in the budgetary implementation of the fisheries agreements, I should like to remind the House that the three institutions concerned are currently finalizing a code of conduct on the budgetary procedure for the fisheries agreements, which is intended to improve the organization of relations between the Commission and Parliament.
The Commission's report on the implementation of technical measures in the common fisheries policy represents an in-depth analysis of the utility of the measures implemented since 1986 to protect young fish in Community waters.
The Commission notes that the Gallagher report generally coincides with the conclusions of the Commission's report, both as regards the general overview of the problems and as regards the possible options.
This proves that the ideas proposed by the Commission to improve the status of our fishery resources are along the right lines and encourage us to push ahead with these initiatives.
As you know, the Commission has already presented a proposal for a new Regulation on technical conservation measures, which will replace the Regulation in force since 1986.
I hope that this general agreement will also result in the Commission and Parliament adopting a common position on this proposal.
Regarding the problem of the crisis in the salmon sector, the Commission would first like to emphasize that the decline seen over the last few years has affected not only the selling price of salmon but also the unit product cost.
Nor do we know whether these selling prices on our markets have been made possible by State aid, such as rightly to give rise to compensation schemes.
Secondly, she has not really said whether the Commission will move for minimum import prices, which is what the resolution calls for.
Thank you, Mr Macartney.
Thank you, Mrs Cresson.
Mr President, I did not answer the first question, but I can say that we are discussing this matter with the Council.
Mrs Izquierdo, do you insist?
The debate is closed.
The costs of purchasing fish quotas are of the order of ECU 300 million.
Salmon resolution Mr President, I represent Greater Manchester East and some of my major interests in Parliament have been on research policy and arms conversion on which I have done two reports, all of which seems a long way away from the crisis in the salmon industry.
I also wish to put on record my appreciation of the interest taken by Commissioner Fischler and his officials.
All Member States are experiencing great difficulty in dealing with the problem of rural decline and the broader socio-economic problem of urban/rural imbalance.
The report takes into consideration the diversity of these problems in different countries and the need for a flexible application of any new initiative.
I believe the report identifies these areas, commencing with the primary function of reducing food and creating employment through the added-value process in the food sector.
But, as I have already said, it is also recognized that agriculture alone will not maintain the viability of these areas.
The decline of rural communities is often attributed to advances in technology and, while this claim may to some extent be true, I believe that the advent of advanced new communication technology, like Internet, can now be used to reverse that cycle and create new jobs in the rural areas throughout the Community.
The principle of a European Rural Charter, providing a global framework for Community action in this field, is of course something we can all support.
The European Rural Charter put forward for consideration by this Chamber represents a strategy for restoring balance within Europe, by promoting the maintenance of rural culture in the European Union; it is also an instrument for spatial planning and the coordination of all Community policies which affect the rural community.
It is of vital importance to the people I represent and to so many people throughout the European Union.
The continued reform of the CAP will release funds which should be utilized to transform the common agricultural policy into a common rural policy in which agriculture will continue to play a vital role but whose main objective should be to ensure the economic and social well-being of rural communities.
The figures are very similar in all the EU countries.
In Finland, a rural programme was adopted in 1991 which is comprehensive and progressive.
The problem is the lack of resources with which to carry it out.
To ensure that this solidarity does take effect, my group, the European Radical Alliance, will be voting in favour of this report.
Mr President, I too support the excellent Hyland report.
In fact, The Guardian newspaper in Britain last week showed how one European citizen in four, living in rural areas, is in fact living in poverty.
Only last week I launched a brilliant LEADER II project in a small place called Swanton Morley where all levels of the public and private sectors have come together to benefit the hard-pressed village.
The text before us is a very worthwhile contribution to the future development of rural areas.
It was adopted unanimously by our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and it provides us with a very useful argument in favour of economic and social development.
The resolution rightly identifies the need to develop job opportunities outside agriculture in rural areas.
The reference in the draft Rural Charter to a fresh reform of the Common Agricultural Policy is something that causes me some concern.
Regarding the motion for a resolution, the Commission agrees in essence with what has been said, especially regarding the need to take account, in applying the rural development policy, of all the constituents of economic and social life in the rural areas.
It is, then, a total policy, the need for which has resulted in rural development being adopted as the political priority in the Treaty on European Union.
The report emphasizes a number of urgent problems which the rural world has to confront, and makes constructive suggestions.
The rapporteur rightly raises, in his proposal, the problem of defining rural areas.
That is why we are continuing with our work, and that is why we shall ensure that the definition we are going to propose encompasses parameters other than population density, taking account of the diversity of situations in rural areas, as of course the motion for a resolution proposes.
Finally, we were most interested to note the proposal that a Rural Development Fund should be created, making it possible to finance all the schemes undertaken within the framework of integrated rural development, and designed to bring efficiency, flexibility, transparency and simplicity to the administration of Community aid to the rural world.
Thank you, Mrs Cresson.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, the proposal for a Council regulation aims at modifying Regulation 3448/93 defining the EU trade regime for non-Annex 2 products, that is, products which result from the manufacture of foodstuffs from the primary processing industries.
Therefore, certain changes have to be made to Regulation 3448 in order to delete the provisions which no longer apply.
To provide for the possibility of refund certificates and to make it more flexible, I suggest this be decided under the management committee procedure set out in Article 16.
We support his proposal to reduce the additional bureaucratic processes required in adapting to the new system and thus ensuring compliance with GATT requirements.
As noted in the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the essence of this proposal is to make technical modifications to the trade regime for processed agricultural goods not covered by Annex II of the Treaty.
The amendment has already been studied at the Council, and by industry.
To evaluate the scope of this amendment, there are two comments I would like to make.
The Commission, then, in order to guarantee compliance with the Community's commitments, entered into pursuant to Article 9 of the agriculture agreement concluded at the Uruguay Round, must be able to reduce the refund rates, or suspend the granting of refunds for as long as is strictly necessary.
This is in any case already provided for in Article 8(3) of Regulation (EC) No 3448/93, as amended by the present proposal.
This paragraph 6 will probably have to be adapted in order to take account of the modifications introduced by the first amendment.
Thank you, Mrs Cresson.
The debate is closed.
This discussion is more necessary than ever if we bear in mind that in general terms, and at no great cost to the Community budget (about 5 %), the present common organization of markets has operated normally, raising olive growers' incomes, modernizing farms and methods of cultivation, improving product quality, modernizing the industrial sector and ultimately creating a clearly dominant position in face of an open commercial future.
If the alternative to the present position has to be a system which further complicates control measures, whilst the European Commission evades its responsibilities, or involves the introduction of mechanisms which lead to the abandonment of cultivation methods and a consequent fall in production, or degrade the rural environment and cause a decline in employment, or produce a risk of shortage and a loss of the European sector's competitiveness on international markets, or generate problems in the processing and marketing sector, or result in environmental deterioration through erosion, desertification, disease, pests, or fire, then the European Commission will be making a serious mistake.
As you say, the Commission has undertaken a preliminary study of the need to reform the common organization of the markets in the olive oil sector.
The Commission recognizes the importance of the olive oil sector in the culture and prosperity of certain Mediterranean regions and their local employment situation.
Economic, socio-cultural and environmental implications of a modification of the system will be dealt with in the analysis document, and the Commission intends to institute, at both Community and Member State level, measures which are sufficiently flexible to ensure that the reform of the common organization of this market strengthens the role of the olive oil production and trade in regions where the growing of olive trees is a means of support.
Although it is true that, in the past and for certain sectors, the Commission has decided to present a discussion paper to Parliament and the Council before presenting a formal proposal, the urgent need to simplify and strengthen the common organization of the olive oil markets argues against this approach in the present instance.
We shall have time to study the problem of the reform in Parliament and at the Council on the basis of the analysis and the reform proposal.
Thank you, Mrs Cresson.
Why is it that the Commission is proposing for Portugal, for example, 40 % aid whereas that proposed for Spain or Italy is 60 % of that proposed for Greece?
If this aid is equal for everyone at present on the basis of production, can they explain to me, a Portuguese, why they are going to reduce it by 60 %?
Mr President, hitherto all proposals for reform of the common organization of a sizeable market have been preceded by a discussion paper so that the consequences of the proposed measures could be assessed.
No such discussion paper has been produced for the reform of the COM in olive oil, despite the fact that some 800, 000 people work in this sector and are concentrated in regions seriously affected by unemployment.
It is worth recalling that the Commission should have submitted a report on the working of the system of aids in the olive oil sector to the Council before 1 January 1995, as laid down in Council Regulation 2261/84.
Thank you, Mr Marset.
Commissioner, as you have pointed out, the European Parliament has also been at the forefront in combatting fraud.
The Commission has recognised the need for a study document before it carries out a reform of the olive oil COM.
Thank you, Mr Novo.
Joint motion for a resolution on reform of the common organization of the market in olive oil (Parliament adopted the joint resolution) Mr President, this is simply to confirm that we are voting for this set of proposals.
We do so despite the fact that we usually say, as is the custom in this Parliament, that we have to bring decision-making closer to the people, and that the people must take part in the decision-making process, because here we have a clear case in which professional associations, cooperatives and professional organizations should be taking part and at least giving their opinion on the process of reform of the COM in olive oil.
In fact, in all the cases in which the procedure ought to be simplified, it does not happen, and yet in so important a part of the process as hearing the views of those actually affected, and indeed the Committee on Agriculture and Parliament itself, this step is omitted.
We are looking at an agricultural problem which is however much more than an agricultural problem, involving and affecting the full extent of economic, social and environmental policies.
Otherwise watch out for the brutal adverse effect which the Commission's preliminary draft could have on employment, local production and rural or regional development in Andalusia, the leading European and world producer of olive oil.
Thank you, Mr Newman.
