As many colleagues know, Sir Jimmy Goldsmith has another party - the Referendum Party - and he will be fighting an election in the United Kingdom under his British citizenship.
We already have the report before us in the Committee on Budgetary Control, but this is not an urgent matter, given that we have been working on the question since December 1993 and have yet to receive an appropriate answer from the Council.
We therefore decided yesterday in the committee that urgent procedure should be rejected. (Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure) Mr President, this was also discussed at our meeting yesterday.
Since the Court of Auditors has some very clear comments to make on the management of the appropriations, the committee is proposing not to deal with this report as an urgency, but to review it in the light of these findings, so that we can then produce a detailed opinion.
The committee decided unanimously yesterday to agree to urgent procedure, and also adopted the report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me, in the first year of my presidency, to be able to present to the honourable Members of this House the annual report and the statement of assurance of the European Court of Auditors for the financial year 1995.
This is undoubtedly a result of the abolition of tax frontiers which came into effect on 1 January 1993.
The European Court of Auditors is grateful to Parliament that it has entrusted the first committee of inquiry in its history with the examination of the Community transit procedure.
The reduction in surpluses meant that in both 1994 and 1995, storage costs and export subsidies fell.
In Germany, the channels of trade in pigs which had possibly been exposed to contamination with swine fever could not always be traced.
This means there was a risk that this meat may have reappeared on the market.
On the other hand, the improved methods of control which the Court called for in its annual report for 1992 have been introduced for the cotton market.
The second-largest quantity of expenditure in the EU's budget is accounted for by the Structural Funds.
From a budgetary point of view, their problem lies in the discrepancy between the payment appropriations and the payments which were actually made.
Of the Social Fund's 850 operational programmes for the period between 1990 and 1993, for example, a mere 37 % had been completed by the beginning of 1996.
The situation is even more serious for the Community Initiatives - the figure there was only 15 %.
At present, about 50 % of the EU's population is covered by the Fund's objectives.
The Commission must continue its efforts to improve assessment.
As in previous years, we find that ineligible expenditure is being subsidized, Member States are retaining commission and deductions from Community aid, applications are being submitted for subsidies towards expenditure which has not yet been incurred, estimates of expenditure are being entered as actual expenditure, and expenditure certificates contain higher sums than were actually paid.
In the case of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the newly independent states, the value of concluded contracts was, at the end of 1995, approximately ECU 2 bn less than the commitments in the case of the PHARE programme, and ECU 644 m in the case of the TACIS programme.
The EU delegations in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe should be given greater authority, so that on-the-spot management and monitoring duties can be carried out more effectively.
Last year, the Court also issued a special report concerning the signature of the contract for the construction of the new Parliament building here in Strasbourg.
The Court also published a special report on the MED programmes and one on the administration of Mostar by the European Union.
The Court has now, for the second time, issued statements of assurance pertaining to the general budget and to the European Development Funds.
On the basis of the errors found in the random samples, which amounted to some ECU 180 m, an error rate of 5.9 % of all payments made in 1995 can be extrapolated; this represents an amount of approximately ECU 4 bn.
I should explicitly add, however, that these observations do not concern the Commission alone, since 80 % of the budget is, after all, implemented by the Member States.
As regards the 1995 statement of assurance on the sixth and seventh European Development Funds, for which my Italian colleague Giorgio Clemente is responsible, the Court was able to issue a positive statement - unlike last year - despite a number of remaining weaknesses.
In the case of the underlying payment transactions, the Court estimates that substantial errors amount to ECU 32.6 m, or 2.1 % of total payments.
In connection with the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference, the Court has put forward proposals to improve the efficiency of its audits.
In a few days' time, the heads of all the national audit bodies of the Member States are meeting with us in Luxembourg.
Recently, we were also visited by the heads of the national audit bodies of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe for a two and a half day seminar.
I am particularly pleased with the fruitful cooperation with you, the European Parliament, and especially with the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets.
The Community budget is not big in size, but complex to execute.
But there are quite a few other changes which have been made on the insistence of the Court of Auditors and of the European Parliament, especially its Committee on Budgetary Control, and which the Court recognizes in the 1995 report have improved the use of the Community's finances.
For example, I was glad the Court mentioned explicitly the good results of the PHARE programme for SMEs in Hungary and Slovakia.
Regulations have been changed as, for example, the new common market organizations for fruit and vegetables, which was a big issue last year, or the improved project selection mechanisms in the LIVE II programme.
Encompassing such specific policy improvement is the attempt of SEM 2000 initiative to change the budgetary culture of the Community from the Commission to the actual implementing authority.
The new procedure also strengthens the link between the allocation of financial and human resources, as is necessary.
Thirdly, there is a much stronger emphasis on evaluation throughout the house, in particular for new spending proposals.
On these recommendations, there is a large degree of agreement, but on the key issues we still need to work to achieve consensus.
This concerns the problem most often raised by the Court in the Annual Report, but also in the DAS, the question of eligibility for structural funds.
If eligibility is not clear it is very difficult to have a coherent budget culture in the Community.
For this we need the support of the Member States.
A large majority of the personal representatives of the Ecofin Ministers supported our approach.
I note the reflections of the Court and of its President in this area.
The Commission will present a report on the future of the Community's structural funds by spring next year.
In addition, I want to say that there are also areas of disagreement between the Commission and the Court.
For example, the Court criticized certain reporting obligations which the Commission imposes on farm organizations using Community funds.
It is the right of the Court, but it is important that these two issues are kept separate.
Along with the Annual Report the Court is presenting for the second time its declaration of assurance, or DAS, on the legality and regularity of the Community's accounts and the underlying transactions.
The application of such a technique to the heterogeneous and multilayered Community budget is still experimental.
The Commission therefore shares the Court's view that it would take several years before the DAS audit will have sufficiently gained in maturity to enable trends in error rates to be identified.
These errors are to a large extent concentrated in two areas, the agricultural guarantee fund and the structural funds.
Both agricultural spending and the structural funds have procedures which make it possible to catch errors and to prevent lasting damage to the Community budget.
Thus, for example, every single error detected by the Court concerning agricultural spending will be examined and recouped whenever justified in the context of the clearance of account procedure.
We have seen reports that today there are clearly a few problem areas, but when we come to 1995 in our clearance of accounts systems it is clear that the information we now get from the Court will be fully used to recover the money from the Member States.
It has strengthened our position in our discussions with the Member States.
When I received the English version I found that pages 17 to 24 are published in Finnish to make it comprehensible to the Commissioner but incomprehensible to anybody else.
At the beginning of this process we should acknowledge that there should not be the sort of rush to condemn based on the Court of Auditors report that we see in much of the press this morning and over recent days.
Members of this House in particular should have a proper sense of perspective as to what is happening today.
In that sense the Court of Auditors' report is an important one and one which brings together four institutions: the Court is making the accusations, the Commission has to defend itself, the Council of Ministers who are also criticized in their individual capacities or in the capacities of their Member States, have to give us advice and Parliament has to decide.
This power was given to the Court of Auditors by the Maastricht Treaty and this is the second time the Court of Auditors quite rightly and properly has not been able to give us that statement of assurance.
When we look at the criticisms of the payments side made in the statement of assurance, two or three things become very clear.
We welcome Mr Friedmann's two reports.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, I have only a little time in which to thank you for presenting the Court's weighty annual report for 1995, together with a number of special reports and the relevant statements of assurance.
This applies, for instance, to the errors and shortcomings in respect of the Social Fund, which the Court has set out very clearly in Chapter 6 of its report.
Mr President, I wish to compliment the President of the Court of Auditors on his report this morning and I want to raise one particular matter.
I may not always agree with him but as a working Member of this Parliament he is a fine example and always has been.
And finally, is it not possible to coordinate with the national audit bodies in all these areas?
SEM 2000 has been referred to, and it was said that, by and large, the Member States were in agreement with it.
However, I have heard that some Member States or parts of Member States are already letting it be known that the contents of SEM 2000 are at odds with their constitutional or administrative situation, not least in the area of the Structural Funds.
Mr President, Mr Tomlinson has shown his usual acuteness in explaining the usual parliamentary procedure for dealing with the Court of Auditors' report.
But I must point out that there is an anomaly in it concerning the procedure relating to olive oil.
In fact, the Commissioner for Agriculture seems deliberately to have used a future report by the Court of Auditors to justify the presentation of a reform of the olive oil COM which is clearly prejudicial to producers' interests.
In this Court of Auditors' report there seems to be no substantial change to previous years, so we can only deduce that there has been deliberate and partial use of the report in order to justify a reform which does not appear in a technical or accounting way in the Court of Auditors' report.
The Court of Auditors' report says - though 1995 was an exception - that revenue will increasingly have to be based on estimates of gross national product.
If all goes well, new negotiations are to begin in 1998 on the European Union's finances.
If the Court's and the Commission's remarks are correct, the ECU 16 million should be paid back unconditionally.
If the Court of Auditors cannot control this sort of leakage, well who can we expect to control anything in the European Union?
It is regrettable but understandable that problems have increased in the areas of the structural funds, because we have reached an unprecedented level of spending and the regulations in the first place were difficult, as was drawn attention to last year.
This does not mean that we lost 5.9 %: it means we lost a small fraction of this sum, perhaps 1 % of the entire budget.
If the President can confirm this, I think it is not a bad performance and shows that we are coming to terms with the problem.
The first is about the annual report and concerns the agencies and the satellites.
My question there concerns the former checking, because if we are looking at 5.9 % of transactions being irregular, that is more than 1 in 20 and the 2 different kinds of checking by the Commission and the Court need to be aligned.
Mr President, my intervention and my question relate to internal policies and the area of social welfare, and in particular, the strand which concerns the fight against poverty and social exclusion, of which the report reveals the rather derisory face of the action taken, with 38, 000 people involved in it in a population of poor estimated at 52 million in the European Union, that is, one person in 1, 500, which is indeed derisory.
The report notes the fact, moreover, that there is no 'cost-result' ratio given by the Commission in this area.
Finally, does the Court of Auditors envisage proceeding with a 'cost-efficiency' study of the actions of the associations to whom grants have been awarded with respect to the aims which are pursued officially?
One has to see this in conjunction with the fact that, last year, 14 % of the budget in terms of volume could not be audited, because of inadequate documentation.
If we had been able to audit everything last year, the percentage of irregularities would have been much higher than 4 %, and so the difference this year would not have been as large as it appears at first sight.
In our discussions, I have the impression that we are doing our work very carefully, and on this basis my intention would be that we should proceed similarly in future.
The fact is that the scope and rights of the national audit bodies are very different.
I would also thank Mr Garriga Polledo for making it clear that our report on olive oil is a pertinent one.
Turning to what was said by Mr Blak with regard to the Danish Government, I said earlier that our work was based on that of Denmark's national audit body.
The various testing methods produce different results.
The problem is that, even though we have implemented all these measures, there are tens of thousands of people in the European Union who take part in executing our budget.
One of the conclusions concerning this budget is - and it is very helpful - that 90 % of the substantial errors take place in member countries: 42 % of all errors in the context of the structural funds.
If we want to have a positive DAS towards 1999, we must find a solution to the most burning problem; there must be a solution that provides a clear understanding of what eligibility is.
We must have clear eligibility rules and also an instrument for financial corrections.
We have discussed a lot the possibility of enlarging the clearance of accounts system for the structural funds.
I need your support and your partnership also in this work.
I mentioned briefly that the structural funds merely cofinance programmes by means of advances from the budget.
Advances are paid on the basis of declarations of expenditure presented by the Member States.
Frankly, 30 out of 31 cases were of this type, involving substantial errors.
We must have clear and strict rules of eligibility to avoid these problems of interpretation.
Actually, the number of detected irregularities - substantial errors - was ECU 163m.
Mr President, in this debate on the reform of the Television without Frontiers Directive, I think that we are all aiming at the same objective: developing the European audiovisual industry.
I should like to begin, however, with two remarks about areas I think we agree on: first of all, the appropriateness, not to say the need, for carrying out a reform of the existing text which, although it can overall be given a positive assessment, has now been outstripped by the fast developments taking place in the sector; secondly, the desire for understanding which, in my opinion, must always lie behind politics and is now absolutely vital if we want the European Parliament to take a full part in the co-decision procedure.
Both of these considerations have to be taken into account in our decision concerning the legal imposition of compulsory quotas of European productions in television broadcasts.
Experience shows that there is no direct relationship between compulsory quotas and the development of an audiovisual industry, and we could even cite examples which contradict this idea.
Moreover, the establishment of barriers in the Union could put at serious risk access to developing markets, such as the Latin-American ones, for the European audiovisual industry.
In our opinion, the measures which, from a European point of view, should be promoted in order to help our industry should concentrate on direct financial support for European productions through the MEDIA programme or the Guarantee Fund.
The European Commission has just approved a series of proposals which are beginning the process of regulating these new services.
The same can said about the quantitative limits on advertising, an area in which we have managed to strike a very delicate balance between the helping advertising market and protecting the viewer.
At second reading, there was talk in the debate of restricting exclusive rights for broadcasting certain events of major interest or importance.
I agree that the Olympic Games and the World Football Championships must be broadcast live, guaranteeing free access to all citizens, as proposed in the tabled amendments.
While recognising that progress has been made in the common position, the result - I must say in passing - of initiatives taken by the European Parliament, sufficient progress has not been made.
However, we insist in our proposal that broadcasting bodies, under state tutelage, should set the framework for creating national self-controlled bodies to classify programmes according to their content; this qualification would be applied according to a coding system in the receptor apparatus, which would give parents and guardians responsibility concerning the upbringing of minors in their charge.
Obviously, these measures do nothing to restrict the freedom of broadcasting but they put at the disposal of society an effective instrument for protecting minors, something asked of us as co-legislators in this case.
The presence of other interest groups is remarkable.
The committee has also acknowledged the principle that the broadcasting directive must on no account prevent necessary investment in new technology.
As you are all aware, the Group of the European People's Party - like myself, of course - sees things differently.
The right approach involves good professional training and improved marketing strategies, underpinned by European support programmes - such as MEDIA I and II and the 16: 9 action plan which have just been mentioned - the Guarantee Fund and, possibly, tax incentives and measures to promote investment in film and programme making.
One of our aims in tabling this amendment - and we have emphasized it repeatedly - is to provoke a general debate on this issue, and to raise the awareness not only of all the participants in the market but also of consumers, because the violence, pornography and excessive portrayal of sex on television, through the new services and via the Internet is no longer acceptable in its present form.
I still take the view that sporting organizations themselves and those who broadcast sport should reach agreement, without regulatory measures by governments.
Mr President, I am here to explain the basic reasons which led the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, to support, by a large majority, the amendments which we, as a committee, are tabling here.
In an effort to do just that, after last July's adoption by the Council of the common position which, in many respects, incorporated neither our proposals nor those of the Commission - which were very similar to those of the European Parliament - and in fact failed to take account of the reasons underlying them, we made an effort to understand the real reasons which had prompted some of the Member States - and some of our very own colleagues - to oppose the text approved at first reading by this House.
Commissioner Oreja has, moreover, recognized that the committee has made a considerable effort to restrict its own amendments and has stated that it will be politically difficult for the Council not to take account of them.
Europe can, of course, meet the challenge but only if it is able to create what it currently lacks: a European cultural market which extends beyond narrow national horizons.
Unfortunately the Council of Ministers failed to do the same, and the text giving the common position is muddled in form and broadly lacking in content.
This is what I have done as draftsman, in putting to the Committee on Economic Affairs the four amendments which it has passed, with my report and my conclusions themselves being adopted by 28 votes to 15.
Two of these amendments aimed to make the quotas effective and legally binding, while excluding studio-produced programmes and encouraging the broadcasting of European works.
A third important amendment aimed to strengthen the effectiveness of controls by the executive committee and a fourth reintroduced the period of 10 years for revision.
I can say now that, personally, I find here once again broadly the spirit of the amendments passed by our committee, including those adopted by the majority vote of the Committee on Culture, even if, personally, I would have preferred a little more specific detail for the exclusion of studio-produced programmes which diminish the very principle of quotas, and even if I deplore the absence of safeguards against relocation.
I now hope, as draftsman of the opinion, that there will be a majority in this Parliament to confirm our vote at the first reading on the essential points which have been brought up.
The collective world of European culture awaits from the European Parliament what our ministers have failed to do: to be stalwarts in the defence and promotion of our European culture.
Not only that, but through Amendment No 46 - and we would remind the House of the importance of that amendment - we have stated that the directive does not apply systematically to those kinds of new services but only the basic principles and, first and foremost, the protection of children.
The same applies to minors and the issue of the so-called delocalization which we tackled in two very important points: the requirement that a broadcaster must, at any rate, broadcast through the country in which it is established and the possibility of triggering the rapid procedure, provided for by the Commission itself, not only as regards compliance with Articles 22 and 22a but other articles also.
We have done a good job then and so we turn to those sections of the House that are not completely in agreement with this approach, and in particular the European People's Party, in an effort to adopt a consensual approach: that alone will give us the clout we need, at conciliation, to ensure that the sound motives of all of the democratic forces in this House carry the day.
Buried away behind this debate is the substance of what could be the best broadcasting service in the world where quality matters, variety counts and abundance is the friend and not the enemy of excellence.
And the European Parliament, in full exercise of its powers, is playing a useful role in protecting that very European culture which it is our duty to defend and preserve.
It is also aimed at transforming European audiovisual production by defending European cultures, not only the great European cultures bolstered by the national territory which they present, but also other great universalist European cultures such as Portuguese culture.
Mr President, I am happier with the text of the common position as it stands than I am with some of the amendments being proposed by Parliament.
Europe's industry needs a free internal market and help in financing films, for example, which the guarantee fund can supply.
Mr President, what the ministers for the audiovisual are proposing to us in the common position adopted by the Commission and the Council is that Europe is built at every turn.
Here we are indeed at the second reading of the text of the directive 'Television without Frontiers' .
The principle behind this text is the pursuit by the Member States of legislative and regulatory coordination in the sphere of radio and television broadcasting, and the amendments tabled are directed at this.
The will of parliamentarians to arrive at a text which is enforceable and sensible has led to many compromises with respect to the positions adopted by the majority at the first reading.
One of the most sensitive subjects in this directive is the application of broadcasting obligations wherever possible, as the Council has proposed to us.
This is not a legislative text and in no way can it constitute a regulation.
It wants to support its film industry, and it wants to support all of the jobs which will be created by the production of our own images, rather than the unemployment which would result from our buying in the images of others.
To obtain the majority broadcasting of European programmes, we are ready once again to accept the broadening of the scope of the quotas to include studio-produced programmes although, personally, I do not think that these productions are 'productions' as such, even though, when they are programmes based on works of literature, we are maintaining a cultural witness to the development of authorship, which is very important.
The acceptance of this would enable some countries to meet the quotas and make the clause workable.
We also know that too much advertising kills advertising.
We are also defending the principle of pluralism and of the preservation of access to broadcasts of important events, such as major sporting meetings like the football World Cup and the Olympic Games, and briefly, because I have very little time, we wish to make this directive enforceable always, because it constitutes one of the three important instruments available to European audiovisual policy, in conjunction with the MEDIA II programme and the audiovisual Guarantee Fund.
For this reason, the vast majority of my group do not wish the new media to be covered by this directive, nor do we wish to see any legal strait-jackets that will cost us jobs because we cannot compete with the United States and Japan.
Secondly, we want to stimulate production in Europe through the guarantee fund and so on, but without imposing compulsory quotas for European productions.
If the amendments I have just mentioned on quotas, the new media and so on are adopted, the majority of the Liberal Group will no longer be interested in this text as it stands.
Those of you who still entertain any doubt as to the interest of clear obligations should be reminded, should probably have it emphasized to you, that we have the certainty, now, that the Guarantee Fund will be very difficult, even impossible, to implement, that the budget in general, and MEDIA II in particular, is and will remain at a ridiculous level in the eyes of those at stake in this sector.
Moreover, to save the principle of pluralism, the anti-concentration directive has been thrown into oblivion and the Green Paper on new services has been reduced solely to the protection of minors.
So that Europe can save and develop its film and broadcasting industries, we must vote today and, tomorrow, the Council must understand the amendments which are aimed at tightening legal security concerning broadcasting and production obligations.
If our aim is to strengthen the production of fiction and documentaries, we should exclude studio-produced programmes and vote for Amendment No 55.
Finally, if the market for new services is to bring in the future, as the great manoeuvres of the multimedia and audiovisual industries would have us believe, don't let us miss this opportunity.
We are not asking the earth, that is the application of production obligations to the new services, merely that the provisions relating to minors and to advertising are applied to them.
It is not their competence I am calling into question, but the capacity for comprehension of some of my colleagues sometimes, and particularly those in the Council.
Anyway, I will quote a figure and not a man or a woman of culture.
Mr President, yet again, there is a marked difference between the proposals of the European Parliament and the decisions taken by the Council.
While noting that some of the improvements made, in June, by the 'Cultural Affairs' Council concerned the protection of minors, telesales and the freedom of reception, among others, the decisions on quotas and subsequent developments in broadcasting in the very near future - television on demand or pay-TV, for instance - are still totally unsatisfactory.
Consequently, a directive that guarantees, for the future also, a public broadcasting service able to meet the collective need clearly to guarantee the right to information, without political and economic strings attached, is crucial to the future of the Member States.
Equally important, however, is the relationship between television and culture, because the future of our various cultures, which is one of the great assets of the European Union, is particularly dependent on the development of television.
Alongside the quotas, there have to be measures to encourage and develop quality cinema in the different Member States, including through the use of those instruments mentioned by other honourable Members: the Guarantee Fund and the MEDIA programme.
Guaranteeing a public television service also involves proper protection of minors; extending the concept of television to include new technologies; the appropriate regulation of advertising and telesales and making sure that major cultural and sporting events remain accessible to the whole of the population; as well as protecting all languages and cultures which, as I have said, are a European asset.
And besides, it would be entirely contrary to the codecision procedure.
That is why it is important that we maintain the level of our demands, which are still completely legitimate moreover, if we want to avoid going seriously adrift later on.
There appear to be three fundamental problems as far as my group is concerned: new services, quotas and relocations.
Of course we are not unfamiliar with the need for better regulation of advertising and tele-shopping; of course we would like the influence of television on young people, and not only in terms of violence, to be better controlled, but we consider that, in these areas, some progress has been made and that a well-conceived directive could make significant improvements.
Point one: the inclusion of new services.
Nevertheless, for the coherence of our proposals, it would be best if this directive pointed the way and offered a general framework which the longawaited Green Paper must certainly fill in.
It is indeed important to strengthen obligations to broadcast European work.
Without this measure, we know that there is a high risk of broadcasters setting up in other Member States and backing out of their obligations.
Let us shoulder our responsibilities and consider that the maintenance of our culture will depend upon the audiovisual productions which we broadcast.
In taking our decision today, we must also consider the political context.
In fact, the slimmed-down green paper on new services and the protection of minors explicitly states that legislation is to be postponed indefinitely.
I believe that the broadcasting directive is our only hope of regulating television on demand, and today could be our last chance of doing this.
As regards quotas, our view has not changed at all since the first reading.
Stronger viewer demand for European productions and, above all, increased support for the sale of European productions would achieve better results than quotas.
At the present time, without quotas, many countries in Europe already devote more than 60 % of screen time to European productions.
We made an honest effort to reach a compromise on Article 1 of the directive - on extending the concept of broadcasting to cover the new services - partly because the Commission had told us in the meantime that the promised green paper on the new services would not appear.
I regarded Amendments Nos 12 and 46 on Article 1 as workable.
Personally, I remain convinced that the compromise which was reached puts no obstacles in the way of dynamic economic expansion of the new services in Europe, since it must be seen in conjunction with Amendment No 46, setting out the exceptions.
The amendment in question, No 20, is directed not only at the purchasers - the television providers - but also at the sports organizations, who must be at least as interested in their spectators as we are in our electorate.
Amendment No 48 was simply intended to clarify what is meant in Amendment No 20 by inserting the word 'sports' before the mention of what are termed particularly important events.
For that reason, I have to withdraw it, but I would ask everyone to agree that we can, orally at least, add the word 'sports' to Amendment No 20.
Mr President, Commissioner Oreja, ladies and gentlemen, the audiovisual sector is the most heavily-regulated of the communications sectors.
The amendments tabled seek, as a whole, to impose still more restrictive regulation.
That is unjustified and counterproductive, particularly at a time when the sector is ready to invest resources in the production of the new technologies which will provide new jobs and wider access to sources of information for European citizens.
We have therefore to support the amendments tabled in the House on the protection of minors, with the exception of some, in particular those relating to the V-chip.
In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we want better television, we should vote against this kind of revision of the directive: to vote for these restrictive amendments would be to take no account of the basic mechanisms regulating the sector.
Mr President, I would like to recall once more the fact that the quotas for European works, the application of the directive to video on demand and the measures which aim to develop independent production do not constitute intra-European protectionism.
We cannot accept that they should consider Europe to be their audiovisual playground, and an extremely lucrative one at that, failing even to respect European rules such as those which prohibit the abuse of a dominant position, incarnate in UIP, the American film distribution organisation.
Protective measures are essential to guarantee our cultural diversity and develop our cultural creative production.
Finally, although the Council of Ministers has ignored the vote of Parliament at the first reading quite scandalously, we wanted to present some conciliatory amendments, in particular regarding quotas and new services.
It is the development of rules which make room for all to flourish, for diversity to be safeguarded, for European interests to be developed in the face of the desire for dominance of other parts of the world.
Mr President, the directive currently in force needed to be changed and I support the amendments of the Committee on Culture.
However, Mr President, I have a problem with the implementation and monitoring of the current directive by the Commissioner and I would like to address it, taking two examples from Greece.
The length of advertisements, for example, is beyond any reasonable limit and they appear at any time in the middle of news bulletins, political broadcasts, films, or anything at all, ignoring every restriction envisaged by the directive.
Acting against them in the European Court of Justice with arguments of the type that the free provision of services must be protected.
But in that case, ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, why should there not be protection for the free provision of services by the tobacco industry or other industries and activities that are even more dangerous?
Mr President, Commissioner, it is in keeping with the importance of this directive that it has attracted a great deal of attention, but has also provoked criticism.
It is not a question of regulation and restraint, but a decision to follow the path of cultural freedom, to which we are committed by Article 128 of the EU Treaty.
The directive only covers the new media in so far as they include televisual elements.
One thing is clear: where cultural freedom is at risk, the free market is also on shaky ground.
Freedom is indivisible.
Mr President, if we do not have an absolute majority in Parliament in favour of this report today, or if we do, but the Council is not prepared to accept our key amendments, then we shall continue to have a situation in which the audiovisual industry in Europe is forced to compete with America on unequal terms.
Mr President, we all agree in this House that television is a critical industry not just in itself, but in its influence upon European society, culture and the economy.
I believe that the perceived conflict between free competition and promoting European culture is groundless.
The competitiveness of the audiovisual sector and the development of new services must be strengthened.
The development of technical control systems should be monitored in order to find appropriate solutions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of industrial and social policy, what we are dealing with today is the key question for the information society of the future, namely the production of content.
We have to decide whether we wish to shape the future democratically or simply manage the consequences, and this applies not only to how our civil societies reflect on themselves collectively and actively as a European entity and part of the global village, but also to cultural production and services as a source of new and lasting employment.
The Murdoch, Kirch and Berlusconi empires are the wrong alternative to the culture of Coca-Cola.
Mr President, many of our colleagues, showing an extraordinary capacity for hard work and common sense, have managed to present amendments which can be accepted by the majority.
But as we can see from this debate there is some disagreement which could affect the final result and also the strength of the European Parliament in the co-decision procedure.
I still believe that we should legislate in legal and not rhetorical terms to ensure that our television companies have a greater obligation to broadcast products which have been devised, produced, interpreted and created in the countries of the European Union.
However, we are all - the Council, Commission and the European Parliament - writing the history of the European Union and this history is young enough so that, despite all of the criticism that I have made, we feel that the European Parliament is taking a step forward by approving these amendments which should, before the Council, in the final stage, be given the whole weight of the opinion of all European citizens, people whom we always represent, in this case more than others.
The difficulty in this reconciliation lies in the very logics in the different sectors, which are contradictory.
Ladies and gentlemen, this Directive, as suggested by the Committee on Culture at second reading, is a miracle of equilibrium.
In order to reach the compromise which is now being presented for our vote, the main objectives borne in mind were: disciplining new services, whose explosion could undermine market rules as far as legislation itself is concerned, and stimulating European production to make it competitive, in order to tackle the emergency provoked by its alarming free fall.
The express compromise on the new services, to which the rapporteur and coordinator of my group, in committee, made a lucid contribution, calls for our full support.
The amendments referring to quotas have been made acceptable - I believe - even for some of their opponents, since the application is made gradual.
I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that, with this balance, this Directive is a minimalist text: anything less would not be efficient at all; but more would strangle the market.
We need this directive, contrary to what many people think, in order to tackle the WTO negotiations which will shortly be starting in Singapore.
Mr President, we are debating a very important subject, namely the exercise of television broadcasting activities.
My position is that we must strengthen the broadcasting and production of European works which, in my view, means establishing quotas to strengthen European production.
On the other hand, this European production must reflect the cultural diversity which exists and, in the future, make it possible to create jobs in the audiovisual production industry.
I would refer here to the opinion of the College of Film Directors of Catalonia who agree with a free market; but can we really talk of a free market given the concentration of so many groups of companies that you find in the United States and the invasion of their products?
The question of quotas is what makes the report controversial.
But for a healthy European culture and cultural diversity, quotas are necessary.
The regulation of advertising aimed at children, colleagues, has been the question closest to my heart during the whole debate on the TV directive.
We cannot accept that free market forces, using freedom of expression as their cover, subject children to violence, pornography and advertising on TV.
However, I would ask Commissioner Oreja whether this is compatible with the two Court of Justice judgments of September 1996 against the United Kingdom and Belgium.
They are worried about the content of the programmes their children are watching, particularly the level of violence and unsuitable programmes.
However, the rapporteurs of the PPE Group have rejected this compromise proposal and yet are not proposing any alternative, which means it will be almost impossible to reach the majority of votes needed to keep the debate in Council alive.
If this does occur we would only be benefiting the already all-powerful American audiovisual industry and it will be very difficult to develop a competitive and high quality European audiovisual industry.
Mr President, on the occasion of the examination in its second reading of the Television without Frontiers directive, there is good reason for concern about the fate of the European audiovisual scene, if certain changes are not made to the Commission's proposal.
Concerned as I am for the implementation of a policy based on the promotion of European productions, I urge you to vote in significant numbers in favour, firstly, of the inclusion of new services, such as video on demand, so that these services are subject to a certain number of rules on publicity and the protection of minors.
The quotas favour the production and broadcasting of European work, but they will also enable us - and there is no point in hiding this - to stand up to international, and particularly American, competition.
Finally, my dear colleagues, we must fight against abusive relocation in order to secure the protection and development of the film industries of the Members of the Union.
Such a clause, may I remind you, is nothing unusual: it exists, for example, regarding banking and the European Parliament had already adopted it by a large majority at the first reading.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is intended that one of the main goals of the new broadcasting directive should be to promote the European programme-making industry and safeguard Europe's cultural diversity in the audiovisual market.
Besides the most important aspect - that of cultural diversity and creativity, which was highlighted so eloquently by Mr Lang - the new directive is intended to generate increased investment in the European film industry by supporting the production and dissemination of European-made programmes.
That must surely be possible within the framework of the existing MEDIA programmes.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wish to congratulate the European Parliament on consolidating an audiovisual policy, definitely something we need at this moment in time with, at its heart, the 'Television without Frontiers' Directive.
It seems to us that Amendment No 1 on the Green Papers, concerning the new services is somehow behind the times since, on 16 October, the Commission adopted the Green Paper on the protection of minors and human dignity in the new services.
On the other hand, we feel that it is out of place in a legal text.
The Commission feels that the new version with these amendments, compared with those approved at first reading, is a marked improvement.
It is clear that the text only refers to the broadcasting of television programmes available on individual request - and this has been pointed out by various speakers very clearly - whose content is fully or practically comparable with traditional television and not a set of on-line services.
On the other hand, Amendment No 46 points out that only certain provisions of the Directive will apply to this: the basic rule of free circulation, provisions on the protection of minors and certain rules concerning advertising.
The Commission definitely appreciates the improvements which have been introduced compared with first reading, and although it is still not absolutely convinced that à la carte video should be included in the Directive it will obviously bear in mind the outcome of the European Parliament's vote and could even come out in favour of Amendment No 13.
Amendments Nos 14 and 15 refer to the definition of advertising and teleshopping.
Amendments Nos 16, 15 and 53, concerning the criteria of legal responsibility established in parts 2 and 3 of Article 2 of the common position, are not acceptable.
If they are approved our opinion will be negative as it will be for Amendment No 17.
First of all, these amendments will undermine the fundamental principle of the Directive, viz.
These three amendments would only create conflicts between States and, in our opinion, would be a factor of disturbance in the whole sector.
Furthermore, these amendments present certain specific technical and legal problems.
On the other hand, Amendments Nos 16 and 17 are incompatible with the Court's case-law.
Amendment No 16 would produce the opposite effect to the one in mind and, therefore, I should like to refer to the remark made by Mr Chanterie.
This position was recently confirmed, on 10 September 1996, in the case Commission v United Kingdom, in which the Court said that the only proper criterion for determining the legal power of a Member State is the broadcasting establishment.
As for Amendment No 17, it is intended to add to the various reasons for which a Member State could suspend broadcasts from another Member State violations referred to in Articles 14, 15 and 16.
This possibility is currently limited to serious and repeated violations of rules to protect minors and the proposed amendment in our opinion is incompatible with the Court's judgment in this matter.
The Commission will be issuing a positive opinion on Amendment No 18.
Amendment No 19 on financial sanctions poses institutional problems because Article 189a of the Treaty stipulates that a Directive is binding on Member States vis-à-vis the results obtained but it allows them to choose the ways of achieving those results.
The Commission can agree to Amendments Nos 20 to 25.
On the other hand, it disagrees with Amendment No 26 because a 10-year period seems to us far too long for a simple procedure of assessing the impact of the Directive.
We agree with Amendment No 29 on set periods for broadcasting films.
As for Amendment No 30 on local programmes, this seems to be very restrictive given the special features of such programmes and, as far as advertising is concerned, we can accept Amendments Nos 31 and the first part of No 36 but we think that the quantitative limits imposed in Amendment No 37 and the second part of Amendment No 36 are too restrictive.
As for Amendment No 32 on publicity breaks, the Commission does not see any reason for questioning the rule on programme length which we think has been operating very well since 1989.
Therefore, our opinion will be negative as it will be for Amendment No 35.
On the other hand, we can accept Amendment No 38 which indicates the proper objective concerning filtering programmes as planned by Amendment No 40; the Commission shares Parliament's interest in this control mechanism.
However, in relation to this subject we think that perhaps it is a little too soon to make this mechanism compulsory within such a short time as one year.
As for the question of the contact committee, we are able to accept Amendment No 43 and finally, although the Commission shares the concern expressed in Amendment No 45, that of bearing in mind the development of individual services in the triennial assessment report, we do not think it is right to limit the scope of this report to this type of services alone.
To conclude then, the Commission will be able to accept the following amendments if they are approved: Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 18, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, first part of 36, 38, 39, 43 and 44.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, I would like a little attention from our colleagues, because my intervention is actually based on Article 108 of the regulation concerning a personal detail.
Votes Madam President, as you know, my report was adopted in September by a very large majority.
Madam President, could you ask the Commission to share with us its current position?
The Commission understands Parliament's political stand in this area but feels that it is impossible to accept these amendments just now.
On the basis of those findings, the Commission will be able to deal with the specific problem in its next proposal in order to complete the subject of equal treatment between women and men in social security matters, and replace the 1987 proposal which is still pending before the Council of Ministers.
We know that this is a very difficult problem to deal with but there is one thing which is quite clear: this matter cannot be dealt with until the preparatory work which I have just mentioned is ready.
Commissioner Oreja, from now I congratulate myself on your presence and your availability today to ratify these amendments which, politically, are very important and which concern unusual working arrangements, maternity and flexibility in age of retirement.
Both I and the committee put a great deal of work into this report.
I am simply proposing the addition of the word 'sports' to Amendment No 20.
My group, among other things, wishes to state immediately that it has asked for a split vote: it will not be voting for the first part, but will vote for the second part of the amendment. (The President declared the common position approved as amended) The Danish social democrats have today voted in favour of the European Parliament's report on the equal treatment of men and women in terms of employment-related insurance arrangements.
For example, the retirement age for women has already been raised to 65 - i.e.
Adam report note in particular the draft decision of the Commission defining the specification of projects of common interest identified by European Parliament and Council Decision 1254/96/EC establishing a number of guidelines relating to the trans-European networks in the energy sector.
The European Parliament has positively modified the Commission's proposal by including not only significant components of that network in the Baltic Sea and by paying special attention to the relationship with the Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement in the energy sector, but also by incorporating into it the compromise on hierarchisation and the security of financial prospects, so that the execution of common interest projects can be guaranteed.
But not just Europe.
Taubira-Delannon recommendation for second reading I find it utterly regrettable that the Council has not accepted the amendment previously tabled by Parliament, particularly the fact that a derisory sum has been allocated to the budget item "The Environment in developing countries' .
Therefore it is of the greatest importance that we share our resources, both economically and technologically as well as in terms of our expertise, without the EU itself benefiting economically as a result.
I have voted for the proposals which are moving in the same direction as the above.
Bloch von Blottnitz recommendation for second reading If the programme for the promotion of energy efficiency is indeed to be 'efficient' : Firstly, it must be well funded, which is why we must revert to the European Commission's proposal for 150 MECU instead of the 45 MECU proposed later by the Council.-Secondly, it must be better coordinated with the other energy programmes, ALTENER, THERMIE and SYNERGY, to avoid fragmentation.-Thirdly, all legislative and non-legislative measures should be in place to facilitate the programme's implementation.-Fourthly, special attention should be devoted to ensuring that the programme operates correctly in smaller countries such as Greece.
In particular we are of the view that an effort must be made in the area of renewable energy in order to promote the use of such sources as water, wind and solar energy, thereby reducing CO2 emission.
The report contains far too few initiatives directed at energy savings and renewable energy sources.
Galeote Quecedo/Hoppenstedt recommendation for second reading Of the EUʼs film market, 76 % consists of American films.
We cannot accept that free market forces, using freedom of expression as a cover, are allowed to impose violence, pornography and advertising on TV upon children.
The aim of the directive is to strengthen the European film industry, which, naturally, we consider to be important.
National production also means Danish national production, or course, since Denmark is a European country!
However in Denmark the majority wishes primarily to strengthen national production by means of subsidies from media programmes.
The broadcasting of the recent world title fight between Tyson and Holyfield is the latest example of this.
Within Europe this has resulted in Sky TV having a virtual domination in this area because national television stations such as RTE and the BBC have been unable to compete because of their extremely limited resources.
The European Parliament must send a clear message of 'hands off' to the greedy media moguls.
However national authorities also have a responsibility to discharge.
Governments should introduce legislation in their own national parliaments to prevent traditional sporting events falling into the hands of these predators.
Sadly, a confrontation with the Council was inevitable, since the latter did not take up the majority of our amendments from the first reading.
American films account for 76 % of the EU film market.
We cannot accept that free market forces, using freedom of expression as a cover, are allowed to impose violence, pornography and advertising on TV upon children.
This programming can then be sold to other markets in a dubbed or sub-titled format.
I believe that the imposition of quotas of European broadcasting will assist in the process of protecting national cultural diversity.
The 51 % quota should not be applied to each public broadcasting station individually but should refer to 51 % of the programming globally of the stations involved.
In Ireland's case this would mean not taking RTE, Network 2 and Teilifis na Gaeilge separately, but instead taking the output of the three stations together.
We await with interest the response of both European institutions and political groups.
We should therefore adopt a flexible approach to this proposal, rather than seeking to impose rigid quotas.
The European Parliament today gave its verdict on the amendment of one of the principal instruments available to the Union for the development of a European audiovisual market.
The Television without Frontiers directive should be considered in a global context, defined in total coherence with other instruments of the Union, most notably the Media II Programme.
The Television without Frontiers directive should also participate in the strengthening of the European programme production industry and ensure its promotion.
I have therefore voted for the definition of a restrictive text, which will force broadcasters to broadcast in the majority European audiovisual productions which can only, in my opinion, be works of fiction.
Mr President, first of all I wish to thank all of the Commissioners who are competent for the different sectors which have been discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for their attendance here.
The opening up of markets, the acceleration of international competition and technological changes are leading to feelings in society that although there are new opportunities there is also insecurity about the future of their jobs, their children's jobs and the level of social well-being.
The processes of liberalisation and deregulation in the public service and general interest services currently under way lead to contradictory feelings.
In this framework of analysis and debate, it has fallen upon the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to present to the House a set - an important set in my opinion - of reports dealing with competition policy, the single market, controls over company concentration operations, industrial restructuring and relocation, as well as the development of small and medium-sized undertakings.
This year's report on competition policy has focused basically on four points: first of all, the need for the Commission, in its policy of controlling restrictive understandings and abuses of dominant market positions, to step up and improve controls over activities which certain financial and industrial groups can exercise on the economy.
Secondly, the report also concentrated on the debate about public service.
I note with some concern that, on this subject, there is no real consensus in the European Parliament and the outcome of tomorrow's vote will show that we must continue trying to find a common position between the different groups in the European Parliament.
In any case, I think that we must send a message to the people of Europe guaranteeing to them, quite clearly, that they must hang on to public services, despite the pressures which the private sector exerts, in an attempt to reduce the levels of these services.
Thirdly, the report has focused on the coherence which must exist between economic and social cohesion and the control of public aids granted to companies in certain regions of the European Union.
After considering the results obtained and, above all, the outstanding problems, we looked in greater detail at the important issue of making the internal market more accessible to citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises.
In that connection, and in the light of the developments taking place in the common economic policy, we have to be concerned about two particularly significant problem areas.
The main problem that has to be resolved therefore involves striking a better balance between the future monetary policy and the whole complex of non-monetary economic policies.
The inadequate progress so far achieved in that area prevent the internal market from operating more effectively, to the detriment of consumers and industry and, consequently, employment.
I am well aware that this can sometimes become a balancing act, since Europe's global competitiveness must not be increased at the cost of the equality of competitive conditions in the internal market.
At least in the eyes of the great majority in this House, this major end-of-century change will also be a means of preparing Europe for global competition and gearing it to the goals that I have just mentioned.
That monetary policy is being made jointly, in accordance with our wishes; but it is managed by a strong, independent institution.
Granted, we have an instrument - the 1989 merger control regulation - and this is to remain our framework for action.
However, in fields as dynamic as the internal market and the globalization of the economy, nothing remains as it is.
Should three or more national notifications be required, however, the figures of ECU 2 bn and ECU 100 m will apply.
It can signal this at its meeting next Thursday.
Mr President, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has drawn up an own-initiative report on industrial restructuring and the international relocation of enterprises within the EU and from the EU to third countries.
Of course it also creates many new jobs at the same time as promoting structural change, but the phenomenon also has its down-side.
An industrial enterprise may, for example, pack its bags and leave behind a considerable number of unemployed people without the authorities or its employees being able to influence this.
My aim is to put forward a few practical measures which can be used to monitor and analyse this phenomenon more precisely.
The amount of the loan on which the guarantee is extended should be linked to the number of jobs created.
Mr President, after that relocation into the world of football, I should like to come back to the matter in hand.
Thirdly, as far as relocations within the EU are concerned, we have a clear position on a strategy for dealing with internationalization and evaluating the restructuring of firms.
If firms in the Union move to regions offering considerable competitive advantages, the resulting situation could well be extremely difficult.
Mr President, given the high rate of unemployment in the European Union and the importance of small and medium-sized undertakings for the labour market, it is easy to predict the great interest which will be shown in the ELISE Programme.
I myself drafted an opinion which was approved unanimously by the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment recommending not only the creation of jobs as vital for granting Community subsidies but also the preservation or maintenance of existing jobs in companies, so that we can see to the necessary and appropriate change to the budgetary line, linked to job creation, as a way of dealing with this new type of expenditure.
Finally, we wanted the rate of loan coverage of small and medium-sized undertakings to be made more flexible by the means of guarantees of investment funds, using higher amounts when investments a aimed at creating large numbers of jobs or when they are destined to benefit, via the interested companies, those groups potentially most affected by unemployment.
Taking that into consideration, in our opinion this report deserves the highest regard.
It also does not believe that it would be sensible to impose a further bureaucratization of the Structural Funds, and is therefore proposing the creation of a competition-related mechanism whereby EU support to enterprises would be made conditional upon a long-term commitment to the region in question, with a view to preventing companies from moving from one objective region to another simply in order to obtain EU benefits, without integrating on a long-term basis into the region's local economic activity.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, this is now at least the third time during this part-session - and it is still only Tuesday - that we have had to reproach the Council for the lack of follow-up to its forceful, media-oriented summit statement.
After every summit, stillness reigns, whether with regard to the energy efficiency programmes, implementing and managing the structural and regional funds, or - as now - support for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Each time, the Council is handed the opportunity to create jobs on a plate: it never takes that opportunity.
Over 70 % of all jobs are in small and medium-sized enterprises.
I would like to say to the Commissioners that it is by no means a coincidence that we are having a debate this afternoon where we are dealing with all of these reports together.
We have to recognize that, given the growth rates in the European Union between now and the end of the decade, we are looking at growth of possibly around 2 % or 2.5 %.
Let us look, Commissioner Bangemann, at an industry that you and I have dealt with recently - the car industry.
We now have a supply chain which means that in many cases research and development has pushed down the supply chain to the first, second or even the third-tier suppliers in this sector.
We have got to get these policies of internal market industry, small and medium-sized enterprises, research and development working closely together.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on a series of reports has one basic aim.
This is what should emerge from the reports on the single market in 1995, competition policy, the control of concentrations between undertakings, loan guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises, and industrial restructuring and relocation in the European Union.
These various reports serve to illustrate the fact that we are currently too inclined to consider the operation of the internal market, the application of the rules on competition, industrial policy and support for small and mediumsized enterprises separately, as if Articles 85 to 90 of the Treaty did not concern the internal market or the competitiveness of a particular industrial sector.
This will provide the European Union with a stable monetary and budgetary policy framework for the development of its economic activities.
It is a question of equipping the European Union with all the instruments that will enable it to encourage economic development.
Although such a coordination of policies in the interests of competitiveness is not provided for in the Treaties, there is no need for a Treaty amendment, since we already have all the necessary economic and social policy instruments with which to pursue this economic policy.
Responsibility for a policy of this kind also lies with our own institution.
The European Parliament needs to be associated as closely as possible with the shaping of the policy.
Naturally, this Council would include the Finance Ministers, but all other ministers dealing with economic policy matters would also have to be involved in some way, in order to create the essential linkage between economic policy and the monetary policy conducted in the framework of the Ecofin Council.
The first can be summed up in terms of the policy guidance to avoid assessments based on size: the future of the economy no longer resides with the 'big boys' ; it is in fact in 'small' and 'medium-scale' enterprise that the best opportunities for growth, development, investment and, therefore, in the final analysis, new jobs, are to be found.
If we succeed in getting the market - which is currently suffering from a dangerous fall in consumers - going again, we shall be getting the whole of the Community's economic and social system back into gear.
In respect of the García Arias report on competition policy, I wish to put down a very clear political marker that whereas the Liberal Group is prepared to support this report in general, there is one specific blockage and condition in respect of our support and that relates to paragraph 15 and the call for the amendment in the IGC of Article 90(2).
This represents a very reactionary response to problems which doubtless are there but which politics exist to overcome.
In a global competitive market we have no option but to ensure that we press ahead and we believe that Article 32 should remain unchanged.
I appeal in particular to the Group of the Party of European Socialists to try to give us a way out on this, because we want to support the overall thrust of the García Arias recommendations.
Mr President, we have a series of very important reports and I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, both on their efforts and on their ideas.
We call upon the European Union and its Member States to show in this connection the decisiveness that they show when imposing policies that reduce the level of social protection and overthrow the basic rights and social acquisitions of working people.
For example, the European Union could, in the context of the World Trade Organization, consider reviewing its statutes so that protection of the fundamental rights of working people, as defined in the relevant conventions of the International Labour Organization, would be included in multipartite agreements and would become a criterion for application of the principle of the most-favoured state.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at first sight, they appear to be very different subjects: competition policy, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, the promotion of employment, relocation, the internal market.
They are times in which the neo-liberal plan is clearly running out of steam, in which the idea that markets will by nature provide rational solutions is proving to be unrealistic, and in which the need to regain democratic control over economic policy is becoming clear in many areas.
There is indeed a need for regulation in the area of environmental and social standards.
With regard to the García Arias report, the rapporteur got it just about right in his attempt to balance the public service and privatized facilities.
Mr President, my dear colleagues, Commissioners, the report presented to us by our colleague Hautala on industrial restructuring and relocation is to the point and I would like to pay tribute to his work.
I also think that the European Union must quickly take some action against the negative effects of relocation favoured by international trading rules which encourage the installation of manufacturing plants in countries in which costs are lower.
I would like in this case to lend my support to our colleague the rapporteur for his proposals which aim to set up European work councils with responsibility for careful examination of restructuring and relocations.
In the same way, we must use structural funds for the sustainable development of employment in disadvantaged areas.
So, like the rapporteur and like many others here, I consider it essential, internationally, that social clauses are instituted not just to safeguard the European economy, but also to help developing countries to rise up out of their difficult conditions.
It is a difficult combat, but one on which depends the credibility of the European Union, and its very existence in the eyes of public opinion, as well as the action we will be taking on this particular matter.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report presented by Mrs García Arias on the Commission's twenty-fifth report on competition policy displays an ideologically-loaded rejection of the Community's policies geared to competition, privatization and liberalization.
On behalf of my group, I should like to make the following points clear: if, in tomorrow's vote, paragraph 15 is not removed from the report, then we shall reject the report as a whole.
The deletion of Article 90(3) of the Treaty would undermine our policy of liberalization in the fields of telecommunications, energy and postal services.
Furthermore, I believe that paragraph 16 in the report - which obviously coincides with the Commission's views - is extremely questionable.
The PPE Group has always advocated strong integration and competition policies.
I therefore encourage my colleagues to give their support to point 26 of the report which is also supported by the Liberal Group, and I will be interested to hear the Commission's reaction to the idea of involving third parties and competing companies in the fight for state subsidies.
Mr President, hundreds of thousands of jobs are sacrificed or threatened in the short term in the European Union by relocations carried out by companies in the name of competition, particularly in the textile, footwear and electronics sectors and increasingly in service industries.
The report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has put forward some interesting proposals for combatting currency speculation, in particular the proposal championed by our group, the application of the 'Tobin tax' on movements of capital.
But the impact of these proposals will be limited as long as they subscribe to the logic of the Maastricht Treaty based on liberalisation and deregulation for the exclusive benefit of capital.
We must ensure that we build a Europe which is in the interests of people, and the reports which have been presented to the House today are a good starting-point for this.
That element is still missing, and I believe that our enthusiasm in calling on the Heads of State and Government to add this component should remain undiminished.
I mention all these factors together because the report by Mrs García Arias also clearly refers to the fact that competition policy - aid monitoring policy, for example - must be sensibly linked to the review of structural policy.
I should also like to know how regional cooperation and industrial policy can be brought together more effectively, without jeopardizing competition.
So I think this report on the single market represents a further step towards the European institutions being able to say with a clear conscience that, if the division of tasks between the regions, the Member States and the Union works properly, then they do have something to offer.
Unlike my colleague Mrs van Bladel, I find this absurd.
Relocation happens all the time, and in a free market economy we shall never be able to prevent firms from establishing themselves where they have the best operating conditions.
I have two comments on the report.
It is a process which has to be gone through in order to achieve social well-being.
Mr President, relocations are a contemporary phenomenon linked to the free circulation of factors, in particular capital, making use of technological progress and implementing transnational strategies of productive specialisation and concentration in cahoots with the executives of certain Member States.
Mr President, I will begin also by congratulating the rapporteurs and I should like to emphasise that, in terms of competition policy, there are indeed particular concerns about recent cartels in the private sectors of energy and telecommunication.
The liberalisation of foreign investment and other forms of capital mobility must place emphasis on sustainable development and cannot be a loophole for the disrespect or destruction of the fundamental social interests and rights of workers.
It is important, for the sake of fighting unemployment and defending a Europe with a social dimension, to control capital movements and fight fiscal and social dumping ruthlessly.
Mr President, on a point of order concerning Rule 13 of our Rules of Procedure relating to political mandates in this House.
There was a difficult vote in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on this particular report which in the end was a straight left/right divide.
This is not the case at all, as I know because I come from a country which is frequently criticized for its attitude towards the Social Chapter, but which has in reality much stricter health and safety conditions than other Member States.
Indeed the famous six-pack was heavily over-implemented in the United Kingdom imposing burdens which are not imposed in other countries.
We are currently exporting jobs to Turkey, Iceland and other countries by our policies and my amendment to this report seeks to rectify that situation.
For many small businesses in the Community there is still no real access to justice when the single market fails to offer them the freedoms it promises.
What is needed now is extra effort to complete the single market before monetary union comes along.
I have often asked myself what is the reason behind this "fetish for harmonisation' .
Mr President, the Secchi report on the single market shows us how far we have come, but also how far we have got to go in achieving a truly efficient single market working for Europe's citizens.
Here we are in 1996, but 1992's single market still has not arrived.
Certainly the Member States who are the culprits in the one third of the 128 infringement procedures initiated by Commissioner Monti this year.
We need to rekindle the Delors spirit of 1992 and ensure by the end of the century that a true single market is done and dusted.
Mr President, I am going to refer to the Hautala report on relocation.
Furthermore, in paragraph 15 there is a vitriolic criticism of the Funds, a claim based on isolated examples that lack of coordination is widespread, exaggerating the counter-productive effects of the Structural Funds.
Mr President, to illustrate the situation in graphic detail, I can tell you about 600 workers in Ballyfermot in Dublin who were employed in the Semperit Plant, a subsidiary of Continental AG, one of the largest employers in this deprived area of Dublin.
Also there is a suggestion that Continental AG is putting obstacles in the way of selling the plant to another company or to a management/workers buy-out.
I would simply point out to Mr van Velzen that although some Liberals may occasionally be absent from the Chamber, liberalism is on the increase in our country and in some of our neighbours, which is more than can be said for Christian Democracy.
Our party is also the biggest party in our country.
Mr President, high levels of employment, economic and social stability, competitiveness of the industrial sector, sustainable development and a fair distribution of products: these are the objectives that a Community policy of restructuring and industrial dislocation should be pursuing.
Industrial dislocation currently, however, represents a complex problem which may have two implications: a positive implication, where it creates jobs in specific sectors and a negative implication where it penalizes employment in those regions in which there is no possibility of relocation.
It is currently a matter of regret to us that the Hautala report has not provided the opportunity for real coordination of Community policies on competition, industrial policy, trade and the internal market.
Mr President, a debate of this kind is clearly also a debate on economic policy - and economic policy is, of course, marked by the different attitudes of the various political parties.
Of course, it is also possible to imagine that a public service can exist and provide certain services without operating with optimum efficiency.
That is possible.
So there is a logical connection between Articles 85, 86 and 90 - and my colleague, Mr Van Miert, will no doubt say something in detail about this - and the decision to foster competition.
In this way, the whole Union could say: ' Leave it up to us to decide what we wish to do and whether we wish to have more or less competition; we are going to divorce ourselves from this global economic and political system!' This question is entirely rhetorical.
The result is that the workers' jobs have become more secure, whilst the companies have remained competitive, although wage levels are substantially higher than in India or elsewhere.
Anyone who really wishes to learn how unemployment can be tackled should go to the Newcastle area.
Go to places where undertakings from other Member States locate.
The decisive factor was that we were told within three weeks that we could build here, whereas in our home country we should have had to wait at least six to eight weeks for that, and in practice over a year.' What, then, is competitive about such public decisions?
A country can freely decide - in the way described by our Swedish colleague - to run a public service as a public monopoly undertaking, and spend a great deal of money on it.
It can maintain other public undertakings in areas in which the idea of a public service is not as common as in the postal sector, for example, where there is a public service tradition.
Here too, however, the internal market provides for something very sensible: competition between systems.
I should now like to move on to the subject of public services and Article 90, because I know that Parliament quite rightly sees this as a very sensitive issue.
Our own experience and the document which we approved a few weeks ago would seem to indicate that Article 90 is being applied in a balanced way.
We are currently still discussing whether this really comes under the scope of the merger regulation, since it all has to do with MCI's turnover within the European Union and the two-thirds rule.
You know that the current rules are much more flexible than they were previously and are limited to a shorter period, after which we can consider whether they are still necessary.
If it does exceed this level, even via social security, as was the case in the footwear sector in Italy, or with the Maribel operation in Belgium for exporters, or in the textile sector in France, then the Commission is required to intervene, because it is a case of state aid - in the form of reduced social security contributions or reduced taxes - causing distortion of competition.
The Commission study has also shown that, even in years that have been very difficult for the European economy, there has been a single market effect that has impacted on the Community's gross domestic product - roughly 1.5 per cent per annum in increased production - and the creation of jobs - estimated at 900, 000 units.
Mr Donnelly and Mr von Wogau mentioned the need for greater coordination between policies and documentation on industry, competition and the single market.
Finally, it seems to me that this joint debate also furnishes a welcome opportunity for further stressing the way in which the three complement each other.
The Secchi report identifies the 'great deal' that remains to be done and I would say that we can summarize in three points the main gaps that have to be filled before we achieve a single market that meets our expectations.
The three points that we can consider to be the main shortcomings concern actual application, that is to say enforcement, taxation and citizens.
As far as actual application - enforcement - is concerned, and the Commission considers this to be its number one priority in regard to the common market, there are a number of things that can be done within the current framework and others which in fact require changes to the institutional framework itself.
It is my intention to put this idea into practice in a straightforward manner.
The main aspects are as follows: we are setting up with the Commission services a telephone line with an ad hoc number, initially this will not be a freephone number; the people providing the service will be able to provide immediate information on how infringement proceedings are being processed by the Commission and on how it is possible to alert the Commission to possible breaches of single market rules; furthermore, for more detailed information on a particular dossier, those providing the telephone service will direct interested parties to the appropriate administrative units.
But as I said a few moments ago, I do not know whether the current institutional framework is sufficient to secure enforcement commensurate with the expectations of the single market.
I therefore appreciated the references in the Secchi report to the possibility that, in the context of the Intergovernmental Conference, ways of securing more rapid enforcement will be studied and compared.
In other words, we are doing all that we can - and we can certainly do better - but, in the current institutional framework, it is not, unfortunately, possible to achieve enforcement as effective as it is in the case of competition and state aids.
The second major gap underlined in the report, and also by a number of honourable Members who have spoken during the debate, concerns taxation.
Here too, as in the case of enforcement, there are a number of things that can be done under the current system and others that require adjustments.
Moving on finally to the third gap - which I shall mention more briefly but not because it is any less important, and it is something that it is appropriate to discuss in the European Parliament - namely, the fact that the single market is not close enough to citizens.
I think that I can end there, although I realize - and apologize for this - that I have certainly not been able to deal with all the points in this very valuable report, covering a very important field.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
As the author is not present, Question No 25 lapses.
Question No 26 by Ivar Virgin (H-0864/96) Subject: Nickel-cadmium batteries Cadmium, which is found in nickel-cadmium batteries, is a highly toxic heavy metal that accumulates in the liver and kidneys and may cause lung cancer.
There is an EC directive on batteries, namely directive 91/157, which lays down a limit for the content of heavy metals in batteries.
With regard to economic resources I would say that Member States have a free hand in their use within the framework of the Treaty, and I would refer you to Articles 30, 36 and 95.
As I said at the beginning, the Commission fully shares the questioner's concern, which is why we are engaged in inquiries into whether to make changes to the battery directive so that we can ensure that other Member States see a development along the lines of what the questioner has described as being the case in Sweden.
As the author is not present, Question No 27 lapses.
It is not unaware of the positive spin-offs of research into diabetes in several fields or of the interest presented by this research in understanding and treating other chronic diseases.
Research into diabetes thus benefits from a great deal of attention in research programmes in the Union.
Within this framework, nine research projects have been launched which cover both the epidemiological aspects and clinical research.
Because of both its importance and its interest, research into diabetes is set to continue as the subject of sustained attention in the fifth framework programme of research and technological development which we are currently in the process of getting under way.
But the fight against diabetes also involves prevention.
Since the financial resources made available for this policy are fairly limited, action for prevention remains modest in comparison with requirements.
It would therefore be very useful if we could sensitise Member States to the importance of a more sustained effort in this area.
I would like to thank in every instance the honourable Members who have drawn the attention of the Commission to this problem and I will certainly take account of these concerns in the preparation for the fifth framework programme of research.
Thank you very much for the answer, Mrs Cresson.
I must, however, also add that there is very little about this in the various programmes, particularly in the fourth framework programme.
Mr Holm, you are absolutely right, except for the fact, as I have just said, that the fifth framework programme is only at the drawing board; some great presentations have been given but, as you know, the matter will require some extremely in-depth work and - it should be remembered - decisions relating to the priorities of framework programmes are still made by the unanimous vote of the Member States.
But in any case it is an area which manifestly relates to health, to the demographic phenomenon of the ageing of the population, and also to prevention.
We can never take the place of the politics of Member States since our budget only represents 4 % of the total sum dedicated to research by the Member States.
Many of us in the European Union are very grateful for the work of the Canadians, Banting and Best, in discovering insulin some 75 years ago.
If we catch them early and apply the appropriate health measures, we can make an enormous saving on the health care budgets of the fifteen Member States in which this currently accounts for 8 %.
The direct costs of diabetes are estimated today to be 8 % of health budgets in Europe.
The objective is the identification of strategies and priorities to be adopted in terms of research into diabetes on a European level.
As I said earlier, an important weapon against diabetes is prevention.
However, diabetes has been signed up for the first time as one of the themes for training, education and health promotion activities in 1997, carried out within the framework of the health policy of the Union.
Now, the total annual budget of the Union's public health policy, as you know, is only 32 million Ecus, to be shared with activities relating to cancer, and to AIDS, which requires tremendous effort indeed in terms of prevention.
Indeed it will still have to come from this already limited purse of 32 million Ecus which we have to share with other preventative activities relating to other ailments which are equally important.
But I think that finally the skies are clearing in the area which is of concern to you to this extent; its appearance among the Union's promotional activities and the conference to be organised in 1997 are just the first steps for this important subject.
In view of the talks it is currently conducting with Switzerland, can the Commission say whether telecommunications will also be the subject of negotiations in any future agreement between the EU and Switzerland, given that this sector is not currently covered by the package of negotiations?
The code stipulates that the PTT must seek prior authorization from the relevant authorities before acquiring or expanding operations in the cable networks sector, including cable television networks.
It is entirely a matter for the Swiss authorities.
We expect to have reached agreement with our WTO partners by 15 February 1997, and that in this context, Switzerland will agree to the full liberalization of its telecommunications services.
As far as bilateral negotiations are concerned, you know that the Council decided on 31 October 1994 and 14 March 1995 to enter into negotiations with Switzerland on six areas: the free movement of persons, agriculture, the mutual recognition of certificates of conformity, research, public contracts and transport.
Question No 31 by Bertel Haarder (H-0857/96) Subject: Bosnian and Croat refugees returning home In the Folketing, the Danish Minister for Internal Affairs said in response to a question I had asked that Bosnians and Croats were queuing up to return home and were being delayed partly because of a lack of transport.
I would repeat that when freedom of movement or freedom of transit are under threat - and there have been no serious reports of this recently - then an appeal must be made to the country concerned, whether it be Bosnia, Croatia or even Serbia, and then to Ifor, which is responsible for ensuring that freedom of movement is restricted as little as possible.
I entirely agree with Mr Haarder that it is quite unacceptable for countries to refuse to receive their own citizens wishing to return home.
He has announced a referendum on his proposal to be held on 7 November.
We have once again reached a sort of crossroads: do we use the TACIS programme to bring pressure to bear, or do we try to use it to help bring about certain practical improvements?
The murder of the two young Cypriots and the news that at least 11 people have died in Turkish prisons show that the EU really must use all available means to improve the situation.
Parliament somewhat belatedly responded with its resolution of 19 September calling on the Commission to discontinue all aid to Turkey under the MEDA programme, except, of course, for the portions thereof which promote democracy and human rights.
I explained why I thought this and put forward further arguments in favour, but I also said that the Commission has taken due account of the resolution adopted by Parliament in September on the human rights situation in Turkey, and of the recommendations which have been made concerning how money should be allocated from the MEDA fund.
Thank you for the answer.
It is, of course, surprising - to say the least - that a real right-wing politician from Turkey has been able to mislead experienced politicians without bringing in any real changes or reliable guarantees on human rights, and that these experienced politicians, without waiting for the Turkish elections, agreed to a customs union.
It is quite clearly something of a double message if the European Parliament says one thing and the Commissioner still says that he wishes to continue with the MEDA programme and, at the same time, listen to Parliament.
I would point out to her that, since the customs union came into force, trade with Turkey has grown from some 20 billion dollars or ECU - the two are very much the same - to around 35 billion, and that there is a trade surplus of 8 to 10 billion in favour of the European Union.
Question No 34 by Hans Lindqvist (H-0872/96) Subject: Foreign and security policy Sweden has been spared involvement in war for nearly 200 years.
With our non-aligned status and neutrality we have been in a position to create stability in northern Europe.
From the post-war period, Sweden and neutral Finland have provided a buffer between NATO and the Warsaw Pact, especially during the Cold War.
When it joined the European Union, Sweden agreed to the provisions of the Treaty on European Union.
I distinctly remember that when the negotiations were concluded with all the applicant countries, including Norway at that point, it was declared that there was nothing in the constitutions of those countries to prevent them from implementing the provisions on the common foreign and security policy in the Maastricht Treaty.
Thank you for the answer.
This also means that Sweden, if it wished to, could not prevent other states or a majority of EU countries, from making decisions in the defence and military security areas.
Thank you very much.
The Swedish and the Finnish foreign ministers have made it clear that we are prepared to participate in peace keeping operations, though not in anything to do with military intervention.
Sweden does not take part in any active military operations whatsoever, and will not do so either before or after the government conference.
Consequently, unless the Member States concerned take steps to abolish the restrictions in place, as of that date, 31.12.1996, the Commission, as the guardian of the Treaties, will be compelled to bring infringement proceedings before the Court of Justice.
Consequently, the Commission is drawing up a proposal for a directive extending the deadline beyond 31 December 1996 in order to allow gradual liberalization of the current restrictions.
On the first point, the Commission is fully aware of the very great importance attaching to this issue in social, health and financial terms.
I can only say that in the negotiations with the Swedish, Danish and Finnish authorities, the view I have put forward, as Commissioner, mentions the year 2002.
Article 36 of the Treaty deals with the internal market and derogations from the internal market.
The question of alcohol is, clearly, important in terms of public health and social issues as well as its financial implications for the national budget.
Moreover, you know full well that various instruments may supplement a coherent policy designed to pursue specific objectives in this field.
In my earlier answers I already explained just how very aware the Commission is of this problem and how it is therefore prepared - and has shown great flexibility in this connection - to consider extensions, provided that a definite and specific date is given.
The Commission wishes first to state that it is well aware of the importance attaching to typical and traditional products, such as real ale, in relation to the internal market.
The Commission and the United Kingdom authorities are currently trying to find a solution to the problem that does not discriminate against the beers of other Member States.
At the tripartite meeting between the Commission services, the United Kingdom authorities and the Confederation of European Brewers, held in Brussels on 11 October 1996, possible alternatives to the current definition of guest beer were discussed.
Attempts are being made to find a solution, with further contacts scheduled in the course of this month.
The Commission has set 1 December as the time-limit.
In other words, this particular version of Hoegaarden 'blanche' was a cask-conditioned ale.
If that is the case, surely there is not real need to actually change the guest beer laws in Britain just to make it even more clear to other brewers around the European Union exactly who can sell into the European market.
The aim of the negotiations aims is to find a definition of guest beer that would not in fact be discriminatory by identifying a particular definition like the cask-conditioned one, which is basically limited to a process which is essentially used in the UK.
May I say that it is precisely this willingness to preserve the single market in that sector that led the Commission some time ago to intervene in a similar way in the case of two other Member States, interventions from which UK beer producers among others, benefited.
I hope that what the Commission is working towards is a new definition of guest beers which will amount to the same thing and will ensure that real ale is still sold in British pubs as a guest beer.
This question is so general that it could very well have been asked a couple of hours ago in the general debate on the single market.
Certainly, the single market, whose main drawback is simply that it has not as yet been implemented as we would like, unquestionably has the fundamental virtue of increasing consumer choice, and the consumer must, of course, also benefit in the case in question.
Question No 41 by Angela Billingham (H-0882/96) Subject: Property letting in Spain A law passed in Spain - Law of Tourism 7/1995, which is due to be implemented in July 1997 - has the effect of forcing all owners of property within an apartment complex either not to let their property or to give the exclusive letting rights to a sole letting agency for the complex.
The Commission has undertaken a comprehensive analysis of Law of Tourism 7/1995 in terms of the right of establishment and to check on its compatibility with the freedom to provide services.
More particularly, consideration of the provisions on holiday lettings by an authorized tourist operator show that those provisions are not discriminatory and apply both to owners of Spanish nationality and to owners from other Member States.
The provisions were introduced with the intention of protecting tourists as users of services - and I am quoting Article 1(2) of the Law - a concept equivalent to that of consumer protection and one that has been recognized by the Court of Justice as being a mandatory requirement in the general interest.
However, in accordance with the provisions of the Law, the measures in question will not take effect until 20 July 1997.
That means that it will not be possible to make a full assessment of the new system until that time.
In response to that question I would say that the law adopted by the Canarian Parliament does not try to protect the tourist only when he rents accommodation, but whenever he might be considered a user of tourist services.
The Commission services take the view that the French legislation is incompatible with Article 59 of the Treaty laying down the freedom to provide services.
In recent months, the Commission services have met frequently with the French authorities in an effort to resolve this problem.
It has, nonetheless, tried to reconcile this fundamental requirement with the rights guaranteed under the Treaty.
The French authorities have put forward draft proposals, to be adopted as soon as possible, which will allow ski instructors, who are citizens of other Member States, to provide services in France on the basis of a simple declaration that is renewable annually.
The French authorities have undertaken to process as rapidly as possible all applications made in connection with the new rules, in order to guarantee that the system is fully operational for the next season, by actually applying the new rules before they have been formally adopted.
Question No 43 by Elly Plooij-van Gorsel (H-0895/96) Subject: Cross-border business activities impeded by rules concerning cars A Dutch businessman resident in the Netherlands with a business established in the Netherlands and in Germany can obtain a licence to use a car with German number plates (permit no. 3 under the Dutch customs system).
It appears from contacts with the Commission that this is a problem in cross-border traffic in other Member States, too.
The Commission is apprised of the difficulties that exist in some Member States in relation to the use of vehicles by individuals resident in border regions who have, for business reasons, frequently, to move between the territories of one or more Member States.
These difficulties frequently arise because, in accordance with the conditions laid down at the time the single market was established, the Member States retained the right to maintain or introduce taxes on goods and services, such as those on vehicles.
In point of fact, all but two of the Member States apply a vehicle registration tax, and those taxes are not covered by Community rules.
In addition, all fifteen Member States apply road taxes, again according to a wide variety of criteria and at very different tax rates.
Furthermore, the use in the Member State of residence of a vehicle registered in another Member State is usually prohibited.
Honourable Members will already, I think, be aware that my services are making a general study of all aspects of vehicle taxation in Europe.
That is necessary because, on the one hand, every Member State applies a range of fiscal measures with different objectives and, on the other, because those measures often and inevitably have knock-on effects.
Mr President, the general principle of the free movement of goods within the Union was the subject of certain appropriate restrictions on art objects described by Member States as forming part of their national treasure and heritage.
Approved by the European Parliament (unanimously, during the first reading) it was subsequently adopted by the Council, without any amendments to the substance of the proposal in its common position.
The first one concerned the fact that, in order to guarantee the simultaneous entry into force of this proposal and the other one amending the regulation on the exporting of cultural objects, since there are two interdependent texts - the regulation and the directive - with a joint annex, it was suggested that the six-month period laid down for the incorporation of the directive into national law should commence from the date of publication rather than the date of adoption.
The second amendment stated that a footnote in the annex - footnote 1- would apply to the new category 3 a which had been created for watercolours, gouache drawings and pastels.
Thus, from my position of almost absolute solitude in Parliament, I take the liberty of asking for the House's support for these two proposals which would contribute to the standardization of what is laid down in the directive.
Beginning in 1792 after the battle of Jemappes, and interrupted in 1793, it continued worse than ever after the battle of Fleurus in 1794.
In a letter addressed to La Fayette, he remarked: ' The pillage of the peoples of Europe is part of the Revolution' .
I dare to hope that France, conquered in 1815 at Waterloo, will perform its act of contrition and return to Belgium all of the works removed by those diabolical revolutionaries.
Mr President, I cannot hope to be as brief as the rapporteur who quite rightly proposed that you approve the Council's common position.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, my dear colleagues, the hour has come for the proposal for a Parliament and Council Decision on epidemiological control and surveillance of communicable diseases in the European Union.
I know that this poses enormous problems in the context of the European Union, where subsidiarity remains essential, but when it concerns the health of European citizens, subsidiarity must give way to security, and it is absolutely essential that the central body we have described has the resources to activate, or even compel, if not convince Member States to take necessary measures.
On a more serious point, I am very happy to welcome this thoughtful report and to thank Professor Cabrol for his work in its preparation.
Let me also welcome the fact that the Commission has brought forward this analysis and these proposals after several years of preparation, particularly as it notes that it is not easy to provide an in-depth analysis of the existing situation, still less so to deliver a judgment on it.
Under those circumstances no community can ignore the threat, particularly one as relatively wealthy as the European Union.
Progress in this field is achievable and is essential.
The World Health Organization has taken a lead via regulations and immunization programmes, but the Commission report shows that the global picture is at best erratic, with health networks in disarray both in the developing world and in much of Eastern Europe, with economic and social deprivation being key factors.
It is significant that this is a short or medium-term proposal at most, for many in this Parliament will agree that we could and should do much, much more than is proposed because of narrow minds in Member States.
That is also why the list of diseases and pathogens to be covered by the surveillance system must be adaptable.
Just think of AIDS, Legionella, Ebola, Hepatitis C and E, and a new strain of cholera, which I have just heard has now hit the refugees in Zaire.
We must not forget that this proposal for a decision complements another one we examined recently on general health surveillance, and this is how it should be seen.
In other words, the European Union has already taken quite important steps in this area.
The European Parliament has an essential obligation to support all of these Commission proposals since it must be acknowledged that the latter is producing them at short notice and in the spirit and letter of the Maastricht Treaty.
Moreover, as it is clear from the health situation in Europe that the prevalence of communicable diseases is increasing alarmingly, we in this House must condemn this unacceptable situation in a geographic, economic and social area such as Europe.
It is no longer possible to speak of the diseases of underdeveloped countries since any of us could contract these diseases at any time.
I think that this is an essential idea which we must develop.
In addition a firm appeal must be made to citizens, with a clear call to those suffering from or carrying certain communicable diseases to assume responsibility, since their personal behaviour and solidarity are essential factors in curbing and controlling the transmission of these diseases.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is more important for the European Parliament to find a way to get money from the Commission for this purpose, than to find the 50 MECU every year that we approved for the publicity campaign in favour of EMU.
Mr President, the BSE crisis has kept us in Europe busy for some months now, and continues to do so.
Mr President, our group fully supports the Cabrol report, which substantially improves the proposal for the establishment of a network for the epidemiological surveillance and control of communicable diseases in Europe.
Therefore it is vital to have this instrument in order to take appropriate action.
Lastly, there is a third very important geographic area - Africa - where many infectious diseases are also increasing, for other reasons, at an alarming rate, which also makes these measures necessary.
It is therefore vital to move in this direction by giving full support to the Commission, to the Cabrol report and to whatever steps are taken by the Council.
Let us hope that this initiative is a first step in the direction of the progress we must make in the protection of our fellow citizens.
While we await this constructive innovation, we must be glad about any initiative which strengthens the solidarity between the citizens of the Union, and more particularly about the initiative that Christian Cabrol is about to take.
Mr President, with his excellent explanation of the motives and his excellent intervention of a few minutes ago, Professor Cabrol supported with common sense and scientific rigour the amendments which the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is proposing to this House.
The exceedingly cautious nature of Article 129 of the Treaty, concerning health, recommends certain actions which underpin the approach of the Member States.
If anything in the area of health requires a transnational approach, it is communicable diseases.
If anything has a Community dimension, it is epidemiological surveillance and the need to create a network and a European centre for this purpose.
It is a crucial moment because for the very first time we are dealing with an incentive measure, as referred to in Article 129 of the Maastricht Treaty, which takes the form of a binding legal instrument.
An instrument which imposes obligations on the Community and particularly on the Member States in terms of surveillance and disease control.
Taking into account the legal and financial constraints underlying Community action in this field, the Commission has concluded that the most effective and valuable contribution that the Community could make was to set up a Community structure and procedure for both the surveillance and the control of communicable diseases.
In that respect the Commission's proposal foresees a regulatory framework for doing certain things, and I should like to list them for the House: compulsory sharing of information and data on communicable diseases; obligatory notification of communicable diseases; obligatory routine surveillance of selected diseases on the basis of common definitions and methodologies that have to be worked out through a comitology procedure; obligatory consultation between the Member States on control and protection measures prior to their introduction, also via comitology; obligatory coordination of countermeasures to be taken by the Member States via comitology and protective measures to be enacted at Community level, especially in cases of emergency, notably at the Community's frontiers, via comitology.
This network would have the objective of putting in place a system of close cooperation and effective coordination between the Member States in the field of surveillance, both routine and emergency.
I am convinced that it will improve the prevention and control in Europe of a certain number of serious and/or rare communicable diseases which necessitate the introduction of measures for the protection of the public.
The system we envisage contains certain specific characteristics in order to produce the greatest possible added value for the Community.
The proposed system is comprehensive.
May I also add that inclusion of CJD in the proposals makes the disease's notification obligatory, which goes far beyond what others have requested in this area.
The system is also global.
The system is progressive on the basis of the general framework we are proposing, and the number of communicable diseases to be kept under routine surveillance is quite limited but we can add new specific diseases if the evolution of the situation at Community level so dictates, and this was specifically mentioned in the debate.
The system is also pragmatic because it relies on existing networks to which more importance and scope for action are given and it allows the possibility of the future extension of - or the creation of new - Community-wide surveillance, for example on tuberculosis.
We do not envisage having only one centre, located somewhere in the Community, but rather several coordinating centres according to specific groups of diseases or to response duties, a process which allows the Member States full discretion about their involvement.
The system requires the Member States to participate in the creation of a communicable diseases surveillance network at Community level, but this surveillance network is proposed without prejudice to surveillance carried out at the national level.
The system delineates the Community framework for appropriate responses - namely disease control.
Concerning the 17 amendments, I can inform the House that the Commission is in a position to accept 12, either wholly or in part.
We accept fully Amendments Nos 9, 13, 14, 16 and 17 which concern the articles alone and obviously improve the initial proposal.
We accept partially Amendments Nos 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6 concerning the recitals and two others on the articles, Nos 12 and 15.
For those amendments accepted in part, the Commission is proposing a new wording.
Five amendments are unacceptable to the Commission.
Other amendments concerning the articles deal with additions which serve no real purpose either because they are superfluous from the legal point of view - Nos 10 or 11 - or because they are implicit, namely No 7.
Amendment No 8 which deals with the creation of the European Centre is the most important amendment which has to be refused by the Commission.
The House must be aware that the present proposal involves regulatory issues which must remain under the full control of competent national and Community authorities.
As you are undoubtedly aware, the Commission stated in the course of discussions dealing with the programme of Community action on health monitoring that it would study the idea of a health observatory and I repeat again today that any further decision regarding the actual establishment of an observatory will have to await the outcome of the feasibility study on the matter.
I hope that Parliament will give a favourable opinion to the legal framework I am seeking to establish and that Parliament will send a very strong signal to the Council to examine its opinion and the Commission's modified proposal.
It is a matter for further discussion after the European Parliament gives its opinion, but the co-decision process is involved.
I would ask Parliament to be supportive in this matter.
Thank you, Mr Flynn.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The background to this work was that a decision had been taken, in conjunction with implementation of the fifth environmental action programme, to carry out a mid-term assessment in 1995 against the background of concrete analyses of developments since 1992.
The recommendations provide no indication of what the situation will be like in the year 2000.
In order to straighten out these matters, therefore, the committee has broadly agreed on 50 amendments in an attempt to improve the situation.
Against this background I, as rapporteur, put forward 100 amendments which were supplemented by a further 100 from the committee members.
In other words, it is not the case that the committee is turning its back on the amendments it made earlier, but that we recognize that if the original amendments were a poor starting point, it would be impossible to deal with such a large number of amendments.
The Commission's recommendation of a new assessment is a retrograde step in terms of the original fifth environmental action programme.
The Commission must of course take the Member States with it.
Rather than criticize the committee and its amendments, therefore, the Commissioner should be glad at the support for the environment which the European Parliament is giving in these amendments.
Mr President, the fifth environmental action programme emphasizes the importance of long-term energy strategies to ensure that environmental stress from energy supply and consumption is reduced to sustainable levels.
With respect to energy efficiency the committee considers that one of the European Union policy initiatives with a potential impact on the demand side is the SAVE programme.
Parliament has supported the SAVE II programme but the Council has failed to accept the importance of SAVE II for important energy efficiency measures in the energy sector.
If SAVE II is not adopted fully, then we will have adopted no energy policy in the European Union to combat global warming.
As draftsman of an opinion, I remain convinced that agricultural economic development and the improvement of the environment are compatible.
The future development of agriculture and the maintenance of rural populations will necessarily involve an improvement in the conditions of environmental insertion of agriculture into rural countryside and ecosystems.
Sustainable development, in agriculture, is a system of economic development which can be maintained, long term, without any noticeable impact on the environment.
For the last thirty years, significant improvements have been secured for the environment in areas such as the reduction in pesticides, chemical fertilisers and animal faeces.
But some problems remain, with the increasing artificialisation of methods of production in farming and changes in foodstuffs, with the effectiveness of agroenvironmental measures and the reform of the CAP, and with the aid available for policies relating to quality and alternative farming methods, such as organic farming, particularly in livestock farming, as demonstrated by the current crisis relating to BSE.
Sustainable development in agriculture should be translated into clear technical action and characterised by at least four criteria: the maintenance of or increase in the productive capacity of agricultural land; the production of high quality organic foodstuffs which do not leave pollutant residues; the use of renewable energy and materials such as wood; the maintenance of biodiversity.
The amendments of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development which all led in this direction and which represent a very positive growth in awareness of the responsibilities of this sector towards the environment have not been retained, even though the European Commission has stressed its interest.
With 29 of my colleagues, I have therefore retabled the six amendments rejected by the Committee on the Environment, and these are: 103, the improved integration of agriculture and the environment; 104, the introduction of a notion of agricultural intrants much broader than that of pesticides; 105, the encouragement of all forms of sustainable agriculture, particularly at the level of research; 106, the implementation of a consumer information policy; 107, the promotion of agricultural intrants which are least harmful, and renewable energy sources and materials such as wood to ensure sustainable prospects for products of European forests; and lastly, 108, the definition and development of a European forestry strategy which is based on the multifunctional role of the forest.
All of these amendments lead in the direction of sustainable development in agriculture.
My dear, colleagues, I would like you to understand that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development demonstrates hereby its sense of responsibility towards the environment.
I am not only thinking here of the Rio follow-up process, Agenda 21, a European strategy for biodiversity and measures to reduce CO2 emissions; what is even more important, in my view, is our participation in the Environment for Europe process, since it involves countries which have applied for admission to our Community, and towards which we already have certain responsibilities.
We have tabled amendments dealing in greater detail with how the budget can be adapted to take more account of environmental concerns, and what is to be made of 'green accounting' .
Finally, forward-looking Community policies which respect the environment and create jobs must be promoted, because only by setting ambitious environmental objectives for the future will we be able to develop our economy in a way that secures a future for Europe.
Mr President, the fifth environmental action programme is a very important route map for Europe towards sustainability.
In particular, the amendments which we support in the European People's Party are, as I have said, the sharpening-up of the approach particularly to the reform of the common agricultural policy, the promotion of clean energies, the requirement for the Commission to look at the environmental impact of its own proposals and programmes, the proposal for public procurement procedures to incorporate environmental considerations, stricter monitoring and reporting requirements and a more focused role for the European Environment Agency.
I understand that she has had certain things to say about the Environment Committee in the Danish press.
The key expression is 'sustainable development' which means making changes in current development, production and behavioural models in order gradually to steer human activity and development towards sustainable, that is acceptable, forms that will enable us to live in an environment that is in a healthy state and, at the same time, guarantee a proper level of social well-being and public health for all.
In those terms, the Community programme currently in force is the main text that identifies the action to be taken in five sectors which, because of their characteristics, affect the environment directly or indirectly and, at any rate, have a major environmental impact.
The citizens of the EU Member States expect concrete evidence that the European Union is genuinely acting in the interests of their safety and their future.
First of all, I would like to say that I am speaking on behalf of my colleague, Maruja Sornosa, who had to leave.
We must congratulate the rapporteur on her work, and say that we also agree with her criticism of the proposal.
We agree with the criticism and we also agree with the lack of precision as regards the measures to be taken and with the lack of binding decisions and responsibilities.
Around 200 amendments were tabled by the Committee on the Environment.
The aim of these 200 amendments was to change the direction of the proposal for a decision because, in our view, it is necessary to return to the initial objectives of the Fifth Action Programme.
Mr President, last year, according to the FAO, seven million children died of hunger.
By the year 2000 chemical agents will continue to exceed the limit value in 65 % of the subsoil water in the EU, and the emission of carbon dioxide will be 5-10 % higher than in 1990.
In brief: the EUʼs environmental policies are, by the EUʼs own calculations, in tatters.
The growing nitrate and pesticide concentrations in the ground water are expected to exceed the target by over 75 % in the EU's agricultural areas.
Mr President, I am extremely puzzled - like Mrs González - to see that the rapporteur had to submit no fewer than 90 amendments, and the corresponding committee another 100, to bring the text proposed by the Commission for the revision of the Fifth Action Programme on sustainable development - in relation to which I had the honour of being the original rapporteur - into line with the resolution adopted by this House on 18 November 1992, and with paragraph 2 of Article 130r of the Treaty on European Union.
Despite the fact that the rapporteur apparently reached agreement with the group coordinators subsequently, as she acknowledged, in order to reduce such an astronomical number of amendments, it is obvious that the text submitted by the Commission has not been amended, but rather rewritten to produce a new sixth action programme.
In my view, Mr President, and as pointed out by the rapporteur, the Commission had the obligation of at least submitting to Parliament an adequate text, given the importance of the review of the Fifth Programme, containing objectives, instruments and specific timetables to assess, apply and achieve the objectives of sustainable development and the principle of integration contained in the original action programme which is still valid.
Among other inadequacies of the Commission's proposal, the most blatant in my opinion is the lack of an explicit link between the protection of man's health and environmental hazards.
To achieve that aim in relation to sustainable development, the health factor must be seriously taken into account in every sector of Community policy and action, sectors such as agriculture, transport, energy, industry, tourism and others.
The European Union must develop activities aimed at the systematic cultivation and communication of the new environmental awareness, so that European society can participate fully in managing the environment and change its consumer behaviour.
Another important Swedish requirement is to integrate the environmental aspects of the EUʼs agricultural policy.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Environment Committee and Lone Dybkjær on a very good report with much concrete political content.
The rapporteur criticizes the Commission's action programme inter alia because it does not contain sufficient deadlines or objectives for improving the state of the environment.
Another major problem is that no measures have yet been taken to bring the EU's environmental standards up to the level of the three newest Member States.
Environmental issues should be emphasized more than at present in cooperation programmes between the EU and third countries.
We could go on in this way, paraphrasing the proposals made in this text.
The Toronto conferenceʼs proposals in 1987 have had a major political influence.
At that time there was a call for a 20 % reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by the industrial nations by the year 2005, compared with 1987.
It is this objective which most closely accords with the PPE Groupʼs proposal for a reduction of 20 % by the year 2010, since the start year was moved forward to 1990 in accordance with the decision of the Rio meeting.
When the European Union was enlarged in 1995, an assurance was written into the Treaty of Accession to the effect that the legal provisions in the Community would be reviewed and, where necessary, brought up to the standards of the three new Member States.
All in all the report, as it has now been submitted, contains 53 amendments, to which a further 13 amendments have now been added.
Of the 13 new amendments 6 can be accepted in full, namely Nos 104, 105, 106, 107, 108 and 109.
An action programme is not a detailed work programme for the Commission.
Some are already included in the action programme for 1996, and others are planned for 1997.
I would remind you that the fifth programme runs until the year 2000, and that it consists of a whole series of objectives with details on how the parties can take initiatives at all levels in order to achieve these goals.
I must therefore ask about Nos 4, 5 and 14.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
They operate like marketing or advertising agencies, using venture systems, and carry out political campaigns for private and governmental organizations, or for firms.
The aim of this programme is to provide financial support for environmental organizations which are directed towards the public good, are non-profit making and, above all, independent of party politics.
These fundamental criteria, which the Commission has until now presented in the annex, must in Parliament's view be moved to the programme itself, since in fact they constitute the legal basis for the allocation of resources.
However, the assistance should amount to only 60 % of operational and administrative expenditure.
It goes without saying that the European umbrella organizations must abide by the rules of democracy, and no problems have arisen in this respect in recent years.
Mr President, this report does not have any budgetary implications for any of the major areas within the Community, except for one of the most important.
It concerns the opportunities for voluntary organisationsʼ to participate in co-European environmental work, and to vote for the European environmental perspective where national and purely commercial interests otherwise threaten to dominate.
Mr President, first of all I would like to support the Commission's initial proposals and, of course, the amendments put forward by the rapporteur, Mr Rübig, in his report.
The non-governmental organizations have also proved to be a very important instrument in ensuring the fulfilment of Community legislation at national and regional levels.
On another level, it must also be remembered that these organizations essentially have a Community dimension, but increasingly more is being expected as regards funding at national, regional and local levels, therefore it is necessary to apply subsidiarity since it is not possible at Community level to obtain all the funds necessary for the entire movement.
It must be remembered once again that movements of this type play a very important role at local level and also need to receive financial support.
Obviously, I fully agree that they exist as an important contribution to educating people and, in particular, educating the younger section of the population but I do not think that work by NGOs alone is going to protect the environment.
It has been very clear in recent years that NGOs have played an important role in the development of environment policy and on many occasions have raised awareness of environmental problems amongst the general public and decision-makers to the point where legislative action has been taken to cure those problems.
It is a welcome feature of many of the projects which are funded by this budget line that they are funded additionally in many cases or complemented by voluntary work and voluntary contributions made to the NGOs by many of their supporters.
It seems to me that we must try to continue to enlarge this budget line and encourage its use by others.
There are many others, not just the existing green organizations which are accessing this funding now, which could in future usefully benefit from the source of funding of this kind, to bring environmental issues to the attention not simply of legislators in Brussels but also within the regions and within the localities of Europe and to address more local issues and ensure that justice is done through the courts.
This is why the Commission places a high value on their contribution to environmental policy and, as we have seen, Parliament also shares this view.
Certain elements of Amendments Nos 8 and 18 also contribute towards clarifying the text, but for practical reasons the Commission cannot approve that part of Amendment No 18 which is aimed at changing the time frame for the Commission's report, nor that part which lays down a legal basis for a future proposal.
We are also able to accept Amendment No 23 which lays down a limit of 60 % as that percentage of the NGOs' budget which may be financed by the Community.
There are, however, a number of amendments which the Commission is unable to accept because they do not improve the proposal and would in fact in certain cases have the effect of creating confusion or problems with implementation, which would be harmful for the NGOs.
Amendments Nos 11, 16 and the first part of Nos 14 and 25 would be impossible to implement in practice.
Amendment No 15 is superfluous since, under the funding regulations, which are in operation, all NGOs in receipt of funds are required to keep proper accounts, irrespective of the size of assistance they receive.
Amendments Nos 19 and 20 are also unacceptable, since they would mean that less money was available for cooperative activities, and these are of great importance for the European NGOs.
We can give further consideration to the maximum duration of the period of assistance, which was stated as three years in the original proposal.
Finally, I would once again express my thanks to Parliament for its sterling work, evidence of which we have already seen in this proposal.
Thank you, Mrs Bjerregaard.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, it was in 1985 that the directive on environmental impact assessments was adopted by the Council.
That was more than ten years ago, and over this period of time many things have changed.
The Espoo Convention, which deals with impact assessments on crossborder projects, was, moreover, signed by all Member States of the European Union in 1991, but sadly, it has not been ratified.
Indeed, if you speak to our colleagues from the Committee on Petitions, and in particular to its President, you will know that it is on the basis of this directive that the greatest number of petitions have landed before our Parliament.
In the name of subsidiarity, we shift the responsibility back on to Member States for deciding whether or not an impact assessment should be carried out on special protection areas, since it is these same Member States who will be defining the criteria.
Another gross lacuna is that all amendments adopted on the first reading by Parliament which were aimed at increasing information for and consultation of citizens concerned have been rejected.
This concerns the possibility that a project is not carried out because the need for it can be met in other ways.
Here, I am addressing my colleagues in other groups: or else we continue to reaffirm ambitious objectives for the environment and when new projects come up, as is the case here, we must arm ourselves with an effective tool so that these projects are compatible with objectives in the future.
The purpose of the impact assessment is the selection of projects which have a minimal impact on the environment.
If we obtain a majority of 314 votes tomorrow and if the Commission really does want to support us on most of the amendments, I think we will have made a great step forward for a good environmental policy.
I would like to hear our Commissioner on the subject so that we know the position of the Commission.
It could determine the vote of some of our colleagues tomorrow at noon.
Among the technical tools of this policy, measures for prevention and integration of the environment, at the planning stage of projects, constitute an unescapable act for our industrialised countries, in which changes to ecosystems and the countryside have been deeper and more rapid, over forty years since the Treaty of Rome, than over the entire course of previous periods.
Increasing demands from citizens with respect to the environment and the very great competitive imbalances caused by enormous differences between Member States, incite us, as parliamentarians, to very high standards, which are already met in many countries, in many Member States, including France, and the latest entrants, Austria, Finland and Sweden.
The draft amendment of this directive intervenes in this respect, in Annex I, to make this procedure obligatory for projects or substantial modifications to activities which have escaped it up to now, thereby causing inter-European relocations and competitive imbalances.
However, as it concerns agriculture, and taking account of the 'nitrates' directive already in existence which limits the quantity of nitrogen of animal origin used in manure spreading to 170 kilos per hectare per year, I have been led, along with twenty-nine other colleagues, to present a compromise amendment for intensive livestock farms.
In an attempt at simplification, Amendment No 26 to Annex I recommends 200 LSU for intensive land-based livestock farms, and 10 tonnes per year for fish farms, as a trigger threshold for an environmental impact assessment.
Similarly with the opencast mining referred to in Annex 2, I can envisage a situation where a series of opencast mines would fall below the required limit but taken as a whole would have a tremendous effect upon the local environment.
Can I also draw the attention of Parliament to Amendment No 23.
I would ask the PPE to look at it very carefully because we are talking about roads and that amendment, approved by the Environment Committee, attempted to take account of the possibility of a large road, 10 kilometres or more in continuous length.
It must also be said that nearly all the new amendments would make it even more difficult to carry out environmental impact assessments in the Member States.
The proposal in question is designed to improve the environmental impact assessment procedure introduced by Directive 85/337 and to clarify and extend the lists of projects to which the directive applies.
The aim, then, is to guarantee more coordinated and effective implementation of the directive itself, particularly in the light of international developments in the sector.
We also wanted to make the issue of information a fundamental condition for the application of the directive, that information having to be provided to citizens as soon as possible and ahead of any decision.
This concept of participatory democracy, which the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection sought to highlight through the amendments tabled at second reading, is vitally important because decisions with an environmental impact cannot be taken unless citizens, who must be the prime beneficiaries of the environment and the land, have been informed of them.
The public should in fact be able to express their own views and have available to them clear and transparent information on the implementation of specific public and private projects, and thus be able to take part in the environmental impact assessment procedure.
I would have to agree with the rapporteur that we need a series of amendments, but on the other hand I must also say that as soon as one goes into a great deal of detail, which is what the rapporteur has done here, and draws up detailed provisions stipulating how citizens and the public authorities are supposed to relate to one another, one finds oneself discussing the management of a system, and it is precisely in this area of systems that we have to recognize that we have very different traditions in our respective countries.
With regard to the amendments, we will simply refer to a few which we consider to be the most important: we agree that exceptions should be limited, since such exceptions are causing real disasters in some countries.
The importance of defining common criteria for special zones, the scope and, above all, the information and consultation of citizens, must be underlined.
We know that this is complicated because the Directive on information for citizens (Directive 91/33) has not even been incorporated into national law in some Member States, for instance mine.
But there is another problem concerning the measures that must be taken in relation to the blatant infringement by many countries of Directive 85/337 and others, and of Community environmental legislation in general.
Finally, I should like to ask the Commissioner whether it is realistic to keep 31 December 1997 as the deadline for implementing this directive, given the scale of the changes that will have to be made to legislation in the Member States?
The means of achieving this is the environmental impact assessment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I sometimes wonder how it is that sensible, or at least justifiable initiatives like this one - the amendment of the environmental impact directive - can be devalued in this way by formalities such as unduly short deadlines for transposition.
Experience of transposing previous legislation on the environmental impact assessment has shown that a much longer period is required to incorporate such a procedure into national law.
I would therefore call for a two-year transposition period, as provided for by Amendment No 42, since otherwise the matter will not be handled properly, leading of course to many problems for all concerned in the various ministries and enterprises.
Mr President, I think that we are all agreed that what we need is more consistent application of the 1985 directive across the European Union.
His agenda is, in fact, not driven by what he finds, to a large extent, in this report which is a report from the Commission dated 1993 on how this directive is being implemented.
I draw her attention to page 27 of this report in 1993 where it says, regarding the provision of information to the public from an environmental impact assessment, that in France the stage at which this occurs is sometimes after the execution of the project.
The directive on environmental impact assessment is a fundamental tool for protecting the environment.
There are some amendments which the Commission cannot accept for technical reasons, but also because they would alter methods that have already been chosen.
Some amendments namely Nos 3, 6 and 8, relate to environmental assessments of programmes in the proposal.
One can well understand Parliament's concerns, therefore, with regard to environmental assessment, but national responsibility is currently outside the Community's area of competence, and for this reason the exception must remain in the directive.
Amendment No 42 alters the implementation date from 31 December 1997 to 'within 2 years of its notification' .
On the other hand, two years from the date of notification would mean the beginning of 1999, which is too long a period of time.
This brings me to Amendments Nos 21 to 31, and 39 to 41, which add new projects to Annex 1 of the directive.
Amendment No 26 and the first part of Amendment No 41 concern intensive animal husbandry and several speakers have addressed this topic.
Nevertheless a threshold other than that included in Amendment No 26 relating to production of over 170 nitrates per hectare, must be added, since this is in accordance with the nitrate directive.
The Commission is able to accept Amendments Nos 30 and 39.
The common position has resulted in significant improvements of the procedure.
Thank you, Mrs Bjerregaard.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Waste is often the source of problems for the environment and problems in the working environment.
The Environment Committee in the European Parliament is not an accessory of waste tourism.
The local authorities' role in waste planning is quite central.
Member States which fail to ensure that waste processing plans be introduced and fail to inform the EU of their waste processing plans, plans about which Member States assumed mutual commitments in resolutions adopted in the 1970s.
The Environment Committee recommends that processing programmes be drawn up in the area of waste.
The Commission refers to both manufacturer responsibility and to the principle that the polluter must pay the bill.
Mr President, I rise not only to give my group's view on this but also my personal welcome to the Commission's waste management strategy review and to the way in which it has been reinforced and developed by the rapporteur's amendments.
As the author of Parliament's response to the Commission's previous waste management strategy I see here a careful development of waste management strategy emphasizing in many ways many of the methods we saw five years ago and helping them to be developed further.
One new element which I welcome very much is the renewed emphasis on the need to ensure that waste management strategy assists and is built around the principle of sustainable development.
There is a continuing role for incineration within the waste management hierarchy, but its role needs to be constantly reviewed.
In particular, there are certain elements of the way in which cement kilns are used for waste disposal, particularly hazardous waste disposal, that need to be examined.
Although composting has been a Cinderella activity in the past, we need to give further assistance to that and encourage its development at local and regional level.
They help us in many ways to reinforce the proximity principle and ensure there is no possibility of waste tourism.
I refer to the continued pressure to reduce toxic and other hazardous waste in the waste stream.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by stressing the great complexity and importance of waste management.
It is a complex issue, because only at a relatively late stage was it realized, in the light of rulings by the European Court of Justice, that the position of waste in terms of the free movement of goods is something of an exceptional one, and that clarity is still lacking in this area.
And it is an important area too, because the whole issue of waste management requires a fundamental solution, which will have a major impact on our quality of life in the future.
Nevertheless, I am in favour of all attempts to review and build on the Community's existing waste policy in the context of the action programme.
I am therefore also in favour of the resolution, particularly in the light of the sensible amendments proposed by members of my group.
We must, however, point out that paragraph 4a was better worded in the rapporteur's original text and that some of our amendments have been rejected even though they were consistent with earlier decisions of the European Parliament and the Commission.
I have listed a few examples simply in order to inform the House that we shall be tabling a number of amendments to improve on the text.
The EU's waste legislation had its beginnings 20 years ago and is now due for a much needed revision, as many have pointed out.
Product design is also a central factor in waste management, since a change in the intrinsic characteristics of products, their design and the production process, can have the effect of making those products easier to manage as waste.
One more area in which conflict can arise is the complete implementation of a physical proximity principle in conjunction with the internal market.
Here too the manufacturer's role will be important and with it the manufacturer responsibility.
These points were also emphasized in the report.
As I mentioned at the beginning of my comments, I am very pleased with the report and the proposal under discussion, since the proposals will contribute to the further development of the waste policy.
Thank you, Mrs Bjerregaard.
The debate is closed.
