It seems to me that they are insensitive to the reality of how this House feels about the issue of East Timor, and I wish and I hope that you will insist on people not doing that kind of thing in the future.
I might remind the Greens that the German Greens are the least interested in the issue of East Timor.
Mrs Fontaine, since it is an Appendix to the Minutes, it would be appropriate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to vote tomorrow morning, at the same time as the Minutes, if you wish.
Madam President, may I draw your attention to the fact that not voting on the Minutes this morning will have consequences which are not limited simply to their approval but will also affect the political and budgetary work of Parliament.
We had accepted the decision which you announced.
Going back on that now and submitting the decision you had so wisely taken to the majority of the House just because of the contribution of the chairman of the Socialist Group seems to me a meagre excuse in comparison with the principle which you applied and which we all supported.
Mr Pannella, I have not gone back on any decision.
I have already explained to you several times why I believe that our programme is the right one and that this is the right team to lead the European Commission over the next five years.
It is also important and essential that we hold a major overall political debate at the beginning of each year.
With regard to the first point, be sure that we need a political vision, not a technocratic one.
The second point is that we have to think creatively and intelligently about meeting the needs of countries for whom Membership is a more distant prospect.
They could, for example, be offered the fullest possible participation in economic and monetary union, new forms of security co-operation adapted to their needs, and new forms of consultative and observer relationships with the European institutions on a case by case basis based on facts.
Our citizens expect the European Union to take a moral and political lead, particularly in a region which is on our doorstep.
The third element of the strategy must be a clear and comprehensive approach towards our near neighbours whose contribution to the peace and stability of the wider Europe is vital.
All of us - the European Union, the applicant countries and our neighbours in the wider Europe - must work together towards our common destiny: a wider European area offering peace, stability and prosperity to all.
Encouraging the use and development of information technologies will therefore be a priority for the new Commission.
First, because it is more effective to address long-term issues through concerted European strategies - such as those aimed at European employment - than at purely national or local level, even though this level is necessary too.
We have to continue driving this process forward, deepening co-operation at European level so as to focus people' s minds and actions on the major structural reforms needed to revitalise our economies.
A lasting order of peace in South-East Europe, the accession of central European states to the European Union, dialogue and partnership between the cultures in the Mediterranean area situated between the European Union and Arabic and Islamic states are just a few of the challenges which demand a strong Europe.
That is why we need a Commission which is in a position to act.
We support a new culture of relations between the European Parliament and the European Commission.
On 2 September, I made five demands of the Commission-designate.
The Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats welcomes the fact that, on 7 September, at the Conference of Presidents, the President-designate of the Commission provided a satisfactory response to these demands, and he has just now referred to this.
Fourthly, constructive dialogue and regular consultation are to take place with the European Parliament about reform of the Commission.
Fifthly, Parliament and the Commission are to support comprehensive institutional reform in anticipation of the Intergovernmental Conference.
However, we also expect every future Member of the European Commission to accept as his own duty the obligation entered into by the President-designate of the Commission and, if he does not, then there will be repercussions.
There remains a structural, democratic deficit in the fact that the result of the elections to the European Parliament has still not been taken into account in the political composition of the Commission.
The Parliament should already now be discussing in its standing committee whether it might not be sensible to include a procedural process in its Rules of Procedure so as to avoid, in the next hearings, the difficulties and problems which have cropped up in the present ones.
I would like to ask him whether he proposes any common European action in relation to East Timor.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists has behaved coherently throughout the process, and this can be summed up in the affirmation of the need to positively overcome the institutional and political crisis which has paralysed the Union since December of last year.
With the same criteria we have examined, in writing and orally, the team which President Prodi, after negotiations with the governments of the Member States, has presented to us as his government.
This debate will be carried out in plenary session next Thursday in Madrid.
The Commission must present that political programme for the legislature which you, Mr Prodi, on the proposal of my group, committed yourself to in January, with annual debates and programmes.
May I point out that this proposal has been accepted by the Conference of Presidents and requires a de facto amendment of our Rules of Procedure.
With regard to this debate, I tell you in advance that my group will require the acceptance of further specific commitments in terms of policies on employment, social and economic cohesion and the modernisation of our economies, taking into account people, enlargement, the Mediterranean and the defence of human rights throughout the world, as cornerstones of our foreign policy.
Meanwhile, we have to negotiate a framework agreement which forms a solid basis for the improvement of our institutional relationships, with measures relating to transparency and information, such as obtaining the working documents of the Council, the Minutes of the meetings of the College of Commissioners, except when confidentiality has been agreed, or an information system on the work of OLAF which would take into account the necessary discretion.
With a good framework agreement, the question of individual condemnation of Commissioners will be put on the correct footing: that of the public political commitment of President Prodi and all the candidates to this Parliament.
In the event that a Commissioner clearly loses the trust of Parliament, it will be up to you and the person concerned to take responsibility.
No regulation can replace honesty in this area.
There are two areas in which a close relationship between our institutions can create trust between our citizens.
The first is the reform of the institutions.
We await the Commission' s proposal for reform which you have announced and which Vice-President Kinnock is due to present in February.
I take your word, Mr Prodi, and I hope that we can debate the report of the three experts before the Helsinki Summit in order to establish a common approach for the Commission and the European Parliament for the purposes of the Intergovernmental Conference.
On the issues which the President-designate has raised of reform, which should be brought forward by Commissioner Kinnock next February with due consultation, the policy programme of next January, the moral and political imperative of addressing the enlargement challenge and preparation for the Intergovernmental Conference, I pledge my group to a positive and constructive engagement with the Commission in this regard.
Indeed we look forward to getting down to serious and immediate work on questions such as East Timor, south-eastern Europe and the Balkans in particular.
But today is an opportunity for this House to review the investiture process and to place on record some of the questions or observations that arise from that.
In due course, within the House and in the appropriate fora, my own group intends to contribute to a debate which we hope will be initiated on lessons which we ourselves, as Parliament, must learn from the hearings process.
Tomorrow, when we vote on the college, the ELDR group will vote for a college and we will not seek at this point to differentiate, to pick or to choose between nominees.
We respect in the act of voting tomorrow the essential collegiality of the European Commission and regard that as an essential value for its working method.
In the procedures to date, many of the nominee Commissioners were kind enough to, in effect, promise in advance a charter of reform for their own areas and have alluded to specific policy commitments.
We have taken note of those commitments and we expect to see them reflected in the work programme in January.
It is obvious from the hearings - indeed without them it is obvious - that there are major areas of overlap and therefore potential conflict in operational responsibilities within the college.
Many colleagues have also raised questions about the desirability of separating the ex ante responsibility for budget control from the ex post responsibility for budget implementation or formulation within the Commission.
Many in my own group have raised this question with me.
There has been a certain diversity of views, Mr Prodi, among your nominee Commissioners about their personal political accountability in the future.
Specifically, my group, has for many months now raised the question of individual responsibility.
However we reassert, as we have done consistently, that an effective college requires the assumption of individual political responsibility.
The buck must stop somewhere.
But we insist that, whatever the current state of law, the law needs changing and that if a Commissioner fails to enjoy the confidence of this House you must act accordingly.
When we vote on those my group will expect to hear from you a specific detailed and positive response before our final vote.
The ELDR group pledges itself to that task.
You have also mentioned East Timor, and we all expect that Europe will bear full responsibility in this matter.
What we have heard from the Commission in Parliament has not been a useless act and a worthless spectacle at all, they have been particularly necessary and you yourself have been completely right to demonstrate to us in the last week that elsewhere in Parliament the Executive has not got around to issuing any detailed clarifications.
The Commission is a political organ and, as has now become clear, it also has political responsibility to, of all things, the European Parliament.
My group emphasises the political responsibility of each Member of the Commission, and we accept your promise that you will carefully study the well-founded dissatisfaction with each Member of the Commission.
Concrete measures are needed.
My group also calls for the amendments to the legislative process proposed by a large majority in Parliament to be taken in accordance with the proposals of the Commission in future.
We will also be responsible for including the whole commonwealth of European nations in this process because the upcoming reform of European institutions will guarantee greater rights to the citizens of Europe.
In short, you set yourself the task of regaining the confidence of Parliament, and you managed to achieve it.
It must, however, be noted that you have not tackled the other challenge which you just mentioned, Mr President, a far more ambitious one, it is true, with the same strong will - that of regaining the confidence of the citizens of Europe.
In connection with this, I note, Mr President, that in your inaugural speech I heard no mention of the relationship between Europe and the South, that is to say the majority of the human race.
At the start of my speech, I highlighted the efforts you have made towards fulfilling the expectations of Parliament.
Madam President, at the outset we must view this week as a new beginning for all the key institutions within the European Union as to how they intend to interact and work together on various policy programmes over the next five years.
The 350 million people who make up the membership of the European Union will not thank either the European Parliament or the European Commission if we are seen in the public eye as having a fractious relationship in any shape or form.
This would only help to erode public confidence in the institutions of the Union, which would be a very regressive step for all interested parties, particularly in the light of the key challenges that lie ahead for the Union as a political and economic entity.
Included within this process must be the efficient working of the codecision procedure, which covers the enactment of EU legislation across 38 different economic and social sectors of our society.
The body of the European Union treaties and, in particular, the Single European Act, the Maastricht Treaty and the Amsterdam Treaty are all to be reevaluated in the context of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference.
This IGC will examine what key amendments must be made to the body of EU legislation to take account of the impending enlargement of the European Union.
Finally, with the accession of six new Member States between the years 2004 to 2006, we all collectively have a lot of work to do to ensure that this process is a success.
The forthcoming IGC is the biggest challenge facing the European Union as a political and economic body since the decisions were taken when negotiating the Maastricht Treaty to set in train the process of Economic and Monetary Union.
I shall then, in return, promise critical and constructive opposition on behalf of my group.
Madam President, I also believe that the hearings process has been rigorous and useful, as my group has stated, and we have all taken an important step towards the transparency of the Community' s institutions.
And as the coda to these hearings, in my judgement, Mr Prodi has shown signs of political good sense and courage in the speech which he has just made.
Mr Barón, please display more independence, more prudence and, above all, more responsibility.
I will end, Madam President, by saying that I want to forget about this squalor because it is not our style.
We still have an enormous task to perform during the next five years, in which dialogue and the existence of a consensus between us and between the institutions is essential if we are to continue to make progress.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, I am assuming that you will be receiving a vote of confidence from this Chamber tomorrow.
Secondly, reform of the institutions.
The third point is the question of openness and transparency.
It is also quite clear - and this too we have always said unambiguously - that if it should prove that a Member of the Commission has lied to this Parliament, then our confidence in that particular Commissioner has certainly been destroyed.
We do not want Commissioners from small political groups from small countries being to some degree open to blackmail by majorities in this Chamber.
However, on the other hand, for the Europe already in existence, for those countries of Europe which are already part of the Union, there is more being asked of Europe.
We must deal with the need for new transparency, new institutions and new politics.
We are asking you to be ambitious in this area, to make sure that as you already said in a meeting with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the relationship between Parliament and the Commission is a positive one.
Mr President of the Commission, circumstances have contrived to focus the debate on the acceptance of the new Commission upon the operational problems of the institution.
Having said that, I do not see any hierarchical ordering in this list, and I do not believe we can get away from what seems to me a crucial challenge for the future: overcoming the possible lack of coherence between the policies run by the European Union.
I am thinking in particular of a statement made a few days ago by the United States Ambassador to the European Union, in which he declared his delight that the biotechnological working party resulting from Transatlantic economic partnership had arrived at a draft agreement on procedures for the approval of new transgenic varieties.
Mr President, the statement of the President-designate of the Commission confirms his previous statements, particularly those given to our House on 13 April or 4 May, and the French Members in my group shall therefore be induced to vote against.
This assessment was somewhat tempered subsequently by Pascal Lamy, but it was still not very clear what means he would use in order to control globalisation without demanding radical change in the rules of the game, particularly by means of the introduction of the idea of social or environmental cost into international negotiations.
Indeed, although we never quite know how these Wise Men are selected, we do, however, know in advance that their conclusions are going to be in favour of going ever further in the direction of a super-state.
Mr Prodi, you spoke of glasnost in order to describe your future policy.
I hope that, like the other glasnost, your version will create a shock wave in these anti-democratic institutions likely to lead to reforms which you cannot today anticipate.
Mr President, the problem today is not to judge the Commission programme but the operation of the institution.
Yet you have not, in our opinion, learnt the lessons of the crisis.
We would like to see a change in culture and democratisation of the existing system, as well as greater consideration for Parliament.
At present, for instance, it is not possible to request the resignation or non-renewal of one individual Commissioner without implicating the Commission as a whole or without causing an overt crisis.
The cultural revolution which you announced, Mr President, is not in sight.
The work of Parliament is, furthermore, flouted by dubious practices.
The second report of the Committee of Independent Experts discussed in the plenary part-session on Monday has still not been delivered, or has only just been delivered, to the majority of Members of Parliament, thus preventing us making a serious study of it.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the crisis of confidence we have experienced this year, there has been a lot of talk about the need for a new beginning in relations between the Commission and Parliament.
Firstly, political responsibility must also be accepted by each individual.
Secondly, there are still doubts about the Commissioner-designate responsible for research.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, responsibility for Europe and the European Union again having by the end of tomorrow a Commission which is capable of acting lies with this Parliament, with ourselves.
However, you have on board a candidate who has been implicated in a matter regarding a donation in his home country and about whom we must, since yesterday, ask whether he has made an appropriate statement in the hearings before this Parliament.
This particular candidate could become a burden on the Commission.
We therefore have high expectations, Professor Prodi, in connection with our comprehensive affirmation of yourself and of your task as President of the Commission.
You are the first Commission President to whom the Treaty grants the ability to reach agreements, and not only with the Commission as a whole but also with each individual candidate.
In this connection, we demand that the budget and the supervision of the budget be very clearly separated.
A new culture of subsidiarity must enter the Commission over which you preside.
After listening to the speeches that the President-designate has made to Parliament, after voting for his appointment in May, and after taking part in the hearings with the 19 Commissioners-designate with a professional and open-minded approach, our group believes that the long crisis involving the Commission must end with a clear and strong appointment: you, Mr President, and your proposed Commission, in accordance with the powers that the Treaty confers on you.
But, as has been said before by many speakers, we must understand the way in which the interinstitutional crisis of the last few months has altered in some fundamental way the relationship between our two institutions.
Indeed, it is not an exaggeration to say that voter indifference remains the greatest long-term threat to the European Union as a whole and perhaps to this Parliament in particular.
Thus our overwhelming priority should be to re-engage the disenchanted voter: a reformed European Commission, a reformed European Parliament, interacting in a robust but mature manner, is the only way in which we have any real hope of doing so.
Mr President, Commissioner, we want a democratic Europe, a peaceful Europe, a Europe of different nations.
We want to be a strong Parliament and that is why we also want a strong Commission.
The hearings have shown that some of your Commissioners are strong and others are weaker.
Parliament does not have as much confidence in their readiness to reform things and does not have as much faith in the way in which they will treat Parliament.
But all in all, our wish for you is that you will be the strong Commission we need, although it is possible that not all members of our group will vote for you.
We want you to consider that if the right of nations to self-determination is to be taken seriously, then that will also mean the constitutional parliaments of federal states, regions and of cultural communities being taken seriously and being given a place in the subsidiarity-based Europe of the future, for the right of nations to self-determination is a sacred principle for all the nations of the world and that does not always mean for the states alone, for those concepts do not always coincide.
We would then need a new political plan to deal with the economic and social issues.
We have seen the creation of the euro and, as the President says, we are in an economic upturn, although mass unemployment undermines this orthodox policy.
We need a strong, responsible Commission, able to propose suitable choices and ensure that the aspirations of the European citizens will be honoured, which will work alongside a Council that expresses the will of the national governments, and a Parliament which represents the people.
The principle of collegiate responsibility has been reconfirmed, but it is up to the President to exert control over individual responsibilities.
It is not only a political problem, but also a social one, with the citizens' increasing feeling of alienation from politics, and this is something we find in all our countries.
Without deepening the Union, which is the basis for a new institutional order to give Europe a role on the world stage, we will neither be effective promoters of peace and justice nor capable of reconciling the needs, sometimes opposing needs, of North-East Europe with South-West Europe.
So we must have new and thorough discussions on the enlargement process in our institutions.
And good luck with the Europe which we must finally build!
Mr President, as far as we, the Dutch members of the EDD group are concerned, the European Parliament does not approve of appointing Mr Prodi' s Commission.
We have major objections to the political vision being broadcast by this nominated Commission.
Secondly, we are very disappointed in President Prodi' s attitude as regards the Van Buitenen affair.
Certainly after the goings-on of this Spring, the Council should have the sense not to nominate candidates whose incorruptibility and integrity are debatable.
But are you going to work in transparency, or are you going to work as you did at Blair House in 1992, where we had to wait a year, until October 1993, before receiving the Blair House text?
The problem is not the vote by qualified majority or the reduction in the number of Commissioners.
The problem is how to work with realism, with compromise, perhaps even with such a compromise as there was in Luxembourg in 1965.
After all, the World Trade Organisation has over 137 members and operates by consensus.
It is perhaps a fiscal problem, to know who will pay: will there be a tax on revenue?
And then, at a certain point, we will be faced with an issue of civilisation, not between the civilisation of Maimonides, Averros or Saint Augustine, but between that of the Islamists, who carry out bombing in Moscow or massacres in East Timor, and the sophisticated civilisation which you represent.
Right from the outset we demanded an open vote in every parliamentary committee in order to allow MEPs to register their opinion on individual EU Commissioners.
We want a European Union that is efficient and accountable and where Europe' s institutions are kept under close scrutiny.
Mr President, Mr President-designate of the Commission, you have spoken, Mr Prodi, of the future of the Union as a union of sentiments, as a preservation of diversities.
I believe that, so that it may be politically effective, this desire demands the recognition of the plural reality of Europe and plural reality of many States.
The United Kingdom, Belgium, Spain, Italy and many States which will join the Union in the future are plural realities.
You can count on my vote, Mr Prodi, as our spokesman, Mr Cox has announced, with full conviction.
Mr President of the Commission, I believe you have a bigger job in front of you than your Commission is aware.
However, we need the alliance you propose for the vision of a European democracy.
We need it for the vision of a peaceful order in Europe, and we need it for the vision of Europe as a single social and ecological area.
For a European democracy, a constitutional process is needed; for a peaceful order in Europe, courage is needed to accept responsibility for our own security; and for the vision of Europe as a single social and ecological area it will be necessary for politics to be emancipated from an ever more aggressive neo-liberal ideology.
The answer is "nothing" because there is nothing that can justify your agenda to control the political life of the nations of Europe by stealth, aided and abetted by the Heads of Government of Member States, not least the United Kingdom.
The United Kingdom Independence Party supports the EDD and rejects the dangerous and unworkable scheme to create a new nation called Europe.
Our campaign has placed this question firmly on our nation' s political agenda.
Tomorrow we shall vote against the appointment of your Commission.
Mr President, there are, of course, many areas in which the new Commission must be assessed, but firstly, I think that it is simply the question relating to trust that must be asked, in other words, can we as Members of Parliament, as representatives of our people, reasonably assume that the new Commission is not going to go down the same road that led to the downfall of the Santer Commission?
Mr President-designate of the Commission, we welcomed your report on the enlargement of the European Union, institutional reform, the consolidation and economic growth of the entire Union, as well as sustainable development for the creation of jobs.
It is something that all the European institutions - the Council, the Commission and this Parliament - must fight for together.
It is a fight to give the Europeans a feeling of shared destiny, of a shared mission, a shared identity, a shared civilisation and a shared land.
Mr President, Mr President-designate, just a few words on the WTO and agriculture.
Everyone knows that our form of agriculture, our rural environment, is not comparable to that in Australia, Argentina and the USA.
Confronted with this, Europe therefore has a duty to defend its own model of agriculture and has the right to an appropriate common agricultural policy.
That is why the concept of multifunctionality in agriculture must also be recognised in the WTO.
That is why, Commissioner, we intend to continue the debate on all these matters with the Commissioners concerned and we intend to monitor developments in negotiations very closely.
Finally, I want to say a few words to Mr Swoboda.
Mr Prodi, the ecologist group suggested that you amend the distribution of portfolios among your team because, in addition to the integrity and competence of each Commissioner, we consider that their personal commitment and their determination to defend the matters entrusted to them from the perspective of a federal Europe are a further important element in our assessment of them.
The great majority of our fellow citizens would like to see increased fairness in fiscal matters, Mr Prodi, that is why we again ask for a strong personal commitment from you on these questions.
Mr President, the Members representing LO and the LCR will be voting against the Prodi Commission.
The European Commission, the executive body of the European Union, was designed to serve the interests of the main European financial and industrial groups in international competition.
On the major issues coming up - negotiations on the World Trade Organisation, the Intergovernmental Conference, debates on the case of the Mediterranean - the President of the Commission also indicated his wish to include all the Members of this Parliament as parties involved, as decision makers.
In September, some of the Commissioners did not necessarily seem to us to be up to the ambitious plans which you defined yourself.
Mr President, the great challenges which await us - expansion, deepening of a European reality while respecting national identities by the new approach of subsidiarity, the safekeeping of our agricultural systems, the construction of a more humane Europe in the field of employment, a more generous Europe - are such that we must accept them together.
But while we can not give you a rubber cheque or a blank cheque, we can announce our wish to work together in order to give all the peoples of Europe, in spite of difficulties and conflicts, good reasons to believe in their own destiny and to have faith in their shared future.
Madam President, it is not my task to make a political evaluation of the new Commission.
However I would like to say a few words about fishing.
The fishing policy, Mr Prodi, is also an effective tool with regard to the organisation of European territory and the correction of the disparities which still exist in Europe today.
Mr Prodi, you expressed the wish to restore the trust of citizens in the building of Europe and in the European Union.
The Members here present who have all conducted campaigns in which the debate focussed on the urgency of the social situation and the fight for greater employment, have been elected to ensure real progress towards a Europe of employment.
The work programme which you presented today, as you have reported it to us and as it has been implemented for several years now, does not live up to expectations.
The Greens are proposing a number of measures on the active, global and massive reduction of working hours, and on support for sustainable economic activities, which are creating employment, in sectors such as the construction of accommodation, public transport, renewable energy.
We are obviously not unaware of the fact that there is no consensus within the European Union, and within this Parliament indeed, on this work programme and programme to combat job insecurity and unemployment.
That is why we are totally aggrieved at the exclusion of the European Parliament from the employment process resulting from Cologne and we formally request, Mr Prodi, that you do all that you can to ensure that Parliament can regain its proper place in this employment process.
Mr President, honoured colleagues, if we are talking today about the future Commission, then we are also talking about our political priorities.
And what do these include, Mr Prodi?
But they will probably often feel themselves to be alone around the Commission table, for you, Mr Prodi, have no idea about the interests of people inside the European Union despite the fact that you are always spouting about the "European soul" .
Madam President, in the text of the Minutes that have been distributed, only the second part of the decision made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is included.
I would like to make a comment on the Minutes and on our colleague' s intervention on what you have just said, if you do not mind, Madam President.
In the same way that this morning, you delayed the vote until later, and quite rightly so, because we did not have the Minutes on which the House was due to decide, it is quite obvious here that we would only be able to decide on the rule which features in the Minutes, which is a rule of general order, and not on the particular conclusions which follow on from it.
This is my first point, Madam President, which I believe cannot be argued with.
The House' s decision will hold for the general rule which represents an interpretation of Rule 29 of our Rules of Procedure.
I would also like to say very briefly, if you do not mind, why, in our opinion, this interpretation must not be upheld.
If, ladies and gentlemen, you choose to interpret the rule in a way which goes beyond the letter of Parliament' s law, even though it is extremely clear, perhaps out of scorn for the rights of minorities or as a way of expressing the large Parties' hegemonic desires, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you would be creating an extremely important and damaging precedent which might rebound on any of the Groups or sub-groups of this House one day.
Madam President, I would just like to say that the Minutes are perfectly well written as they are, and so it is right that they should be the sole basis for a decision on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure which will be annexed to the Rules of Procedure themselves.
I therefore propose that we keep the Minutes in the form in which they were written, and in which they have been submitted to us for approval.
Mr Dell' Alba, one thing is clear: I know what I said yesterday, and not only do I know it, but I have here, in front of me, the text which I read out yesterday, and which nobody can dispute.
We have a procedure which makes provision for the adoption of the Minutes and which makes provision so that Members who think that the Minutes are not in line with what has been said can choose not to adopt them.
Our task is to vote in favour of the Minutes or against them, certainly not for or against the consequences of this vote and of a statement by this House.
Madam President, I would like to make a comment regarding page 7 of the Minutes.
Firstly, I made no remarks at all at the beginning of the sitting and, secondly, this clarification of mine yesterday would appear to have been to no avail, since there is again no mention in the Minutes of what I actually said, and the next point in fact contradicts what I said.
Pursuant to the Rules of Procedure, I am submitting the interpretation to Parliament.
I would like to remind you, as I stated yesterday, that our Rules of Procedure require a simple majority with at least a third of the Members present.
Mr Prodi has proved to be fully aware of these considerations.
An institutional crisis would weaken the Commission but also this new Parliament at a time which is crucial for European federalism.
Mr President, Mr Prodi this morning you used a Russian word, glasnost, which means openness.
You have to regain the confidence of the public of Europe.
It is your duty, as defender of the common interests of Europe, and it is our duty as the people' s representatives, to give this action clarity, and this is why we are defending, as you know, the idea of a constitution, of working towards a European constitution.
Europe was made for just such a programme, and in these times of globalisation, when our citizens have the impression, the feeling that all the real decisions are made somewhere else, and particularly in the world of finance, it is important to revive the idea of a plan for Europe which is understood by the citizens and defended by the institutions.
The task of formulating a plan for Europe falls to you as President of the Commission, just as it falls to us as representatives of the people.
As you well know, and I shall end now, it is through dialogue, between the European Parliament and the European Commission then, that we will find the key to Europe' s future.
If we demand the attendance of Commissioners, surely it is right and proper that we demand the attendance of all parliamentarians in this House?
Mr President, Mr Prodi, in your speech on 21 July 1999 you said that your bywords were transparency, a sense of responsibility and efficiency.
If we want to win back the confidence of our citizens, we need transparency regarding the implementation of the EU budget in all its details, a sense of responsibility in handling tax revenue and efficiency in transposing Community budget policies.
Clearly, this is a task for the Commission as a whole, all Commissioners and all departments.
I think Mrs Schreyer is among those proposed candidates who will do full justice to their tasks in this Parliament.
Mr President Prodi, your references to the extreme importance of enlargement as well as your dedication to full integration and to the political union of Europe are principles with which we sympathise.
We believe that Europe may indeed have a future only as a political, social and cultural entity.
Mr President Prodi, you are assuming your responsibilities at a time of great uncertainty but this Europe, despite its concerns and misgivings, will not go away and you and your Commissioners have serious responsibilities.
This is not a blank cheque but a move of confidence in you, in a Europe which must forge ahead.
We will give her every encouragement and the support she will need to pursue progress for social Europe through the college of the Commission.
Mr President, even if the Commission gets a majority in this Chamber tomorrow, that does not mean that our group does not have any doubts about certain individual Commissioners.
My second comment relates to the agreements that have already been made under paragraphs 1 and 4 of the resolution and under paragraph 5 up to and including (h).
It must be evident from the additional questions that other than the points I have just mentioned, the undertakings that have been made have been inadequate.
Either you draw up a draft regulation or the Committee will do it itself, in which case there is already a text.
The hearings have been extremely useful.
The European Parliament is not the holy inquisition, although this idea might not please some of our apprentice Torquemadas whether they are Bavarian or Flemish who did their best to denigrate Philippe Busquin.
The Flemish people deserve better than the Vlaams Blok.
Having known Philippe Busquin for years, I have full confidence in his personal integrity.
I am also taking up arms against those who seem to want to bring about a political emasculation of the future Commissioners.
This fact is perhaps less a reflection of the current political composition of Parliament than of the image of the power held by Socialists across the fifteen Member States.
Even if many MEPs are sorely tempted to judge the Commissioners individually, the Treaty requires - and quite rightly so - a vote for the whole body.
When they appeared before the Economic and Monetary Committee, Commissioners Monti and Solbes laid down bases, solid bases for future collaboration.
I hope that we will be able to see, by the beginning of the year 2000, a much larger portrait of Europe.
However, Commissioners-designate Günther Verheugen and Chris Patten have no need of formal qualifying standards.
They have both engaged in an excellent debate in committee and provided real proof not only of their specialist qualifications but also - and this is almost more important - of the new political culture to which you yourself have referred, Commissioner, and of the dialogue between the European Parliament and the Commission.
All the co-ordinators were subsequently correct in agreeing that our committee had gained two valuable and esteemed partners in dialogue.
I say this because our committee too was involved in this matter.
Mr President, Mr President-designate of the Commission, no-one should take the decision regarding the new Commission lightly.
What the citizens of Europe are expecting is for work finally to begin again after the long months of crisis and paralysis, but under better conditions which increase people' s confidence in the Commission.
The great weakness in the construction of the European Union is still there, whether or not, at the end of the day, we can only approve the Commission as a whole (and this despite the fact that we have grave reservations, at least about one Commissioner-designate).
I especially emphasise this because this demand for individual responsibility is anchored in a proposal of mine which was included in the European Parliament' s resolution of 23 March 1999.
We cannot just issue a blank cheque, nor would we want to.
The European Union must remain attractive as a model.
Mr President, we welcome the opportunity to work with the President-designate of the Commission and with the Commission.
This is an opportunity to explore their commitment to working in partnership with Parliament and embracing positively our concerns to scrutinise the implementation of the reform process and also their constructive engagement with our concerns as Members for a European economy based on knowledge, skills and creativity and a European society based on inclusion, diversity and cultural wealth.
What cannot be ignored are the challenges of globalisation now facing our Union, the explosion of the audiovisual and information society, the need for an educational capacity of great depth and breadth and, finally, the need to establish the legitimacy of our institutions and reinvigorate their forms.
Together we can work for the future of the European Union.
Mr Prodi, Commissioners-designate, when it comes to enlargement of the Union, foreign and security policy, strengthening free trade in the world, opening up markets, maintaining a vigorous policy on the environment and continuing to pursue economic liberalisation in Europe and with a common currency that is more competitive, Europe is going to need, for all these things, a very strong and functioning Commission in which you, Professor Prodi, will have our confidence and approval of your legislative arrangements.
Mr President, with the approval of the Prodi Commission, the European Parliament will tomorrow draw a line under the scandal of the Santer Commission.
I hope that in the process, we shall also overcome an understandable degree of mistrust on the part of Europe' s citizens and create a new confidence in the European Union.
That is why we were elected by the peoples of Europe.
This government could have done its own country a better service.
Mr President-designate of the Commission, if we had to choose here and now between your opponents and the reasons they have given and you, we would find ourselves in a predicament, maybe to the point of abstaining, indeed even to voting for you, as the arguments of the last communists and allies of Milosevic against NATO and our countries and against British conservatives and others are so weak and worthless.
But we must judge you and decide whether to put our confidence in you on the basis of your statements and what we know about you, leaving these statements to one side.
Finally, as Italians, we fear that through you on the continental political stage, there will be a return to sharing the spoils of party power which goes against every notion of the Constitutional State, every effective feeling of a Europe which stands for progress with regard to revolution and the reform of freedom and rights, progress in this sense.
There are a number of people from my group who have talked on this matter.
Personally, and on behalf of the group I represent in Denmark, I have to say that I cannot vote for the Commission.
I shall emphasise two points.
The first is that the political programme which has been put forward promotes a degree of integration which goes far beyond what there is a mandate for from 80% of the Danish population and, what is more, from the populations of the other Member States.
For these reasons, it is impossible for us to vote for the Commission-designate.
Commissioner António Vitorino, who made an absolutely brilliant statement to this Parliament, highlighted the need to integrate refugees and to give effective protection to ethnic minorities.
The huge problem of confidence in our institutions has been exacerbated by the problems of the Commission in recent months.
In insisting on the political reflection of the outcome of the recent European Parliament elections within the European Commission, how far should we go in restricting the choice of and dictating to national governments their selection of Commissioner?
Yes, we have concerns about a few individuals but the responsibility for ensuring that none of them hit the headlines adversely over the next five years is yours, not ours, given the limited scope of the hearings in this Parliament.
The key to the future of a credible Europe lies in a proper relationship between the Commission and Parliament built on mutual respect.
Mr President, with these hearings we have just carried out an exercise in scrutiny and transparency the like of which exists in none of our Member States.
Imagine if each of our national governments had to go through a procedure whereby they had to fill in fifty pages of answers to a questionnaire and were subject to three hours of grilling and questioning in public before the national parliaments took a vote of confidence allowing them to take office.
Of course this is a new procedure and a young parliament and things were not perfect.
Granted there were questions on the past activities of two candidates in particular; but both have been cleared by the national investigations that pertained to their activities and, in the absence of anything new, it would be difficult for the European Parliament to press this issue further.
Mr President, Mr President-designate Prodi, we Social Democrats are disappointed.
The EU Commission remains a male domain.
We may speak the same European language, but you have not in fact understood us.
Mr President, I would like to make three remarks about the hearings, their results and the elements that still remain to be put in place between the incoming Commission and Parliament.
As for the results, without referring to individuals, many in my Group have already indicated which performers have been good or less good in the incoming Commission.
Firstly, in the light of our experience from the discharge for 1996 for which I was responsible, can we really be sure that, if we do vote against an incoming Commissioner, that Commissioner will resign?
We want to see these included in our operating agreement between the Commission and Parliament because the numbers abstaining or voting against the Commission tomorrow on the final vote will depend on how far those elements are in place by tomorrow.
The number one priority must be the reform agenda.
Mr Cashman, do you have a point of order to make?
Mr President, I am sorry to make a second point of order when I still have not made my maiden speech in this House.
I would like to point out to my colleague that the Treaty of Amsterdam refers to ending discrimination not only against women but against a whole range of minorities on the basis of race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability.
Mr Cashman, I must tell you that this was not a point of order.
Mr President, Professor Prodi, ladies and gentlemen, in the course of the 19 hearings of the future Commissioners, we continually heard talk of the fine-sounding concepts of transparency, efficiency, responsibility and accountability.
What is your view on possibly separating the two areas, either now or in the future?
The third point concerns OLAF, the new office for combating fraud.
We must stop the political guerrilla warfare that is going on in this House.
We will be voting within the Socialist Group in the European Parliament not on a party political basis but on the objective basis of the hearings and the questions that we had answered over the last couple of weeks.
We have had the speech by the President of the Commission and we have had the hearings, but the second stage is the work programme of the European Commission.
Mr Prodi, I am not speaking on behalf of any political group or any delegation.
Certain opinions which we could sum up in the following way: firstly, we know that Europe has been built on the basis of two forces for construction which are dialectically opposed: those who, aware of the weight of history, defend the survival and validity of the national State and those who, with greater courage, imagine a future with greater integration, whose political definition we still do not know, and this is perhaps one of the advantages of construction.
Mr Prodi, I speak on behalf of all those who share your principles, who share your programme, who share the idea that Europe must establish a new order of peace, prosperity and stability and that Europe must show coraggio, ambizione and visione (courage, ambition and vision).
And society demands something else - you said it yourself, Mr Prodi - it demands realism and demands that we are in closer contact with that society.
Therefore, all I can do is, in the name of those I speak for, underline the commitment that, at the Intergovernmental Conference, we will carry out the fundamental reform which the citizens demand, the importance of which they have demonstrated through their low turn-out in the elections.
Mr President-designate, the members of the French Socialist delegation are anxious that the institutions should run efficiently, and this requires the rapid establishment of a strong Commission, strong in the sense of respecting the Treaties, which means that your mandate and ours must coincide.
We expect commitments from you, to define and defend the European Social Model, to re-establish balance, as the Treaty of Amsterdam suggests you should, between the policy of competition and other policies.
But we are anxious to find out who in your team will be responsible for the development and the drafting of the Charter of Rights.
The vote on these motions for resolution and the motion received from the Conference of Presidents will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 12.00 p.m.
Mr Prodi, I address you in my capacity as President of this Parliament' s Committee on Fisheries.
We have not heard you speak about fishing and, nevertheless, you must be aware that thousands and thousands of fishermen depend on it, thousands and thousands of families, thousands of secondary businesses and businesses involved in the processing of products which are necessary in the European Union, employment which is furthermore located in European regions and territories which are highly dependent on fishing.
However, he made us some political commitments which I would like to remind you of in your capacity as President-designate.
I say this because this is a sine qua non condition which we have established in our Committee and this is what was communicated to you in the letter which I signed myself.
In Europe we have three authorities concerned with this issue.
In my view these hearings were flawed because there was insufficient time available to the committees to pursue their lines of questioning.
The second point where the hearings were flawed was in the failure to hold indicative votes at the end of each hearing.
I have mentioned two candidate Commissioners but there was a third who appeared before us, candidate Commissioner Busquin.
The crisis in the previous Commission occurred just at the time when Europe was going up in flames!
Mr President, are you sure that this view is shared on the other side of the Atlantic?
I can only say that whoever heard Brian Simpson this morning would not have recognised him at all.
Mr President, one wonders what one can say in two minutes on the appointment of a Commission.
There are people in Europe killing each other because of differences over religion, ethnicity and nationality, there are people going to bed hungry, there are people sleeping outdoors and there are people without adequate health care.
These are all problems that Europe has to solve in partnership, not only between the Commission and Parliament but also between the Commission, Parliament, the Member State Governments and the Member State parliaments.
If we are to develop a Europe in which our people have a share, we must give them a role in creating that Europe and sharing that Europe.
The only way we will do that is if we give the social dimension of Europe - the social convergence that is needed in Europe - the same status as we give to monetary convergence and to economic convergence.
We have to talk about social issues, culture and what concerns people in their daily lives.
The answers provided by this Commissioner-designate were, in principle, satisfactory.
It is clear that not everyone was in agreement with all her answers, but everyone on the Committee on Employment feels that the answers she gave provide a sound basis for future co-operation.
That is why the Commission must continue to involve Parliament in the process.
As long as Parliament' s role in judging the outcome of the social dialogue remains undetermined, there is a need for an interim solution.
Mr Prodi, you are able to represent the aspiration to carry out what this House has been demanding for a long time.
But I believe that we must go further.
We want to see facts because time is at a premium, Mr Prodi.
If tomorrow you receive the approval of this House - and I hope this is the case - you have a huge job to do on behalf of all the citizens of Europe.
Thirdly: if, in the next legislature, the Commissioner-designate for Agriculture succeeds in listening more to the draft amendments introduced by Parliament and to parliamentarians themselves (as long as, it is only fair to say, the latter do not exceed the budgetary limits and do not put existing legislation out of force), then a majority of my group is of the opinion that the Candidate' s experience, skills and commitment suggest that he will do some good work as a Member of the Commission.
Mr Prodi, I am going to vote for you, but I confess that I am not going to vote very willingly.
Well, because I believe that what Europe needs are three things that in my language begin with "i" : ideas (ideas), ilusión (aspiration) and impulso (motivation).
So do I, but I believe that your speech has not been that of a President of a European Government but more like a speech of a Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Mr Prodi, I believe that our citizens are going to demand this objective more and more every day, and not speeches void of commitments.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, I will not repeat what my colleagues in the PPE have already said and, as a member of the Belgian delegation, I will not introduce internal Belgian politics into this debate.
We are also awaiting, however, a precise definition of political responsibility from this Commission.
Our vote of confidence is no blank cheque but an offer of constructive co-operation from many Members of this Chamber.
Madam President, this is the first or maiden speech that I shall make in this Chamber and in the tradition of the House of Commons from which I came, I should normally spend a great deal of time talking about the beauty of my area.
But time does not permit it and I shall simply content myself by thanking those who sent me here for doing so and saying that I will try and serve their interests as best I can.
Secondly, I shall not vote for this Commission because I do not believe that in real substance anything has changed in the last few weeks as a result of the hearings which we have had.
There has been not one individual vote in any committee on any Commissioner, not one Commissioner has been forced to withdraw as a result of the questions as to his suitability and not one Commissioner has accepted any sort of responsibility for the events of the past.
Madam President, Mr President-designate of the Commission, I am also among those who tomorrow will vote "no" if something decisive still does not happen.
And make no mistake, the discussion in the PPE Group this evening will still be very exciting.
My second reason is the answers given by the Commissioners-designate at the hearings about the van Buitenen case.
The citizens of Europe will not understand it if a new strategy is not at last applied here and those who care about transparency do not also finally receive stronger support in the Commission.
This is an astonishing parallel to the case of the EU' s Balkans Co-ordinator, Bodo Hombach.
I wonder who can guarantee us that we will not have illicit funds in the Commission in future, in the DG XII or elsewhere, if this subject is not tackled in a better way than has so far been the case.
Mr President-designate, while I was listening to your address this morning, at one point you made me jump because you said 'the pensioners are here' .
Thank you, Mr President, for having unintentionally quoted me because I have come to the European Parliament as leader of the Pensioners' Party to represent for the first time the needs of the elderly.
During this conversation, President Habibie formally undertook - and I repeat, formally - to give all foreign journalists free and unlimited access to East Timor, to give full and unconditional support to the intervention by the United Nations, to create the conditions for this to take place as soon as possible and to make every effort to alleviate the conditions suffered by the population of East Timor, stressing that there are 200 million Indonesians facing difficult circumstances.
Lastly, he undertook to respect the decisions taken by the people of East Timor.
With reference to other matters raised, such as food safety or air-traffic control, I would remind you of what I said in my earlier speeches to Parliament.
One vital issue - which everyone has mentioned - concerns transparency and openness.
I shall devote a great deal of attention to these initiatives and I would also like a debate to be launched on the issue of confidential information.
I consider that considerable progress has been made towards an interinstitutional agreement on this issue - I refer in particular to the discharge - and we ought to continue in this direction in the interests of mutual collaboration.
A vote of no-confidence against an individual Commissioner by the European Parliament would obviously for me be a reason for the most lengthy, serious and thorough consideration.
Therefore, all issues of this nature must be approached with the utmost care, considered in good faith and then explained before Parliament.
The preliminary proposal of the Commission for the year 2000 budget had scarcely been completed when it became clear that efforts would be required from Europe to repair the damage caused by the conflict in that area and, in particular, in Kosovo.
In addition, other recent events, such as the earthquakes in Turkey and Greece and the recent development in East Timor require those having control of the budget to react swiftly.
Both bodies having budgetary control presented their views on rebuilding Kosovo at the meeting held on 16 July.
The results of the first Conference of Donors held on 28 July are, however, encouraging from this point of view.
Next, I would like to introduce the results of the first hearing of the Council regarding the year 2000 budget, after the fruitful Conciliation Meeting arranged with the parliamentary delegation.
Our procedure is based on the new agreement between official bodies drawn up on 6 May 1999 concerning an improvement to the budgetary procedure and discipline with regard to the budget.
We introduced a fixed reduction of EUR 375 million for allocations relating to marketing.
We will continue to examine the expenditure associated with agriculture on the basis of that letter of amendment in order that we may be able to draw up a final decision on the matter.
As regards construction work, we also take into account the request put forward by the European Parliament during the Agenda 2000 negotiations and we decided to create a new point in the budget for Community urban initiatives.
Commitments for this would be EUR 102 million and actual payments would be around EUR 28 million.
Commitments have also been reduced by EUR 129 million and the allocations for expenditure by approximately EUR 216 million.
As regards the strategy promoting the accession of new Member States, we have reduced the payments by EUR 121 million.
The Council does not consider it necessary to change the upper limit of category 4 to restrict expenditure for the year 2000.
The creation of a provision of EUR 500 million, approved by the Council, is based on the preliminary estimates of the amount required, which the Commission presented.
Payments total 87.9 billion, which is an increase of EUR 2.3 billion or 2.8% in comparison to the budget for 1999.
Thirdly, the upper limits for external actions and internal policies leave latitude to the tune of EUR 222 million and EUR 22.5 million below the maximum sums of the Financial Perspective.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to express my perplexity and to say that this Parliament is being presented with the budget of the outgoing Commission before we have elected the new one.
I believe that, within the context of turning the European Parliament into a genuine parliament, we are doing something that never ever happens in State institutions.
It is the incoming government - which won the elections - which presents the budget and it makes no sense that the Commission that has resigned now obliges us to debate a budget which, in any event, has been initially drawn up by it.
The budget procedure for the financial year 2000 does not in fact begin today.
The new Commission only takes office when we as a Parliament tomorrow approve its appointment and after the Commissioners, at 12.00 p.m.
Mr President, the sooner this transition period is over, the better for all of us: as soon as Parliament has confirmed the new Commission, competences can be transferred to the new Commissioners.
Firstly, I wish to state very briefly that the budget is a legal obligation of the Commission under the Treaty.
While these cuts are quite normal at this stage of the budget procedure, they are this year supplemented by a substantial redeployment of EUR 430 million in category 4 - external actions - to finance the Kosovo reconstruction of EUR 500 million.
Although redeployment appears necessary to finance this new priority, one must take account of the fact that too great a redeployment risks destabilizing the budgetary and political balance in external relations.
In category 2 - structural actions - where payments can be reduced due to the proposal to adapt the payment on account from 4 to 3.5%: this can be done without major difficulties.
Finally, however, I would like to draw your attention to an important inconsistency in the Council' s decision.
The Council proposes to increase the Commission' s administrative expenditure by only 0.9% while it foresees an increase of 3.5% for the other institutions.
All in all, the key to success in this year' s budgetary procedure is the financing of the EUR 430 million needed for the reconstruction of Kosovo and of Turkey following the earthquake.
I am sure that the new Commission will look into this matter as one of the first priorities and come forward with a balanced proposal.
Also Mr President, as you said, this process has gone on for several months.
As Commissioner - or Commissioner-designate - this is probably the last time you will sit here on a budgets issue.
We have not clashed over the last few years but have had opportunities to try and solve a lot of problems.
You deserve the praise of this Parliament for the work you have done in the budgetary areas and especially in some of the areas where you have tried to change things within the Commission.
Let us not get this debate mixed up with tomorrow' s debate on the supplementary and amending budgets 1, 3 and 4 for 1999 because, when the President-in-Office says that this spirit of cooperation is based on mutual trust (that is what I wrote down) between the institutions, I only have to remind the Council of what it did with supplementary and amending budgets 1 and 3 and our reaction to it.
Our problems are caused in the main in Member States, where 85% of EU money is actually administered and 85% of our problems occur.
On the different categories, on Category 1 I would agree with the President-in-Office when she said that agricultural expenditure should be based on up-to-date facts.
As for Category 2, we may have the commitment on commitment appropriations but we certainly do not have the same understanding when it comes to payments.
Looking at the reductions made in Category 3, there are many areas where we will disagree and agree to disagree.
In Category 4, the 10% across the board cut - I am now speaking for Parliament before it has decided this - I would assume is absolutely unacceptable.
We do not want confrontation between our two bodies but at the end of the day we want to make sure that development, other sections of Category 4 and external expenditure are not disadvantaged.
We look forward to our first reading next month when the Council will get a pretty good idea of our opinion of its draft budget.
But this is not our role.
In our budgetary advice, we had asked for a progressive dismantling of the TAOs.
In category 4, you know the extent of the problem.
You have tried to fit into this category a whole range of problems which do not fit: the "fishing" agreement on Morocco, and especially the enormous funds, estimated to stand at around 500 million for Kosovo, and that is without expanding the category any further.
In category 5, finally, we note a great reluctance to tackle the problem of pensions.
At the same time I want to thank Commissioner Liikanen especially for his valuable co-operation.
The combined budget for these institutions is EUR 1,288 million.
The budget of the European Parliament does exceed the share agreed by Parliament itself in accordance with the gentleman' s agreement, which is 20% of category 5, because it currently stands at 20.3%.
I want to stress that in leading the way for the other EU institutions, the European Parliament cannot evade its responsibility in this matter.
My predecessor in this post, Edith Müller, drew attention to activity-based budgeting.
The only means of stressing this responsibility for improving the administration as well as for improving the supervision of the financial management is to delegate this power and responsibility to lower levels.
At the same time, we must improve one urgent problem in particular, namely the slow payment transactions of the EU.
The development of staffing policy must be regarded as an important part of EU policy.
In the first place, and as I said in my own speech, my view is that the question of providing the necessary finances for Kosovo will surely come to be one of the most central and dominant elements of the autumn budgetary process.
The Council view has been that we make the creation of a reservation for Kosovo a priority.
It is true that part of the funds allocated to category 4 have been cut, but the Council cuts expressly mean a reduction with regard to the Commission' s proposal when compared with 1999.
In accordance with this view, most of the allocations belonging to category 4 have grown in comparison to the budget of the past year, and on the other hand, there are also points under category 4 to which no cuts at all have been applied.
Within the framework of these regulations, Kosovo has been regarded as an absolute priority.
Up to now the results of the estimates of what is required have been encouraging to the extent that the estimates of what is required for aid have fallen rather than increased as matters have progressed.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m. (The sitting was closed at 5.53 p.m.)
