I would like to know how this rather odd situation has come about.
The prizewinners come from the Union's 15 countries and the competition was held under the aegis of the European Parliament and was organized by the Centre for Information and Documentation in the context of the European Year against Racism.
In ten years, the areas farmed in this way have increased ten-fold.
Regulation 2092 of 1991 covers the production and marketing of raw or processed vegetable organic products.
The report which we are discussing today is intended to extend this regulation to animal organic productions.
Let us look at the background: the text proposed by the Commission in 1996 coincided with the height of the BSC crisis.
This would have resulted in considerable savings for the agricultural budget which might have been earmarked, for example, instead to supporting the income of more farmers, environmentally friendly farming measures, research, setting up young people in farming, farmers' retirement or the promotion of quality export products.
It is the most elaborate, strongest and most controlled sign of quality of producers for consumers, even if there is still some progress to be made.
I wanted this regulation to remain sufficiently general so that its application would not be hindered by defining the principles of organic stock raising without entering into very detailed specifications.
However, in order to retain the regulation's coherence and to remain faithful to the trend shown by most of my colleagues on the Agriculture Committee during exchanges of views, I have maintained a thorough approach to the forms of production and, in particular, controls.
These are bans which are expected by consumers in this specific area and which are thoroughly in keeping with the basic principles of organic agriculture.
To sum up, the amended regulation is both more thorough on controls and forms of production and more flexible in order to facilitate conversion.
But it strengthens the common character of the regulation and prevents competition distortion between Member States and even between regions.
The consensus reached on this report in the Agriculture Committee enabled us to whittle down the 314 initial amendments to just 100 in number.
We need a sufficient budgetary amount so that the European Commission can effectively perform its control mission in the Member States and guarantee supervision of the equivalent system with those countries.
At the moment the Commission only has two members of staff to carry out these tasks.
On the other hand I should like to ask you to support my Amendments Nos 101 on the budget, 102 on the restoration of 'poultry' standards, 103 and especially 104 on the budget which I referred to earlier.
Mr President, as the rapporteur has already said, and especially since the BSE affair, consumers throughout Europe, much more than in the past, are interested not only in the cost but also in the quality of products and, in particular, the production methods used.
New European legislation making it possible to certify clearly and uniformly throughout the territory of the European Union products of animal origin obtained in accordance with the criteria of organic production is an important step in this direction.
This document was supposed to have been submitted as far back as 1 July 1992, then that deadline was extended to 30 June 1995, and we did not actually receive the document until 26 July 1996.
We must also emphasize the amendments opposing the presence of genetically modified organisms, which have no part in organic agriculture or stock farming, and all those amendments in defence of the rights of animals, particularly those concerning the inevitable aspects of their existence - space, food and humane transport and slaughter.
I hope that all these matters will be supported by this House and that we shall thus be able to produce a proposal in the best possible interests of both animals and consumers.
The result, I believe, is a report which strengthens and improves the Commission's proposal and represents a real contribution by the European Parliament to the enhancement of these products.
Our group is in agreement with this report and will therefore support it during today's vote.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I too support the Commission's proposal for a regulation supplementing the existing regulation, and also most of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the rapporteur.
Since consumers are displaying a growing interest in organic products - in terms of both quality and range of products - livestock production should be better geared to levels of consumption.
The Commissioner deserves thanks for his sensitivity in this context.
I believe that it is absolutely essential to open up marketing opportunities for organic products and to promote the relevant funding, especially in the less-favoured regions and above all in southern Europe.
I also believe that there should be Community-funded publicity campaigns for organic products, in the interests of public health, but also with a view to promoting measures to improve quality and combat overproduction.
Mr President, of the 50, 000 or so farms in Europe that can be defined as 'organic' , 15, 500 are in Italy.
This, then, bears witness to the great sensitivity in our country about this type of farming.
The praiseworthy result is that the regulation on plant products has been linked to and harmonized with the more difficult criteria of animal products.
Mr President, I hope you will be indulgent with those who speak at length, because if one has much to say, one needs a good deal of time in which to say it.
Mr Fischler and his country can be congratulated, since 10 % of holdings there have already converted to organic farming, and many more are contemplating doing so.
We shall examine the matter in the Committee on Legal Affairs tomorrow, and then vote.
If this article is not adopted as the legal basis, then we shall have to discuss the amendments.
Consequently, if Article 43 is retained as the legal basis, we shall request referral back to committee, so that the Commission is not given the chance of deciding not to fall in with our progressive proposals.
I believe that this is an extremely important issue, and I hope the House will support our move.
Standards must be uniform throughout the Member States, and Member States must be more supportive in encouraging further development, and especially in assisting young farmers who want to go into organic farming.
I hope that Mr Fischler and the Commission will ensure that all Member States treat the development of organic farming with a degree of equality.
I have had complaints in my own region in Northern Ireland, where people wishing to go into organic farming do not - and cannot - achieve the level of support they require.
It is not realistic to believe that organic farming methods can provide all the food we require in the European Union, but we must work to increase the percentage.
I take great pleasure in supporting this report and certainly approve of the realistic attitude of the rapporteur.
This proposal for a regulation points the way ahead, in that it seeks to strike a balance between productivity and the environment in relation to organic farming.
Reorienting the system towards organic livestock production and quality control is therefore an important step forward, not only for farmers, but above all for consumers.
This demands political will and action for the common good so I hope the Commission will today indicate that it sees this as a start, not a conclusion, and that it will also urge action from Member States.
With its proposal to include livestock products in the existing EU regulation, the Commission has taken a significant step towards establishing comprehensive rules on organic farming.
It is therefore crucial for the sustainable development of organic farming in the European Union that legal rules for this area are established.
The great majority of the amendments to the proposal tabled during the discussions in Parliament show that we are dealing not only with a complex issue, but with a very complicated legal text.
The EU regulation on organic farming must not become a battleground for ideological extremes, but must provide a sensible legal framework.
General descriptions and wishful thinking have no place in a legal text.
I also object to rules which are incomprehensible in practice, such as those on honey.
The potential development of organic agriculture is linked to the needs for safety, quality and confidence in food, on the part of consumers, their concerns vis-à-vis the environment, respect for the well-being of animals, their rejection of genetically modified organisms and the use of synthetic chemicals.
This report, together with the compromise amendments, is a coherent whole which we shall vote for, and this amended regulation will apply immediately in all states, without competition distortions.
The development of organic farming is only possible if consumers also have full confidence in the control systems and product certification.
Every state will therefore have a role to play to ensure this safety in conjunction, of course, with the Commission.
I hope to be publishing an own-initiative report on this later in the year.
The Commission's proposal to include livestock in the directive on organic production is of course a response to consumer demand - a demand which has been intensified by the BSE crisis.
With this proposal, we have a chance to give many farmers the incentive to switch to organic methods, while at the same time benefiting the environment.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is intended to achieve the same objectives as Regulation 2092/91, which only affected vegetable production, by extending the scope of application to animal productions, in order to establish fair competition conditions between European Union products in the organic agriculture sector and guarantee the free circulation of organic products within the European Union.
It is also intended to improve consumer confidence in this product and foster farming activity to meet growing consumer demand and which, as an added value, is environmentally friendly.
The content of the proposals defines the basic criteria for animal organic production, such as its link to the soil, specific rules of the main parameters conditioning animal rearing, such as the origin of animals, the arrangements for converting production centres to organic farming, animal foodstuffs, disease prevention and veterinary care, as well as the housing and maintenance conditions of animals.
On the other hand, the level of requirement and detail established in these roles is not homogenous for the different animal species hence, in the case of poultry, the principles have been developed to the maximum whereas for other species nothing has been specified at all, leaving up in the air important criteria for whole species of animals which are liable to be farmed such as, for example, rabbits.
In any case, this proposal had been long awaited, because at national level there are already rules regulating organic production, and it is felt that it is necessary to bring in rules which harmonise them at European Union level, with sufficient flexibility in order to guarantee regional diversity.
On the other hand, I should like to point out that in my country we already have the conditions to favour the development of ecological animal production, given that we still have an important genetic heritage of local species and breeds of cattle, sheep, goats and pigs, most of which live in the wild and are adapted to their environment, something which favours rearing and exploitation in extensive farming.
Approval of this regulation is regarded as positive for the organic producing sector but also beneficiary for consumers, since we can foresee growing demand for these products, fostering in turn the creation of mixed animal rearing systems, presenting advantages in this type of farm.
Nowadays, organic farming is being regularly and harmoniously developed since the organic food market is increasing at a rate of 15 % a year.
That is why as elected representatives, it is up to us to define very precise rules and controls, as well as serious product certification, in order to guarantee our consumers the production means and origin of biological products.
For over 25 years concern has been growing in Europe about the way we produce our food in the drive for ever higher levels of production.
The proposals before us are very much concerned with regulations to ensure that the consumer buying organic animal products really is getting food that has been produced naturally from animals fed on wholesome natural feedstuffs and raised non-intensively in humane conditions.
Both the way they are raised and the way they are transported are of great concern to many consumers.
I would therefore urge support for Amendments Nos 107, 108 and 109 on animal transport and space for raising chickens and calves.
There are two demonstration farms in my Lincolnshire constituency.
I hope that in the same way the measures before the House today will encourage not just completely organic stockrearing but also generally-improved animal husbandry by non-organic farmers, in particular in the raising of chickens and calves, in line with consumer demand.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we know this proposal for a regulation is intended to apply to the animal sector an existing regulation, dating from 1991, referring to vegetable products.
Despite that, there is no doubt that organic production is a promising dimension of European agriculture for three main reasons: first of all, because it can more easily gain the confidence of consumers, despite the fact that organic production is not the only safe means of production; secondly, because it is a way of upgrading production resources, exploitation systems or regions which in any other ways would have difficulties in competing, especially since the GATT Agreement; thirdly, because it is essentially respectful of agricultural and ecological conditions and therefore is an important way of reconciling farming with the environment and nature.
As I said earlier, no isolated policy will be able in itself to resolve the problems facing European agriculture, an agriculture which is so heterogeneous as ours.
Not even organic agriculture, nor a quality policy, nor a policy of prices and markets, nor a policy of structures will be able, alone, to resolve all of these problems.
Therefore we must make sure that the common agricultural policy, the CAP, evolves towards greater balance between these different components especially since, in the past and still today, it is profoundly unbalanced, as is demonstrated by 90 % of the budget earmarked for the prices and markets components and only 10 % for structures, not to mention the insignificant budgetary amount earmarked for quality policy and organic production.
We still need to develop a rural development policy which is another important dimension of a balanced future CAP which can actually respond to the needs of all European agriculture systems and not just some of them.
However, by redirecting existing agricultural subsidies it might be possible to find ways of supporting organic farming at EU level.
However, the existing regulation on plant products now urgently needs to be supplemented with rules on organic livestock production, so that all organic foods can be produced in a climate of fair competition and a high level of consumer confidence can be ensured.
The report strongly emphasizes the need to ban the use of genetically modified organisms and products derived therefrom in organic farming and the processing of organic products.
This would make Amendments Nos 13, 14, 35, 36, 41, 52, 63, 73 and 112 superfluous, however, since they simply reiterate the ban at several points in the recitals and technical annexes.
This also applies in principle to Amendments Nos 97 and 99, where they bring the provisions of Annex VI into line with the general ban set out in the articles of the regulation.
As far as the legal basis is concerned, the Commission takes the view that Article 43 is appropriate.
Secondly, it involves integrating the livestock production sector into an existing legal framework and an existing regulation on organic farming.
However, the Commission is prepared to reconsider these points in the context of a future amendment of the regulation.
I can accept the first part of Amendment No 24 and Amendment No 113, which delete the reference to a conversion period in the labelling of livestock products, as well as Amendment No 30 concerning the traceability of livestock products throughout the production and marketing process.
However, the deadline of 1 January 1998 referred to in Amendment No 31 is unrealistic in my view, and therefore unacceptable.
Nor can the Commission agree to the proposal contained in Amendment No 32 also to use the official logo for products from third countries, since neither the Commission nor the Member States have permanent or direct control over the specific application and monitoring of the rules in third countries.
The Commission believes that Amendments Nos 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 16, 19, 22, 27, 34, 47, 48, 49, 55, 56, 60, 62, 66, 67, 69 to 72, 74, 75, 82, 88, 93, 94, 111, 116, 119, 124 and 125 make technical improvements to the original proposal or improve its drafting, and it is happy to accept them either as they stand or in principle, with more appropriate wording where necessary.
On the other hand, the Commission is unable to agree to the technical or drafting improvements sought by Amendments Nos 1, 4, 12, 15, 17, 18, 25, 33, 38, 40, 41, 46, 51, 54, 57, 61, 65, 77 to 80, 85, 90, 95, 96, 98, 100, 102, 105 to 109, 114, 115, 118 and 120 to 122.
Amendments Nos 2, 3, 7, 37, 42 to 45, 50, 52, 53, 58, 59, 63, 68, 76, 81 to 84, 86, 87, 89, 91, 92, 103, 117 and 123 are partially acceptable to the Commission, though here too with more appropriate wording where necessary.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is convinced that, once adopted, this regulation will contribute to the further development of organic farming in the Community and therefore corresponds to the growing interest of consumers in these products.
In conclusion, I should once again like to thank Mrs Barthet-Mayer most sincerely for her efforts in drawing up this excellent report, and Parliament for its extremely positive contribution to this debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place, in principle, tomorrow, to enable the Legal Affairs Committee to give its opinion on the amendment of the legal basis.
improving the efficiency of agricultural structures (COM(96)0058 - C4-0234/96-96/0044(CNS)) II.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of approval of Regulation 2843 in 1994, the Council made a promise to consolidate regulations relating to Objective 5 A since, as they have been amended more than a dozen times since their adoption, the existing texts are now difficult to read and virtually incomprehensible for anyone who is not a specialist in the policy of farming structures.
The Council proposes to amend Regulation 2328 of 1991 on the efficiency of agricultural structures, Regulation 866 of 1990 on the processing and marketing conditions for agricultural products and Regulation 1360 of 1978 on producer groups.
On the other hand, in respect of Regulation 2328 of 1991 regulating compensatory amounts in less-favoured areas, whose definition criteria can be found in Council Regulation 268 of 1975, it seems appropriate to introduce this regulation in the new version of Regulation 2328.
This attempt to group texts together and improve their legibility goes beyond a mere consolidation, both in terms of its extent and the new version of the regulation, since this consolidation is in effect a reshaping, due to the fact that an amendment is being proposed to the three proposals contained in the regulation.
That is why we have made some clarifications in order to improve it and in order to help its operation and I would therefore call on the Commission, and the Commissioner who is here with us today, to bear in mind these clarifications which have been made at the right time.
Mr President, Mrs Redondo has done her work well.
My second question, Commissioner, relates to the future.
Mr President, Commissioner, the regulation on improving the efficiency of agricultural structures holds the key to the adaptation of farm structures.
I welcome the fact that the Commission grasps this necessity in its proposal for a regulation.
With this proposal, the Commission wishes to strengthen the market position of producers and counter the growing supremacy of the distributive trade.
We have to get used to Cork - as Mr Fantuzzi said - which is a kind of Vatican II.
Therefore, I think that all of this needs to be simplified and would benefit from a stocktaking exercise at the end of each year in order to find out how the Member States execute these directives and apply these documents, to find out what the execution rate was and to find out what the Court of Audit has discovered in terms of fraud.
Mr President, the proposal for a regulation which is before the House represents a step towards improving agricultural structures.
In addition to this substantial effort to make the rules easier for the citizen to understand, there are also the amendments, which go right down to the level of offering technical examples: for example, where they focus on the criteria for direct product sales to make life easier both for producers and for consumers, but with rules that tie any marketing activities strictly to the enterprise.
My group will be voting against these amendments, because the type of activity identified in the three Regulations in question has more to do with micro-farms than with extensive farming.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the reasons behind them, what is certain is that many of the guidelines which seem to be contemplated in this regulation are very close to the proposals which for a long time we have been defending on this matter.
However, in respect of compensatory amounts for less-favoured farming areas, we feel that the proposed amount for the minimum eligible area in southern countries and regions, including my own country, namely two hectares, would be profoundly unfair and would call into question the essence of the positive guidelines included in the new regulation and the respect of amendments, which would already exclude a substantial share of farms situated in those areas.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Commission, I should first of all like to thank Mrs Redondo Jiménez and her colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for their report on the Commission proposals which are now before the House.
I would urge Parliament to continue to support me in this endeavour.
For the same reason, the reference to new amendments in Amendment No 1 is inappropriate.
All this goes beyond a recasting of the provisions in question.
On the other hand, we welcome the clarifications and corrections contained in Amendments Nos 2 and 10 to 14, which clearly improve the present text.
These amendments are in line with a recasting of the relevant provisions.
Thank you very much, Mr Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today, at 12 noon.
Preliminary draft budget for 1998 (presentation) The next item is the presentation of the preliminary draft budget for the 1998 financial year.
The Community budget must be compatible with these efforts.
Preparations for enlargement have to start with the 1998 Community budget.
At the end of 1997, following the new procedure established in the SEM 2000 context, the Commission adopted a rigorous position on preparations for the preliminary draft budget.
It decided to limit the 1998 PDB as close as possible to 3 %.
The Commission also agreed to the full integration of the allocation of financial and human resources.
On 13 March 1997 the European Parliament adopted its guidelines for the 1998 budget procedure.
In particular, Parliament has underlined the importance of real savings in agricultural spending on the compulsory side.
In early April the Finance Ministers decided in the informal Ecofin to be more actively involved in decisions concerning the Community budget.
This greater involvement of the Finance Ministers is in line with the European Parliament's resolution on the 1997 budget.
One important aspect agreed in the informal Ecofin was that strict budgetary discipline must be applied to all categories of the financial perspective.
Just before the end of April, the Commission, the Council and Parliament agreed to transfer ECU 500m in commitment appropriations for structural actions from 1998 to 1999; and, as the Commission stated, this will not endanger the effective implementation of the programmes.
With regard to the payment appropriations, the Commission considers 8 % growth the minimum to meet the commitments.
For Categories 1, Agriculture, 3, Internal policies and 4, External policies, careful preparations showed that it is possible to limit the growth to 0.5 %.
The budget proposal for administrative spending, Category 5, has to take account of the high rate of growth in pension obligations for all Community institutions.
The growth rate for next year will be more than 11 %.
If the other institutions accept a similar line, the total growth of Category 5 could be limited to 1.1 %.
On agriculture, growth in expenditure can only be limited to 0.5 % if the Commission proposal to cut per hectare aid for cereal producers is adopted.
This decision is important for reasons of agricultural policy but it is also a key signal for the 1998 budget.
It is important to begin to achieve real savings in this sector.
As foreseen, in Category 3, it proposes to conclude a fourth research framework programme and to mobilize additional funds for transEuropean networks and small and medium-sized enterprises.
An important element here is the reorientation of PHARE to prepare accession.
Its reorientation is of extreme importance during this year and in the execution of next year's budget.
Having looked for the first time at the documents available, I should like as general rapporteur to state my initial views on the Commission's preliminary draft budget for 1998.
The Commission is consistent with its decision on the guidelines of January 1997.
It has allowed for an increase of 0.5 % in all the categories of the budget except Category 2, where it adheres to the Edinburgh agreements and treats the Structural Funds accordingly.
This produces a 3 % growth in the 1998 budget, which in reality amounts to zero budgetary growth once the increase in GNP has been deducted.
The European Parliament stressed in its guidelines that it was concerned to see a budget with European value added, and that it would only go along with the Commission and the Council in approving a modest increase in the budget if the Council opted for budgetary moderation in all categories, and not only in respect of payments - I was glad to hear you say as much yourself - but also commitments.
Moreover, there are still a number of outstanding problems which we should like to resolve with the Council by the end of the discussions on the 1998 budget.
The Commissioner has indicated that the Commission's preliminary draft budget comes close to the targets set by Parliament in its guidelines.
Parliament too would like the Union's budget for 1998 to make a significant contribution to combating unemployment and boosting the potential of SMEs to create lasting jobs.
Although our citizens are not directly affected by the EU budget, if the European Union is bled dry financially, then their support for the Union will soon decline.
I now come to some comments on the individual areas of expenditure, the individual categories: I would compliment you, Commissioner, on your success in managing to achieve the same budgetary discipline in Category 1 as in the other areas of expenditure.
In Category 3, you have proposed an increase for the trans-European networks which actually goes beyond the outcome achieved between Parliament and the Council in the Conciliation Committee.
This is all the more incomprehensible when we know that there is of course a considerable debate as to the purpose of the transEuropean networks; the increase of ECU 123 million - a huge 34 or 35 % - therefore obviously needs explaining.
You will be aware, however, that we still have ECU 11 m in the reserve for general information policy.
The Commission has responded to Parliament's initiative regarding the trans-European networks by in principle making a cut, whereas we entered the ECU 100 m for cross-border cooperation last year in order to link the trans-European networks to Eastern Europe.
Parliament will be devoting particular attention to this issue.
In January, we agreed that you would present us with a report, and you told me yesterday evening that you intended to do so next year.
I would invite you and indeed urge you actually to present such a report this year in the 1998 budgetary procedure.
Of course, this matter can also be raised with individual colleagues and committees.
We congratulate you on SEM 2000 and MEP 2000.
The European Parliament has undertaken to do so, and we are prepared to make a realistic contribution to the 1998 budget.
I should like to make two or three comments about Mr Tillich's intervention.
As far as the 1998 budget is concerned, our indicative planning includes also part of the human resources for the Veterinary Office.
For Category III our problem is the court case which is still pending.
I am sure that we shall have a lot to discuss on these matters during this year.
The debate is closed.
This is in fact a piece of legislation in line with Parliament's desire to reduce emissions from motor vehicles which cause enormous damage to the natural environment and human health.
They are not designed for use on roads but that does not mean they are not a source of damage and therefore regulation is needed in this area which was previously unregulated.
In fact this matters a great deal because the change makes the whole decisionmaking procedure of the Community more opaque and less accountable and therefore we cannot approve it.
It has subsequently been pointed out to me that it poses certain problems for Member States as it is too restrictive in that it restricts the possibility of Member States improving the situation in their own environment.
Mr President, the Commission would like to take this opportunity of thanking the Environment Committee and its rapporteur, Mr Collins, for the care that has been shown in dealing with this proposal, which is a very technical one.
The pollution from these sources was already substantial in 1990 and, according to the forecasts, by 2010 it will be almost on the same scale as that from road transport, given that pollution from that sector is being reduced.
The common position is aimed at reducing the emissions of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons and particulates, so that the final reduction as regards these last three substances will be 50 %, 29 % and 67 % respectively.
The common position sets its sights high and, if the directive is finally adopted, it will be the first example of legislation to reduce emissions from mobile sources where the same principles are being followed on both sides of the Atlantic.
The industry has only nine months to secure the certification of the most significant category of engines, and there are only three and a quarter years left of the period of stability between stages 1 and 2 of the emission requirements for that engine category.
We could not have made the timetable any tighter, so any extension of the current legislative procedure would mean a change - perhaps a radical change - in the proposal.
Amendment No 2 reinstates the original article from the Commission's proposal.
The deletion of this article should be seen against the background of the Council's statement that the adoption of the directive does not create a precedent for any future decisions on tax incentives.
On the basis of these arguments, the Commission takes the view that it should not accept Amendment No 2 in the form in which it has been tabled, but as my comments indicate, I do agree with its political intention.
So at present, the Commission is unfortunately unable to accept Amendment No 3.
Amendment No 4 concerns the standard committee procedure for adaptation to technical progress.
However, we once again feel that, with a view to rapid adoption, a type 2b committee as introduced in the common position does not create any fundamental difficulties for the management and application of the directive.
This is particularly the case in the present situation, since the committee under this directive is closely associated with the similar committee which was established in connection with the framework directive on type approval for motor vehicles.
The Commission is therefore obliged to stand by the common position and regrettably cannot accept Amendment No 4.
I hope that these quite extensive comments have contributed to Parliament's understanding of the background to the Commission's decisions and, finally, I also hope that the directive can be adopted as soon as possible and above all that it will enter into force without delay.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
They wrote 14 declarations into the minutes of the meeting, and these were not attached to the proposal which was forwarded to Parliament for second reading.
I have officially received three of these 14 declarations from the Commission, with the remarkable request that I should treat the declarations - which were an initiative from the Commission - as confidential.
The European Parliament practises open legislation.
Two new annexes have been attached to the common position, but it is hard to see what the purpose of these is.
Mr President, I would like to give my support to the rapporteur's proposals for this directive at second reading.
We want to see and allow free trade in these substances but, at the same time, maintain a high level of protection for human health and the environment.
However, like my colleague the rapporteur, I have been concerned about the way the Council has formulated the common position and, in particular, has placed many of the declarations on how it will interpret the provisions of this proposal in its private Minutes.
Whereas there is a great deal of logic in some of the provisions of the directive - for example, the simplified procedure for some less dangerous substances which are better known, less toxic and pose no serious risk - one has to be sure that these procedures are not abused to the disadvantage of the environment and public health.
The directive has the potential to fulfil the needs of everyone, to protect the environment and public health, to give the consumers a range of products from which they can make a choice and also to enable the industry to sell freely and fairly in the marketplace.
Mr President, the directive on biocidal products, which we are discussing at second reading today, is a convincing illustration of the need for European legislation.
Biocides are active substances contained in products such as disinfectants and pesticides, as well as preservatives.
At present, there are some 500 active substances of this kind on the market in the European Union, and around 5000 products containing these substances are manufactured, mostly by small and medium-sized enterprises.
Where such declarations cover future technical guidelines and the inclusion of active substances in Annex 1, they can perhaps be tolerated.
This is a form of legislation which is not provided for in any legislative procedure set out in the Treaties, and it cannot be tolerated by the European Parliament.
My group and others will therefore seek to ensure during the conciliation procedure that either these declarations disappear from the minutes or their content is incorporated into the existing legal text.
We therefore support some of the amendments, with a view to maintaining the possibility of making a statement in the Conciliation Committee.
Therefore, Commissioner, we shall be very interested to hear what you have to say.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are considering here is the common position established by the Council on 20 December last year on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the placing of biocidal products on the market.
It has been calculated that biocidal products actually number more than 14, 000, and that they are placed on the market not only by a few multinationals but also by countless small- and medium-sized enterprises, especially in Italy where such enterprises account for 70 % of production.
The Directive essentially has two objectives: 1) the harmonization of the internal biocide market and 2) a high level of protection for man and the environment.
The final text of the common position is more comprehensible and practical and highlights the main aims of the proposal - the protection of human health and the environment - while at the same time permitting free trade in biocides.
I hope that there will be the necessary number of votes in favour of these amendments and against those of the Greens - not because of any fundamental disagreement on the matter as a whole, but because we need to concentrate on the present.
The Council's many secret declarations show that people in the Council still believe that European cooperation is something which should be dealt with by a small élite.
It also demonstrates a total lack of respect for the European Parliament - the only directly elected institution in the EU - in that it is expected to sit and discuss common positions from the Council which do not contain everything which has been decided.
Mr President, first of all I should like to add my voice to those already heard, deploring the total lack of transparency with which this matter has been dealt, a very important matter.
Some of these risks are acceptable but others are not.
I am thinking in particular of bio-accumulable substances or persistent substances which may have carcinogenic or mutagenic effects and even affect the hormonal systems of mammals, human beings in particular.
But what is the result of the common position in the wake, after all, of the initial proposal by the Commission?
It organises the free circulation of substances and in particular of these carcinogenic substances but it has absolutely no aim of redirecting production towards low-risk substances in terms of people and the environment.
The Committee on the Environment has had very little impact on this.
I should like to draw attention to the three main amendments which we have tabled.
I have in mind Amendment No 32 which is particularly reasonable - it stipulates that inclusion on the list of authorised products must be refused or withdrawn when there is another product on the market posing less of a risk, or another method enabling the same aim to be achieved.
Amendments Nos 34 and 37 introduce the principle of refusing authorization for any subject recognised as carcinogenic and for which there is no harmlessness threshold.
Finally, Amendments Nos 38 and 39 demand that the dossier accompanying the authorization request supply information not only on the active matter studied but also on degradation products.
The EU is primarily restricting itself to harmonizing the opportunities for industrial competition, instead of ensuring maximum health and environmental protection where these substances are used.
The Commission would like to thank the Environment Committee and in particular its rapporteur, Mrs Jensen, for the considerable amount of work which has been done on this proposal.
The aim of the proposal is to harmonize the internal market in biocidal products and the active substances they contain, and to bring about a high degree of protection for humans and the environment.
When the directive has been adopted, the active substances which exist at present will be reviewed in order to determine whether they can be included in the list in Annex I.
The directive will also harmonize the national systems for authorizing biocidal products, with common principles for evaluation being introduced.
I shall now explain the Commission's stance on Parliament's amendments here in second reading.
Forty-one amendments have been tabled, and of these the Commission can accept 21 completely, partially or in principle.
Amendments Nos 18 and 19 are intended to remove the so-called simplified procedures for low-risk biocidal products and commodity substances by deleting the new Annexes IA and IB.
The introduction of these two procedures is one of the Council's most important contributions in the common position.
In this context, I must emphasize that active substances will be subject to the same evaluation procedure for inclusion in Annex IA or IB as for inclusion in Annex I.
The Commission cannot accept the removal of the simplified procedures, but is happy with Amendments Nos 2 and 10, which serve to tighten the controls under those procedures.
Many of the amendments - Nos 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, part of 10, 11 and part of 31 - insert into various articles specific references to Annexes IVA and IVB, which contain information requirements relating to active substances and products based on micro-organisms.
The Commission finds all these amendments useful and acceptable, with the exception of No 31, which it can only accept in part.
The purpose of Amendments Nos 15 and 16 is to change from committee procedures 2b and 3b to types 1 and 3a respectively, which is almost a reversion to the Commission's original proposal.
These amendments are acceptable, except that the wording should follow closely that of Council Decision 87/373/EEC and the reference to Articles 29 and 33 should not be deleted.
Amendment Nos 25 and 31 require the Commission to take the initiative at a later stage to revise and extend Annex VI, in particular by incorporating recommendations of the International Maritime Organization, the IMO.
The Commission does not disagree with the aims of the amendments, although it feels that as they stand at present, they limit its right of initiative.
The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 3, 13, 14, 20, 23, 24 and 26, except for those parts requiring the deletion of Annexes I, IA and IB.
So much for the amendments and the actual content of the proposal, but I should now also like to comment on the declarations attached to the Council's minutes, which have taken up a good deal of the debate.
As was evident from the debate, the Council is primarily involved here, and the problem is therefore best resolved in the context of the trialogue.
The proposal on biocides which we are discussing here today was unfortunately presented during a transitional period when no rules were really in place.
The Commission can accept those amendments which are designed to improve the text itself and certain aspects of its implementation.
On the other hand, we cannot accept those amendments which, in the Commission's view, would disrupt the sound balance which has been achieved during Parliament's first reading and in the Council's common position.
Lastly, I would once again thank all those who have worked on drafting the amendments, and those who have been here for the final part of the debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
If there is a clear commitment from other groups, and in particular from the Group of the European People's Party, to deal with this in the Lehne report, we are prepared to abstain on this report.
As far as our group is concerned, we shall be voting for Amendment No 1, in the knowledge that it has no chance of succeeding since the two other groups have decided to abstain.
Amendment No 15 I have been asked to isolate the words 'all gifts or' and 'or officials of the Institution' .
In accordance with this, I would like to table an oral amendment to point 1 of Article 18 proposing the deletion, in the first paragraph, of the expression 'at least three hectares of usable agricultural area (UAA)' and the deletion of the whole of the second sub-paragraph of paragraph 1 of Article 18.
We have also voted for amendment proposal number 15.
The Ford report deals with the Code of Conduct for lobbyists in the European Parliament.
In other words, any attempt to influence this process, anything that goes beyond information, must be made visible.
In any case, this Code of Conduct will only be useful if the quaestors control its application.
The report is a move in the right direction so I have voted for it.
The EU organisation must be characterised by both integrity and openness.
One prerequisite for achieving equal conditions for different types of pressure groups is that the principle of openness must operate equally for all EU institutions which would make it possible to obtain the information required.
Stage 2: From January 2001 to December 2003.
The aim of this directive is to reduce nitrogen oxides by 42 % by the year 2003.
These provisions will only apply to new machines put onto the market after the deadlines specified.
Recommendation for second reading K.
Jensen (A4-0137/97) Amendments Nos 18 and 19 of the recommendation for second reading on the proposed directive on the placing of biocidal products on the market seek to delete Annex 1A and Annex 1B of the directive.
However, we believe that there is justification for allowing a simplified procedure in certain cases, provided that a thorough risk assessment has been carried out and that there is no reduction in the level of protection for humans and the environment .
Anastassopoulos report (A4-0119/97) The Danish social democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of Parliament's report on the Commission's Green Paper 'Legal protection for encrypted services in the internal market - Consultation on the need for Community action' .
The legislation of the EU Member States in this sector differs widely, and in many cases is inadequate.
We therefore believe that there is a need for an EU or international solution regarding legal protection for encrypted services.
Having said that, it is important to stress that any legislation in this sector must not only take account of the interests of service providers, but also those of consumers.
Secondly, we must avoid a situation where providers of encrypted services obtain such a high degree of legal protection that they acquire a quasi-monopoly position in various sections of the market.
For this reason we must object to the statements in points 2 and 12 of the report.
When the Treaty of Maastricht came into force in autumn 1992, one of its primary recommendations was that the principle of subsidiarity was to be incorporated in key European policies and programmes.
The Union for Europe Group of the European Parliament wants to see an expansion of bottom-up EU initiatives for both rural and urban schemes and not to dissipate these programmes in any shape or form.
The principle of subsidiarity is an important EU principle.
The Member States must endeavour to use their democratic instruments in all those areas where the EU has no decision-making power.
All the EU institutions are committed to the principle of subsidiarity, not least the 626 Members of this Parliament.
I hope that the Commission's three reports will help to ensure that we too here in the European Parliament will take the subsidiarity principle more seriously in future.
The report sets out an excellent analysis of the legal nature of the subsidiarity principle.
In recitals A, B and C it rightly points out that the European Community is based on the explicit allocation of competences, that these competences are not presumed but remain the exception, in comparison with the competences of the Member States, which implies non-interference by Community institutions in the affairs which come under the competence of Member States.
In the same way, the Palacio report highlights the lack of thoroughness shown by the Commission in the various reports on application of the subsidiarity principle.
The question of the respect of subsidiarity principles and proportionality - found in principles of the European Union - is confused with questions of legislative technique in matters of clarity and simplicity of texts.
It is also regrettable that the report should contain a rather unrealistic interpretation of Article 3B of the Treaty on European Union, presented as defining a superiority in principle of Community action compared with the individual action of the various Member States in terms of effectiveness (paragraph 2 of the Explanatory Memorandum), instead of recommending the modification, so that its application should come under ordinary law, regardless of the type of competences exercised at Community level.
This is the fourth meeting between our delegations, the European Parliament's and the Georgian Parliament's, and the first since ratification of our cooperation and partnership agreement.
Community environmental law The next item is the report (A4-0109/97) by Mr Ken Collins, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the communication from the Commission concerning the implementation of Community environmental law (COM(96)0500 - C4-0591/96).
According to the 13th annual report on the application of European Community law, the Commission, in 1995, was notified of 265 breaches of the law in spite of the fact that there are over 200 legal instruments to protect the Union's environment.
The Parliament has for some years taken a particular interest in how we might improve the record of implementation in view of its importance for the environment as well as for the economic performance of companies in the Member States.
The main problems are secrecy in the Council, compromise texts which are sometimes weak and incoherent, and sometimes the fact that environment law is not properly codified.
Citizens have a right to know what laws are enacted and they have a right to believe that all relevant legislation is properly enforced.
So we need to improve access to justice for ordinary citizens right across the European Union.
We are calling for all environmental legislation to be subject to codecision and qualified majority voting in Council.
All too often it is only coherent if you have access to a whole library of Official Journals.
You said that there are major problems concerning the implementation and enforcement of environmental law in the European Union.
The rapporteur has already emphasized this point.
One of the key issues here is to ensure the widest possible access to correspondence between the Commission and the Member States.
That is why the Committee on Legal Affairs is proposing that the Commission should ensure that its legislative proposals contain provisions which commit the Member States to effective, appropriate and proportionate sanctions in the case of breaches of Community environmental law.
I hope that when the Environmental Commissioner replies, she may be able to give us some up-to-the-minute news on what is happening to the actions which the Commission apparently announced in January under Article 171 against a number of Member States which have successively ignored European Court of Justice judgments since 1990.
Madam President, in view of the shortcomings identified in the application of Community environmental legislation within the Member States - more than one-fifth of violations of Community law in 1995 related to the environment - the Commission has forwarded this communication on improving the implementation of the relevant European Union legislation.
While emphasizing that it is impossible for the Commission to monitor the implementation of Community provisions on the ground, the report nevertheless puts forward proposals designed to rationalize the application of the legislation and to offer Europe's citizens the necessary information and powers to ensure compliance with environmental law.
The communication also provides for the arrangement of wide-ranging consultations before any environmental legislation is drafted, and the publication of an annual report on the application of Community environment law in the Member States.
I should also like to thank the Commission for its communication and the rapporteur for all the work he has done.
Ordinary people who want to make complaints feel frustrated and it has to be borne in mind that, according to the Foundation for Wildlife Protection, 80 % of complaints made to the Commission come from ordinary citizens or citizens' associations.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group also congratulates Mr Collins on his report.
Furthermore, greater use must be made in future of the Article 189 procedure; only then will the Commission have any credibility.
It has also become clear that the Article 171 procedure, which the Commission first implemented against Germany, makes a good deal of sense.
The European Commission has a major responsibility for seeing that European law is incorporated into national law, but obviously it is ultimately up to Member States to implement it.
My final comment concerns Mr Florenz's amendment.
Perhaps we should also look to tighten up these 200 laws further, but first and foremost we must insist on compliance.
In this context I would also draw your special attention to a gratifying development.
We have the same problem with environmental policy in Europe as in my own family.
That is exactly what we need, Mrs van Putten, when you say that Europe's environmental policy transcends borders.
We need to lay down practical measures, and here we have come up with a new trick: we now no longer say 0.01 or whatever, but demand BAT, best available technique.
We therefore have to define what BAT means: it is certainly not what is still at the research stage in universities, but nor does it mean the practice of 20 years ago.
But the criteria stipulating what may or may not be in those waters do have to come from Europe.
In my country, which as you know is made up of several Länder - 15 or 16 - it takes rather longer.
The first is paragraph 15, which calls on the Commission to bring forward proposals for the thorough and timely application of Article 171 of the EC Treaty to breaches of environmental law.
Madam President, in the implementation of Community environmental law there are, explicitly or implicitly, greater questions of European construction at its various levels.
Following loose directives, and the more or less binding directives of action programmes with good but inconsequential proposals, and from a cohesion fund targeting only four countries with the environment as its objective, we have gone to the creation of a genuine Community law.
This will result from the detection of risk situations in that the Commission has registered hundreds of violations of the various elements of legislation on the environment on the basis of complaints, questions or petitions, as well as cases directly detected by the Commission, representing some 20 % of violations registered in 1996.
At the end of the year, over 600 complaints and violation procedures on the environment had been received against Member States, compared with less than 300 in 1995.
On the other hand, most environmental legislation coming from Community sources is not directly applicable in Member States and calls for national enactment measures, or adaptation and the creation of means by national legislation.
More recently the EU Commission took the first step towards legal action against Ireland for inadequate monitoring and control of water pollution from agricultural sources.
In the area of environmental impact assessments Ireland has taken a minimalist approach.
Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking Parliament for its report on the communication on implementing Community environmental law.
It was also good to see that in their discussion of the communication, both the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee reached a positive conclusion on the Commission's proposals.
The Commission is currently examining the procedures and the question of openness in connection with Article 169, not least in the light of the observations made by the Ombudsman.
We have now seen something similar happen in connection with the Commission's use of Article 171 as regards the provision on fines.
As Parliament is aware, the five cases to which I have referred are all from the environment sector, and as you also know, they are the very first to be brought under this new provision of the Treaty in Article 171.
Because as we all know, there is not a great deal of point in winning court cases after years of discussions, if the damage to the environment has already been done.
Parliament's positive reaction to these three proposals is a great encouragement.
As you know, the Commission's communication does not propose any binding legislation as regards the three proposals I have mentioned.
This obviously serves to reinforce my wish that in the longer term, these proposals should be turned into legally binding rules.
The Commission has already introduced such training courses at European level, and we are asking the Member States to take similar initiatives in their own countries, adapting them to all levels of their administrations and legal systems.
It is a responsibility which is shared by the Member States, the Commission and Parliament.
It only remains for me to hope that the Commission's communication and Parliament's excellent report can persuade the Council that there is a need for substantial improvements in implementation and enforcement.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since 1959 we have been faced with the problem of protecting the health of the general public and of workers against the dangers of ionizing radiation.
There have been many Directives to this effect, the most recent being 29/Euratom, adopted by the Council in 1996.
The only attempt to do this occurred in a Directive of 1984, 466, which was intended to complement the directive on basic safety standards and improve the radiation protection of patients without losing sight of the potential benefits deriving from the use of such radiation.
First and foremost, by comparison with 1984, there has been an enormous increase in the number of cases of medical exposure in the course of examinations and treatment, while at the same time these last ten years have seen a massive increase in scientific and technological knowledge.
Nor can I refrain from stressing the point that, during that same period, Article 129 of the Treaty on European Union gave the Community specific powers in the public health sector.
I must also stress that the proposal for a Council Directive - even though this is an area where progress is taking place at dizzying speed, so that it is difficult to be fully abreast of events - is a sound one, and we should approve it as soon as possible.
The message could not be clearer: 1) we must reduce the need for medical radiation by using alternative methods, methods which cost the same but involve a greater commitment in terms of time, such as echography, or methods which cost much more such as nuclear magnetic resonance; 2) we must eliminate the use of radiation for unnecessary examinations, 3) we must verify any request for examination with the prescribing physician, who must be responsible for establishing the specific indications for each individual referral; 4) we must ensure more careful use of radiation by those carrying out the examination - the radiologists, in other words - for example by way of appropriate and stringent protection in critical areas not subject to examination, and the use of appropriate sensitive material and techniques to replace conventional radiology, such as digital technology, quality controls and individual index cards for the examinations carried out.
The amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment - and I note with pride that all the amendments were tabled by that committee - are intended to make the various paragraphs of the Directive clearer and more specific, and I believe that they are in harmony with the spirit that inspired the Council in the production of this Directive.
Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his work.
It is therefore very important to work with great precision in this area, since X-ray examinations of sick people - and even healthy ones - can do considerable harm if too much radiation is involved.
We are all aware of a number of such cases which occurred while this medical equipment was in its developmental phase.
It must also be said in this context that both the Commission's text and Parliament's improvements to it place particular emphasis on the need for quality control in the hospitals and installations concerned, and for the staff to have appropriate training.
Madam President, we are discussing a Council directive on health protection here - an important topic - but unfortunately Parliament only has the right to consultation.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the point has already been made that after exposure to natural radiation, medical irradiation is by far the main source of ionizing radiation.
Rapporteur Amadeo rightly says that we must limit radiation.
But I have faith in the medical profession, as guardians of human health, to do everything possible to ensure that unnecessary or harmful examinations are avoided.
Madam President, as a way of introduction I should like to insist on the fact that medical exposure to ionising radiation is no different from exposure of a non-medical type.
Therefore it is important to note that there is no threshold.
That has led to the changes which the Commission is proposing, in particular Articles 4 and 11, where it calls for special attention to be paid to exposure without direct medical advantages for the patient or in the case of potential pregnancy.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has found it necessary to slightly tighten up these texts asking that this type of exposure be avoided altogether.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report on the protection of human health against the dangers of ionizing radiation associated with medical exposure could from certain standpoints be regarded as complementing Directive 80/636/ECSC, which did consider in general terms the precise subject of medical exposure.
Madam President, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report on this public health issue.
I endorse the decision to update the 1984 directive which will protect people from ionizing radiation during medical exposures.
Firstly, there is the enormous increase in the use of X-rays during medical treatment and tests over the past twelve years throughout the European Union; secondly, the significant progress in scientific knowledge and X-ray technology that has taken place over this time; thirdly, the number of international organizations that have issued more updated recommendations on X-rays, and fourthly, Article 129 of the Maastricht Treaty, which has given the European Union new powers in public health.
Mr President, it is a historical fact that both Roentgen, who worked with X-rays, and Pierre Curie, who together with Marie Curie discovered the element radium, suffered the harmful effects of the radiations they discovered and studied for the progress of science and for the benefit of humanity.
Directive 84/466/EURATOM, however, which relates to the protection from ionizing radiations of people undergoing medical examination, was approved in 1984.
And most certainly, both during radiodiagnosis and during radiotherapy, those operating the equipment should be protected as much as possible in every way. 3) It is important for the equipment and installations used for radiodiagnosis and radiotherapy to be up to date, and to provide the best possible safety, both for the person being examined or undergoing therapy, and for the working participants of those medical procedures.
In all my speeches in this House I have stressed, and I stress again today as we near the end of our discussions on the Intergovernmental Conference, the need to broaden the scope of the tasks allocated to Parliament in health matters - that is, the tasks referred to in Article 129.
The fact is that it has been common knowledge for some time that ionizing radiation is the major source of radiation exposure for the citizens of Europe.
When the Council adopted a directive for the first time in 1984 on the radiation protection of persons undergoing medical examination or treatment, it was in recognition of the fact that this was by far the largest man-made source of radiation to which people were exposed.
The aim of the Commission's proposal to amend this directive is to take account firstly of the scientific and technical developments in the medical field, secondly of the amendment of the 1996 directive on basic safety standards and, thirdly, of the experience gained in implementing the 1984 directive.
The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 10.
We can therefore accept in principle or in part Amendments Nos 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 11.
The same person is concerned in this article, and we should therefore use the same description.
To ensure that persons undergoing medical exposure to radiation continue to enjoy the highest possible degree of protection, the Commission will submit an amended proposal on the basis of the useful amendments which the European Parliament has presented today, with a view to having the directive adopted by the Council in June.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the trans-European telecommunications networks are the third of the trans-European networks to take shape, after those for transport and energy.
The TEN projects are not research projects, since those are included in the fourth research framework programme, but are designed to demonstrate to our citizens and businesses the practical and economic benefits of information and communication technologies.
The powers of the European Parliament were of course a particularly important aspect of the negotiations for us, and preserving Parliament's institutional powers was in fact the greatest obstacle.
Here, our scope for codecision in the procedure for establishing the guidelines for projects of common interest has been retained.
The projects of common interest are identified in Annex I to the decision.
I believe that the reports which are to come next - the satellite action plan or our discussion of it so far, the agreement on personal communications services by satellite and the directive or Commission proposal on the subject of the European Union and aerospace - all demonstrate our clear intention to assess the implications of this issue in much greater depth for the benefit of the public, so as to make it clear that this important sector of European industry needs promotion.
It was the first time that I personally had taken part in conciliation proceedings, and I must say that I found it very exciting and often very instructive.
I particularly welcome the Commission's promise to make a statement to the House on Article 14 of the decision.
Mr President, Commissioner, I really do welcome the fact that we have finally arrived at a positive outcome to this conciliation on the telecommunications networks, both because this final text largely reflects the European Parliament's recommendations and because it is a matter of urgency that these guidelines for European policy should be confirmed.
In the United States this type of symbiosis takes place mainly at local level, I understand, with 'smart communities' on the lines of Silicon Valley, but in Europe the telecommunications networks and the information society can and must become an instrument of policy for the single market, of interregional cohesion and cross-border co-operation.
I must make one comment on the fact that the guidelines of this decision now relate to the three levels of the network system - applications, services and infrastructures: I believe that in the applications sector the Commission must act as a unifying force for potential users, a pilot customer and a financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises, whereas in the services and infrastructure sectors the Union's main task should be to ensure interoperability and support for technological research.
These guidelines were put forward by the Commission in 1995.
I would particularly like to emphasise the cross border aspects and the issues concerning language and culture in less developed regions.
The Liberal group supports the proposal from the Conciliation Committee.
Mr President, we think it is vitally important for the European Parliament to support the outcome of the agreement in the Conciliation Committee aimed at bringing about a final approval after more than a year of tough negotiations of a set of guidelines relating to the trans-European telecommunications networks.
The aim of this decision consists in establishing the main thrust of action which has been proposed and to identify projects of common interest which would benefit from Community subsidies in accordance with the regulation setting the new principles for the granting of financial aid by the Community in the framework of the trans-European network.
Indeed, both the 18 technical amendments and the decision to identify projects of common interest and their priorities and the introduction of satellite communications in Appendix I, including its revision clause, mean that we must approve, in the plenary session, the whole agreement text - for the general interests of the ordinary people of the European Union who will definitely be the end beneficiaries of the proper operation of the programme of trans-European telecommunications networks.
In order for this to take place, this programme must be based not only on a network of telecommunications directed at the major undertakings in the sector but also at fostering the creation of jobs and the promotion of the development of telecommunications in the less-favoured rural areas of the European Union where, because of special characteristics, the proper dissemination of this sector will prove more complicated - as is the case, for example, in the ultra-peripheral regions.
The first step will be to foster the creation of aids for small and medium-sized enterprises in the telecommunications sector, which are generators of a high percentage of job creation in Europe, as well as improving the infrastructures which these enterprises install where there is a lack of telecommunications networks and where it is far from convenient to do so.
Bearing in mind the social purpose of telecommunications networks, it is vital that these projects should be approved, bearing in mind their very nature, their economic viability, their environmental consequences and, above all, as has already been said, their social and economic effects on European society, and in particular the impact on employment.
A person who is deficient in information is more excluded in the information society than people in a weak economic position are now.
This is a vital sector for the future of European society and economy and is a prerequisite for enabling European citizens and European Union enterprises, especially SMEs, to benefit fully from the opportunities offered by telecommunications in the perspective of the establishment of the information society.
Through this programme, the Community will be backing the interconnection of telecommunications infrastructures, essentially in order to improve competitiveness, especially of SMEs, and to strengthen the internal market, strengthen economic and social cohesion, bearing in mind in particular the need to link up island regions, land-locked regions, and peripheral regions to the more central regions of the European community as well as speeding up the development of activities which create jobs in new growth sectors.
The Commission's decision to set a maximum deadline of four years for proposing the revision of Appendix I, on projects of common interest, the latter ceasing to exist if the deadline is overrun, will, I hope, prevent political holdups in the Council.
It is also a good agreement because each of these institutions has shown that it can develop the role incumbent upon it: the Commission proposes, the European Parliament defines the strategy and fundamental sectors and it is for national governments to execute the project.
And a market cannot grow together without an efficient infrastructure.
We then carried the matter forward, and very soon came up with the three component sectors: transport in all its forms, naturally, then energy and energy distribution, and finally telecommunications.
But what I did just want to say to Mr Glante was this: of course there is a difference between a road, a canal, an airport or even an electric power line and infrastructure for telecommunications or communications.
After all - and this is important too - these satellites will, for the first time, make full competition possible even within the various infrastructures.
But competition is incomplete with regard to infrastructure.
The proposal is to be adopted within the following 18 months, in other words by 31 December 2001, which is exactly when the present annex lapses, to ensure that the action will proceed without interruption.
I think that we can now adopt this timetable together without it causing us any major problems, since 18 months really should be adequate for a codecision procedure, especially if we are able to evaluate positive experiences.
Of course I am not being entirely serious, but I promised the President that I would fill in the time until 5.30, when Question Time begins.
I admit that the Council had difficulty in accepting this new idea of satellite-based communications.
I should like to thank Parliament once again and, Mr President, I hope that I have performed my role to your satisfaction.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Question Time (Commission) The next item on the agenda is questions to the Commission (B4-0165/97).
Mr Van Miert is taking these questions along with Mr Bangemann.
Commissioner, you have nearly answered our questions but I would just like to say a couple of things to you and put another question.
I fully agree with the honourable Member about the unacceptability not only of the Helms-Burton Act, but also of the D'Amato Act covering Iran and Libya.
Commissioner, referring to the situation of the Spanish businessman, I think you referred to application of legislation which was on the United States Statute Book before the Helms-Burton Act and that, in any case, his defence was a matter solely for the Spanish Government.
My question is this: do you not think that in the exercise of European powers a European citizen - who has been imprisoned over restrictions on international trade - should not also deserve the support of the European Commission and, in any case, the European Council since this is a European citizen we are dealing with?
In the first instance one would expect that question, if it arose, to be raised by the government of the Member State of the citizen concerned.
Mr President, it is true that on 1 January 1989 the United States imposed unilaterally a series of retaliation measures, consisting in the imposition of a 100 % duty on European Community exports to the United States of beef, ham, processed or preserved tomatoes, coffee, low-alcohol drinks, fruit juices and pet foods.
The United States made two small reductions for ham and tomato juice amounting to a further 4.5 million dollars, having reached an agreement in 1989 that the export of hormone-free beef from the United States to the European communities would be allowed.
On 17 April 1996, the European Commission asked for consultations to be carried out, within the framework of the WTO, on these United States measures, on the basis that these measures were contrary to its obligations towards WTO.
The United States withdrew these measures unilaterally on 15 July 1996.
Mr President, in answer to the second question, the European Commission's position is well known.
We were in favour of developing and strengthening the World Trade Organisation, as a general principle, and actually we think that the arrangements provided for by that organisation are the ones which should enable us to find a solution to the problem which you have pointed out.
Mr President, Mrs Ferrer, under Articles 5 and 30 of the Treaty, it is the responsibility of the Member States to take the necessary measures to guarantee that individuals cannot take action which could interfere with the proper operation of the internal market and the free circulation of goods.
Replying in more detail and having made the principle quite clear to the answer which you have put on Spanish fruit and vegetables, including strawberries, and their transport across France, in exercise of its powers and precisely because the French authorities have not intervened to put an end to the repeated excesses committed by groups of farmers against the farm products of others Member States, in this case from its southern neighbour, the Commission has taken proceedings to make sure that France respects the obligations by which it is bound.
A decision by the Court of Justice in Luxembourg is now awaited.
The Commission has therefore made use of the only legal instrument which it can under the Treaty and, of course, the Commission must hope that a judgment will be delivered.
We are right to hope for this, believe me, because the Commission is in no way passive on this and logically it is paying particular attention to the development of the campaign for marketing fruit and vegetables and in particular raising the awareness of the French authorities, with the independence with which the Court of Justice delivers judgments - which will imply a series of legal consequences and pecuniary ones too - in favour of those who have suffered from this type of attack and we simply hope that, through this co-operation, a much more positive attitude will be taken by the French authorities in the future.
Commissioner, there is no doubt that, in this case, the Commission's powers are limited.
The Commissioner says that people can claim compensation but he will be aware of the situation of the British lorry drivers who were held up by the French lorry drivers' strike.
Again I insist that the Court of Justice still has not taken a decision.
In accordance with French law, the French state is responsible for any damage caused to persons or goods as a result of the use of force or violence during demonstrations or similar protests.
As the authors of questions No 33 and 34 are not present, the questions fall.
Through its programmes the Commission is paying considerable attention to economic and social development of the northern provinces of Morocco, in accordance with the priority given by the Moroccan authorities themselves to the subject.
Between 1993 and 1996 the European Union financed projects totalling 118 million ECU in total value.
In addition there have been European Investment Bank loans which, over the same period, came to 267 million ECU plus 471 million ECU coming from the Member States.
In other words over the last three years projects and programmes have been implemented to a total value of 857 million ECU, a third of which approximately was made up of loans.
As for the timetable for projects to be financed in the northern Moroccan provinces, as well as programmes whose completion is planned over the coming years, these were established in the Indicative Programme 1996-1997 which was recently established by common agreement between the Commission and the Moroccan authorities.
In particular, this programme provides for a project of integrated rural development and a project for setting up industrial areas, which used to be called development 'poles' .
Further various national projects have also been undertaken in the northern Moroccan provinces.
As you will see the amount of investment over the last three years has been quite considerable and I would also say that, within the programming which was completed a month ago, we have also included a project for integrated rural development in this area as well as the creation of an industrial development zone.
Thank you very much, Commissioner, for this reply which is both practical and sets out some of the priorities.
However, I think that there is still a problem in terms of the difference between approved investment and what is perceived as regional development.
As for the timetable for 1996 and later: this is now being prepared, because only just before the Malta meeting was the programming completed together with the Moroccan authorities.
However, I think that it is very difficult - not only in Morocco but in any country around the Mediterranean - to make public opinion see - only two or three months following programming - that these European Union backed projects actually have immediate effects on their way of life, in the case of people living in the mountains or on small farms.
We initially made the mistake in Central and Eastern Europe of transferring more money, but neglecting education and training for the people.
I am very pleased to be asked this question because, bearing in mind the mistakes which had been committed in respect of countries in central and eastern Europe, the 'mise à niveau' programme, to use the Moroccan terminology, in other words the programme for adaptation to a free trade zone, uses up nearly 80 % of all of the MEDA programme's resources.
You are perfectly aware of the common position of the European Union vis-à-vis Cuba, as was expressed by the Council of Ministers, on 2 December 1996.
This is the first time that I am giving the European Parliament a concrete reading of the way in which humanitarian aid cooperation is being carried out with Cuba: between 1993 and 1996 we spent a total of 45 million ECU.
The Commission is at present working out a global plan for this year which will come to approximately 8 million ECU and it will deal with the despatch of medicines, raw material for making medicines, food - especially soya oil, meat and milk powder - as well as health equipment for hospitals.
Fourthly, the humanitarian aid and cooperation programmes which we are developing have now reached a fairly considerable volume in our opinion and, as far as the execution of the global plan this year is concerned, the decisions which have been taken are the ones which I have just pointed out.
As the Commission knows, the US has the genius of producing drugs and medicines much more cheaply than possibly any other country in the world.
In reply to the first question, the Commission feels that the common position is autonomous and specific to the European Union.
In our opinion this is an internal decision, Mr Newens and Mr Bontempi, and before the month of June we are going to have to decide how to continue our dialogue with the Cuban authorities, quite regardless of the way in which we are going to deal with the internal solution found by the United States to the Helms-Burton Act.
However, as we are always pointing out to the Cuban authorities and some of you could help us in this, it is also necessary for the Cuban authorities to have some very clear ideas of how it might respond positively to some of the elements which have already been set out in the common position.
As for the problem of the trade embargo, Mr Morris, the trade embargo is not affecting us in any way whatsoever since ECO, our humanitarian aid department, is carrying out its programme quite normally.
You have understood right.
You are right, Mr President, we are always happy to listen to him.
Despite my question, I would like to thank Mr Marín for his explanations because it seems that there could be a possibility of dialogue and that is something that we would all applaud.
Of course, I admit that it is quite easy for anyone - and I hope that this is going to be resolved at the Intergovernmental Conference - to demonstrate that the European Union not only has double standards but also has treble or quadruple standards ever since what happened in Geneva on the human rights in China.
Since then, quite frankly - and I say this with respect to the European Parliament - it is quite difficult for any European parliamentarian, Commissioner or Member State, to try to say that we are coherent on this.
Since the time allocated to this part of Question Time has been used up, Questions 39 to 41 will receive written answers.
Community financial support for renewable energy sources is provided mainly from the programmes ALTENER and JOULE-THERMIE.
In some Member States, the contribution of renewable energy sources to the production of electrical energy is, I must say, quite considerable.
The European Commission intends to submit a White Paper before the end of 1997 together with an action plan dealing with renewable energy sources.
The White Paper will also contain a series of special measures for the promotion of renewable energy sources.
Commissioner, it is a fact that rail transport is nowadays the most flexible means of transport and that 48 % of European trains run on the basis of electrical energy produced in carbon-dioxide-free hydro-electric plants.
Therefore, it seems reasonable that our objective should be to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions by 15 % by the end of the year 2010, adopt a coherent Community strategy in favour of renewable energies, which is fundamental, already putting into practice not only the programmes which you have already mentioned but also 'Altaner' so that, once and for all, we can introduce stability and transparency into national measures to promote renewable energy sources.
Question No 43 by Richard Howitt (H-0307/97) Subject: White Paper on voluntary organizations and foundations Why has this White Paper not yet been published, four years after the initial consultation and exactly one year after the Commission stated it was 'likely to be agreed by the Commission in the very near future'?
Mr President, the proposal for a White Paper on voluntary organizations and foundations has been the subject of much deliberation over the past month, both within the European Commission itself and with the associations, bodies and foundations involved.
The Commission, then, has developed new initiatives in recent months.
The new internal and external consultations with voluntary organizations and foundations were essential mainly for two reasons: first, because of the enlargement of the European Union, and secondly, so that account could be taken of all the new initiatives developed by the Commission in the last two years - because I remind you that this document first appeared four years ago.
I thought the Commissioner was going to disappoint me and then, just as I was grimacing, he brought us a date of 29 May.
Mr President, I am glad that I did not disappoint you and I do indeed hope that the date I gave you, 29 May, will be the day when the European Commission adopts the White Paper on the associations and foundations.
Yet, it seems to me rather appropriate that EURATOM must hesitate to use instruments and equipment for safeguarding at nuclear plants, which are not entirely reliable, are very expensive to operate, and are not transparent in terms of their installation and calibration.
I am sure that this review will prove particularly useful and it is a good example of the nature of the cooperation between EURATOM and the IAEA in their work in the sector of nuclear safeguards in the Community.
At any rate I would like to express my concern at the fact that information of such a delicate character was not protected sufficiently by the IAEA.
I thank the Commissioner most sincerely for that very comprehensive reply.
We continually monitor the development of technology and the operation of reactors at all levels.
Our basic aim is to conserve the environment and protect the health of citizens, as well as to ensure that the best possible technology is used in the sector of nuclear energy.
The services of general interest are an important element of the European model of society.
In its communication of September last year on services of general interest in Europe, the Commission clarified the principles of its policies and set out its objectives for the future.
The EC Treaty, and more precisely Article 90, already provides for a satisfactory equilibrium between, on the one hand, the objectives of market integration and free competition, and on the other hand, objectives of general economic interest.
The Commission considers that Article 90 has proved its worth in guaranteeing that balance.
The definition of objectives of general economic interest is in principle a national competence that has to be exercised by Member States in respect of the EC Treaty rules.
Sectoral directives such as those proposed for the telecom and postal sectors are therefore the appropriate instrument to achieve this objective.
The Commission actively supports, within the framework of existing competences, in fields such as environment, consumer protection, economic and social cohesion or transeuropean networks, a positive policy pursuing objectives of general interest.
The Commission considers further that an explicit mention of a positive commitment to the promotion of services of general interest should be added in a new paragraph in Article 3 of the new EC Treaty which is currently being negotiated.
If, for instance, Member States refuse to include such a reference in any article of the Treaty one might consider transforming the communication into a kind of charter but since they are apparently willing to discuss its inclusion in the Treaty we would favour that option.
Some others apparently would prefer a reference in Article 8.
We do not think we absolutely need a charter, but having said this the communication of the Commission commits the Commission to pursuing this kind of balanced policy.
I am going to be asking you whether the Commission is prepared to be very openminded and take on board some really very innovative suggestions that are going to come out not only at the IGC but after that concerning the way in which we deal with public services within the European Union; the way in which Commissioners themselves deal with them; and the way in which committees' structures within Parliament deal with them, in order to achieve cooperation between Parliament and the Member States.
Most of the delegations are apparently prepared to follow the Commission in including a reference in Article 3.
Question No 46 by Mr Jonas Sjöstedt (H-0297/97) Subject: Transport subsidies to Volvo The Commission's DG IV has carried out a study into transport subsidies to certain industrial companies in northern Sweden.
Its report proposes that subsidies to the Volvo plant in Umeå should not be allowed.
Question No 48 by Mr Sören Wibe (H-0302/97) Subject: Transport subsidy for Volvo, Umeå The Swedish press has reported that the Commission intends to prohibit the Swedish transport subsidy to the Volvo works at Umeå.
As you probably know, a special set of rules exists in the Community governing state aid to the motor vehicle industry.
This has been in force since 1989 and is designed to control and limit flows of state aid within this sensitive sector.
This can be very harmful to competitors in a sector like motor vehicles, since production in this sector is typically organized at European level and ever increasingly at global level.
The above-mentioned framework also provides that any existing operating aid should progressively disappear.
On the other hand, the framework has a generally positive attitude towards investment aid granted in order to overcome structural handicaps in disadvantaged regions of the Community.
This is therefore a highly sensitive global market in which an operating aid like this can easily bring about a significant distortion of competition.
But in reality the transport aid which goes to Volvo in Umeå only corresponds to part of the additional cost involved in being located in northern Sweden.
The Commission has always applied the rules concerned in this way and it has to stick to its coherent position in this case as it has done in the past.
Having said that, since this was an existing aid - because when Sweden joined the European Union this aid already existed - we are prepared to discuss with the Swedish authorities how to phase it out and to consider a reasonable period of time during which this aid can be phased out.
The second question concerns the final question from Jonas Sjöstedt which was not answered by the Commissioner and that is about the fact that the Commission's decision in this case was obviously based on a consultative report.
The content of this report is being kept secret even from the Swedish Government.
Firstly, in reply to the first part of the question, transport aid can be given and therefore this region in Sweden benefits from a kind of special treatment.
The other question now is: what comes next?
As for the secrecy stamp on the report the Commissioner says that governments also have secret reports.
But it is after all governments which are in charge of the Commission and not the Commission which is in charge of governments.
There is a seventh directive which sets the framework within which state aid can or cannot be given.
I can prove to you that in these kind of cases we have always operated in a coherent and open-minded way.
We signalled the problem when we agreed during the accession negotiations that there should be a possibility of giving transport aid and that sensitive sectors would be excluded as agreed.
Later we found that transport aid was still being giving to the Volvo plant in Umeå.
This should not lead to the conclusion that for other activities in the region concerned, transport aid cannot be given.
I confirm that this kind of aid can be given but not to the sensitive sectors.
But since the aid existed before the accession we were prepared to look for a solution whereby the aid can be phased out.
Scania gets a yes, Volvo in Umeå gets a no.
It has nothing to do with me, if the rules of the game have been explained time and time again and you still do not know what they are even today!
That concludes Question Time.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the House is sparsely populated at this hour.
It is nevertheless a pleasure for me today to recommend these two directives, which have been under discussion for some time in the parliamentary committees responsible, as well as in the dialogue and the controversial debate with the Commission.
The question which arises here in the sectoral directive is whether the whole issue of the balance which was to have been established under this directive between public contracting entities on the one hand and private contracting entities on the other in these four sectors belongs in the sectoral directive any longer, now that several markets have been liberalized and state-owned companies have been privatized to a large extent, for instance in the telecommunications sector.
The Commission has removed this provision from its text and referred to it instead in the recitals in a way which is quite acceptable, but basically carries very little weight.
There would in practice be no change to the legal situation affecting firms.
Some of the less significant amendments on statistical reporting obligations will undoubtedly be successful.
My amendment seeks to address the problems of competition distortion and secrecy, while supporting the principle of innovation.
If it was possible to make a legal judgment on precluding competition before - and one has to assume it was, since it has been part of the standard directives for many years - it should still be possible now without adding to the legal traps of those directives.
After the first reading of the Langen report, the Financial Times of 31 January 1996 accused the European Parliament of being the lapdogs of industrial lobbyists.
In the interests of harmony, I urge all Members of the European Parliament to support my amendment to both reports.
Given the amount involved, worth in the case of the European Union 720, 000 million ECU, approximately 11.5 % of all purchases, the equivalent to the combined GDPs of Spain, Belgium and Denmark, these public contracts call for special treatment by our leaders, as it is impossible to accept the fact that, until recently, only 2 % of all contracts were reached with foreign companies.
We can already see the results achieved by the Directives which have already been approved and which are now in force, reflected in the number of public calls for tender announced in the 'Official Journal' up from 12, 000 in 1995 to 95, 000 in 1997.
Along these lines, it is in turn desirable that enlargement of the market should be extended to third countries, as agreed between 22 of the countries taking part in the Marrakesh meeting, which means that we must now make necessary amendments to Community directives.
But we are also defending the interests of the citizens of third countries who will definitely benefit from buying European products and services, in many cases offered in more favourable conditions in terms of quality and price, as can be seen at this moment in time with the worldwide success of so many European Union companies, despite the difficulties they have to overcome.
Mr President, in 1995 to 1996 Parliament expressed its reservations about provisions relating to dialogue on the technical specifications and modifications to be made to calls for tender for public contracts - Appendices 12 to 15 of the Directive - in the belief, shared by many experts, that certain aspects of the proposal for a Directive would greatly hold up technical progress and cause considerable harm to the competitiveness of European industry.
In November 1996, following Parliament's rejection, the Commission presented a modified proposal for Directive 93/38.
The publication of information about innovative ideas by a European company, be it small or large, wishing to test it in the framework of a technical dialogue with a network industry, is unacceptable for that company.
In the position it is to adopt, the European Parliament must not compromise European innovative capacities and play the game of third companies, especially the United States, to the detriment of European industry.
Finally, Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5, introduced by the Economic Committee, make a distinction between public and private companies; although the former are subjected to an obligation given that they alone are affected by the WTO-GATT Agreement, it is also true, on the other hand, that Article 222 of the Treaty expressly provides for equal treatment in this Directive - and this must, in our opinion, be maintained - for public companies and private companies.
As the European Parliament will have noted, the amended proposals submitted by the Commission and the Council in the form of the common position very largely take into account Parliament's wishes.
We therefore hope that the European Parliament will review some of the proposed amendments in the light of the fundamental theoretical reasoning on which the Commission's position is based.
Similarly, the Commission could take a favourable view of Amendment No 2 in both reports whereby Parliament, by introducing a recital into the directives, adopts the aim of promoting access for small and medium-sized undertakings to public contracts by providing them with appropriate training and information materials.
With regard to information to be supplied to undertakings, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 3 and 4 to Directive 93/38 on the 'special sectors' , amendments designed to restrict to the State awarding entities alone the obligation to provide essential information such as information on contract awards, reasons for rejection of a tender, the advantages and features of the successful tender, etc.
In adopting the 'special sectors' Directive and extending its application not only to State awarding entities but also to entities which are not State entities in themselves but operate under special or exclusive powers granted to them by the State authority, the Community legislator - the Council, in other words - in co-operation with the European Parliament, intended to treat these two types of entity in the same way, thus putting an end to an argument that has lasted for more than thirty years.
More detailed though still brief considerations apply to the question of the technical dialogue, in respect of which we have two, apparently conflicting, proposals for amendments: Amendment No 1 proposes the deletion of the recital in the 'special sectors' Directive which notes that the technical dialogue cannot, within the meaning of the current Directives, preclude competition; but Amendment No 6 to the same 'special sectors' Directive and in two very similar alternative versions - Amendments Nos 1 and 4 to the traditional Directives - on the other hand, proposes the introduction of a new recital laying down the limits of recourse to technical dialogue and introducing a rule of transparency which will certainly not be ineffective - the obligation to make public the commercial interest which those undertakings that have provided a technical opinion have in the contract in question.
The solution proposed by the common position also has a further advantage: uniformity of the text, which is the same for all four Directives, in compliance with the cited principle of consistency upon which the differences existing between these Directives can have no effect.
I therefore ask the European Parliament, on the grounds of equilibrium and consistency, to accept the proposal by the Commission and the Council regarding the technical dialogue.
In contrast, Directives on public contracts are exclusively concerned with regulating relations between contracting entities and undertakings in the European Union.
Canada, for example, is said not to intend to comply with the obligation to make its decentralized authorities subject to the agreement, while the United States for its part has apparently decided not to amend its legislation.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report which I have the honour to present contains the message we wish to send to the Conference to be held in Maastricht from tomorrow on the very subject which we are debating this evening.
That Conference will base its conclusions on the reactions of all the Member States and their duly appointed national co-ordinators, the institutions and all other parties interested in the subject.
Our committee - the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media - emphasizes the essential role of mobility in the creation of a genuine citizens' Europe.
Another point which our committee strongly emphasizes is the need for progress in implementing the system of reciprocal recognition of diplomas, professional qualifications and apprenticeships.
In addition, I particularly stress the need to improve the dissemination of information on Community programmes for young people.
I believe that this kind of information needs to be decentralized, provided at local and regional level by structures like libraries or neighbourhood associations.
Finally, I should like to ask the Commission's opinion about the proposal we put forward in paragraph 36, where we call for the setting-up of a Co-ordinating Committee with the power to develop the proposals contained in my report, as suggested at the Council meeting in May 1996.
Mr President, first of all I should like warmly to congratulate Luisa Todini on her excellent work on this Green Paper.
I should also like to say that, although the Green Paper offers a good analysis of the current situation and the difficulties posed to people who wish to be more mobile, it proposes possible actions which seem to me still to be too abstract and distant.
Similarly, it is incomprehensible that, nowadays, an unemployed person looking for work in another European country should lose the right to benefits after only three months.
Finally, when it comes to vocational training itself, a large European programme is absolutely necessary in order to facilitate the mobility of apprentices and trainees, as well as recognition of their status and an encouragement to any companies, especially small and medium-sized companies, which take them on.
Mr President, those are three concrete proposals which should make it possible to make progress towards human and social Europe, a Europe to which our fellow citizens are especially attached.
Mr President, one of the key aims of cooperation on education and research policy in the European Union is to promote transnational mobility.
For individual EU citizens, the possibility of completing substantial parts of their training in another Member State is one of the most important and welcome aspects of freedom of movement within the Union.
I therefore welcome the Commission's initiative of a Green Paper to stimulate a broad-based debate on ways of eliminating obstacles to mobility at national and European level.
In recent years and months, we have discussed at length the procedures for the recognition of diplomas and certificates of qualification, and I think that a good deal has been achieved in this area.
In my experience, the lack of flexibility in recognizing vocational qualifications is by far the greatest obstacle to mobility.
I think that if this were handled properly, it could be a further step in our efforts to make vocational training more practically useful.
The Green Paper says nothing specific as regards either the term 'trainee' or what the suggested trainee status would entail.
The legal position of trainees must be such that a traineeship represents an attractive alternative to a university education and is promoted as such.
The proposed mobility scheme for trainees is welcome in principle, especially as it will be a means of reducing the imbalance between mobility measures in the university sector and in non-academic vocational training.
In my personal view, the term 'trainee' should not be too narrowly defined, so as to ensure access to these programmes for people who are perhaps not trainees in the usual sense.
Mr President, first of all I extend my congratulations to the rapporteur on her report.
To my mind, the European Union and the European Community before that have too long been too concentrated on money and business.
The free market has been only a free market for goods and capital.
I would like to draw attention to some that I think are particularly important: the call for support for persons with children to enable them to take up the opportunities that training in other countries provides; the need to extend entitlement to unemployment benefit - again very important for those in most need; the need for Member States not to discriminate between training at an establishment in their own country and those in another; the whole question of social protection; and perhaps most importantly, the call in paragraph 29 for a much greater emphasis on the European dimension to education, making certain that we introduce language teaching certainly at a much earlier stage than happens in my own country.
Those of us with a background in education are absolutely convinced that education is the key to overcoming ignorance and, in turn, to tackling the real problems of racism and nationalism, which, if unchecked will be a serious problem to the European Union.
Although the group were all legitimately registered students at the College of Northwest London in Wembley, some were denied travel visas to France and so the whole group has had to withdraw from a visit to Parliament.
However, this report shows the continuing need for more financial investment in education and training.
The ordinary people of Europe should be able to choose their place of residence, work and training, not only by personal preference but also in order to extend their opportunities for study or work.
Today, pilot programmes for exchanges between young people, students and apprentices, researchers and teachers, are isolated cases and they should instead become the rule rather than the exception within the European area.
With the possible integration of Schengen into the acquis communautaire, now surprisingly nearer to completion, we will at least have the free circulation of goods and persons which characterises a genuine European area without frontiers.
For a country like Portugal, the acquisition of experience in foreign centres, laboratories, universities and companies, as well as welcoming nationals from other European countries and the dynamization that that brings about, are part and parcel of its project for European integration.
If integration and cohesion are the basic objectives of the European Union, then mobility is one of its main instruments.
They face difficulties of recognition and validation of certificates, problems of social security, taxation problems and, last but not least, problems of linguistic preparation.
On various occasions, the European Parliament has dealt with obstacles to mobility from different angles.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, the Commission's Green Paper and Mrs Todini's report analysed very well the obstacles to transnational movement and the challenges in the field of education and research.
The priority task is to create a clear and sufficiently broad legal status for trainees and volunteers.
The most important area in which improvements are needed, however, is the budget for education programmes.
The Member States should therefore be required to promote them when budget decisions are taken in the Council.
This is a challenge affecting an increasing number of young people: we need only consider the number of students who, in recent years, have made use of the Erasmus programme to enable them to complete their studies in another Member State in order to understand that this desire for mobility - the desire to be citizens of Europe in the fullest sense - is deserving of special attention both from the Member States and from our European Institutions.
We are in agreement with the rapporteur when she focuses attention on the training and mobility of young people from less privileged backgrounds, those who are not entering higher education, mature students, the handicapped and persons with dependent children.
Let me cite the example of foreign language lecturers at universities in the Member States, and in Italy in particular.
The rapporteur's call for a comparative study on working conditions in this category, with a view to eliminating any discriminations and guaranteeing real mobility, seems to us a matter of the greatest urgency and importance.
Mr President, the Commission's Green Paper is an important element in the elaboration of the European policy for education, as defined in Article 126 of the Treaty.
I do not deny the problem of status and social cover for people on the move, but I should like to insist on the problem of less-favoured young people or those without qualifications.
I think that mobility should also concern them and we must find a way of involving them in all European programmes concerned education and youth.
In this European Union of ours, in which 120 million young people aged 18 years or less live, barely a million of them are going to benefit from any of these programmes.
As we have seen, less than one per cent of young people in vocational training outside universities now take part in exchange programmes and - as has already been mentioned - young students are in effect excluded because ERASMUS grants are worth no more than pocket- money; furthermore, some countries do not allow grants to be taken abroad.
The question is, are the exchanges which we are demanding to remain a pilot project, or are they to be offered much more widely one day?
Mr President, removing obstacles to the free movement of persons is one of the main objectives of European integration, defined in the Treaty of Rome.
Attaining an excellent level in two foreign languages at middle school level is, however, an impossible ambition.
Account needs to be taken, for example, of individual differences and differing opportunities to learn.
In my opinion, efforts ought also to be made to find a lasting solution to the problems of taxation and social security.
In particular, practice on the direct taxation of researchers differs considerably from one country to another and may lead to situations in which a high level of taxation directly prevents movement to a particular country.
Moreover, the refusal to grant unemployment benefit to persons participating for more than three months on a course in another European country is hardly likely to encourage applications to study abroad.
I should also like to know whether the budgetary resources are adequate.
We form part of a small group, representing less than 1 % of the European Union, which speaks a second language and has the ability to understand a third, but this is a small, closed society which fails to realize that for 99 % of the Union's population the problem of linguistic communication - when people move countries and go abroad, whether as tourists or looking for employment or in other situations - is a very fundamental one.
So I believe that we can no longer close our eyes to this problem but must face up to the need to offer all our citizens - not just the small percentage that can go to Oxford or Harvard to study foreign languages - the possibility of sharing a common language of communication.
I would like to assure you that, especially in the area about which we are talking this evening, Commissioner Cresson and indeed the entire Commission - as I can testify in my capacity as Commissioner for the single market - are doing our utmost to make good this defect; the action plan for the single market which the Commission is submitting to the European Council in Amsterdam places great and central emphasis on the free movement of persons, and the 'Citizens First' communication initiative supported by the European Parliament is designed to promote awareness and encourage people to use those opportunities for mobility which already exist today.
On the initiative of Mr Elchlepp, Parliament calls attention to the need to improve the dissemination of information on the opportunities the Community programmes offer to young people who want to spend a period training abroad.
In this context, the proposal is that intermediate structures should be set up at local and regional level to provide appropriate contact points for the largest possible number of people.
In this connection, the report by the Veil group on the free movement of persons contains a number of proposals relating to the Eures network - proposals which the Commission substantially endorses and which include the strengthening of links between the network and the other Community programmes and initiatives.
The Commission is glad to note that this objective - which the Commission itself strongly advocated in the White Paper 'Teaching and learning - Towards a cognitive society' - finds favour in principle with Parliament.
It must be recalled, however, that in the light of the present wording of Articles 126 and 127 the Community's scope for action in the linguistic field is substantially confined to the Community education and training programmes, Socrates and Leonardo.
Finally, the fourth objective is access to the Community programmes.
The report underlines the need to take greater account of the imperatives of equal opportunity and equilibrium in social policy in connection with the Socrates and Leonardo programmes, to improve access to these programmes and hence substantially to reassess the appropriations intended for them.
In this respect, the Commission entirely endorses the views of Parliament.
We hope that we can rely on the fruitful support of Parliament to enable future proposals in this field to be implemented.
Finally, Mrs Todini mentioned paragraph 36.
With regard to that paragraph, which deals with the Co-ordinating Committee, the Commission can express agreement with the idea of a body designed to facilitate a degree of coordination and follow-up, and practical implementation, of the lines of action proposed in the Green Paper.
However, as regards the type of committee proposed by Parliament, the Commission cannot yet give a definitive opinion.
In conclusion, I can tell you that the Commission will in due course, during the Luxembourg presidency, be submitting a detailed analysis supported by a series of proposals for implementing the Green Paper.
As proposed by Parliament, moreover, this proposal for implementing the Green Paper will be linked to a timetable, and I need hardly say that Parliament - which I thank again for its most valuable contribution - will be kept regularly informed of progress.
We are debating the report on mobility today and will be voting on it tomorrow, making it difficult for the Maastricht Conference really to take account of the European Parliament's work.
The debate is closed.
