I just wish to draw the attention of this House to the agenda for this week, particular the agenda for Friday, when the only item on the agenda is the Hallam report...
which is on the agri-monetary system for the single market, 1 July 1995 to 30 June 1996.
Nevertheless, colleagues have made arrangements, changed their flights and so on.
It seems to me - and this is my personal opinion, the Conference of Presidents may, of course, look at the question again - but I think it would be extremely strange to alter our agenda so abruptly by missing a morning's plenary session.
As chairman of Parliament's Delegation for relations with the United States, I had arranged a meeting this morning with President Santer in advance of our visit next week to Washington to discuss those issues that are pressing in relation to European-US affairs.
Madam President, you might find it an amusing issue, but let me tell you that there seems to be one set of rules for the chairmen of groups in this House and a different set of rules for the rest of this House.
I would like the President to write to me, so that I can explain to the Delegation for relations with the United States why we were refused a meeting with Jacques Santer but you later this morning will be having a meeting with the President of the Commission.
In any case, Mr Donnelly, I will make sure that this sort of incident does not happen again, as far as it is within my capacity to do so, of course.
Ladies and gentlemen, if I am to understand it correctly, you have been promised a reply which you have not received.
Situation in Algeria The next item is the statements by the Council and Commission on the situation in Algeria.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, by way of introduction I would like to thank the European Parliament for offering me this occasion to explain the Council's position with regard to the situation in Algeria.
The estimated figure of more than 60, 000 victims over the course of the last few years is an eloquent and tragic testimony to this.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, young girls have been kidnapped and raped, only to be murdered shortly afterwards.
As far as the political position of the Council is concerned, it is scarcely necessary to remind you, Madam President, that on many occasions the Council has re-affirmed its unconditional support for the process of political and economic reform being undertaken by the Algerian authorities.
We have therefore expressed our satisfaction concerning the legislative elections held on 5 June, whilst noting the statement by joint international mission of observers regarding certain significant shortcomings.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to human rights issues, international human rights organizations, and Parliament itself, have expressed criticism of the way in which Algeria is fighting the armed Islamic groups.
The Council is well aware of this, and does not hesitate to insist that the Algerian government adopt a moderate attitude in the face of crisis and respect human rights.
The Council emphasizes that, with a new association agreement in preparation, it is entitled to expect that a country going through such a crisis should settle its problems as far as possible with wisdom and moderation.
As far as the association agreement is concerned, I am convinced that this new agreement will be able to contribute significantly to the process of democracy and economic reform in Algeria.
With regard to the local elections, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the fact that the Council is encouraging Algeria to follow the path of democratization and to respect the next date for the elections - as you know these are local elections - which is expected to be 23 October, following the presidential elections of 1995, the revision of the constitution in 1996 and the general elections in June of this year.
In conclusion, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Council is following the internal situation in Algeria with concern.
It is hardly necessary to emphasize that Algeria is an important partner of the European Union in the Barcelona process.
Algerians themselves must find a solution to this serious and deep crisis which their country is enduring, through the completion of the reform process, both on a political and on an economic level.
It is in this spirit that the Union is determined to continue negotiations to conclude a new association agreement.
As Mr Wohlfart said, the Union could not remain silent in the face of these acts of blind violence.
We have discussed Algeria before, in July, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy and the Committee on Political Affairs, and nobody can deny that Algeria is experiencing a serious political crisis.
I still think, as I said in the July debate, that it would be a good thing if these negotiations allowed us to bring Algeria further into the Barcelona process, to enable us to form more bonds with that country through agreement with the European Union.
Initially, the Commission is working at the technical level and we are expecting the Algerian Government - the new Algerian Government - to tell us what type of negotiations they want to pursue.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, what you have presented today is certainly a position we can very broadly support and accept from the outset, and which represents the situation in Algeria.
Each attempted assassination and each terrorist attack is a blow, not only for Algeria, but also for Europe.
Just as in all crisis regions, however, like Ireland or other parts of the world, one must naturally take many steps to convince those who currently support the use of force that it is better to renounce it.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Commissioner, everyone present realises the gravity of this debate and is happy that Parliament has finally decided to participate in a debate which should lead to the re-establishment of peace in Algeria.
Firstly, you are right, Mr President, to place our actions within the framework of a much larger perspective.
Algeria must know that we have not lost hope and that, at a time when alliances are being formed throughout the world, Europe cannot remain indifferent to the situation in the Maghreb and, in particular, in the youngest and most powerful country in that region.
We therefore need to envisage, not bilateral relations between Algeria and any particular country - I am French so you all know to what I am referring - but between Europe and Algeria, a country endowed with such resources that it lacks nothing to whet the appetite, and I am referring to no-one in particular, not even a great ally.
The hope is clear.
The political forces who believe in democracy, or who want to express that belief, must take their place within these institutions.
We must say that we are open to discussion with any political force which renounces violence.
It is necessary - and I am addressing myself not only to the Bureau of Parliament, Madam President, but also to the presidents of the various groups - that Parliament works out, decides on the setting up of an extraordinary ad-hoc delegation which will go to Algiers prior to the Algerians visiting Strasbourg - I mean this Parliament and not the actual territory of a given state within the Union - in order to commence a dialogue with the political forces.
This is what Parliament's contribution could be.
Madam President, Mr President of the Council, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all appalled by the horror of the massacres that cast a daily shadow over the Algerian people and which arouse unanimous disapproval.
Of course a return to a climate of peace is, first and foremost, the Algerian people's own business but we know these people want peace and that they need the moral support of friendly nations in order that those who perpetuate the terror finally understand that their battle, fought in this way, cannot be won.
We must support the efforts that have been made, both by the Algerian authorities - notably those put into action by President Zéroual, whose electoral legitimacy is beyond question - and by the different political groups who participated in the last elections in order to re-establish a normal functioning of the democratic institutions.
I am completely and without reserve in agreement with the initiative of our colleague Mr Soulier, since a meeting between the European Parliament and the Algerian parliament would be likely to favour a resumption of democratic functioning.
With peace re-established and the Algerian people reconciled, we will all - Algerians and Europeans together - be able to help in the construction of an Algeria for the Twenty-first Century.
The immediate solution to the Algerian tragedy will be an agreement between all the political leaders who, regardless of any ulterior motive, must impose national reconciliation.
It seems to me that this is the message of hope that Europe must today send to the Algerian people and its leaders, whilst at the same time strongly re-emphasizing that nothing can be built in a climate of hatred and murderous violence and that all acts of terrorism must cease immediately.
Their lack of responsibility leaves us flabbergasted.
The absence of a common foreign policy has once again resulted in the failure of our international policy and has highlighted the need for reform of our institutions in this area.
Barbarity has reached an unbearable level: 60, 000 people have been massacred and the Algerian Government confines itself to eradicating terrorism by answering violence with violence.
The recent legislative elections and the constitution of a new government have not led to the long awaited dialogue between different sectors of Algerian society.
We think that only an initiative on the part of the Algerian authorities, aimed at bringing together all the life blood within civil society, including the Islamic movements, will enable an agreement on the rejection of violence to be reached, based on a respect for human rights and cultural minorities.
The European Union must support the setting up of a true national dialogue likely, let us hope, to put an end to the terrorism which is hitting the Algerian people ever harder.
It is not a question of interference, but of helping a people in danger.
Our joint resolution calls for the establishment of an ad-hoc parliamentary delegation which will be able to engage in a dialogue, both here and in Algiers, to help restore peace and strengthen cooperation between Algeria and the Union.
Moreover, we will be able to help the Commission, which will have a predominant role to play in the democratization process to be established during the negotiations for a new Euromediterranean agreement with Algeria, with respect to human rights.
It is to be hoped that this friendly country will very quickly return to the path of peace and stability.
Madam President, the Algerian people are suffering a new escalation of terror that is without precedent since 1992.
Armed Islamic groups excel themselves in a horror which intimidates the population in order to create a situation of chaos in the country, destabilize the Algerian government and force it to capitulate.
The recent remarks of Abassi Madani, the lately liberated former leader of the ISF, shine an alarming light on his responsibilities.
The Algerian people have within them, their history proves it, the necessary strength to overcome terrorism and to contribute to their social, democratic and cultural emancipation.
Europe can contribute by reaffirming its solidarity with the Algerian people, by encouraging a strengthening of cooperation between the European Union and Algeria in close contact with the lifeblood of the country, notably through debt reduction, assistance with modernization of infrastructure and building local authority housing.
In order to express our support to all who fight, risking their lives against terrorism, my group similarly proposes that our Parliament send a delegation to Algeria to meet the members of parliament as well as all the forces who are courageously struggling in that country.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Algerian people are a martyred people in history.
The situation is both complicated and very simple.
When a country goes through such a crisis, it is very difficult for a government to follow good policies.
But when the crisis reaches such a degree of violence, government reaction determines whether there is a possibility of finding a solution or not.
That is my first point.
It is an intellectual abdication.
And to do that the European Parliament must use every means to tell the Algerians: you are a part of our world, a world in which dialogue is the only solution to massacres and any other problems.
Madam President, Mr President of the Council, Mr Commissioner, I am amazed by the speeches we have heard this morning.
People talk about dialogue.
Between those who, as our communist colleague has reminded us, have again proved in the last few days that they could have stopped the massacres.
The issue, at European Union level, is to support the Algerian government and it is only thus that we will be able to invest in political and economic reforms, invest in a judicial system that will finally function, invest so that finally Algeria can proceed to large scale privatization with the aim of giving new prospects to its citizens, not of forcing them into unemployment, poverty and despair as is the case today.
That amounts to exactly the same as saying that Algeria is a similar problem to all the others.
You have to defend those who, like President Zéroual, have chosen to create democratic institutions in Algeria.
They continue their work and we have to give them strength, to be with them, and it is thus under these conditions that work can be done to reform the judiciary, to reform the prisons, to eradicate all the forces which today work in the shadows to undermine the democratic process in Algeria.
Madam President, this morning the Council confirmed its support to the Algerian Government for the economic and political reforms it has undertaken.
I consider the elections which took place on 5 June to be a step forward, and I regard the association agreement as a factor for progress.
The progressive and increasingly rapid descent into barbarism in Algeria has now made horror a daily event in that martyred country.
But it requires a political will which already proved lacking, unfortunately, when it came to the war in former Yugoslavia.
We ask that the European Parliament pledge the governments of the 15 countries to a determined battle against fundamentalism of any kind, and we ask that no concessions be made to those who have brutally exterminated women, old people and children.
Madam President, if we are absolutely honest with ourselves, we do not actually know what to do about Algeria.
We also know that the situation is not as simple as some speakers this morning seem to think it is.
We should be encouraging that dialogue, in order to establish greater freedom of the press in Algeria so that we can all become aware of what is happening.
Assessing the Algerian crisis as socio-economic in nature, I believe that the Euromediterranean policy undertaken in Barcelona is fundamental and that, therefore, the European Union must respond to the terrorist attacks with instruments of structural development and financial engineering rather than diplomatic ones.
I also support the fact that at least the European Parliament is doing all it can to promote dialogue and respect for human rights, sometimes forgotten in all the drama and repression.
I welcome with great satisfaction the idea that a delegation from this Parliament is going to make an urgent visit to Algeria to begin as constructive a dialogue as possible with the new Algerian Parliament.
I hope this delegation can make contact with both majority and minority members of parliament and the social movements, and that it can lay the foundations for a new Euromediterranean dialogue in the spirit of that Europarliamentary forum repeatedly called for as necessary to the development of a dialogue which, in cases like these, can undoubtedly provide support and a clarion call to all the European democracies.
I have deliberately talked about civil war in the Yugoslav case and crisis in the Algerian case, just to emphasize that it is quite impossible to regard the Algerian events as a clash of ethnic groups or opposite sides in society.
And the question we have to address is what we can do.
The Council has told us that it is in favour of the association agreement - within the joint political viewpoint which we share.
This is something which is the responsibility of the Algerian Government.
Thirdly, Madam President, there is the question of dialogue.
First, with those democratic Algerian political forces, of which there is no shortage, which can also join in this process.
During the last century that territory never experienced a state structure like those which were headed, for example, by the sultans of Morocco or the beys of Tunisia.
Well, there is now an Algerian Parliament whose president, as I have been informed, wishes to receive such a visit, and I believe that our Parliament must send that delegation.
Also, of course, to talk with all the political forces represented in that parliament, and perhaps also to make contact with other political forces able to switch soon enough from an attitude of violence to one of moderation and peace - for that violent attitude not to be thought of as irreversible.
Well, we have now arrived at an era when we can give a modest example of dialogue to others who are currently in a violent phase.
Of course, we should encourage the Council and the Commission in their decisions on the cooperation agreements, as we are indeed doing, but above all we should set an example with an initiative of our own - we ourselves should initiate that dialogue.
It is important that the parliamentary delegation also discusses these problems with their colleagues in the Algerian Parliament.
Finally, colleagues, I should like to point out our own responsibility in this debate.
Algerian refugees are still being sent back to their country without guarantees for their safety.
The UN Commissioner for Refugees has already made several dramatic appeals to a number of Member States still applying these practices.
Madam President, in the face of the tragic events taking place in Algeria, the temptation is great for friends of Algeria to remain silent.
To remain silent because words cannot express our feelings of sadness, horror and indignation at the escalation of barbarity which people are suffering in that unhappy country.
To remain silent because the Algerian leaders seem to consider any word spoken about Algeria, any interest taken, the slightest interest regarding the Algerian population, as a scandalous attack on national sovereignty, as an unacceptable interference in the domestic affairs of the country.
Cry out because in the eyes of many throughout the world, this House is considered the voice and conscience of the European people.
If we remain silent in the face of such events, when else will we have the right to make our voices heard?
Let us never forget that the legitimacy of power wears out very quickly when you permanently betray the principles on which that power is based.
In any case, when a government shows itself incapable of defending its citizens, or preventing massacres from being committed, day after day, like those to which the Algerian people are victim, it is the duty of the international community to exercise the right of assistance to a people in mortal danger.
But since the European Union has entered into economic negotiations with Algeria, let us not hesitate - of course at the same time condemning vigorously the dreadful crimes committed by the fundamentalists - to put pressure on the Algerian Government so that, whilst fighting terrorism, it does not support or organize criminal behaviour or serious attacks on human rights; so that they allow NGOs, in particular Amnesty International, to carry out their specialist investigations, as they do in many countries around the world, with particular emphasis on the prisons; so that the international media may freely accomplish its mission, and finally so that the Algerian government may search constantly and with courage for dialogue with all the forces in the country who are ready to renounce violence, including the perverse and the wicked, in order that this country may return to peace and Algeria may once again take her rightful place in the Euromediterranean group, where we await her impatiently.
Madam President, over and above other considerations it is good for Algeria and the Algerian people to be able to see that there is an enormous feeling of support and a wish for mutual progress here in the European Parliament.
It is the challenge of working towards a decisive link between Algeria and the European Union.
This understanding of the law was confirmed as recently as 1996, by the common position of the Council on this matter.
It is not a far-fetched idea since it has figured for many years in the Council's programme and I am delighted that France - my country - is currently considering it, but I think that such an arrangement will not make complete sense or be completely effective unless it takes place at European Union level.
Whilst waiting for this, Madam President, I hope that the European Union will have a more open attitude towards the position of Algerians seeking protection in France, protection which today's debate has demonstrated is completely legitimate.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank all those who have spoken in this debate, an animated and passionate but dignified debate, which has well reflected the horror, the challenges and the dangers of the current situation in Algeria.
I would also like to thank the speakers for the quality of their contributions, even if some have been disappointed by the Council's statement on the role the European Union should play in Algeria.
I believe the unanimous watchword in this House has been that we cannot be indifferent to Algeria, that Algeria - and I would go further and say the whole of the Maghreb - needs the European Union.
The Council has its role to play, the Commission has its role to play - in particular concerning the future association agreement within the framework of the Barcelona process - and the European Parliament (this is a purely personal opinion) also has its role to play.
Certainly, nearly everyone is in agreement that the circle of participants in the dialogue in Algeria must be as large as possible, but this is a long drawn process and it has to be said that, unfortunately, in Algeria as in other crises, there are people who do not want to talk.
Before handing over to Vice-President Marín to present his conclusions in his capacity as representative of the Commission, I would like to conclude by saying that our role is to accompany and encourage the different institutions to assume their proper role in this long process of peace, but that all the lifeblood of Algeria and all willing Algerians are called on to resolve this problem.
Thank you, Commissioner Marín.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 noon.
Situation in the Middle East The next item on the agenda is the statements by the Council and Commission on the situation in the Middle East.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad we are also able to tackle the issue of peace in the Middle East this morning, which is a very important issue.
Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that the Council's position regarding the current situation is based on two elements.
The Palestinian authorities must do all they can to prevent acts of terrorism.
The Council speaks regularly, notably through its special envoy, to the Palestinian authorities to encourage total cooperation with Israel on the issue of security.
We have suggested to both parties that a permanent security committee should be set up which we consider could prevent the extremists from taking the peace process hostage.
Negotiations leading to acceptable results for both sides and to a real improvement in the economic position of the Palestinians is the only way possible to create, little by little, the climate of confidence that is essential for the re-establishment of a situation where a maximum of security can be guaranteed.
Both sides must adopt a code of conduct.
Regarding the Palestinian economy, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, its situation is, to say the least, precarious and since the recent attacks in Jerusalem, the Israeli government has continued to enforce strict measures over the population of the Palestinian territories.
The Council has, on many occasions, repeated that it respects the legitimacy of the Israeli government to defend its population.
In order to help the latter face up to its immediate needs, we are going to send, as a matter of urgency, ECU 4 million and, in the same context, we are going to look into the possibility of creating a medium term revolving fund for the Palestinian authorities.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say a word about corruption within the Palestinian authority itself.
The Council is particularly worried by the apparently quite widespread unhealthy practices within the Palestinian authority and with regard to this we have urged President Arafat on many occasions to make a serious effort to put this situation right.
Having said this, the fact that critical reports have been published by the Palestinian authorities themselves shows a willingness on their part to be transparent and I can assure you that the Council will follow this very closely, along with the other main donors.
I would also like to add a word on relations between the European Union and Jordan, a country which plays a major role in the process I have just mentioned, a country with whom it was possible to announce, during the General Affairs Council last Monday, that the negotiations led by the Commission had finally ended in a Euromediterranean association agreement, the final two obstacles being removed at the last minute.
I think everyone is aware that Syria has an important role to play in the peace process and the meetings our special envoy has had with President Assad have confirmed previous impressions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it would be difficult for the Commission not to go along with what Mr Wohlfart has said on behalf of the Council.
We shall see whether a United-States package can finally achieve significant progress in a situation which has deteriorated at internal, regional and international levels.
What has been created by the European Union and particularly the Commission - which has had responsibility in the Palestinian case - has been a system of social security, financed by the international community, rather than a model of economic development.
It has become traditional for the European Union to perform this operation.
Finally, the Council authorized the Commission to make a rapid transfer of approximately ECU 4 million and to present a new financial engineering system by means of a cash fund.
We should think about this, because the current aid programme expires next year.
The special budget runs out next year.
Otherwise, I doubt whether the international community can sustain this enormous financial effort which, despite all attempts, has not been able to prevent the Palestinians becoming even poorer this year, and having fewer investments than four years ago.
And I want to assure you that we will come to Parliament again, and I hope we will have your sympathy and support in finding a solution in November, when we discuss the problem of the reassignment of resources.
I believe that this last point is very important, and I am delighted at the statement by the President of the Council.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this is yet another critical moment for the Middle East.
This is a necessary precondition since, in addition to its many human victims, terrorism gives rise to strong feelings of insecurity in Israel, creating problems in the development of Israel and in its participation in the peace process.
Thirdly, actions to implement the Oslo agreements in full, since, because of their international nature, these agreements are the basis of any peace process in the Middle East.
Here we must bear in mind that this new New York process should not be a process which has to produce an immediate result within 48 hours.
In addition there are other, more specific, proposals.
I congratulate the Council on the two proposals it has already made public, that is, the creation of a standing committee on security and the recommendation for a code of conduct.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I personally believe that we must devote a lot of time to these negotiations and processes.
This all means that the Israelis do not make a logical connection between the peace process and their own personal security.
And unfortunately the element of doing away with terrorism threatens to be an important negotiating instrument.
The confidence of Palestinians and Israelis in their own leaders has decreased.
I cannot quite understand Mr Dimitrakopoulos' idea about a task force, but with regard to the area surrounding Israel there can certainly be a role for Europe.
But by the long term closing off of the Palestinian areas and the freezing of 60 % of the national income of the Palestinian authorities, the Israeli government is creating its own enemies in an atmosphere of frustration, poverty and hopelessness.
Mr President, last Saturday, the fourth anniversary of the signing of the Oslo agreements in Washington, should have been a day of rejoicing, both for Israel and for Palestine.
The united gathering in Tel Aviv against the policies of the Netanyahu government and for the defence of the people is a sign of hope that we must hail.
I will say it once again here, the immediate suspension of the association agreement between the European Union and Israel would seem to me to be a healthy measure since it would make clear to Israeli opinion that it was aimed not at Israel but at the current government in order to try to put the required political pressure on it to drive it to respect the obligations undertaken in Oslo and in Washington.
Here is an opportunity to demonstrate clear political will, that of saving the peace process of the Middle East.
That is why there is, sadly, reason to be concerned about the future in the region of Palestine.
In the international press there is now talk of Palestinian revolt, a new intifada , in response to Israeli provocation.
But in the European Union's actions there should be no doubt that the main responsibility for the current threat to the peace process lies with the current Israeli Government , not with the Israeli people.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, bombings in Israel, attacks on buses, in the market, are once again sowing grief and death.
The European Union must join in the efforts which have been deployed tirelessly by American diplomacy for years, to whom I believe we should be grateful at least in a small way, since the few advances that have been achieved up to now, at least in the last few years, are really due to this activity.
It would be fitting therefore if this same effort could be deployed on a political level, through pressure on the Israeli government, but also, and perhaps at least in the same manner, on the Palestinian authority so that it reforms its methods and its customs.
I must here pay tribute to the work of a professor at the University of Tel Aviv, Israel Schak who, in his book '3000 Years of Israel' courageously denounces the foundations of what the famous Jerusalem philosopher, Yoshua Leibowicz, did not hesitate to call judeo-nazism in the French newspaper 'Le Monde' .
Rooted in Maimonides, the religious ideology of Élie Munk, to consider but one of the mentors of Konopnicki widely diffused in France and notably at the great Jewish Colbo bookshop explains, I believe, along with many others, the behaviour of the Netanyahu government, coming from both this theocratic culture and the extremist nationalism of Gordon, the mentor of Ben Gurion.
If Israel does not find a solution in keeping with the dignity of people and peoples, nothing will save it from disaster.
If there are alternatives to Oslo, as sometimes seems to surface in press statements by Israeli spokespersons, the international community at Oslo - that is, the United States, Europe and Russia, which stood guarantor for those agreements - has the right to know about it now.
For this reason, we support the proposal from the President of the Council to set up a permanent security committee between Europe and the United States to exercise the maximum possible pressure on both sides.
Without this fundamental clarification, no partial proposal will have any effect.
Certainly if this point is made clear in New York, the code of conduct can be approved, the measures the Palestinians intend to adopt against terrorism can be examined and a common approach can be agreed in the fight against terrorism which does not rely entirely on the armed forces and the police.
I say that because Hamas terrorism is not the only terrorism in the world.
In countries where terrorism has been isolated and defeated - and I could give many examples - it has always happened on the basis of a political defeat first and foremost, and not a police or military one.
I recall very well when the European Parliament delegation visited Israel earlier this year that I came home with a great deal of sadness.
These things have to be said at the present time and Parliament will have to come to a conclusion because it has a role to play in this process.
But there are many others who have a role to play and it is not always appreciated that we need better coordination of the way we are approaching the difficulties that are currently being faced in the Middle East.
Syria, as I have mentioned before, is a key player and has a lot to answer for in terms of the failure to find a solution to the peace process which we all want to see succeed.
Those two countries in particular should be brought to task, not only by the United States but also by the United Nations and by the European Union.
The Egyptians have always believed that they have a major role to play in the Middle East and I would encourage them to be full participants in this overall discussion which we must surely try to address from that international perspective.
The peace process will take place between the Palestinians and the Israeli government, both democratically elected.
Mr President, there is no doubt that it would be a serious mistake to try to reduce the current crisis in the peace process in the Middle East to a question of security.
But we all know that the key to what is happening in that region lies in the failure to observe the Oslo agreement, principally on the part of Benjamin Netanyahu's government.
Europe should ask the United States to play a relatively balanced role again and to put pressure on Netanyahu, for example by freezing the current agreements with Israel, and of course encouraging aid for the Palestinian National Authority.
Mr President, missio pacis , mission of peace.
Terrorism can be vanquished, but only by one method: by the unshakeableness of the conviction that there is no alternative to peace and the peace process.
For this reason I should like here - and I am aware of the bias of my vote - in the name of my parliamentary party to call upon Prime Minister Netanyahu and his Government to fulfill the Oslo agreements to the letter, comprehensively and in the spirit of the peace process.
Because, whereas security is the central point of his policy, it is also clear that security for the Israeli people can only be achieved in this one way, begun in Washington and Oslo.
Mr President, the Alleanza Nazionale wishes to express its full solidarity with the Israeli people over the recent criminal terrorist attacks they have suffered.
And, unfortunately, we must emphasize again Europe's failure to have a strong political presence in this sector in crisis, once again left almost entirely to American diplomacy.
This, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is the Europe we do not like, the Europe which tries or seeks to make progress in the economic and monetary sectors but remains passive or absent when it comes to political initiatives and international diplomacy: a one-armed Europe.
We also have the duty to ask ourselves what we can do in the present situation to halt this escalation of hatred and intolerance.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid any ambiguity regarding my position I would like to state immediately that I support the draft joint resolution concerning the murderous attacks in Jerusalem and the peace process in the Middle East.
I want to devote the main part of my time to say that nothing, I say nothing, can justify terrorism, attacks against civilians and massacres of the innocent.
All of the countries were, or are, different cases, but nevertheless they suffered or suffer, have fought or are fighting terrorism.
Only firm and massive condemnation by world opinion, unconditional and without digression, only co-ordinated organization of all civilised countries and peoples in the fight against terrorism, will make erosion of it, if not eradication, possible.
It is the duty of Europe and our Parliament to remind everyone of that this morning!
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Commissioner, regrettably this Parliament is once again forced to discuss the deterioration in the Middle East peace process, which is really frustrating.
I think it is important to stress that none of the main protagonists in this process have the absolute right to impose their own views of the problems which exist, much less do so by means of provocation or violence.
As we have repeated many times, dialogue and strict compliance with the Oslo agreements represent the only way to reach a solution which will benefit the peace process.
Therefore, we in this Parliament should welcome the proposal made by the President of the Council, to create a permanent security committee in which the European Union and the United States can work together in order to mediate in the conflict.
Lastly, Mr President, allow me to conclude by saying that what is needed is firmness and political measures to control the zone's stability, and the support of the international sector for continued dialogue between the parties involved.
Relations between Israel and all Arab countries have been blown to pieces.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing new under the sun in the Middle East.
Confronting each other, two peoples, two nations: one intolerant, colonialist, probably the only fundamentally racist state with complete impunity and the other, the Palestinian people, in search for decades for a land, their promised land, their homeland, land of their ancestors and also of their children.
It goes without saying that we unreservedly condemn the actions taken by the Palestinian terrorists.
That means we are in a very serious and dangerous position.
For this reason, Mr President of the Council, the European Union must adopt a much more active role - and thank you, Mr Commissioner, for mentioned this - because it is the only way we can play our part in the maintenance of peace.
Mr President, I do not think there is much left to say about the situation in the Middle East, but I should like to comment on what Vice-President Marín has said.
We should be aware, as he asks us to be, that at the moment we are sustaining the situation with funds destined not for the development but for the security of Palestinian society.
No doubt Parliament will respond positively to his request, because I believe it is necessary to ensure that people in that area can live a little better, for their own sakes of course, but for the sake of Palestine and also Israel, in order that this process may survive in such a delicate situation.
I should like to take the opportunity to say that in this respect I am very pleased with the association agreement with Jordan and that the obstacles, which were hard to justify or to understand but which still existed, have disappeared.
Therefore, I want to express our support for the resolution being presented, and a message of congratulation from this Parliament for the political initiatives adopted by the European Union in the last few weeks, which should continue.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a few words to this debate, a debate marked by - and all the speeches have shown it - a feeling of sadness and frustration in the face of the situation in the region four years after the signing of the Oslo accords.
It is the duty of the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament to support the efforts deployed at an international level, not only by the United States but also by our special envoy, and to seize this last chance.
Success is possible, if a security committee is first of all created.
Mr Arafat alone will not be able to overcome terrorism.
At the same time we must also try to draw up the details of how the security committee would be run, a committee which sounds like a good idea in theory but within which there will be clashes which will require neutral arbitration.
As for the code of conduct, I am well aware that it is not a miracle cure, but it is an instrument which could be useful as long as there is the courage to maintain political pressure on both sides in the peace process at a political level within the European Union.
This is equally the duty of other partners involved in the process.
I will conclude by thanking all those who, in a truly exhaustive manner, have reiterated their support for this peace process in the Middle East.
The debate is closed.
ONP and universal telecommunications service The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0263/97) on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, concerning the common position of the Council with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council Directive on the application of open network provision (ONP) to voice telephony and on universal service for telecommunications in a competitive environment (C4-0256/97-96/0226(COD)) (rapporteur: Mrs Read).
I quote: ' a defined minimum set of services of specified quality which is available to all users, independent of their geographical location and, in the light of specific national conditions, at an affordable price' .
The Commission will notice that one of the amendments in the name of my group calls for a biannual report on the progress of universal service to be made to Parliament.
I note with approval that at first reading the Commission and Council took on board a number of my own proposals on the partial inclusion of mobile telephony in the scope of this directive, even though, at the time, Parliament did not agree.
I would like to voice my own disappointment, and that of a number of colleagues, that the Council did not even consider a number of Parliament's first reading amendments, particularly when we were asked to do our work swiftly and in fact did do so.
I would also thank colleagues in other political groups with whom I have worked very hard to come up with some compromises.
The first of these points concerns entries in telephone directories.
In many countries this is organized in quite a different way from the way it is done in England or elsewhere.
In ours, it is more commercially organized and consequently the best thing to do is to invoke the principle of subsidiarity and leave each country to sort out the problem as it sees best.
As regards the date problem, you are aware that 1 January is a symbolic date.
On 1 January 1998, the telecommunications market will be deregulated.
For three or four years we have talked, acted, made proposals and legislated with that date in mind.
I would like the Commissioner to clarify the position of the Commission on this point.
Mr President, it is a pleasure to speak for the first time when you are sitting in the Chair.
This is necessary in an insecure world where people are increasingly able to combine different lists, which makes elderly people feel their situation is very insecure.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wish to congratulate Mel Read most warmly on the excellent work she has done, sometimes under great pressure.
To begin with, I would state that the Council of Ministers has adopted a number of important amendments from the European Parliament and those tabled by the European People's Party at first reading in particular.
So Amendment No 11 is vitally important for us.
However, there can be discussion and agreement at EU level on reasonable prices.
We can accept Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 16, and, in principle, Nos 14, 15, 19 and 26 as well, with a few reservations.
We accept Amendments Nos 3, 7 and 17 on handicapped users.
We accept Amendments Nos 6 and 10, but oppose Nos 1, 8, 9 and 23.
We can support Amendments Nos 11 and 2 in principle, and Nos 21, 22 and 20 entirely.
What Fernand Herman said about the date was completely right: if we set the ratification date at 1 January next year, not all Member States will be able to comply.
We should not create any misunderstandings, so I feel we should leave well alone and not accept Amendments Nos 27 and 28.
The debate is closed.
Votes Mr President, I am speaking on a point of procedure motion, Rule 126, a brief point of order, Rule 127, and place of meeting, Rule 11 of the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, I am speaking on a point of procedure on Rule 122.
The agenda for the sitting indicates that there will be no explanations of vote in this voting time because under Rule 122 explanations of vote should take place only after the final vote and in this case there will be no final vote.
My predecessor confirmed that there would not be any explanations of vote on this point.
Mr Haarder, now is not the time to explain the reasons behind the decisions taken by the Conference of Presidents, in which each group votes and explains its vote if it thinks it appropriate to do so.
I would like to add that this question raises, more widely, the problem of the scope of the European Parliament.
It is a parliament with an area of work allocated to it within the framework of the treaty signed by the different peoples of Europe, a treaty which we must respect.
Moreover, if this House felt there were too many days of session in the calendar for next year presented by the secretariat, then the days corresponding to additional sessions are the ones that should be cut and not the days of normal sessions.
Mr Berthu, I note that you are mixing the Rovsing report up with other votes.
I am very hopeful that the Commission will agree to Amendment No 4, under which not 50 %, but 60 % of the operational and administrative costs foreseen in the budget are to be set aside for the Community.
This is perfectly visible in countries where there is an active green movement, which have gone the furthest in national legislation on environmental matters.
Petersburg, Murmansk, the Kola Peninsula, or South Africa, are solvable merely through the actions of the agencies, but any small-scale action in these regions means more than any in our own internal market regions.
In this programme it is our absolute priority to support environmental organizations at European level, and not merely in the Europe of the Fifteen, but particularly in geographical Europe as well, that is, particularly in the countries surrounding the European Community.
It is essential that creative forces in the market place should continuously make us aware of where there are weaknesses in the system, and it is our duty to prove that we are looking for the best path.
For this reason we want to raise the funding.
I should be pleased if we were to gain support for this from all other democratic parties in this Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the recommendation that is today submitted for second reading is to ensure the legal and financial security of an existing practice which consists of co-financing the activities of certain non-governmental organizations particularly active in environmental protection at a European level, by adopting a four-year Community action programme.
The establishment of a Community action programme for the promotion of NGOs working in environmental protection seems to me, in this context, a useful way of avoiding loss of control over how Community funds destined for environmental protection associations are used.
Organizations fighting child abuse obtained this year, for the first time and, as we know, due to pressure of events, no more than ECU 1.5 million, that is, half of the budget of ECU 3 million allocated for fighting violence against women.
It therefore seems to me extremely important for Parliament to act on this issue in the near future and that we continue to fight for a solid legal basis and a multi-annual framework for the protection of the children of Europe.
I shall concentrate on Amendment No 2 where the Commission has included a contribution to a multinational approach as its final criterion.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I do not think there are going to be any problems with this document.
What they were thinking of must have been, for example, that in 1995 Finnish environmental activists were convicted by a court for an action against a fish farm which had the parasite G.
I think we should vote against Amendment No 6, and if Parliament does not assume this responsibility, then I hope that the Commission will reject it.
This action programme to promote non-governmental organizations concerns fundamental questions about society's participation and influence with regard to EU policy.
Social and political institutions which are shielded from civil society risk losing their legitimacy.
The benefit should not lie in using environmental organizations to communicate the EU's policy, but in taking advantage of the experience and views which the organizations themselves possess.
To simply indicate some kind of cost-benefit, a lasting multiplier effect at European level, and a contribution to a multinational approach suggests a certain amount of self-interested steering on the part of the Commission.
On the Committee on Environment we have together formulated a number of additional criteria which strongly emphasize the action programme's aim of strengthening the influence of citizens through clearer focussing on integration in education.
However, I sympathise most strongly with the point on cooperation between environmental organizations within the EU and other states, especially the countries which have now applied for membership and which will soon begin negotiations for membership of the EU.
We know that this will be a great challenge both for the Union and for the environmental sector.
Finally, I would like to say something about the contribution from our French colleague who attacked Greenpeace.
The report covers the cofinancing of the administrative activities of NGOs operating in the environmental field, and seeks to institutionalize the cooperation planned under the fifth framework programme for environmental research.
In particular, in my opinion, support for NGOs engaged in environmental protection needs to be strengthened.
Amongst other things, we believe it is appropriate to include cross-border projects with the central and eastern European organizations and professional training in the priorities and, above all, to raise the ceiling for European Union financial participation in the projects to 60 %.
Non-governmental organizations fulfill an important function, particularly in the environmental and social sectors.
A great deal of excellent work has been done.
Most speakers have spoken of the important role of NGOs.
Therefore the proposal is also a concrete expression of the Commission's appreciation of the contribution of these NGOs to the improvement of the environment.
So the text should, of course, be as clear as possible, and it is also in that spirit that we have examined the proposed amendments.
Amendment No 4, whereby the Commission can finance up to 60 % of an NGO's budget, is acceptable in full.
The debate is closed.
He has asked me to step in at the last minute to replace him and, of course, to present his apologies.
We know that our colleagues in the Committee on Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection are well aware of the problems of climate change and the increase in the greenhouse effect.
In December 1995, the intergovernmental group on climate change, a panel composed of over 2, 000 eminent scientists, noted its concern regarding greenhouse gas emissions.
According to the United Nations group in charge of studying the consequences of greenhouse gas emissions, an increase in temperature of more than a one degree Celsius could create irreversible damage to our eco-system, without considering the immediate consequences on the economy and the social consequences that it could have on individuals.
The European Parliament has always been very active in this area, providing endless reports and resolutions, forcing the individual states to take restrictive measures and to adopt a clear agenda.
More than 150 countries signed the framework convention of the United Nations on climate change through which a consensus has been set in motion, the objective of which is to stabilize CO2 emissions so that they are the same in the year 2000 as they were in 1990.
The discussions and meetings that followed should be concluded at the Kyoto Summit in December 1997 if, as we hope, an agreement can be reached with the aim of strengthening the convention on climate change and taking more restrictive measures to enable a clear reduction in all greenhouse gases.
In March 1997, despite different approaches by certain Member States, the Environment Council, under the Dutch presidency, was able to agree on a European Union proposal for the Kyoto Summit.
Its objective is the reduction by 15 %, as compared to 1990, of greenhouse gases from now until the year 2000.
The Commission's proposal under examination aims to amend the Council's decision of 1993 regarding the monitoring mechanism for anthropogenic emissions, that is, those caused by human activity including CO2 emissions and other greenhouse gases.
The new proposal aims at updating the following decisions: extending the monitoring past the year 2000 to take into account community emissions, limitations and reductions after the year 2000, extending monitoring to a greater number of greenhouse gases, CO2 not being the only gas concerned.
He hopes that the dates of 2005 and 2010 for a 15 % reduction, as proposed by the Council, will be taken up by the Commission.
He is very much in favour of monitoring greenhouse gases other than CO2 .
Monitoring gas by gas, rather than a global 'basket' therefore seems more sound and reliable.
Information-sharing is another problem.
Mr President, at the end of the summer and with a lovely sunny day outside, a lot of people probably think that global warming is really quite a pleasant thing.
But we know in reality that it leads to a great deal of unstable and dangerous weather conditions and is going to have some very serious effects across the world.
We know that the main purpose of this legislation on the monitoring of greenhouse gases is twofold.
Not only do we need a better and more comprehensive monitoring mechanism for greenhouse gas emissions now, but it is essential to put in place a mechanism to cover monitoring post-2000.
It is particularly important to take greater account of the greenhouse gases other than CO2 , such as methane and nitrogen oxide.
In December we are going to Kyoto to try and persuade the world to agree to a 15 % reduction in emissions of a "basket' of greenhouse gases between 1990 and 2010.
The Commission, in the cautious mode it adopts these days, was very vague about its timetable.
Therefore my group supports the amendments for a report each year on cumulative emissions of greenhouse gases and projected cumulative emissions up to 2005, 2010 and 2020.
This scenario illuminates the importance of today's report on the proposed European Union systems for observing and recording CO2 and other greenhouse gases.
This proposal by the Commission is a further step in this direction, which our group supports without reservation.
The figures from the IPCC again showed us last year that there is quite definitely a greenhouse effect.
I therefore wholeheartedly support the Commission's proposal and the amendments by the Environment Committee.
Mr President, everything in nature is closely linked: we all play a part in environmental equilibrium and in turn it affects our well-being.
The Fitzsimons report underlines the importance of monitoring these emissions in order to assess the progress achieved on European standards.
Mr President, I believe the Commission's text is extremely important, and its message should be conveyed to everybody - not just to Governments, but to all operators and to all of us, because we share the responsibility for this phenomenon.
The Commission says that there is uncertainty about the chances of reaching agreement about this reduction in the year 2000, and that coherent overall strategies must be put into operation immediately.
I think that this is the political message, and that is where this Parliament will support the Commission in this case.
Mr President, I would like to make a few remarks on the subject of the greenhouse effect.
And as we know very well, Erik the Red, after crossing the Atlantic, found a land which he called Greenland simply because it was warm and green.
There is thus undoubtedly a great deal of exaggeration in this field when human activity is accused of global warming.
The truth is, if there are less greenhouse gases produced in France than elsewhere, it is for a very simple reason, that in France there are more nuclear power stations than elsewhere.
It will generally bring the mechanism up to date by continuing it after the year 2000 and by extending it to cover all the greenhouse gases not covered by the Montreal protocol.
There were some individual questions about that from some of the speakers.
Amendments Nos 7 and 13 are acceptable in principal, but they require some changes.
The Commission does not accept amendment 5 because it places additional burdens on the Member States without giving clear benefits.
Amendment No 7 is acceptable in principle, because the Member States are required to submit national programmes no later than three months after the Council's adoption of the Commission's proposal, and because the Commission will carry out a follow-up assessment no more than six months after that, and so we are sure that we can find a sensible solution for those Member States who drew up plans a short while ago.
As I said, Amendment No 13 on the compilation and reporting of data is acceptable in principle.
The debate is closed.
This particular report is wider in scope, dealing not only with trade and economic relations but also with increasingly vital political aspects, which I rather feel we have tended to neglect as the European Union.
Some ten years ago when I presented a draft motion for a resolution in the Committee on External Economic Relations, political groups were very much at odds on what our approach to Japan should be.
As far as political aspects are concerned, we owe a great deal to the 1991 Japanese Government which, together with the Council of Ministers, agreed on a joint declaration which inter alia highlighted political and security issues, bringing a much better balance to the relationship.
However, inevitably a report of this nature is rapidly overtaken by events.
Perhaps the Commissioner will want to comment on future prospects.
Much of the report deals with the perennial chestnuts of market access and foreign direct investment.
I put the question.
Thank you very much Mr Moorhouse.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Commissioner, for several decades, and especially since the last world war, European interests in Asia, and especially Japan, have been in decline, while United States interests have grown, taking their place.
However, in the last few years, political and economic relations between the European Union and Japan have seen a moderate development.
The meetings of the European institutions with their Japanese counterparts and the normal bilateral contacts between the Member States and Japan have contributed to this development.
The Commission's proposal to strengthen these relations deserves our full support, both for the reciprocal advantages and mutual interests, and for the external relations equilibrium of Japan, which finds in the European Union a credible partner on the international scene.
It is in the European Union's interests for Japan to be a factor for political stability in its region and in the world, to support the multilateral free trade system, to encourage democracy and greater respect for human rights in Asia.
To conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that developed political relations between the European Union and Japan is a crucial factor for better equilibrium in foreign policy on the world scene.
We have a report which I think for the first time is going to be all but unanimously accepted by this House.
We have to recognize that when we fail in the Japanese market it is very often not because of unfair competition - it can be on occasion, Japan is no different from any other country - but because they out-compete us and we have to recognize that the way to be successful in that market is to be more competitive.
It seems to me that there are a number of areas where the United States is very clearly in the lead and Europe and Japan lag behind.
The Japanese are making a sizeable financial contribution to dealing with the problems of Bosnia.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for the clarifications he has provided regarding the deepening of collaboration between the European Union and Japan, and to congratulate Sir Leon Brittan, the Commissioner, as well as the Commission, for the pragmatic approach of the Commission's text.
Within the framework of globalization of markets and commerce, as within that of political dialogue, relations between the European Union and Japan will from now on play a vital role within the World Trade Organization, both in the framework of annual summits and ministerial meetings, and in interparliamentary dialogue within the delegation on relations with Japan, which I have the honour of chairing.
You will know, Mr President, as former chairman of this delegation, that the strengthening of political, economic and industrial links has become essential with the third millennium in sight.
On a political level, within the framework of the new partnership between Europe and Asia, Japan can indeed play a preponderant role.
Therefore the imbalance that exists between European Union investments in Japan and Japanese investments in Europe should rapidly even out.
In this context, the programme of deregulation, commenced by Japan in March 1995, represents a starting point in terms of a global agreement that could also include the details of a mutual recognition of products.
Finally, I can only rejoice in the fact that scientific and technical cooperation between the European Union and Japan is progressing steadily.
Glyn Ford mentioned it earlier - he is moreover the author of a report on this subject - as the meeting of high level scientific experts which will take place in two weeks time in Tokyo shows - and I am pleased to be personally participating in this - with eminent members of the international scientific community.
It is in this particular context that I am in favour of the amendments submitted, aimed at reinforcing scientific and technological co-operation between Japan and the European Union.
The European Union is thus establishing the details of a dialogue which will serve the mutual and reciprocal interests of both Japan and the Union, with a view to preparing the next stages of our political and economic relations.
The number of scientific and technological cooperation projects between the European Union and Japan is fairly small.
In view of the fact that Japan is the country with the highest research and development expenditure in the world, expressed as a percentage of the gross national product, it is regrettable that there is little cooperation in this area.
The Union should make an effort at all levels to involve Japan in our Community life, both political and economic.
Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a very good idea for the Commission to think about how the dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and Japan should be conducted in future.
One thing I can say: many deregulating procedures in this world have had just the opposite effect.
The reduction over the last few years of the commercial deficit between the European Union and Japan, often presented as a victory, is in fact no more than a mirage due to currency fluctuations.
The mirage has thus gone but the obstacles remain.
Of course, with the exception of certain products such as copper, footwear and some agricultural products, the Japanese customs duties are no longer restricting access to the market.
The Union should clearly reject any difference in treatment.
If a real effort is not made in this area we will be forced to reconsider the complete opening of our borders to Japanese cars in 1999.
As for direct investment, the figures are even more overwhelming.
Indeed, according to Eurostat, the Union has reduced its investments in Japan on average by ECU 300 million per year between 1992 and 1995.
Consequently, the imbalance of trade with this country will continue to grow over the coming years if nothing is done.
However, positive points do exist in the area of science and technology, telecommunications, financial services and transport, where advanced cooperation has been established between the Union and Japan.
The Commission must today, therefore, make a precise evaluation of relations between the Union and Japan, taking into account all aspects including the monetary and provide a forecast on the subject to Parliament.
Madam President, bilateral negotiations continue and will continue long after playing their role on an international business level.
Yesterday's debate on bananas demonstrated to what extent the WTO was not sufficiently independent to deal with some matters of crucial importance for the European Union.
Let us not get caught up in multilateral negotiations which often really benefit no-one but the American multinationals and let us develop a true dialogue with Japan, including on the subjects of human rights and the death penalty, which still exists in their country.
Madam President, we have noted in this report devoted to the future of economic relations between Europe and Japan certain useful assessments and recommendations, but also some important gaps.
The report correctly highlights the need for the Commission to be more attentive to the effects of bilateralism with regard to Japan, which is assiduously practiced by the United States, who are becoming, in addition, the eulogists of multilateralism, in order to avoid possible discrimination of our service and manufacturing industries in the Japanese market in relation to their American equivalents.
Madam President, the clear message from the Moorhouse report, as many speakers have stressed, is that in the last ten years there have been significant developments in relations between the European Union and Japan.
Although the United States, Japan and Europe are often described as the three sides of the triangle, very clearly, in Japanese terms, relations between Europe and Japan are of what they would call a 'younger brother' nature compared to those between Europe and the United States and the United States and Japan.
We cannot take it for granted that relations between Japan and Europe will develop as closely as those between Europe and the United States or between the United States and Japan.
The question I would like to put to Sir Leon is whether the time has not come to look for a broader, more strategic objective in our relationship.
It is strange that of all the countries in the world, the European Union has no bilateral agreements with either the United States or Japan.
In the case of the United States, our links are of a quite different nature.
In its communication to the Council, the European Commission places the emphasis on intensifying political relations with Japan.
The rapporteur rightly corrects this approach.
The policy of the European Union must above all be geared to the improvement of trading relations with Japan.
The intentions expressed by Japan at the summit in the Hague on 25 June give some hope of this.
The Commission makes the strange proposal of supporting Japan in its demand to obtain a permanent seat on the Security Council.
This seems to me to be premature and, moreover, the question arises of whether such a political stand in fact falls within the powers of the Commission.
That is always the case and always will be.
But we do so in a spirit of cooperation.
What has been said by many speakers in the course of this debate about science and technology and the further advances that can be made has great validity.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Universal telecommunications service The next item is the report (A4-0270/97) by Mr van Velzen, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the Commission communication on assessment criteria for national schemes for the costing and financing of universal service in telecommunications and guidelines for Member States on operation of such schemes.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the Netherlands the largest telecom operator is going to put on the market a telecom card with a smell as a marketing stunt.
The cost calculation of the universal service is a very technical but extremely important subject as it involves enormous amounts of money.
And there the problem begins, because operators need clear guidelines in this field whereas the legal status of a communication now prevents this.
As the Commission indicates in this communication, it may not automatically be assumed that the current provider of the universal service must continue to provide the service in a free market.
However, I and my group still feel that it would be best to have a directive that draws together the various pieces of legislation in this field into one overall legislative text.
He and I might disagree on the pace of that expansion but it is very important for documents like this to acknowledge that there is a case for changing our definition as developments in technology and on the market move forward.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report is part of a strategy for change working through the privatization of sectors of activity which are linked to a notion or concept of public service.
Besides, and this is our greater concern, the concept of universal service is an evolving concept - point 10 of the resolution - and we are fighting for a concept of public service fitted to citizens' rights, which are not to be replaced by this new evolving concept, totally dominated by the logic of prices, accessibility notwithstanding - for whom and at what point? - and costs.
We have talked about telecommunications and universal services from many aspects today in various reports.
Now we have a very comprehensive communication from the Commission on further guidelines on how costs shall be calculated and how the costs shall be divided between the operators.
I believe this communication from the Commission, together with the directives which already exist, is quite sufficient.
If it is necessary to develop a European concept of universal service, it is clearly understood that each State must be able to develop its own concept of public service action and to guarantee all users a connection to the network without price increases for, as you know, the vast majority of citizens do not care if the price of communication between Strasbourg and St Petersburg has fallen by half!
It is the only one in a position to go beyond certain dogmatic conflicts.
It is probable that free competition in the telecommunications sector is today the structure best adapted to the mission of public service, but I want to draw the Commission's attention to the fact that, without a European regional policy, without a policy on social cohesion, deregulation will only benefit interests devoid of democratic legitimacy.
For example that is clearly shown where on 1 January next year nine member states will provide no finance whatever for the universal service, because it is not necessary within their system.
Madam President, I am of course grateful for the Commissioner's reply and as always, it was very instructive.
The debate is closed.
Ladies and gentlemen, in reply to the first question relating to the Maghreb and the way in which the Luxembourg Presidency intends to advance the dossier between the European Union and the countries of this part of the world, I would say that the European Union attaches a unique importance to its relations with the countries in question.
I happen to know that, this morning, a long discussion was dedicated to the situation in some of these countries or in those bordering the region, and I would like to expand on this briefly in order to emphasize the interest of the Council in the Maghreb.
The countries of the Maghreb play an active role in the partnership and have proved their determination to contribute to the success of the said process.
The Luxembourg Presidency has the firm intention to continue this policy of strengthening relations with Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia, both through the intermediary of the Barcelona process, of which the next meeting of senior officials responsible for politics and security will take place on 23 and 24 October, and at a bilateral level.
This meeting will also be an opportunity to commence an exchange of views on political questions of common interest within the framework for political dialogue foreseen by the agreement.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have mentioned some important meetings and work in progress.
But it is important to recognize that these meetings are not enough, and that in the phase of activity which Euromediterranean policy is now entering there are far more meetings than concrete actions.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in view of the goodwill of the Luxembourg Presidency, I should like there to be a response to this problem, and some specific action found to help prevent these tragic events.
I do not want to go back to the debate of this morning which was devoted to the situation in Algeria.
In conclusion to that debate, I underlined the fact that not only the Council, but also the Commission and Parliament, had a role to play and I have been won over to the idea put forward by your friends in the European Parliament, that is, the establishment of direct contact with your counterparts in the Algerian Parliament.
It is an economy which is currently more than 40 % dependent on agriculture, a country which in twelve years time wants to see a free trade zone achieved with Europe.
Of course they are in need of our investment, and the Community and the Presidency will do their best to make sure that the association agreement with Morocco, already signed, is ratified by all the Member States as quickly as possible.
During the press conference, a journalist asked the two Prime Ministers if they had reached an agreement on investment.
My last question is, how do you view the chances of talking to the Parliament there?
I, along with many of those who accompanied me, was completely surprised by the efforts made within the context of economic and institutional reform in this country, even if it is still lagging compared to the current level of development in Tunisia.
I was equally surprised to note that our delegation included around ten businesses from Luxembourg - for a small country this is a lot - who are ready to forge ahead and participate in true partnership between the two countries, a partnership that the Luxembourg government, for its part, is going to provide with the financial means to try to promote, as best it can, investment in Morocco.
I believe the second question depends somewhat on the speed at which the parliaments of the different Member States ratify this agreement.
It is very important for Morocco.
Once again, I hope that we will have done our duty within the Fifteen by the end of the year and, in my opinion, if the conditions are fulfilled, I think that in five or six years time Morocco could reach the same level as Tunisia, a country which, and this equally surprised me, has achieved an exceptional level of development for a country in this region.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we had been informed in committees of this House that during the June Transport Council the Dutch Presidency was confronted by a highly confusing situation as regards this matter.
One of the contradictions was the proposal that Ireland, Portugal and Greece should benefit temporarily from a 50 % reduction in eurotax utilization rights, because of their peripheral positions.
Let us hope the Luxembourg Presidency will find a more reasonable solution.
We have to recognize that during the session of 17 June this year, the Committee on Transport could not come to an agreement.
The honourable Member has already recalled in part certain difficulties on which political consensus was not possible, without even considering that a unanimous vote was also required.
I would therefore like to say the following: the Luxembourg Presidency intends to conduct bilateral relations at the highest political level in order to unblock this issue.
But I would also add that the Presidency will not include this matter on the agenda of the Council unless the bilateral contacts have brought about a true political will to come to a solution.
The Council will explain to us how two such different questions can be considered the same.
It may at first seem strange, I agree, Mr President, but I will try to tell you why I hope to convince the Members of Parliament of this step.
In reply to these questions, I must underline that at this stage it is premature, in the opinion of the Council, to undertake an interpretation of the protocol in question.
In this perspective, it is advisable to keep in our minds the fact that the treaty of which this protocol is a part has not only not yet come into effect, but what is more has yet to be signed, something which will take place, if I am not mistaken, on 2 October next.
Given these conditions, the Council considers that any exegesis of texts fixed in Amsterdam would at the moment be inappropriate, all the more so given that the only institution skilled in interpreting the texts of treaties is the Court of Justice of the European Union.
I therefore expect an answer to the question.
At the risk of upsetting the honourable Member, I must say that if a process of ratification and referendum is underway in different countries, it would be dangerous for the Presidency, or the Council, to give interpretations that might be likely to cause misunderstandings in certain countries.
But I do understand, as a former Member of Parliament, that it is sometimes very hard to receive a reply that is not satisfying.
It is totally unreasonable to say that people should vote on something which you cannot even get interpreted.
Not only do you write in a way which is incomprehensible, but you then refuse to explain it before a referendum.
I shall let him speak, because the rules allow me to do so, but I would remind you all that prolonging a debate which is always going to receive the same reply uses up time which is needed to answer other questions.
I am very concerned and unhappy about this answer from the Council.
The work of the Council relating to the communication of the Agenda 2000 Committee, has only just begun.
It indicated in particular its agreement on the work method presented by the Presidency for the guidelines for the various dossiers.
In accordance with the conclusions of the European Council of Amsterdam, the Council will proceed to an in-depth study of the dossiers in question and will present a detailed report to the European Council in Luxembourg next December.
It also stated that those currently eligible under objective 6 but not under objective 1 should benefit from individual arrangements.
We have agreed our work method for the different aspects connected with Agenda 2000, which consists of doing the spadework on the different problems which are being raised in the different spheres, notably that of structural funds.
As the authors are not present, Questions Nos 6 and 7 fall.
Question No 8 by Mr Imaz San Miguel has been withdrawn.
Concerning the adoption of a programme aimed at promoting European tourism, the work group of the Council which was set up for this reason, will recommence its work as from tomorrow.
The objective sought is precisely to derive an agreement on the content of this programme before the end of December 1997, in other words this year, and the Presidency proposes to present as the basis for work a document which will take into account the discussions held up until now at the level of the Council.
Once this agreement has been reached, the Presidency envisages calling a meeting of the Council dedicated to tourism in order to proceed to the adoption of a programme on this subject and to establish definitively the actions to be promoted in the tourism sector.
These actions should mainly be aimed at objectives which have gained sufficient support within the Council, such as the development of information and the co-operation of the involved actors.
I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a very full answer.
I will say to the honourable Member that that depends not only on the Presidency but also on the will of certain Member States who, up until now, have been very respectful regarding the principle of subsidiarity.
So, either the Luxembourg Presidency will handle it, if a political agreement is found, or it will be necessary to put your confidence in the British Presidency to resolve the problem.
On several occasions the European Union has expressed its concern in the face of events in Burma and recently, on 30th May, the anniversary of the 1990 elections, the European Union adopted a statement inviting the State Law and Order Restoration Council, more commonly known as SLORC, to mark this occasion by freeing those people detained and to commence a true dialogue with groups in favour of democracy.
Furthermore, the Council requested SLORC to accept a visit from the United Nations special rapporteur in the near future.
Furthermore, the Council underlined the importance it gave to the strengthening and deepening of EU-ASEAN relations, in accordance with the conclusions of the ministerial meeting between the European Union and ASEAN countries, held in Singapore in February 1997.
Given that the current circumstances, which have led the European Union to extend its common position for a new 6 month period, prevent the commencement of negotiations on the possible membership of Burma to the ECASEAN cooperation agreement, the Council considers that Burma's presence at ministerial meetings within the framework of the ASEAN post-ministerial conference and the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARFPMC) does not automatically mean it will participate as an observer at the next EU-ASEAN Joint Cooperation Committee which will be held in November 1997 and other meetings within the EU-ASEAN institutional framework.
Concerning the possible adoption of new measures against Burma, the Council has agreed to return to this question shortly and to examine it according to the results of ministerial meetings, ASEAN (Regional Forum post ministerial meeting) and how the situation evolves.
It is democracy that is under attack.
And, as you know, this Parliament is very concerned about the situation of the elected representatives in Burma.
Normally in Luxembourg I do not have the reputation of a great diplomat because I always have a tendency to, shall we say, say what I think.
Unfortunately, concerning progress in the area of human rights in Burma itself, I think there has been very little.
To come to your question concerning South Africa, on the subject of increased pressure, I think I can say from a personal point of view that the policy of the carrot and the stick, as it was called in 1990/91, has born fruit.
This is the question by Mr Sören Wibe, who is now with us.
The Council is following the development of the situation in the Republic of Bailers with acute concern and is actively endeavouring to put pressure on the authorities of that country so that they re-establish full respect for the democratic practices and principles that are accepted at an international level, along with freedom of the press.
Given the conclusions of the mission, in February of this year the Council defined the global approach within which future relations between the European Union and Bailers would be framed.
Moreover, in April, the Council adopted a critical position and reminded Bailers that cooperation between the European Union and that country could not continue without a convincing effort on the part of Bailers to put in place a political system which is in accordance with accepted international norms.
Furthermore, the Council urged the Bailers authorities to respect its commitment to initiate talks with the thirteenth Supreme Soviet, elected with the aim of establishing a true separation of powers and of commencing a dialogue within a tripartite work group which is made up of representatives of the Bailers government, of the thirteenth Supreme Soviet and of experts from the European Union, the Council of Europe and the CSCE.
The Council of 15 September, that is last Monday, were forced to note that no progress had been made over the last months in the area of political and economic reforms in Bailers and that the political and constitutional situation, along with continual violations of human rights and fundamental liberties, in particular freedom of the press, was still very worrying.
Secondly, refusal to support the membership of Bailers in the Council of Europe.
In order to consolidate peace and stability in the region and to contribute to its economic revival, the European Union aims to develop bilateral relations with the countries of this region, in a context which favours democracy, rule of law, the establishment of stricter standards with regard to human rights and minority rights, movement towards a market economy and the strengthening of co-operation between these countries.
In an annexe to the conclusions the Council included a number factors by which the level of respect for the conditions relating to democratic principles, human rights, rule of law, respect and protection of minorities and movement towards a market economy could be scrutinised.
I can assure you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the European Union is very closely following, and evaluating regularly, the progress made in the countries of this region, including Croatia, in terms of satisfying the demands of conditionality.
As these countries were reminded by the Council at the time of the session of 16 and 17 June in Amsterdam, rigorous respect for human rights and the rights of minorities in all countries, including repatriation of displaced people and refugees, remains an essential condition in the improvement of relations between the European Union and Croatia.
The progressive implementation of the conditions specified in the conclusions of 29 April will enable a progressive strengthening of relations, provided of course that there is a political and economic evaluation, global and permanent, through which each country, including Croatia, will be judged on an individual basis.
I would also like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer which I thought was very exhaustive.
Within this global context, I think I have underlined on two or three occasions the concept of conditionality.
Thank you, Mr Wohlfart.
As the author is not present, Question No 11 falls.
On the one hand it is involved in the Cypriot question in accordance with the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council aiming for a bi-zonal federation with community aim and, on the other hand, it is working towards the membership of Cyprus in the European Union.
The Presidency's representative for Cyprus will closely follow the daily development of the situation.
In this context, allow me, Mr President, to strongly assert that the European Union only recognises one government, that of the Republic of Cyprus, naturally.
With regard to exchanges with the northern part of Cyprus, let me remind you of the ruling of the European Court of Justice on 5 July 1994 confirming that certificates coming from the north of Cyprus cannot be accepted.
The effective implementation of the Association Council agreement, signed between the Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs and the self-proclaimed authorities of northern Cyprus on 7 August last, means that the situation would need to be seriously reconsidered and would have, in any case, more general political implications as I have just explained.
Question No 14 by Christine Oddy (H-0638/97) Subject: Sri Lankan assassination Is the Council aware of the assassination of Mr A.
As President-in-Office of the Council I take note of the constant interest of the honourable Member regarding the situation in Sri Lanka, especially with regard to the respect, or rather lack of respect, for human rights.
However, the Council was not aware of the tragic and deplorable events which the honourable Member mentions in her question.
Concerning the position of the European Union on the situation of civil war in Sri Lanka, the honourable Member could usefully refer to the replies to questions that she herself raised during the sessions of last May and July.
Question No 15 by Richard Howitt (H-0646/97) Subject: Regional representation at meetings Can the Council specify on how many occasions and on which issues regional levels of government have been represented at Council meetings rather than central government since the ratification of the Maastricht Treaty?
Consequently, on a ministerial level, article 146 stipulates that a Member State can be represented by a regional minister, provided of course that he is skilled at advising the government of the Member State in question.
An exercise should perhaps be conducted in order to enumerate the number of occasions that is taking place with those Member States or with others to demonstrate that regional government can play a role in the European to bring our decisions closer to the citizen and to improve our decision-making.
The formation of the Council was the following on 67 occasions: culture, education, industry, youth, civil defence, research and transport as well as work and social affairs.
I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his very full answer.
Thank you very much, Mr McMahon.
If an arrangement exists between the national government and the future regional government, why not?
If there is a transfer of power in favour of our future Scottish colleague who will be in charge of fishing, there will not be a problem, even if he belongs to a different party from the prime minister.
It should be noted, moreover, that similar clauses figure in the European agreements concluded with other eastern and central European countries.
In as far as prospects for the membership of the Czech Republic to the Union are concerned, the necessary decisions on the whole of the enlargement process will be taken, according to the conclusions of the Amsterdam Summit, by the Luxembourg European Council next December, on the basis of a detailed report by the General Affairs Council on the recommendations regarding requests for membership, as well as on the basis of Agenda 2000.
Thank you, Mr President, for the very precise answer.
The other is the specific question of whether one or more Member States had mentioned this point in the Council, or if that will happen only in Luxemburg.
Secondly, concerning the Czech Republic and other countries which have signed association agreements, the Council's opinion is that the problems are similar but that they appear in different contexts.
With regard to the question of whether I know if other delegations have already brought up the problem that you mention in your supplementary question within the General Affairs Council, I must admit that I do not attend all of the General Affairs Councils.
As the author is not present, Question No 17 falls.
When the annual report for 1996 was examined along with the work programme of the Commission for the year 1997-1998, with regard to the area of protection of the Community's financial interests and of fighting against fraud, the Council considered that recovery of the sums evaded was an essential component of an efficient anti-fraud policy and hence it constitutes a priority objective with a view to lowering taxes paid by the taxpayers.
Furthermore, it has underlined on several occasions the need to strengthen co-operation between the Commission and the appropriate authorities of the Member States in order to achieve this objective and to improve the policy of fraud detection.
I am asking the question because I know that Commissioner Anita Gradin feels very isolated in this matter.
I know him and he will not hesitate to make the problem of fraud recovery one of his main themes, especially as he has just put a Luxembourg Member of Parliament in charge of drawing up an exhaustive report on tax fraud in our country.
I can inform the honourable Member that in his capacity as President of the Employment and Social Affairs Council, Minister Ad Melkert did indeed meet representatives of certain Asian countries on the fringes of the ILO conference in Geneva on 10 June 1997.
Mr Melkert reported on these discussions to his colleagues during the Council of 27 June and underlined the usefulness of such contacts.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for your answer.
In fact, when we brought up the issues of minimum social standards and social dumping, many developing countries put the ball back in our court with the accusation that this is the angle we want to deal with the problems from, but in fact what we are doing is nothing more than protectionism.
As the authors are not present, Questions Nos 20 and 21 lapse.
It is the second largest provider of jobs in the European Union, with 4.5 million commercial business, one third of all European businesses, 95 per cent of which have less than 10 employees, 22 million direct jobs, 16 per cent of the European workforce, 55 per cent of employees in the retail sector are women, 3.4 million retail businesses employ 15 million people, 1.1 million wholesale businesses with 7 million jobs, and 13 per cent of the value added of the European economy.
The Green Paper is the result of the political and executive attention paid to commerce since 1994, with greater involvement of the Community institutions, which had previously been more concerned with other economic sectors and larger companies, certainly not concentrating on commerce and small and medium-sized firms.
The duty of commerce is to offer a response to all these requests, seeking to anticipate and interpret changes in consumer preference, because the final consumer is entitled to the whole range of distribution formulae.
The governments of the Member States, in their different ways, and naturally upholding the principle of subsidiarity, must be the first to adopt the suggestions of the Green Paper to standardize, where possible, and set up a comprehensive programme for their country's commercial system.
The commercial sector is after all of central importance for the internal market and for the external relations of the European Union.
The matter does not just consist of facts, which are well depicted in the Green Paper on Commerce, but the actual requirements for trade at European level.
Particularly within the crisis of confidence which we can see in almost all those involved with the internal market economy at the moment, commerce assumes a special importance, because the internal market is an important element for growth and employment.
Commerce plays an increasingly major role in the connection between production and sales.
Let me comment here on trade and its importance for the future of the European Union.
In electronic trade there is also a new payment system which must obtain the confidence of both the consumer and the entrepreneur in order to be a success, and without that confidence the entrepreneur will not invest.
The sector must comply with the most complex legislation in the world in the areas of, among other things, food hygiene, the environment and above all competition together with our national cartel opponents.
Moreover, with regard to this position of power, and I would draw the Commissioner's attention to this, I think that, for example, in a country such as the Netherlands, some chains still remain.
So you see that the free competition in the end again results in monopolies, which can never have been the intention.
Mr President, firstly on behalf of my group I should like to stress the importance of our colleague Riccardo Garosci's report, which we support unreservedly.
I should also like to say how pleased we are that the Commission has become increasingly willing to give more attention to the commercial sector, as shown by the production of this Green Paper on commerce.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I find aspects of this report very important and I am very glad to be able to underline that.
First of all, the report draws attention to the importance of commerce as a network of social relationships which should be incorporated into a global view of economic relationships which takes account of the productive, regional, environmental and social angles.
This Green Paper should be particularly important because of the predominant role that trade plays in the search for new pools of jobs, since it is the second largest employer in the Community.
We regret that the Commission did not tackle the question of protection of small businesses except within the framework of relations and co-operation with hypermarkets, while it seems to have skimmed over the main problem when it mentions the equilibrium to be found between the best price for the consumer and the non-disappearance of individual traders in relation to large integrated companies.
In this area we think that every country of the Union, and in particular France, has a role to play in terms of the defence of small traders and the promotion of labelled local produce in the face of the hypermarkets and their central buying, even if, once again, the defence of our identity clashes with supranational community regulations.
It is certainly praiseworthy to speak of the role that trade can play in social cohesion, mainly the retail outlets found in overly built-up town centres or in the under-populated countryside, but the difficulty is in finding the balance between this social role and a necessary concentration as an instrument in the face of world competition.
It therefore appears that the Commission is content to note the difficulties in the trade sector in its Green Paper without proposing solutions.
Mr President, colleagues, the commission has finally produced this long-awaited Green Paper on the retail trade.
The report emphasizes aiding innovative marketing activity on the part of small and medium-sized retail businesses, and supporting regional development and local skills.
In Mr Garosci's excellent report and in the Commission's Green Paper faith is expressed in the role of electronic shopping as a way of reviving remote rural areas.
It provides 13 % of Union GDP and employs 22 thousand people (2.3 thousand more in 1992 than in 1982) in 4.5 million businesses, 95 % of which have less than 10 employees, distributed throughout the territory from the great cities to the most remote villages.
So commerce has an irreplaceable role in the economy and in society.
The idea that nothing new would develop is already outdated, even an intermediate stage, pushing up prices to consumers and reducing the incomes of those engaged in agricultural and industrial activities, has proved to be unnecessary.
This is a capacity which has special importance for Portugal, as the border areas - in the interior, with Spain, are the most backward areas and, symptomatically, only have more favourable indicators in the towns on the traditional main connections with Spain.
Mr President, when the European Union was founded it was probably inconceivable for anyone to think that we would come to such a debate.
As many speakers have said in this debate, small businesses in the commercial sector play a role which is greater than their role in economic terms.
It is a small town in the southwest of England, called Langport.
We have three newsagents, five hairdressers and two butchers.
And yet there are proposals to open a supermarket in our town.
I hope that the Commission will follow the recommendations in this paper and bring forward a White Paper within two years, recognizing the importance of small business and recognizing that it needs our assistance.
Mr President, the Commission's Green Paper on commerce gives a good analysis of the situation in which European commerce finds itself at the moment.
I should be pleased to hear from the Commissioner whether he will be including these ideas in the future White Paper.
The small shop on the corner or in a village is part of European quality of life.
It is often the centre of local life and also has great importance for tourism.
Mr President, first of all I want to say that I think it is a very good thing that we are having this debate on the Green Paper - on which I congratulate the Commission and thank the Commissioner in particular - on such an important sector in terms of the contribution to the economy and employment in Europe before such a large audience of young people who are certainly concerned about their own futures and who, I think, can draw from the debate in progress some indication and some sign of hope of the commitment of the European institutions to the most prominent sectors of our economy.
I would like to support some of the concepts already discussed and add some others.
I would like to stress the fact that commerce carries out a fundamentally important role, not only for the economy and employment, but also from the social point of view, in that it guarantees a plurality of functions in urban and rural centres, as many colleagues have said.
We are obviously awaiting with interest, almost with anxiety, the white paper within the two years envisaged, but we believe, and certainly the Commissioner will have already thought about an initiative in this respect, that the issue we are debating this evening must be pressed strongly and have a central role in the conference on employment on 21 and 22 November, and the summit planned on the subject.
There is increasing competition as a result of the operation of the internal market which has resulted in an enormous trend towards concentration.
Mr President, the fact that in its Green Paper the Commission gives a lot of space to the role of the retail trade on the introduction of the Euro is a good thing.
The rapporteur and other colleagues have explained why.
In any case, I hope that the Commission will take account of the Parliament's resolution.
As to your other remark that there are not many Members in the House, you know very well that colleagues have been working, just as you and I have been, since 8.00 a.m.
I would like to concentrate attention on paragraphs 10 and 11 of Mr Garosci's report.
In my country the situation is even worse.
The basic aim of the Green Paper is to provoke a wider dialogue on the future of the sector in Europe.
The contribution of Parliament to this dialogue was and is of special significance, not only in addressing and understanding the problems, but also in shaping the basic policies concerning trade at a European level.
Your opinion is indeed especially important for us, not only because, in principle, it adopts the approach of the European Commission, but mainly because it sets out new ideas and new issues for the development of the sector.
In October 1996 the Council adopted a regulation for the organization of businesses, in which commerce is also included.
But correct information needs to be given.
On this point the Commission, working together with Parliament, has set up a round table on the Euro with the participation of all interested parties.
Another important issue concerns the survival of small shops, in particular those shops in the sparsely populated island and mountain regions, and also in the centres of towns and cities, where small shops play a vital social, economic and cultural role, a fact that many of you have pointed out today during our debate.
We will also be organizing a conference on commerce in rural areas during the first few months of 1998 and this conference will take place with the cooperation of the Committee on Regional Policy.
I would also like to emphasize that our policies must contribute to the preservation and improvement of the quality of life in rural and urban areas and in the centres of towns and cities, bearing in mind the particular characteristics of the weaker members of society, especially, I would say, the elderly and people with special needs.
And I hope that by the end of the term in office of this European Commission, that is within the next one and a half to two years, we will be in a position to present a White Paper on commerce with the basic legal guidelines that are needed to strengthen commerce, and to shape a better environment within which commerce may play its many-faceted role.
However, I know that all of us who have responsibility for this huge undertaking - the creation of jobs - and for the creation of better conditions for the development of commerce and of economic activities within the European Union, that is to say, the Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission, will agree that, in order to be equal to this great challenge, in order to be able to face up to and to formulate a White Paper on commerce, we need the support of the Directorate General XXIII in this regard.
Then our conclusions will lead to proposals for a long term programme of action within the framework of an integrated approach to the policy on commerce.
And I would like to assure you that we will continue our efforts towards the provision of a framework within which commerce will be able to make progress and to participate in pushing forward development and in creating new jobs.
And thanks to their work, we confidently await a fine White Paper on commerce by the end of 1998.
In any event, however, you are completely right, it is very difficult, very small businesses do not have the experts, they do not have the possibility to turn to experts to gain access to what we call European involvement in the developments that are taking shape at a European level, nor even to the programmes that we ourselves are developing.
For this reason, therefore, we are endeavouring, by means of all the networks of information that we have either at a European level or at the level of the Member States, to diffuse the information that is required, and at the same time to ask for their views and opinions in a reciprocal relationship, which we have trying to develop over the last three years.
In any event, however, I would like to finish by saying to you and by assuring you that our resolution is steadfast to strengthen very small businesses in any way we can, either through long term programmes for small and medium sized companies, or through special initiatives and special programmes that we are developing in concert with the Member States.
The debate is closed.
