On Rules 2, 5 and 119 of the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, yesterday morning, during the vote on the resolution on the Berlin summit, Parliament adopted two amendments: Amendments Nos 18 and 19.
I would like to ask that, before they are approved and forwarded to the institutions to which they are addressed, you have the competent services check that there is in fact a link between a resolution on the Berlin summit and Amendments Nos 18 and 19 which the House adopted.
I had an appointment to see the President this morning at 9.30.
Mr President, the Quaestors have informed Members that we shall be in our offices for the last time in May before the removal takes place.
As you know, this is an issue that is being looked at carefully by the President-in-Office of the Council.
When the annual report for 1997 was dealt with by Parliament, some critical voices suggested that the Ombudsman had success in only a small number of cases.
We have done that in almost 80 % of such cases so that citizens do not usually leave us empty-handed.
Although there have been calls to broaden the mandate of the European Ombudsman to deal also with complaints against national authorities, especially in cases concerning freedom of movement, I still believe it is preferable to create an effective system of cooperation with the national ombudsmen and similar bodies.
During 1998 the Ombudsman's office received 1372 new complaints, compared with 1181 in 1997 and 842 in 1996.
We also closed 185 enquiries with a reasoned decision as compared to 101 in 1997.
In 45 % of these cases the institution settled the matter, a friendly solution was found or the case was closed with a critical remark.
In 1997 and 1996 the figures were 40 % and 35 %.
During 1998 no maladministration was found in 52 % of the cases in which an inquiry was carried out.
A finding of no maladministration is not always a negative result for the complainant.
We have recently written to the European Central Bank to enquire if it has already adopted rules on public access to documents.
Thirdly, I should like to refer to the idea of a code of good administrative behaviour, which was first mentioned in the Perry report on the Committee on Petitions' own activities for 1996-1997 and supported in the Newman report on the Ombudsman's annual report for 1997.
The new Commission may of course even improve the draft before adopting it.
Fourthly, we have managed to improve the administrative procedure the European Commission uses in its role as the guardian of the Treaty when dealing with complaints or petitions from European citizens.
In improving transparency, it is essential that the new regulation on public access to documents under the Amsterdam Treaty be adopted as soon as it is possible to do so.
I should like to use this opportunity to thank all the Community institutions and bodies for another year of constructive cooperation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should firstly like to congratulate the Ombudsman's office and its services on the transparency and speed with which it has provided details of its activities not only to Parliament and the Committee on Petitions but also directly to citizens and associations in the Member States.
However, protecting the rights of Community citizens would not be enough if closer collaboration and cooperation were not fostered between Parliament, through the Committee on Petitions, as the committee responsible, and the Ombudsman.
Turning to the annual report presented by the Ombudsman, we must highlight the rise in the number of complaints submitted, a development the Ombudsman himself mentioned.
Over the years, Parliament has noted the increasing interest the public has taken in the European institutions and how the decisions taken here affect their daily lives.
Making administration more transparent and accessible to the public is one of the main aims of all the national administrations in the Member States.
This House has adopted various reports on the transparency and simplification of Community law which have brought us closer to achieving this aim.
With this same aim of promoting collaboration between the institutions and the public, it is important to highlight the involvement of citizens in the preliminary infringement proceedings provided for in Article 169 of the Treaty.
I believe that the work carried out by the Ombudsman in the field of information and communication serves as a good example for other European institutions, especially as regards the use of new communication technologies, for example, the use of the Internet to make the institution more accessible to the public.
In this connection, I should like to acknowledge the efforts of the Ombudsman in his relations with national and regional ombudsmen.
Applause Mr President, the right to petition is an important aspect of European citizenship.
The right to petition can be exercised by all residents of the European Union, not just EU citizens, and by organisations based in the European Union.
This definition is wide enough for the Committee on Petitions to apply common sense and political judgment in deciding whether a petition is admissible or not.
During the past five years of this mandate 10 million people from all 15 European Union Member States have signed over 6 500 petitions.
In a number of cases every year a petition leads to the opening of formal infringement proceedings under Article 169 of the Treaty against Member States not implementing European Union law correctly, to the detriment of our citizens.
The analysis of the infringement procedures since 1996 shows a minimum of 97 total cases linked to petitions out of 535 cases relating to direct complaints for which the Commission sent letters of formal notice thus initiating infringement proceedings.
These figures indicate that petitions play an important role in the detection and handling of infringement cases.
In its annual report on the application of Community law, the Commission should clearly identify the cases where infringement procedures under Article 169 were initiated through petitions.
The Member States must improve the action taken in cases in which infringements are reported.
The European Parliament's information brochure for the public on the right to petition states that petitions often reveal practices in a Member State which are contrary to the letter or the spirit of Community legislation.
In some cases the involvement of the Community authorities has prompted the national authorities to apply Community law more correctly.
As a result of petitions the European Parliament has had a positive effect on the daily lives of citizens and has been able to act to find a solution to actual cases involving matters within the Community remit.
As this is likely to be my final speech to the European Parliament meeting in plenary session, I want to thank all those people whom I have worked with over 15 years' membership of the European Parliament and, in particular, the good people of Greater Manchester Central who under the fine individual constituency system I have had the honour to represent since 1984.
The first time I came to this Parliament I had the opportunity to meet with you in that committee and we had the opportunity to work together for our citizens, which has always been your main interest.
Our cooperation with the Ombudsman has always been extremely fruitful.
His initiatives and enquiries have brought greater transparency and openness to the European bureaucracy.
Mr President, Parliament this week has been debating very many important issues, such as war and peace in Kosovo.
Our supreme responsibility is to represent and protect the rights of the 370 million European citizens.
No committee of this Parliament performs that role more directly for the citizen than the Committee on Petitions and no European office-holder has the interests of the individual citizen higher on his list of responsibilities than the European Ombudsman.
I will use this speech to stress just one section of that report.
But we in the European People's Party have never waivered in our determination to keep the Committee on Petitions.
I support him in his call for greater transparency.
We should give him our fullest support in achieving it.
The debate on the Austrian 'strategy document' also pinpointed shortcomings in the Council's arrangements for transparency.
I therefore look forward to the time when, with the backing of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Ombudsman will be able to envisage overseeing a body such as Europol.
Finally, let me say a few words about the vote that will be taking place today on the future of the Committee on Petitions.
This committee must be allowed to continue its work, but I hope that the Commission will be able to provide comparable assurances on the processing of petitions to those it has given with regard to complaints under Article 169 of the Treaty.
I should like to begin by expressing my delight that the proposal put forward by the Conference of Presidents, which will be put to the vote at midday, includes - among its 17 remaining committees - the Committee on Petitions in its own right and not as secondary to another committee.
Most petitions received by the Committee on Petitions relate to social security, the internal market or the environment.
The rapporteur and other Members have already referred to the problem of how slow the process is.
When a complaint is made that a road is going to be built in a natural area and decisions on it are not taken immediately, the road might still go ahead although the final decision may rule that it is illegal.
The successful coordination that has been developed between the European Ombudsman and the Committee on Petitions must also be welcomed.
Both the Committee on Petitions and the Ombudsman should have their own independent budget to be used reasonably and sufficient staff, as these are two institutions that genuinely uphold the rights of European citizens.
The European Ombudsman's annual report for 1998 shows that his institution has now become one of the best-functioning and most effective in the European Union.
The Committee on Petitions has already approached the parliamentary administration on this point, although its plea did not elicit much of a response.
I am sorry to say that I must close by asking certain bodies in this House how they feel about the rights of their constituents when they seek to diminish the status of the basic right of petition by abolishing the Committee on Petitions, or when they try to change the name of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and call it the Committee on Legal Affairs and Consumers' Rights.
Mr President, Ombudsman, as is the case every year, the debate on the reports concerning the work of the Committee on Petitions and of the Ombudsman is an opportunity to remind people of how important these two bodies are in terms of establishing trust between the Community institutions and the people of the Member States.
By their very nature, the Community institutions are the furthest removed from daily life.
In the worst cases, these texts merely add rules with no European dimension to existing national legislation.
Mr President, speaking here today, just 58 days away from the elections, and in the dying days of this European Parliament, I feel that the joint debate on the Committee on Petitions and on the European Ombudsman is of special significance and, as a review of the entire five-year term, will serve as a de facto pointer towards the coming elections.
It is a joint debate because the Committee on Petitions and the European Ombudsman function jointly.
You will note in the report that in the past year I have dealt with 29 petitions as mediator.
The Council of Ministers should make a point of discussing this as soon as possible so that we can establish some kind of ground rules to respond to the problem.
We need special courts that will deal with these issues as quickly as possible to prevent the inevitable trauma, particularly to the children, but also to both parents.
In addition to my work in the committee I have also participated, on behalf of Parliament, in a great many international conferences.
The situation regarding public access to documents has improved in the European Union mainly as a result of the efforts of the Ombudsman and the courts.
I would point out that the European Parliament must also be a part of this programme of revision and embark on a course of good administration itself.
The EU does not have such a culture of openness, and this is also reflected in the Ombudsman's annual report, which incidentally is well set out, clear and meticulous.
It is therefore particularly important to support paragraph 6 in Mrs De Esteban's motion for a resolution.
Let me nonetheless say a few words on behalf of the Commission.
In 1998, the Commission was once again the main subject of the investigations carried out by the Ombudsman.
Another point made by the House, by the Committee on Petitions and by the Ombudsman himself concerns the code of good administrative behaviour aimed at the institutions and the European bodies.
The Commission has reached agreement on the principle underlying that code, has set about drafting it, in consultation with the Ombudsman, and has taken an initial decision on this.
The Commission agrees that transparency does not simply mean that documents should, wherever possible, be accessible to the public but also that any refusal to provide such documents must be justified on the basis of rules previously laid down.
That is crucial both to the work of the Ombudsman himself and to enable the people of Europe to have confidence in him.
As to changing the rules and conditions governing the work of the Ombudsman, in relation either to that point or the taking of evidence from officials, it is clearly up to the House to take the initiative here in accordance with Article 138e.
But giving the public real rights in proceedings under Article 169 will clearly involve an amendment to the Treaty.
In addition to investigating the cases referred to you, Mr Söderman, you have taken the initiative to draw up a range of proposals on transparency and citizens' rights.
There has already been mention in the Chamber of your involvement in questions concerning the role of the public in Article 169 proceedings, the drafting of a code of good behaviour for officials, and access to the documents of the institutions and the bodies which you supervise.
The right of petition marks an important breakthrough in terms of the political rights of our citizens, and I think it useful to point out once again, as did the rapporteur, that this right is fully recognised in the Treaty on European Union.
Processing petitions rapidly and effectively is another important way of increasing public confidence in the institutions.
Close examination of the whole range of petitions submitted reveals another interesting factor.
The Committee on Petitions must in fact be considered the main parliamentary platform for our citizens, the barometer, the gauge of their real concerns.
As we realise, of course, proceedings under Article 169 are instituted as a result of many petitions from members of the public.
Mr Perry, the rapporteur for the Committee on Petitions for 1996, had already pressed for that code and the Ombudsman made a similar request.
As I mentioned, the Commission has taken an initial decision on this.
The debate is closed.
The Commission thinks it will need EUR 142 million for the programme up to the year 2002.
This figure has now been increased to 25 %.
The European Commission has about 120 - one thousandth of that figure - which once again shows how ludicrous it is to claim that we are working with an over-centralised bureaucracy in Brussels.
With effect from the year 2001, they want to hold back 25 % of this revenue rather than 10 % as at present, even though these are traditionally the EU's own resources.
It does have to be said that, coming six years after the entry into force of the single market and 29 years after the entry into force of the customs union, this is hugely disappointing.
There is a lack of cooperation between Member States.
The rapporteur's acquiescence in proposing that finalising computerisation of the Transit system should be delayed until 30 June 2003 reflects very badly on the apparent value of the results obtained up to now in this area.
Let me first say that the Commission is able to accept a substantial number of amendments - namely Amendments Nos 2, 4, 6, 7, 10, 12 to 17 and 19 - and I shall say no more about them.
Turning to Amendment No 3, the first part of the text is acceptable, except for the final sentence reading: 'whereas this will result in a four-year delay compared to the initial target date'.
The last sentence of Amendment No 3 is, however, inappropriate in a legal text.
Amendment No 5 refers to Amendment No 16.
Although the Commission understands the reason for the change, the first part of the text, which takes up a broader issue concerning own resources, would fit better within the framework of the legislation on own resources than in this proposal.
We are able to accept the substance of Amendment No 8 to the extent that the committee in question takes over the work of the Customs Policy Committee, and I shall return to that in a moment.
Amendment No 9 is acceptable on the point of transparency in relation to Parliament and the customs authorities.
Amendment No 11 is in principle acceptable to the Commission, provided that the committee that is set up to administer the Customs 2000 programme takes over the current responsibilities of the Customs Policy Committee.
That committee was in fact set up on the basis of Article 3 of the initial version of the Customs 2000 programme as an instrument of partnership between the Commission and the Member States.
This amendment has also to be viewed in connection with Amendment No 18, and here the Commission believes it can accept the first paragraph, but it must be inserted where it most makes sense, in the text of Article 3 of the initial Customs 2000 proposal.
Article 3, to which Amendment No 11 relates, concerns the application of the programme and the partnership between the Commission and the Member States.
We cannot accept the second paragraph of Amendment No 18.
That point should, however, be viewed in the context of Article 19 of the new proposal which provides for the Customs 2000 programme to be opened up to the applicant states generally.
Finally, the second paragraph of Amendment No 20 is not compatible with the general principles adopted by the Commission, the Council and Parliament in their declaration of 6 March 1995 on including financial provisions in legal instruments, and the paragraph cannot therefore be taken on board.
That, Madam President, summarises the Commission's view at this stage in the legislative procedure.
The debate is closed.
At the present time there are nine different charging systems in Europe for the use of the rail infrastructure, with subsidisation ranging between zero and 100 %.
I know she has worked very hard over many months on this difficult subject.
Whilst this report is not legislative, it is, in transport policy terms, the culmination of much work covering many aspects and will without doubt give the green light to a legislative proposal in the future.
We in the Group of the European People's Party must reject the Commission's strategy of introducing a uniform system of charging for all modes of transport on the basis of so-called marginal social cost.
The fact is that the system of marginal social cost proposed by Neil Kinnock, the Socialist Commissioner for Transport, clearly emerged as an objectively unsuitable method of infrastructure charging when the Committee on Transport and Tourism consulted with scientists and transport specialists on 17 February 1999.
That is why we in Parliament called on the Commission back in January 1997 to provide us with scientifically demonstrable assessments of external costs and how they can best be recouped; these assessments were to be presented for each individual mode of transport.
Mrs Schmidbauer, my colleague Mr Ferber was absolutely right.
I do not think that this is in line with our Rules of Procedure.
After the vote on Amendment No 5 Mr President, I may be mistaken, but I was under the impression that to amend such allocations an absolute majority was needed.
You are generally one of the experts on the practices of the House, Mr Herman, but on this occasion I am afraid you are mistaken.
More than 13 Members rose to express their opposition After the vote on Amendment No 11 Mr President, I think you were somewhat hasty in answering the question that our colleague Mr Herman posed earlier.
Rule 135 states that the powers of committees are to be recorded in an annex, but it does not in any way rule out the use of an absolute majority.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, I have listened very carefully to your comments.
In cases where an absolute majority suits him but a simple majority would suffice, he protests; then, where the Rules of Procedure provide for an absolute majority, as in the case of the discharge, he wants a simple majority.
As you are all aware, it is not a matter of making radical changes, rather, as we understand it, of putting things in their place.
As usual, when a debate becomes so intense, the great principles put forward to fuel such debate actually have nothing to do with the basic reason for it.
Mr President, everybody who has been engaged in this whole issue over the last year understands the enormous pressure under which we have put the services of Parliament in the last few days.
Parliament agreed to this proposal Mr President, with all due respect, we cannot call for a check to be made every time the PPE Group is in a minority of 50 or 100 votes.
Parliament adopted the legislative resolution Mr President, 80 refugees have just been killed as the result of an indiscriminate air attack by NATO.
I think it is high time we reconsidered our policy on the former Yugoslavia.
Mr President, I just wanted to say that although I shall remain in the Chamber, I shall be taking part in the final vote on the resolution only and will give an explanation of vote in accordance with Rule 122.
On Amendment No 7 On Amendment No 7, Mr President, I should like to point out that there was a mistake in the Dutch translation, among others.
On paragraph 5 Mr President, I should very much like to support paragraph 5 with a view to protecting the refugees.
On paragraph 14 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a further oral amendment but was agreed during the coordinators' negotiations.
Applause (Parliament adopted the resolution) I voted in favour of the proposal but would certainly have preferred if the committee now named 'Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities' had been named 'Committee on Mainstreaming and Gender Equality'.
When it came to the final vote, I therefore voted against the proposal tabled by the Conference of Presidents.
d'Aboville report (A4-0181/99) The Greens voted against the proposed fisheries agreement with the Seychelles, as we have voted against other fisheries agreements, not because we are opposed to fisheries agreements in principle, but because we feel that the approach of the EU needs to be reformed.
Agreements must be negotiated on a more equitable basis, so that both the EU and the third country derive equivalent benefits.
The recently-created Indian Ocean Tuna Commission is a step in the right direction but has not yet begun to assume its management role.
The EU must also assume greater responsibility for the activities of its vessels.
There are, however, nine amendments which run directly counter to this aim, and they have been endorsed by a majority of this Parliament.
Joint resolution on Kosovo Mr President, I voted against this resolution because I feel Parliament is extremely reluctant to criticise NATO and NATO's actions.
I believe that NATO has basically ignored international law in the action it has taken and that proper efforts were not made to find a peaceful solution.
Also, Parliament was reluctant to address the fact that NATO is hitting civilian targets in Yugoslavia and the fact that it is using cluster-bombs and depleted uranium in its ammunition.
Today in Parliament we voted against supporting the German peace proposal that has been put forward.
Parliament has a duty to express its discontent at some of the actions of NATO, in particular the bombing of civilian targets and the use of weapons that are considered by some people as weapons of mass destruction.
Mr President, there are many extremely good points in this resolution.
Mr President, as a member of the Greens who supported the compromise motion today, I merely wanted to express my respect for all the members of NATO currently engaged in the fight for human rights in the states bordering on Kosovo.
We, the MEPs of PASOK, the Panhellenic Socialist Movement of Greece, are voting against the European Parliament resolution on Kosovo because we feel it has nothing positive to offer towards finding a solution to the problem.
Finally, in the present tragic circumstances, it is imperative that an international conference should be convened for the purpose of improving the coordination of humanitarian aid.
The time has come for Europe to take specific initiatives to find a political solution to the problem for the good of all the people in the area.
At the same time, the NATO offensive, instead of isolating the dictator Milosevic and his regime, is in fact having the undesirable effect of building up nationalist unity around him against foreign intervention.
I did not vote in favour of the European Parliament's resolution on Kosovo because it reflects a sense of self-satisfaction and complete failure to question our actions, which, in my view, does not reflect the seriousness of the situation.
It is difficult to imagine how the Serbs and Albanians in Kosovo will be able to live together in the near future.
Third, if Europe wants to impose the rule of law, it must respect it too.
I fully understand that there is a political duty and a duty on the institutions to intervene as matters now stand, and for that reason, while confirming my own position on the conflict, I now support any initiative designed to seek a positive solution from a political, moral and legal standpoint, focusing particularly on the role that the UN, the EU, NATO and Russia can and must fulfil.
In the light of such intolerable and inhuman acts, our resolution covers the most essential points.
I am very dismayed to see that at a time when all political parties, with the exception of the extreme right, recognise the new virtues of international law in Pinochet's arrest, we have continued to hold talks with Milosevic, who has more blood on his hands and more 'crimes against humanity' on his conscience.
Our resolution makes five or six references to Milosevic, but does not say a single word about Ibrahim Rugova, the head of the Democratic League of Kosovo, winner of the European Parliament's Sakharov Prize in 1998 and one of the Rambouillet negotiators.
On three occasions Yugoslav television cameras have shown him in the process of 'negotiating' with Milosevic.
On seeing these pictures, everyone wondered what freedom Rugova enjoyed, while 'protected' by the Serb police, in a country that has been emptied of its inhabitants.
I should like to have seen our resolution invite Rugova to Brussels or Berlin so that he could freely put across his point of view on the present situation and the solutions he envisages.
NATO cannot play a leading role in the conflict and, according to Le Monde newspaper, be a partner to the KLA, which supplies it with information concerning the Serb positions to be destroyed, be a new international police force with a duty to intervene, and be a humanitarian body.
I voted against the motion for a resolution on the situation in Kosovo because it negates international law, and that is both an historical blunder and a serious political error.
Never has a state that is a signatory to the United Nations Charter experienced an act of aggression by the international community such as the one perpetrated for eight years against Yugoslavia at the instigation of the United States and Germany.
Instead of integrating the former Yugoslavia into the Union and thus promoting its process of political democratisation and economic progress, the European Union, with the European Parliament leading the way, has encouraged its break-up and created - at least indirectly - the conditions for the wars in Croatia and Bosnia in the past and in Serbia today.
The resolution adopted by Parliament today will go down in the political history of this House as the centrepiece of a total failure of political memory, typical of the political hysteria now being generated by media manipulation in the interests of those who gain from war and aggression, and ignoring the values of peace, justice and the sovereignty of nations.
Furthermore, the motion for a resolution claims that the UN and the Security Council 'could not' (!) be involved in the NATO decision to carry out aerial sorties, whilst it is clear that this decision was taken in violation of the principles of the UN which, in this case, was irreparably shamed and humiliated.
The claim that this treatment of the UN occurred because two Members of the Security Council blocked NATO activities (as they have the right to do under the UN charter) is a monument to high-handedness and a dangerous example of a totalitarian notion: that the UN is useful only when it agrees with NATO.
I am voting against the resolution of the majority in the European Parliament who support the war in Yugoslavia.
The war that NATO is waging against Serbia is a failure.
Instead of inventing a Europe with variable geometry that offered new opportunities to all of the continent's states to coexist through cooperation, these European leaders stubbornly pursued the Monnet method, with its established dogma, without realising that it was no longer the most appropriate way of uniting the very diverse countries of the new European continent.
The failure to create the permanent forum for a wider Europe, that would have enabled us to immediately engage in open cooperation with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe on such key issues as security and foreign policy, shows that our continent is once again becoming divided.
The war in Yugoslavia is the tragic symbol of this new division in Europe: it embodies it and accentuates it.
Today the fruits of NATO's military intervention are particularly bitter.
This vital redefinition of our concept of Europe will be the best possible preventive policy.
Despite containing a number of useful recommendations, the motion for a resolution tabled by various groups does not look at the situation in this context, although it is essential.
I supported Amendment No 3 and believe that there is a strong case for deploying ground troops to protect Kosovo.
I therefore voted for Amendment No 10, expressing concern about the use by NATO of weapons with depleted uranium.
These continue to have horrific consequences in Iraq, with some reports suggesting a 70 % increase in Iraq's rate of cancer and malignant births.
Paragraph 13 calls on the EU 'to step up efforts to provide information as to the populations of Serbia and Montenegro'.
If more efforts had been made in this direction when Milosevic first started his aggressive policies, the Serbian opposition to Milosevic would have been strengthened and many lives might have been saved.
The international community itself must function in full compliance with the provisions of international law.
I wish to stress the urgent need for NATO intervention in the region, to safeguard the fundamental rights of the people of Kosovo, and to point out that this tragedy could have been avoided had the European Union long since been a genuine united political entity as well as an economic and monetary union.
We are all aware of the importance of transport, particularly in terms of economic development.
Instead, we should wait until the international agreement on air transport has been concluded so that it can be taken into consideration in all future legislation.
Finally, paragraph 10 of the report proposes to offset the costs involved by reducing other taxes on transport.
I therefore entirely agree with Amendment No 7 by Mr Lagendijk.
The White Paper also stresses the need for balanced implementation, in particular between road and rail sectors.
The White Paper addressed equity and distributional issues as well as the problems faced in peripheral areas.
Much of this discussion applies equally to enlargement issues and candidate countries, and I feel sure that we will be able to consider these aspects when we further develop our proposals.
Member States are encouraged to incorporate the principles of the White Paper within their own charging schemes for private car transport in harmony with any EU-wide developments.
To have the support of Parliament on such subjects is therefore particularly welcome.
The vote will be taken this evening at 5.30 p.m.
The vote which followed confirmed that the European Parliament could not agree to the Commission's proposal to exempt combined transport from the generally accepted 40-tonne weight limit.
According to my information, there is also almost unanimous support in the Council for increasing the maximum weight.
That is why we await a more concrete set of proposals from the Commission.
I know that lorries are allowed to drive around quite happily in Belgium, for example, whereas the same might not be true in neighbouring countries.
If we could reduce the costs by 10 % for heavy goods transport, it would be an important incentive for potential combined transport users.
Seven of the Member States already allow a weight of 44 tonnes or more for all road transport, while others allow 44 tonnes for part of a combined transport operation.
As honourable Members are undoubtedly aware, the Member States can prescribe a maximum weight of 44 tonnes for three-axle vehicles forming part of a five- or six-axle combination to prevent such vehicles from causing too much damage to the roads.
The vote will be taken this evening at 5.30 p.m.
The Committee on Legal Affairs does not have many amendments to put forward here.
The Committee on Legal Affairs was broadly united in supporting the proposal that consumers should be entitled to redeem electronic money.
My group cannot, however, support the proposals in Amendments Nos 12 and 13, which call for separate directives in order to safeguard interoperability.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is pleased with the two directives that have been presented to us, as we believe that extending the provisions to non-bank issuers of electronic money is a good way of stimulating competition in this area whilst improving the quality of service offered and the prices charged to consumers.
This 18 month lead-time will yet again delay an opportunity for the public to use the euro, which seems rather worrying to us.
The Internet and methods of working electronically are a way forward for the world and the European Union.
This is a growth area and should create a large number of jobs.
Electronic money is not used very much at present, but I am sure that it will become very important in the future.
I thank the rapporteur.
It is perhaps important to point out that this must not be taken as a pretext for returning to a type of situation in which private trading houses control the money supply.
I must stress that the issuance of electronic money is just one element in the far broader context of electronic commerce systems and, within those systems, electronic payments themselves.
The Commission thinks it right to tackle the horizontal issues common to this broader context with horizontal instruments and measures, rather than applying restricted solutions limited to just one service.
These two proposals are designed to open up to other operators, within a neutral competitive framework, the new market for the issuance of electronic money, taking into account both the concern to see proper competition develop in the sector and the situation as it currently exists in a number of Member States.
The report from the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is largely positive in its assessment of the two proposals and includes amendments which improve their clarity.
The Commission is able to accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 14, 20, 21 and 22 to the proposal for a directive on the electronic money institutions.
Amendment No 3 asks the Commission to draw up a specific directive on the contractual relationship between issuers and bearers of electronic money.
Amendments Nos 4 to 13, with the exception of Amendment No 10, concern the problems linked to the payments system, in particular the existence and administration of inter-bank systems, interoperability and access to them.
Similar considerations apply to Amendments Nos 10, 18 and 19 to the proposal for a directive on the electronic money institutions, and Amendments Nos 1 and 2 to the other directive.
They relate to the problem of redeeming stored electronic money.
This problem is also being tackled as part of the review of the application of the recommendation on the relationship between issuers and bearers.
Furthermore, the Commission has already undertaken to monitor consistently all the problems concerning bearer protection in relation to electronic money, and these problems naturally extend further than the issue of redemption alone.
The Commission also agrees with what is proposed in Amendment No 15, but has to enter a reservation with regard to its exact wording and the order of the individual paragraphs.
Amendment No 16 is also acceptable, but it is helpful to place the adverb 'only' before 'references', so as to avoid creating confusion with references contained in other instruments.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, Europe is working towards the creation of a single market in financial services.
In spite of the restrictions the resigning Commission has imposed in terms of new legislative initiatives, I feel that the work undertaken in this area over quite some time now should be brought to a conclusion at this European Council.
Such increased efficiency would appear to lead to stronger growth and therefore to the creation of jobs.
The communication outlines the measures that are needed in the area of the single market and financial services.
In its report, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs highlights the importance of liquid and efficient European venture capital markets for start-ups and innovative companies in the high-technology industries.
We would also stress the need to create a single market in pension funds.
The debate on supervision in home countries as opposed to supervision in host countries has, until now, prevented any major shift towards either European supervisory systems or a European body for supervision.
We must therefore think in terms of new form of international cooperation and therefore consider, for example, defining a European Union rule and making it the basis of the new rules and new prudential supervision within the Union.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is very concerned about the high levels of consumer protection that exist in relation to the retail market.
This is why we are proposing to study the appointment of a European Union ombudsman for financial services provided in the retail markets, independent of any Community or national institution and of any particular interests.
I should just like to add that there is a need for legislation on financial middlemen in the area of consumer and housing credit and insurance in order to protect consumers in cross-border markets.
I regret that the committee did not support me on this point which is, in my view, a very precise and important requirement of European consumers.
I can assure you that Parliament will not delay the decisions needed to set up this single market in financial services, which, to a greater or lesser degree, we all hope will become a reality.
For example, we have 38 different securities markets.
Much can be said and done in this respect at European level because securitisation has completely changed the nature of prudential supervision.
The Commission is in complete agreement with the rapporteur that, despite the substantial progress which has been made towards the completion of the single market in financial services, cross-border sales of financial products on a retail basis to individual consumers remain the exception rather than the rule within the European Union, and there are still large variations in price between the Member States.
If all the Member States have the same basic level of protection, it will become easier to accept and grant mutual recognition for protection accorded in other states.
The rapporteur suggests setting up a system of integrated retail payments.
There is already in operation a fully effective and integrated infrastructure for wholesale and inter-bank transactions, but developments in the infrastructures for small-scale cross-border payments have not kept pace with this.
I agree with the rapporteur that it is absolutely necessary to reinforce the efforts being made by the financial institutions and the national administrations to overcome these obstacles.
But it is not possible to create by statute a single retail financial area in which basic banking transactions are economic and effective, as in the national systems; however, the framework for action illustrates how progress can be achieved in that process.
I would stress that, as far as the possibility of better supervision of financial services at European Union level is concerned, our attention ought to focus on the large financial groupings.
Finally, how can the Commission, Parliament and the Council take forward this process?
We are now working towards the ECOFIN Council of 25 May, and I have to say that your words have given us great and valuable encouragement to press on with this work.
I will also add a word of explanation about Amendment No 11.
But we are working to codify those six directives into a single directive and, to give you an idea, to reduce the mass of banking legislation in the European Union from 360 to 80 pages.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
The report that is being presented today is one in which the members of the Committee on Women's Rights take some pride, because it is based on broad consensus and cooperation between all its members.
That was a source of concern, because you have to bear in mind that after three years' work, on the one hand, the Daphne programme required a strong and secure legal base before 1 January 2000, but we could not let the legal base proposed to us undermine the political approach on which the programme had been based.
The Daphne programme has proved a source of great added value in combating these problems, particularly because it has successfully involved the NGOs, getting them to work with the institutions.
As you see, we have tried to devise a broad strategy because a Europe that is able to create a single market and a single currency must be able to find ways and means of jointly tackling a problem of this magnitude.
We take some comfort from the fact that the programme will come into being under the auspices of the Treaty of Amsterdam, and that the new Article 152 on public health will enable the European Community to take wider-ranging and more dynamic action and, we hope, action that has greater synergy in preventing and combating disease, but also in preventing violence.
The statistics given in the report make us shudder.
My thanks, in particular, to the Commissioner who is here with us and to Commissioner Gradin for their help and for the initiative which they have shown on this matter.
Thank you very much, Mrs Colombo Svevo.
Thank you, Mrs Van Lancker.
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B4-0380/99 by Mr Pasty, on behalf of the Union for Europe Group-B4-0381/99 by Mr Wijsenbeek and Mr Fassa, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party-B4-0396/99 by Mr Florio and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party-B4-0401/99 by Mr Simpson, Mr Cot and Mr Bontempi, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists-B4-0406/99 by Mrs Moreau and others, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left-B4-0414/99 by Mrs Leperre-Verrier and Mr Dell'Alba, on behalf of the Group of the European Radical Alliance-B4-0417/99 by Mr Cohn-Bendit and others, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliamenton the Mont Blanc tunnel accident.
Mr President, with one minute to speak on the Mont Blanc tragedy, I shall not mention the human errors, which are a matter for the courts.
That stated priority which we are rediscovering today was never a real priority at top level.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, I want to express our horror at the extent of the disaster in the Mont Blanc tunnel which has taken the lives of 41 people.
On the contrary, in my view, the tragedy in the Mont Blanc tunnel calls for two types of measures.
Mr President, it has taken forty deaths in the Mont Blanc tunnel in horrific circumstances for the European authorities to recognise the consequences of the uncontrolled development of road transport in mountain areas.
Mr President, as conveyed in the joint resolution, the Green Group wishes to express its sincere condolences to the families of the victims.
My third point is that, in the context of the original decision to build the tunnel to guarantee transit through the Alps, the huge increase in the number of heavy goods vehicles using the tunnel means that the structure does not have sufficient capacity.
We have seen that rail tunnels have safety problems too.
Mr President, my group fully concurs with this document drawn up in conjunction with honourable Members from all political groups.
I wish to stress that, amongst other things, the document calls on the Commission to draw up European legislation - currently sadly lacking - to guarantee high safety standards in road and rail tunnels, and on the Council to adopt without further delay a directive on the control of commercial vehicles.
I also think it important that Commissioner Kinnock should carry out an on-the-spot inspection, both at Mont Blanc and in Fréjus, to see for himself the gravity of the situation.
It is in any event crucial that, provided safety conditions have been met, the tunnel should reopen as soon as possible.
I expect representatives of the affected regions to meet in the coming weeks to assess, not least in the light of our debate, what new measures can be taken both to bring traffic back on to the roads and as regards the issue of tourism.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to what has already been said, the Mont Blanc tragedy means that we have to clarify the implementation of European Union programmes.
The European Union came into being on the basis of the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital.
The publication of an initial expert report on the tragedy of the Mont Blanc tunnel has added an element of farce to a tragedy which has cost more than 40 people their lives - and more bodies may yet be recovered - and which has inflamed the debate on the responsibilities that the French and Italian authorities are trying to offload on one another, making absurd and pretentious excuses.
Mr President, some tragedies are avoidable and the Mont Blanc tunnel tragedy was surely one of them.
The courts will naturally determine the causes.
We must learn the lessons of this avoidable tragedy and we must put pressure not only on you, Commissioner, but on the Council too, in order to ensure that a proper road-rail policy is at last developed for goods transport, for both difficult sectors and all national territory.
My first proposal calls for the application of the rules on the transport of hazardous goods, the subject of debate on more than one occasion during the life of this parliament, in the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
The accident of 24 March was a cruel reminder of the problem of transport safety.
This tragedy is another illustration, if one were needed, of the vital need to control the flow of road traffic - especially heavy goods vehicles - promote rail transport and establish operating rules to ensure maximum safety within a properly diversified European transport market.
Thank you, Mr van den Broek.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, the situation in Indonesia is getting worse from week to week, which is not a good omen for the elections on 7 June.
Although the problems are concentrated in the Moluccan Archipelago and East Timor, there is also unrest in other regions like Irian Jaya, Kalimantan and North Sumatra.
The Indonesian Government's approach in recent years of distributing the inhabitants of Java over the whole of Indonesia as a sort of dominant group now appears to be having disastrous effects.
Indonesia deserves this.
This is a pivotal area for world stability and I therefore believe that we should vote in favour of a resolution which once again sends a message of support from the European Parliament to the people of East Timor, who have suffered so much from genocide.
The situation appears to be calm on Java, while on Aceh the government and the army have restored order and, importantly, have punished those responsible.
On 6 and 7 April, 25 civilian victims of the armed militia known as the 'Meraputi' were killed with the active connivance of the mobile brigade of Indonesia's elite police squad.
We cannot accept that this violence should be used as a pretext for postponing the meetings between Portugal and Indonesia under the aegis of the UN to draw up a text giving this territory autonomous status.
Mr President, I am glad Parliament is looking at the situation in East Timor, a Portuguese territory which was invaded by Indonesia in 1975 and unilaterally annexed by that country in 1979.
Tragically, the massacre of 25 worshippers in a Liquiça church is only a drop in the ocean of blood from the atrocities committed.
Jakarta seems to want to wipe this small, courageous Catholic people off the map for resisting being engulfed by an Indonesia of 150 million Muslims.
Like the Turkish Government in Cyprus, the Indonesian Government is also trying to replace the Catholics with a Muslim population by sending in tens of thousands of colonists.
Just as in other countries where a government asserts that it is Islamic - Sudan, Turkey, Syrian-occupied Lebanon - Christians are persecuted, marginalised, treated as second-class citizens, or even massacred.
At the same time, the Commission also decided on 31 March that it should make available EUR 7 million for the forthcoming elections in Indonesia.
With regard to East Timor, the Commission shares the House's concern at the recent increase in violence and we support the statement of 12 April by the presidency.
We also support the Member States' initiative to set up a peace and reconciliation committee to help to restore calm on East Timor.
The Commission welcomes the Indonesian Government's new policy of recognising that direct elections need to be held on Timor in order to determine how far the conditions for independence currently being discussed in New York are acceptable.
We would point out that the efforts of the United Nations Secretary-General to find a just, comprehensive and internationally acceptable solution must also be given international support.
The Commission reiterates that, needless to say, it supports the current discussions on East Timor, which we also feel offer the only opportunity of finding a peaceful, just and lasting solution that takes account of the East Timorese people's right to self-determination and the interests of all the parties concerned.
Thank you, Mr van den Broek.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Burma Mr President, it is frustrating to see how the authorities in Burma miss every chance they have to show good will.
It goes without saying that Aung San Suu Kyi herself could not go to England, because she would not then have been allowed to return.
The problem is that the military clique in power has so far been unmoved by and insensitive to any internal or international pressure.
The fact that we have adopted a resolution on Kosovo this very day lends special significance to this point, in my opinion.
Cambodia Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last summer I myself saw just how deeply traumatised the people of Cambodia still are.
As King Sihanouk told me, 'mon peuple est toujours très malade '.
The tragedy continues, 20 years on, because there has been no investigation or trial whatsoever.
Mr President, the failure to prosecute Khmer Rouge leader Ta Mok before an independent international tribunal is extremely worrying but also instructive.
Worrying, because a domestic trial in Cambodia is unlikely to bring out the full facts of the crimes against humanity perpetrated by the Khmer Rouge in the years of the killing fields in the late 1970s.
Worrying too, lest Hun Sen unwarrantedly uses international aid for domestic treason law to move against some of his current political opponents.
Instructive, however, in clarifying the need for the international community to set up a permanent international criminal tribunal which can deal with the all-too-frequent acts of genocide which besmirch us all.
Anwar Ibrahim should be released immediately if Mahathir's failing Malaysia is to be restored to health and prosperity in the eyes of the watching world community.
I hope you are able to do that on behalf of this Parliament.
The previous speaker dealt in some detail with the case of Anwar Ibrahim.
I also think that an international Cambodia tribunal might still be able to bring some influence to bear and could send a signal to the government in Burma and other governments in South-East Asia.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the case of Ta Mok confronts us with a legal problem that is both fascinating and tragic.
Niger Mr President, the resolution on Niger, which all the groups are tabling jointly in this House, has the air - I regret to say - of a kind of routine resolution.
In these circumstances, it would be irresponsible to enter into any form of cooperation with those in power.
Niger is now in a very tense situation in the wake of the coup d'état and the murder of its President on 9 April.
Mr President, the coup d'état in Niger and the assassination of President Ibrahim Baré Maïnassara has plunged another African state into the abyss of a military coup and blocked an albeit partial process of institutional reconstruction.
What now has to be done is to restore the institutions and set in train a genuine process to bring democracy to the country and, to that end, we too agree that official cooperation under the Lomé Convention must be blocked until the process of establishing democracy has been resumed.
Mr President, I think all of us are entirely in agreement in our analysis of the events which have just taken place in Niger and the need to restore the rule of law and a functioning democracy to that country as quickly as possible, after the coup d'état and the assassination of President Ibrahim Baré Maïnassara.
Having said that, Mr President, I have to announce that my group will not be voting for the four amendments to this resolution, not because we do not share their concerns or agree with the content, but because we think another time should be found to express in a general manner Parliament's feelings on the issues raised.
We want to see today's resolution concentrate exclusively on the problem of Niger.
Murder of Rosemary Nelson Mr President, one of the saddest things I have seen in recent times was Rosemary Nelson's children following the hearse to the graveyard last month after this human-rights lawyer was brutally murdered in Northern Ireland.
We have to ensure that lawyers, who are an essential part of any effective and credible system of justice, are allowed to conduct their professional duties without any hindrances or fear of intimidation or worse.
The murder of Rosemary Nelson, and the earlier killing of Patrick Finucane, provide clear evidence that this minimum requirement for justice is not guaranteed in Northern Ireland.
I would draw your attention in particular to recitals D and F of the resolution - which time does not allow me to read out - and I would ask you to read them carefully.
I would ask Members to support the resolution and our call for a full, independent, international judicial inquiry into all the circumstances surrounding this case.
Mr President, the murder of Rosemary Nelson sent a shiver through the whole of Ireland.
I hope that colleagues will support this resolution and vote with us on it.
Mr Chairman, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, and in particular of my two Irish party colleagues, I wish to express our twofold sense of shock.
Mr President, like many colleagues who have already spoken, I utterly condemn the murder of Rosemary Nelson.
As the ongoing investigation into Mrs Nelson is still under way it would be unhelpful to prejudice that investigation by calling at this stage for any new inquiry.
I hope colleagues in Parliament today will appreciate the delicate and sensitive nature of this investigation and the fact that the ongoing peace process must not be jeopardised.
Mr President, the murder of Rosemary Nelson was a brutal and cowardly deed.
Secondly, discussions are currently taking place in the United Nations Human Rights Commission on drawing up a new resolution against Burma.
We will have to see how we can continue to demonstrate our rejection of the human rights situation in Burma and help to bring about improvements there, without allowing the situation to blight our entire relationship with ASEAN.
VOTES (continuation) The impressive number of transit operations taking place annually in the European Union and the size of the sums involved are in themselves sufficient to demonstrate the urgency of computerising the Community transit procedure and at the same time ensuring maximum transparency throughout the European customs policy.
From this point of view, the four-year delay in finalising computerisation is very worrying, because it comes on top of other delays, which can be ascribed fundamentally to the intergovernmental nature of the third pillar.
Once again we are forced to recognise that Parliament's ambitious aim has met with opposition from the Member States, some of which insist on rejecting the logical consequences of the advent of the single market.
From this point of view, I firmly support their incorporation into a single decision-making centre and a single budget line.
Similarly, as the rapporteur says, it is imperative for the computerisation of Community transit to come into full operation by 2003.
This demonstrates the importance of making nationally based appraisals of the strength of customs authorities.3.The report is an insult to the Member States, since it seeks to establish practices which have been rejected by the Council.4.It is perfectly feasible for cooperation between customs administrations in different countries to be organised on an intergovernmental basis.- van Dam report (A4-0114/99) I support the position of the Committee on Transport and Tourism on the proposal to permit a maximum vehicle weight of 44 tonnes for heavy goods vehicles.
First, like Rijk van Dam, I do not think that the existing infrastructures in many EU countries are ready to cope with such an increase in loads.
The involvement of heavy goods vehicles in the most lethal accidents is undeniable, because, in addition to excessively difficult working conditions, weight is also an aggravating factor, all the more so as it is often combined with excessive speed.
Allowing heavy goods vehicles of up to 44 tonnes on the roads would actually increase the risks.
Thyssen report (A4-0137/99) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against the Thyssen report, because it is detrimental in many respects to certain business sectors and of course to people starting up in business.
On the basis of this report, all such arrangements will become more difficult or impossible in future.
I must therefore strongly warn the Commission against rejecting our Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3 to both of the draft regulations.
For this sector, as for service stations, there must be either an exception to the general rule or a sector-by-sector approach within the general regulatory framework.
Herman report (A4-0158/99) Mr Herman's report on improvements in the functioning of the institutions without modification of the Treaties complements another report we passed last year on practical action to reduce the democratic deficit in running economic and monetary union.
In reality, as a little hindsight makes clear, that was just empty posturing to get people to accept a monetary system with very little democracy to recommend it.
That kind of permanent interaction will be very fruitful in bringing Europe closer to the people.
After a report by the same rapporteur on the policies of the European Union in May 1998, we adopted a resolution on improving the functioning of the European institutions.
Fortunately, the Treaty of Amsterdam, which enters into force on 1 May, will increase our power a little, notably as regards the investiture of the Commission.
The rapporteur is right to emphasise, in line with the Commission, that another intergovernmental conference is necessary and urgent to provide acceptable solutions to the various institutional problems which have existed for a fair number of years now.
But, like our rapporteur, I am afraid that there might be conflicts of loyalty between the vital independence of the Commission and national and sectoral interests which may lead to ambiguity in terms of a worker's status.
The Amsterdam Treaty gives the European Parliament the opportunity to acquire greater supervisory powers than it has had in the past.
This is unfortunate, because what is it that makes it unnecessary to monitor agriculture, especially when one considers that more than 40 % of the budget is spent on it?
If control is not exercised by Parliament, then there is no control.
The events of last month have set an extremely important process in motion, which will reinforce the cooperation between the institutions.
This report covers many of the problems currently afflicting the EU institutions.
Böge and Roth-Behrendt report (A4-0083/99) I do not need to remind you of the decisive role that Parliament played in the mad cow crisis.
In fact, the experts are guaranteed increased independence and greater transparency in their work.
The initiation of infringement proceedings against Member States for inadequate application or non-application of Community legislation has accelerated.
The disease has far from disappeared, as shown by the increase in cases in Portugal.
Analysis of this report shows that the crisis goes beyond the BSE issue.
European breeders have made remarkable efforts to improve product traceability and restore consumer confidence in the quality of the products they eat.
First of all, we wish to express our support for enlargement and, secondly, we share the concern that has been expressed about the large Russian minority in this country.
However, we find it hard to be enthusiastic at the so-called 'progress' which has been made in transposing Community legislation, and in particular we feel that the lack of flexibility that has been shown by the EU is beneath contempt.
von Habsburg report (A4-0154/99) Mr President, I was basically happy to accept everything in the report, along with the amendments.
First of all, we wish to express our support for enlargement and, secondly, we appreciate the steps that have been taken to improve the circumstances of the gypsies.
However, we find it hard to be enthusiastic at the so-called 'progress' which has been made in transposing Community legislation, and in particular we feel that the lack of flexibility that has been shown by the EU is beneath contempt.
The report urges the government to continue the regular dialogue with the opposition and the social partners in order to create a favourable political climate for Hungary's integration into the EU.
We are convinced that balanced information about both the advantages and the disadvantages of membership should be freely available to all Hungarian citizens, and we likewise hope that a referendum will be held to decide on the country's membership of the EU.
However, we find it hard to regret that little 'progress' has been made in transposing Community law, and in particular we feel that the lack of flexibility that has been shown by the EU is beneath contempt.
We are convinced that balanced information about both the advantages and the disadvantages of membership should be freely available to all the citizens of Slovenia, and we likewise hope that a referendum will be held to decide on the country's membership of the EU.
However, we find it hard to regret the lack of 'progress' in transposing Community law, and in particular we feel that the lack of flexibility that has been shown by the EU is beneath contempt.
The report stresses the importance of a national consensus on the question of EU membership.
However, we believe that balanced information about both the advantages and the disadvantages of membership should be freely available to all Czech citizens, and we likewise hope that a referendum will be held to decide on the country's membership of the EU.
However, we find it hard to welcome the rapid 'progress' which has been made in transposing Community law, and in particular we feel that the lack of flexibility that has been shown by the EU is beneath contempt.
Since then, and especially since 1997, when parliamentary elections were held and the new constitution came into force, Poland has demonstrated its commitment to reform.
The government has constantly expressed, in word and deed, its intention to create the conditions for membership of the European Union in its country by 2002.
Its institutions are solidly established and guarantee the rule of law, respect for human rights and respect for and protection of minorities.
Its growth rate is over 5 %, inflation and unemployment are falling, and the budget deficit and government debt are in line with the Maastricht criteria.
The restructuring that must precede membership has a social cost which we must bear in mind.
The European Community must ensure that accompanying measures minimise the impact of these reforms on people's living conditions.
However, we find it hard to approve of the rapid 'progress' which has been made in transposing Community law, and in particular we feel that the lack of flexibility that has been shown by the EU is beneath contempt.
We would like to urge the government to make balanced information about both the advantages and the disadvantages of membership freely available to all Cypriot citizens, and we likewise hope that it will hold a referendum on the country's membership of the EU.
We hope that the government will ensure that the planned information campaign is balanced, so that we get information about both the advantages and the disadvantages of membership which is freely available to all Maltese citizens.
Myller report (A4-0123/99) I shall be voting in favour of the recommendations in the report on the effects of enlargement of the European Union on the environment.
To prevent the present Member States being affected by this, environmental issues must play an important role in preparing the Central and Eastern European countries for membership of the Union.
That unacceptable situation only ended in 1995 with the appointment of the European Ombudsman.
At last there would be a minimum of dialogue and transparency in the functioning of what is often regarded as the 'Brussels bureaucracy'.
Successive annual reports, and especially the 1998 report, have illustrated the progress made.
The number of complaints is up by 200 on the previous year.
There are 370 million people in Europe and there were only 1 372 complaints in 1998.
Cooperation is also a watchword of the relations between the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions and the European Ombudsman.
These are the necessary conditions for developing a sense of belonging to a project which often seems remote.
The increase in complaints lodged with the European Ombudsman about alleged cases of maladministration by the institutions or bodies of the European Union can be interpreted in two ways.
So I am delighted to hear our rapporteur applaud the quality of the work done by the European Ombudsman.
Newman report (A4-0117/99) The Committee on Petitions does remarkable work, from both a quantitative and a qualitative point of view.
They are bound to make us ask questions, as elected representatives, about the real nature of our relations and the relations of the European institutions with the public.
It is certainly true that, apart from the specific questions it raises about the relationship between the elected and the electors as this century draws to a close, the right of petition is one of the best ways for Parliament to exercise control over the Commission and the Council - as well as the Member States - on behalf of the people of Europe.
Of the 35 million tonnes of goods that travel between Italy and France each year, 10 million tonnes are carried by rail.
We would do well to remember how great the outcry was in Germany when there was talk of increasing the price of a litre of petrol to the equivalent of 100 Belgian francs.
I wish to extend those congratulations to all the members of the Committee on Women's Rights and all Members who have contributed to the formulation of the programme and the plan of action to combat violence against women and children.
Now we have a legal base for the programme, a budget and a plan for a European awareness campaign against violence against women.
After all the struggles, delays and financial and legal barriers placed in our way by those who did not see the significance of this issue, we are now on a fairly firm footing and I hope we can begin to address this very serious issue.
The Commission should also welcome the great involvement of Members of this Parliament, which she proposes.
Our research has already indicated that one woman in four experiences violence during her lifetime and 90 % of the perpetrators are men.
At least 50 % of these acts of violence are carried out by the victim's husband or partner.
We are working towards equality between men and women and respect for human rights, both within Europe and beyond it.
I believe it is also very important to extend this programme gradually to other countries, especially the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, as violence in its various forms has a transnational dimension, for example in the sex trade and child pornography on the Internet.
Cooperation to safeguard fundamental human rights, and thus also the rights of children, is vital, and has to work effectively between the applicant countries and the current Member States.
As has already been said, we have discussed it at some length in the Committee on Women's Rights and there has been general agreement on its proposals.
In particular, we agree with the reservations she has expressed on the change of the legal base of the action programme.
The use of Article 235 of the Treaty instead of Article 129 may lead to the exclusion from the Daphne programme of all issues relating to violence, sexual exploitation and the trade in women and children, on the grounds that these issues do not have a bearing on public health.
We are glad that there is some form of legal base but we have some problems with this particular legal base.
Finally, I would like to stress that we too are asking for a new report to be submitted to take into account the above amendments, and also that all forms of violence and sexual exploitation perpetrated against women and children continue to be covered, including trafficking in slaves.
Madam President, Commissioner, we are dealing here with a problem that is going from bad to worse.
What I said about children also applies to combating violence against women, because young refugees are also often forced into prostitution and become the victims of the same kind of violence.
If the Commissioner meant that men are responsible for a considerable proportion of the violence against women, I have to agree.
Mr President, the idea of adopting a programme designed to prevent violence against children, adolescents and women is a generous and noble idea which everyone can of course support.
In France, for example, the number of crimes and offences rose from 200 000 in 1948 to 4 200 000 in 1998.
Of course, not all these crimes and offences are against women and children, but there is undeniably a general upward trend in violence in that area too.
That is all the more true because, by always insisting on rights and never on duties, the ideology of human rights produces the opposite of its intentions - justification for excesses of all kinds.
We need better teaching of ethics and more repressive courts, but people also need to be able to put down roots in small communities rather than in sprawling cities.
Madam President, violence is a dominant feature of contemporary society and an enigma of our open society, a society that has lost its values and is taking on new idols and new symbols, confounding those traditional values which have always formed the basis of our civil life.
The Bundesrat , the chamber of the German Parliament in which the federal states are represented, has expressed its regret that 1999 was not declared to be an official year of action on violence against women, which would have been an important means of reinforcing this message.
Traffic in women is a 'growth industry', not least because of the more open borders with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, from where most of the victims in our Member States are drawn.
The desperate economic situation in their own countries forces many women to clutch at any straw, which makes them easy prey for the traffickers.
We need comprehensive measures to prevent trafficking, to educate the public and to protect the victims, as well as cooperation and coordination with the judiciary, the police, the competent authorities and, last but not least, with the non-governmental organisations that operate in this field; this cooperation and coordination must take place within each Member State, between the Member States and with the relevant countries outside the European Union.
But there is no disputing the fact that violence against women, children and young people ultimately damages their health and - very importantly - their psychological constitution.
The Commission also appreciates the important role the European Parliament plays in putting the fight against violence on the agenda of the European Union.
The main objective of the proposed five-year Daphne programme is to support and encourage NGOs and voluntary organisations to work together to protect children, young persons and women from all kinds of violence.
The programme is building on the experiences of the Daphne initiative which has been running since 1997.
The Commission shares the report's assessment of the programme.
It is an important tool in the fight against violence.
The programme will also help to develop the NGOs' potential in a number of fields.
The proposed advisory committee will play an important role in assisting the Commission in this respect.
It was a difficult decision for the Commission.
Several Member States were openly opposed to the use of Article 235 and we have to bear in mind that there is no value in an unacceptable Daphne programme.
The Commission assumes that a change to Article 129, public health, will not limit the scope of the programme.
The context in which we work to combat violence and in which women and children suffer is indeed in the whole context of human rights.
Furthermore, the Daphne programme is, as the rapporteur underlines, victim-based.
Its aim is to prevent all forms of violence and to protect all victims and potential victims of violence, irrespective of whether the violence takes the form of trafficking, sexual abuse, the abandonment of children or any other form.
When the Daphne programme is adopted it will provide a new impetus for the fight against violence.
Thank you, Mr Liikanen.
The Commission is prepared to accept 16 of the amendments, 10 with some rewording and cannot accept 10 of the amendments.
The Commission is prepared to accept - with rewording - Amendment Nos 29 and 35 but it is not able to accept Amendment No 7.
Thank you, Mr Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
