Madam President, if I may, I would like to make two small comments on the Minutes.
I refer to page 22 of the Spanish version, and I have been able to check that the same applies to the Italian and French versions.
The other point, Madam President, refers to page 23 and as far as I know only affects the Spanish version.
Madam President, I thought Mr McMahon was doing very well and did not need my assistance but I am really astonished at the reply you gave him.
Firstly, a request has been received to replace our human rights resolution on Vannunu with one on the war criminal Brunner.
Madam President, the proposal made that we should withdraw this resolution is completely out of order because the Parliament has to debate human rights abuses within the Union and it is quite clear that this Parliament has an opportunity to do so today.
The Parliament has to address human rights abuses within the Union.
We are debating human rights issues right across the world and we cannot ignore what happens in our own Member States.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we debated at some length the arguments of our Investigative Committee concerning BSE and the responsibilities of the United Kingdom, the Council of Ministers and the Commission.
Nobody underestimates the magnitude of the crisis, especially the crisis of citizens' confidence in the workings of the European Union, and of consumers in the beef industry and its products.
The one makes it possible, and the other makes it necessary to produce new products or modify traditional ones, while consumers are less and less able to know what it is that they are eating or drinking.
The regulation we are debating here merely intervenes at the level of trade and attempts to give consumers more and useful information about the origin and production conditions of meat and meat products, hoping in that way to help the market settle down.
The regulation provides that in future beef and beef-based products can be placed on the market if accompanied by a label recording information about their origin.
That solution appears easy and could be implemented straight away, but it would achieve nothing.
I think a better though still temporary solution is the compulsory labelling of all beef products, including industrially processed ones.
Your rapporteur, however, insists that all beef industry products should be labelled, including industrially processed ones.
Specific amendments propose to include information on the fattening and reproduction conditions of the cattle from which the products in question come, and other useful information as well.
The recent BSE crisis should have persuaded it to change its attitude.
It is important in today's market that we try to rebuild consumer confidence in food.
But, I still think that we must find practical ways, and the Commission must help in this, to set limits so that obligatory labelling can, in principle, also be applied to manufactured meat products.
But introducing a common system also means that we must increase our efforts to restrict import fraud.
Article 2 of the Directive also affects certain plant products.
Consumer confidence in beef has been severely shaken.
Only these two components of quality assurance can ultimately restore consumer confidence.
The system for the identification and registration of cattle is based on four elements - ear tags, which would be on both ears, databases (a key element), animal passports and registers of animals on each holding.
We must not thoughtlessly jeopardize the measures taken in the three areas.
Nevertheless, I do believe that we have to incorporate an even greater share of responsibility for Member States into the system governing the transposition of the Regulation and that we should therefore allow them a certain amount of latitude, particularly with regard to the introduction of the database and the animal passports.
The data must then be entered in the database without delay, and the animal passport must also be issued immediately.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a proposal from the Commission is on the table today, aimed at establishing common rules for the control of animal products from third countries.
It seeks to introduce strict rules in particular areas in order to ensure the protection of public health.
Madam President, yesterday we were expressing the concerns of European consumers and consumers outside the Union on the whole question of beef.
It is absolutely necessary to do this to consolidate the markets which European farmers have for their meat products.
It is necessary also to reassure people in third countries who buy our products.
We have maybe 70 million bovines in the European Union.
So it is extremely important from a bookkeeping point of view that we know exactly where these animals are and how to calculate correctly the amount of money that should be and has been spent.
Madam President, in principle I agree in general with what Mr Mayer told us.
However, Madam President, I want to stress the magnitude of the effort that will be needed to register the 95 million head of cattle in the European Union in data-bases and monitor their movement.
That is something which would have been unthinkable only a few years ago, but which is necessary today and will cost a huge amount, the cost of the Community bodies' folly to say the least.
If we want to avoid creating loopholes for illegal economic methods, smuggling and other suchlike, which would ultimately go against the interests of public health, I think it will be necessary to adopt the amendment we voted for on the Environmental Committee and which essentially calls on the Commission to prepare and finance a special programme to harmonize the laws in all Member States and to supply the necessary electronic and other infrastructure, so that the recognition and registration system can be implemented as soon as possible throughout the European Union.
Madam President, the proposals we are today discussing are, in my view, very important.
I believe that it is very important that we introduce a system for the identification and registration of cattle that is effective, sound and secure.
The possibility of proving the origin of cattle and beef will be a decisive step in that direction.
The entire system, however, will only serve its purpose if the evidence of origin can also be communicated to the consumer.
Only a compulsory labelling system can remedy the situation.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has agreed that negotiation on the matter is legitimate.
Madam President, I in turn wish to point out how sensible it was to schedule this debate for the day after the BSE debate and also to link these three reports, which in fact complement one another, like three links in the same chain, producing an important outcome: new guarantees for consumers and also new obligations for producers.
I wish to dwell for a moment on the agricultural world and the problems that this new development could cause.
But it cannot be denied that this new legislation brings on to the farm elements previously quite unfamiliar in this context: computers, in the first place, which require a different kind of professional training and maybe even a new kind of worker.
The proposal that we create a 'buffer year' after the 31 December 1997 deadline seems to me to be reasonable.
My group favours an obligatory system of labelling.
I believe that it even is more important to label processed goods containing beef and beef products than to label the meat itself, even if this is difficult.
It is important that the public be aware - and this is something Liberals have striven for in the European Parliament - of exactly what goes into the foodstuffs that they are buying.
Requirements that would help boost public confidence would also help farmers to regain control over this important industry.
Therefore, Liberals in this House support the idea of an animal passport.
But now that we have reached this stage, we must demand that what was said yesterday in the Chamber by President Santer should be done very quickly.
On 20 February it will be exactly two years since a veterinary inspector was cold-bloodedly murdered in Flanders and this killing is thought to be he work of the widely established hormone mafia.
The illegal use of growth promoters in the beef industry remains a very serious problem.
In my country, for example, we have a very good identification system.
But there are dishonest cattle producers who often use forged ear tags and this practice is commonplace amongst the hormone mafia.
And my last point is this: some farms have introduced an electronic system of identifying their cattle.
This works by the electronic recognition of chips implanted into the animals.
I agree with the view that operators who import meat or meat products from third countries ought also to label them.
Alleanza Nazionale is in favour of the labelling of beef and beef products, although it is aware that some animal control measures may involve substantial operational difficulties and require a considerable organizational and financial input.
One of the key issues that emerged yesterday in our very long debate on the report of the special committee on BSE was the need to be able to identify and monitor cattle if BSE is to be eliminated.
One of the great problems in identifying the right cattle to be slaughtered in the UK was the lack of accurate records.
We must examine agricultural practice, monitor what goes into our food more exactly and give our consumers the information they require to give them confidence in the wholesomeness of what they are buying and eating.
The Environment Committee - certainly its Socialist members - are making tough demands upon the Commission in terms of the information required, the need for the labelling scheme to be compulsory and cover beef products as well as beef and the need for rapid progress to be made in implementing the measures.
The Socialist Group feels that we have a duty to promote public health and consumer protection in Europe.
The consumer in the supermarket should not only have a quality guarantee but should also be able to identify exactly where the meat has come from.
I believe that the proposed system of identifying individual animals with ear tags and maintaining computerized databases, animal passports and farm cattle registers can work well if people want it to.
Madam President, on the 20th March last, the declaration on the possible transmission of BSE to man by the consumption of beef has caused a widespread crisis in consumer confidence, and consequently an unprecedented economic loss for beef farmers.
The Mayer report confirms the draft regulations for identifying and registering animals, but also encouraging effective health monitoring of herds and also the management of farming subsidies.
The immediate creation of data banks is imperative.
The immediate and compulsory labelling for beef and its derivatives is essential.
This is why we will support the content of these three reports and congratulate the rapporteurs.
In the ELDR Group we regard a compulsory marking and registration system for cattle and marking of beef and beef products as essential measures and as means of restoring consumer confidence in beef and beef products.
The report's explanatory statement quite rightly observes that the system must not become too complicated, bureaucratic, expensive or partially overlapping, as will happen if, for example, four different systems are set up.
The basic principle absolutely must always be that agreements entered into must not endanger the health of consumers or animals.
A third country's legislation should be considered equivalent only if the level of safety for which it provides is at least as high as that conferred by the EU's own legislation.
Animal welfare provisions must be incorporated in these agreements.
Madam President, there are at least two lessons we must learn from the BSE crisis: the first is that with regard to livestock production, two checks are better than no checks at all, and secondly we can no longer rely on only the actions and decisions of the Member States to give a Community guarantee to any food product.
The current situation now imposes the tracing of domestic animals as a basic guarantee for both farmers and consumers.
Nevertheless, there must be a system which is effective without being too restrictive for the farmer.
The new regulations must recommend a single identification at European level, without which the lessons of the BSE crisis will not have served much.
I believe, Commissioner, that what we are asking through these three reports is titanic work, but necessary for ensuring the confidence of the European citizen and consumer in its institutions.
Labelling, quality, fraud, traceability: all these points go together and one still wonders how it was possible to take so lightly this contract between the authorities and consumers.
Commissioner, transparency and cooperation between institutions urge me to ask you to apply Article 101 of the joint decision to identification and traceability, as one cannot guarantee the cohesion of a system without demanding that all points be governed by the same procedure, that of transparency and cooperation.
In my opinion, identification and labelling ought to be binding obligations for all Member States by the end of the millennium at the latest.
In Germany this is scheduled to take effect on 1 January 1998.
In many regions there are already successful programmes under which labels of origin are prescribed for meat products.
The funding of the new system from EU or national resources must, in my view, be legally guaranteed.
The planned official identification of animals imported from third countries should also take place immediately upon entry into the Community.
Madam President, we spent a full day yesterday discussing the impact of BSE on public health and the serious consequences for our farmers, the food industry and employment, and we are, of course, also conscious of the consequences for our competitive position in world trade.
It is right and proper that we put in place the most stringent controls in the entire area of food production, right through from producer to consumer.
With modern technology and proper animal coding, this procedure, as we now know, is possible and is already considerably advanced in my own country, Ireland, where we have pioneered a traceability programme in the lamb trade - the first within the European Community.
We are also considerably advanced in relation to the most modern technology in identifying all our other animals.
I also come from a country where meat production, and in particular beef production, is an important economic sector, because we export 85 % of our entire production.
The quality of Irish beef is renowned.
Madam President, BSE is a serious European problem.
For example, to impose on each farm ear marking, a computerized data base, a register and passport for the animals, risks not only increasing bureaucratic provisions, but could also lead to fraud, because of lack of sufficient financial means or the complexity of the legislation.
One has the impression that with these proposals, the Commission and the Council are trying to clear themselves of ten years of laxism concerning animal imports and identification, and that they are now going over the top to try to regain a somewhat waning credibility.
Ladies and gentlemen, we quite rightly wish to restore consumer confidence in beef.
Let us remember that the BSE crisis has already cost European tax-payers over 23 thousand million francs for 1996 alone.
The beef interprofession wonders whether, if the animal is born and has been raised and slaughtered in the same country, stating the country of origin is indicated.
Technical measures have never replaced a political desire which has cruelly failed our politicians in this major BSE crisis, as in many other fields.
Madam President, yesterday this house debated the report of the temporary Committee of Enquiry into BSE.
The report clearly illustrated the importance of an effective system of animal identification in the European Union.
European rules on the identification of animals have been in place since 1992, although not implemented satisfactorily in all Member States.
I am in no doubt that the BSE crisis would have been far more severe had it not been possible to trace those animals which potentially carried the infection.
Inability to trace the 1989 and 1990 British cohort in the UK was one of the major factors which delayed the agreement of the UK's BSE eradication plan.
Whilst this week marks the end of the temporary Committee's enquiry it does not mark the end of the crisis.
This is not only to protect consumers, but also to protect farmers and tax-payers against the unnecessary slaughter of healthy animals.
In a week when some members of the European Parliament are calling for the resignation of the European Commission for not taking sufficient action to prevent the BSE crisis it would be rather contradictory to vote against the kind of preventive measures which could have changed the course of agricultural history over the last ten years if they had been in place.
Madam President, an old proverb tells us that every cloud has a silver lining, and today's silver lining comes in the shape of these three reports.
Everything required of the enterprises based in our single market must also apply to imports, otherwise we are talking about half measures.
What we want here, in considering these three reports, is an acknowledgement that the world has changed utterly in the wake of the BSE crisis.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, as some of my colleagues have said, accepts, welcomes and supports the Olsson and Papayannakis reports, but it has problems of the kind that have been referred to earlier with the Mayer report.
We need to have the information in place and we need the legal base which will allow us in future to have a proper concern for consumer matters.
That is what shifting the legal base of these reports from Article 43 to Article 100a would do.
It would give Parliament codecision; it would be appropriate to proposals which are essential for the smooth functioning of a single market in which consumer priorities have their proper place.
Only if we get that shall we be doing our job as a Parliament and acting in the spirit of what President Santer said yesterday in his speech of repentance and contrition.
As far as the Olsson report is concerned, I would like to know why the Commission is presenting directives and not regulations?
As far as the Mayer report is concerned, I would like to make a few remarks.
The second remark is that labelling should compulsorily specify the origin of the meat and also the fattening method used.
The third remark is to emphasise the fact that the European Union cannot think up a whole set of measures of this type without accepting that it has to co-fund the expenditure inherent in these operations to be carried out by the Member States.
Many of the problems which currently affect the field of animal and public health are related to the fact that these activities have never really been recognised as genuine Community policy.
The BSE crisis changed everything.
I believe in this meat labelling scheme.
Madam President, Commissioner, we all know that, even in a federal state, not all states obey the rules of public morality.
I also lend huge importance to the Olssen report, because I think that at this moment - and my country is one where this happens - meat imported from the East is not being controlled.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment 3 because animal breeding is not a Community objective, nor can it accept Amendment 4, because for reasons of subsidiarity it is not necessary for technical infrastructures to be identical in all Member States.
Amendments 7, 9, 12 and 24 are unacceptable because it is crucial that our system should cover the whole Community and be coherent, so that the origin of cattle and beef can be effectively identified.
Such a system would otherwise be counterproductive and would undermine the joint efforts of the European Parliament and the Commission to restore consumer confidence in the cattle and beef markets.
So our proposal goes further than the amendments in this respect.
We believe that the adoption of Amendment 11 would create a grey area, since extending the definition of the word 'keeper' to cover trading in animals would mean, for example, the inclusion of telephone transactions.
Amendment 15 is not necessary because farmers can attach the ear tags themselves.
Likewise, the Commission cannot consent to Amendments 20, 23, 30 and 34, dealing with the dates of entry into force of various provisions.
As you know, I take the view that we should reach a decision as soon as possible.
I believe we all agree that this framework Regulation for a labelling system covering all of Europe should be adopted as quickly as possible.
Our aim, as I have already said, is a compulsory system.
For that reason the Commission cannot accept the wording of Amendments 3, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 22, 24 and 25, which basically relate to the introduction of a compulsory labelling system, for if we accept the compulsory system these amendments will have to be revised.
We believe that it will probably take up to three years before we have established the necessary rules governing identification and the facilities required under this Regulation, such as databases and so on, in all Member States.
On the other hand, the Commission is able to accept Amendments 23, 27, 30 and 33, which relate to processed goods, but not Amendments 2, 8 or 26.
With regard to Amendment 21, the Commission shares the basic concern of the European Parliament that this Regulation, in view of its importance, should enter into force as soon as possible.
The Commission is able to accept Amendment 18 in principle, but the provisions governing sanctions will be laid down in the implementing regulations.
As for Amendment 19, the Commission takes the view that, rather than having annual reports submitted on the implementation of the Regulation, it would be more appropriate if such a report were submitted at the end of the transition phase.
Amendment 20 cannot be approved, because it is still too early to set a deadline for adoption by the Commission of the rules governing the application of the Regulation.
Parliament and the Commission are in agreement on that point.
On the amendments that have been tabled, let me say the following: the Commission is prepared to accept Amendments 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 17 and 18.
However, the Commission regards Amendments 4, 8, 9 and 10 as technically unwarranted.
The rules proposed by Parliament for ship suppliers offer fewer guarantees than the original proposal.
I therefore prefer the Commission text in this case.
As far as Amendments 12, 13, 14 and 15 are concerned, Parliament is no doubt aware of the Commission's general position.
Madam President, I assume that the Commissioner is well aware of the political importance of his intervention today, which is separate from that of the President of the Commission of a few hours ago.
However, Commissioner, I believe that the supreme principle is the restoration of consumer confidence.
Madam President, I once asked Commissioner Fischler in a debate if he was willing to study the introduction of an electronic system, chips, whereby the animal could be monitored throughout its life.
Madam President, first, I would like to say how valuable it is that the Commissioner has changed the legal basis to Article 100a.
The first question concerns the list of information that must feature on the label.
The second question, Commissioner, concerns products.
The third question concerns the single system, the harmonization of the system for recognition and registration of cattle.
Secondly, the Commission accepts compulsory systems.
The debate is closed.
I note with pleasure that relations between the European Union and Yemen are excellent and that our contacts at Parliamentary level have shown our mutual desire for cooperation.
May I wish the Yemeni delegation profitable meetings and an excellent stay in Strasbourg.
The market was split in two in 1990.
The old regulation expired in December 1996, the new one was not transmitted to Parliament until 10 January 1997.
The current situation therefore is that there is a legal vacuum.
A laudable aim, but I am afraid that two or three weeks is not sufficient time for Parliament to examine this properly and deal with a very important aspect of public health.
But, frankly, the rest is not good enough and, in our view, we must make public health our top priority.
The European Parliament has only one reading on this - it is an Article 43 proposal - and we understand that the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products may well report to the Commission in two weeks suggesting changes to the testing system.
Mr Bangemann has asked to speak.
Parliament can have the time it needs to examine these proposals carefully.
This means that nobody, either in the Council or the Commission, expects Parliament to deliver its opinion on the substance in a few days or hours, let alone here and now.
That is not our wish, nor is it the wish of the Council.
But, in order to relieve Parliament of this concern too, I can tell you now that, should the Council intend to decide without any parliamentary input, a scenario to which I attach no credibility whatsoever, we would withdraw the proposal.
The Council will not decide before Parliament has delivered its opinion.
Madam President, the protection of animal breeding and human health are today priorities among the activities of the European Union, especially after recent events related to BSE.
At the same time, the operation of the single market must be adapted effectively, so that products in circulation or to be circulated will ensure the protection of health and conform with the rules embodied in international agreements.
The Commission proposal we are debating concerns the adaptation of the Regulation establishing maximum residue limits for veterinary medicines in foodstuffs of animal origin.
The objective aimed for should not just be to adapt the Regulation, but to make a real contribution to the protection of public health, so that the establishment of uniform MRLs will permit the free movement of foodstuffs and veterinary medicines and effectively safeguard the protection of consumers in the single market.
The difficulties that have emerged in connection with evaluation at Member State level, and in connection with the newly constituted European Agency, which only began operating in 1995, compel us to extend the timescale by two years, within which the Agency must complete its evaluation.
This limit was fixed by the regulation of January 1992.
Four hundred pharmaceutical products were awaiting this authorization, which should have been issued before the 1st January 1997.
We therefore ask for the date to be carried forward to the 1st January 1999.
However, it would be dangerous and contrary to the protection of public health for foods originating from animals subjected to clinical trials to be consumed before a maximum limit - final and not provisional - has been established.
It is therefore imperative to extend the deadlines for this evaluation, as proposed by the Commission.
I would now like to talk about the second part of the proposal, which is much more serious.
Madam President, once again what we must bear in mind here is the safety of the consumer, and in this case his safety in relation to veterinary medicine residues in animal products.
Having said that, in view of the delay by the Commission, it is normal to accept an extension of three years for the other products which have yet to be evaluated by the European Agency.
This deadline is necessary, otherwise over 200 old products would be withdrawn from the market immediately without distinction between the good ones and the bad ones, which would not be fair.
But at the moment we do not have the guarantee that Parliament would be allowed to give an opinion on something which it has already given its opinion on because there is only one reading and one regulation.
If we can solve that, if Mr Bangemann can show to us what the legal base for all of this is, then we might be able to change our minds.
Things have become clearer because, as I said in the beginning, we are dealing today only with Article 14, we are not dealing with any other article.
Article 14 foresees the extension of two years of these substances which are already available on the market.
Ken Collins and the Parliament are ready to accept that.
The two positions are abundantly clear in terms of their legal interpretation: this is not the reading; the urgency has only been asked for Article 14 - for nothing else.
The only question at stake today is whether the Parliament can accept urgent procedure under Article 14 and this is what we are asking for.
In addition, if there were a difficulty, the Commission would be ready to withdraw the whole proposal in order to make it abundantly clear that Parliament has to state its view on the substance.
I will say a few words in French as comments have been made in French on substances.
If these comments reflect a position of Parliament - which remains to be seen - we are, as always, willing to consider what Parliament decides and you have time to decide.
The vote will be held tomorrow, at noon.
We believe that we need priorities clearly set out for Mr Reichenbach and his team.
Finally, the establishment of a single, clear, basic definition of universal service which can be applied on a sectoral basis as we move towards the liberalization of key sectors of the market.
In the time available to me I do not want to expand in any detail on any of these.
The research we should do, and which the Commission should sponsor and finance in this matter, needs to look at related issues of human and animal health which have always been given a low priority because the consumer interest has never been pre-eminent.
This initiative is the first of its kind, and a unique opportunity to debate issues relating to the peace process in the Middle East, which affects us all very closely.
I also want to take this opportunity to welcome the European Union's Special Envoy for the Middle East peace process, His Excellency Ambassador Moratinos.
Our relations with the Knesset and the Palestinian Legislative Council are excellent, and the contacts we already have at parliamentary level have demonstrated the common will to cooperate in a large number of sectors.
I hope this meeting will mark a new stage in the necessary rapprochement between the countries and towns we represent.
Mr President, I am rising simply to seek clarification: there is a clear contradiction between what President Santer said yesterday in his report, on page 8, which refers to systematic and compulsory labelling as the Commission preference and the statement we have today had from Commissioner Fischler who rejected all the amendments calling for the labelling of beef and beef products to be compulsory.
The Commission also explained this morning that it clearly endorses a compulsory system.
Even if the radical Alliance group tried, by its amendments, to improve the compromise, we remain critical of a procedure which we feel is a renouncement of the European Parliament in an exceptionally grave affair.
Mr Hory, this issue was settled on Monday in accordance with the established procedure.
I therefore believe that we can come back in the context of the second reading to the wish expressed by the rapporteur. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, may I just remind you that I moved an oral amendment this morning for the legal basis to be changed from Article 43 to Article 100a and that the Commission has accepted it.
I must also inform you that the text of Amendment No 17 of the report by the Committee on Agriculture appears in the text of Amendment No 16 presented for vote in the part-session and Amendment No 35 has been withdrawn.
Mr President, before we proceed to the vote, I should like to hear Commissioner Fischler's acceptance of what Mr Mayer just said.
If I had been a fly on the wall yesterday I could well have heard some people trying to make us believe that the British Government was trying to promote BSE in our country.
The committee really needed some scientific instruments to help it to come to the right conclusions - perhaps a retrospectoscope, because that is what it has used by trying to look back and not recognize that this was a new disease and a new situation that had arisen.
I am sure this Parliament and we, as British Conservatives, want to promote health and confidence.
Therefore we should look and see the situation in the United Kingdom itself: consumption is practically back to normal; the beef industry is practically back to normal, and the measures that the government has taken in the United Kingdom have worked.
One cannot say that about the rest of Europe, and it is the lack of confidence that has created the problems.
The report does not identify the causes of the disease.
It is very easy to knock, it is very easy to be a narker and always to complain, but to do something positive to cure the problems is entirely different.
The production of animal protein seems to be the basis of the problem.
However, tomorrow we will vote for the motion of censure, as the mad cow problem is not, as some people try to make us believe, the fault of bad luck.
And the people in charge of the system, with all due respect to the preceding speaker, are the British government on the one hand and the Commission in Brussels on the other.
And this will have a certain effect, at least with regard to the French representation, as with the voices of eleven deputies of the French National Front, there will probably be a majority of French representatives in this Parliament who will vote on the motion of censure tomorrow.
This aspect of the dossier remains misunderstood, but it teaches us a great deal on the manner in which European institutions currently operate.
From the point of view of the single market, which was to eliminate all import controls on internal frontiers - hence also health controls - a directive 89/662/CEE reorganized the system: the principal health supervision was no longer incumbent on the importing country, at its frontiers, but on the country of origin - in this case the United Kingdom for its meat exports.
They are exercised here or there, on the spot, with no serious documentary base and when goods are already circulating on the internal market of each country.
There is nothing stopping us from obtaining experience in this respect, but we must not rely on federal control of health regulations for an immediate escape from the crisis and chaos.
Rather, we believe that the single market has been vitiated by the dogma of the Commission, according to which it was absolutely necessary to abolish all frontier controls and all goods accompanying documents.
To emerge from it, we must question this policy.
The report by the European Parliament which attacks the UK Government's role throughout the BSE scandal is also severely critical of the Commission and of former Commissioner Ray MacSharry, who if not involved directly in a process of disinformation and down-playing the scandal, has been accused by the committee of inquiry of at least 'turning a blind eye' .
The institutions of the European Union and Member State governments must now work together to protect consumer interests at all times.
Britain has taken an arrogant approach, insensitive to the implications of its behaviour for its partners in Europe.
The spread of BSE among the cattle population has now decimated affected herds and ruined the cattle industry throughout Europe, consequences in themselves extremely serious, but nevertheless out of proportion with the threat on human health if contamination of man from the meat of sick animals is confirmed.
The Medina report attributes the most serious fault to the British government which, in deregulating meat and bone meal production, has permitted the contamination of meal by the pathogenic agent which developed into BSE in cattle and which, downstream in the food chain, could develop into Jakob-Creutzfeld disease in man.
The incompetence of the British government is also blamed for having taken away the efficacy of measures intended to combat epizootic disease and the threat of an epidemic, in a vain attempt to protect its beef industry.
The Commission has obviously striven to protect the interests of the market and its relations with the British government, before looking to the health of consumers.
In addition, the Committee of Inquiry has brought to light serious structural deficiencies in a decision-making process which concentrates on particular interests and is impermeable to general interest.
I abstained from the vote which has just been held in conclusion of the works of the Committee of Inquiry on BSE.
I consider that the report identifies precisely the overwhelming responsibilities primarily of the British government, but also of the old Commission and the current Commission in the mad cow affair.
President Santer yesterday persisted in this attitude by denying, against the evidence, the unfortunate decision of the Commission to lift the embargo on gelatine.
While Article 144 of the Treaty exists, public opinion will not understand if the Commission is not censured, bearing in mind the gravity of the established facts.
In the absence of reason in Westminster, and at their own costs, Scottish beef producers created their own 'BSE free' quality assurance scheme which the Scottish Secretary denigrated and undermined 'in the interests of UK unity' !
In this regard the role of farmers and producers is crucial.
The primary responsibility of the institutions of the EU and all Member State governments is to protect consumer interests at all times and in doing so to restore the level of confidence in beef as a quality food product.
The European Parliament's Committee of Inquiry into BSE is but one examination of the entire BSE crisis.
While I support all endeavours to resolve this crisis, I am not satisfied that the committee was entirely even-handed in its approach.
However, I would like to add that it is easy to evaluate past events with the wisdom of hindsight.
However, our position with regard to this vote is mainly dictated by the choice of procedure made by our House at the session on the 17th February.
Those responsible for this motion should reconsider their action and, in my view, concentrate their efforts on working with the Commission to ensure that any lessons learned from the investigations undertaken by the Committee of Inquiry are reflected in the future administration of agricultural and food safety policy at both European and national level.
In my opinion, former President Delors, who bore ultimate political responsibility for the actions of the European Commission would have confirmed the comprehensive rebuttals of his agricultural Commissioners against the allegations concerning the activities of the Commission's services during the Delors era.
A further puzzling aspect of the Committee's work was the decision to make documents containing damaging allegations available to the public before the individuals in question even had an opportunity to address the Committee.
It is worth recalling that when the former Commissioner addressed the Committee he refuted these allegations in a detailed, open, effective and comprehensive manner.
The Green Group tabled a proposal for a 'suspended vote of no-confidence' in order to emphasize this political responsibility.
The conduct of the British Government can only be described as malevolent and ignorant.
They remained inactive far too long and placed economic interests above the lives of their citizens.
We Greens have always warned against the creation of an internal market without proper ecological and social safeguards.
And it is high time we had greater transparency and more rights for the European Parliament.
The BSE scandal, in this tragic manner, has now proved us right.
On the other hand, I wish to state categorically that I welcome the recommendations made by the Committee of Inquiry for future action and, after the courageous statement made by President Santer yesterday, I am sure that the Commission will act on these recommendations with the measures that we and the people of this Community have every right to expect, in order to eradicate the cattle disease and to give due priority to the health of our citizens.
The report of the Temporary Committee of Inquiry into the management of BSE has revealed the internal malfunctions of the Commission.
Naturally, one must not overlook the various responsibilities of the United Kingdom, the Council and the British meal manufacturers.
This is why I stated that this Agency should be subject to EN 45004 standards.
But putting conditions on the Commission, as in paragraph 7 of the joint resolution, to my mind means weakening the action of the Commission in the face of the challenges the Union has to face in the coming months, including the Intergovernmental Conference.
This is why we have taken the initiative of a Committee of Inquiry to throw light on the so-called 'mad cow' drama.
The conclusions of this report are crushing.
The British government then prohibited it in its country, without checking the implementation of this measure, without closing its frontiers and without authorizing European health committee controls.
In the debate on the research into the case of 'mad cow disease' , it was made clear that: 1.from the outset, the Commission's strategy was the wrong one, in that it attempted to minimise information and smother any discussion about the disease in order to avoid a reaction by consumers if ever they found out the facts and scientific uncertainty.
The action by successive Commissioners was extremely wrong and against the interests of public health.2.The Commission strategy decisively influenced the action of the Member States and delayed the adoption of effective measures in the field of animal health and scientific research into the causes of the disease and its propagation.3.The United Kingdom Government is clearly responsible because of the way in which it allowed the explosion of the disease and in particular the way in which it hid from the other Member States the true dimension of the tragedy.4.The process demonstrated the lack of operational effectiveness of the Commission farming structures entrusted with controlling animal health and its effects on public health, its lack of scientific thoroughness and transparency.
The European Parliament, with this report, has revealed not only wrongful behaviour but also, above all, the incoherencies and deficiencies in the system of controls of the quality of food products.
That is why we are voting in favour of this report and the motion closing this debate.
Mr Delors, Mr Santer, how have you dared neglect the health of Europeans on this point?
It is now the duty of the European Parliament, elected by universal suffrage and responsible towards citizens, to sanction the Commission.
The mad cow drama and its retinue of catastrophes have led us to set up a Committee of Inquiry, the first to deliver its conclusions to Parliament.
The result of this first investigation is, despite the obstructions, a crushing verification for the Commission.
The charge raised up by the Committee of Inquiry is without appeal.
No one - neither the victims of the terrible disease, nor our ruined farmers nor the contributors called upon to finance the slaughter plans - no one, I say, would understand that our Parliament, after discovering the erring ways and identifying the persons responsible, is not proposing any sanction.
This is why our group, although it has taken an active part in establishing the Committee of Inquiry and in its work, has eluded the conclusions of the latter, presenting a minority position.
This is why we cannot accept the joint resolution and have circulated our own resolution.
It is a question of playing the only role that can justify the existence of this Parliament: controlling the Commission officials, and not making accomplices of them.
A vote of no confidence under these circumstances would be no more than an empty political gesture.
Similarly, the United Kingdom Government did not adequately apply the commitments it made in the Council of Ministers in 1990 and finally, the European Parliament vigorously censures the United Kingdom for its blockade of the Community institutions.
The European Commission's responsibility lies at another level.
The same can be said of the group of Member States in the European Council which supported the measure.
The European Union needs real executive powers of direct inspection as well as higher inspection and the capacity to withdraw products from the market automatically and ban their sale, both inside and outside the European Union.
It is clear that today, throughout Europe, the distribution of infrastructure charges according to type of transport and the assumption of social costs in transport prices are marked by serious inequalities.
Then, the Commission's proposal goes in the direction of a reduction in procedures, mainly replacing the a priori control it currently exercises by an a posteriori control.
I also voted in favour of the common position of the Council which the Committee on Transport and Tourism recently adopted.
But these aids are still too little in relation to the real requirements.
For this, in the first place there must be true harmonization of competition conditions at European level.
It is a very important element of Parliament's reflection on inter-modality, and it is in this direction that European deputies must continue their efforts to promote an increasingly intermodal form of transport.
In an open economy, the charges which burden employment in Europe feed unemployment, which increases social protection costs, which in turn are a slightly heavier burden on growth, slowing it down and increasing unemployment further.
To rectify the national social systems, it is obviously necessary to reform their operating rules: to better target aids, and abandon passive support measures in favour of active measures which encourage the unemployed back to work, as proposed by the Commission.
But we must also favour cheaper and more competitive management rules for social bodies, while remaining within the framework of rules of public solidarity.
But these reforms would not suffice to reabsorb unemployment if they did not attack at the same time the difficult problem of fair foreign commercial relations in a world-wide economy.
The determining question in this respect is as follows: how, in a completely open and unprotected economy, can a country or group of countries decide tomorrow on a higher social policy than that of its neighbours, without increasing its charges and thus disqualifying itself in competition?
Curiously, this essential question, which the Commission identifies perfectly with respect to relations between European countries, as I mentioned during this morning's debate, is hushed up when it concerns relations with the rest of the world.
However, in the latter case, the problem is infinitely more serious, and it is that which, through a deterioration in employment, places the heaviest handicap on the future of our social systems.
However, we must take stock of them one day if we wish to rectify the situation.
The ELDR Group welcomes the initiative on the debate on the future of social protection in Europe but has not given its support to the Weiler report.
The main reason is that it contains a number of conservative proposals which are not consistent with the new development needed at European level.
We think that this section would have merited further development, as it constitutes one of the major challenges of this debate.
We request that, right from now, the Commission takes over this point and opens the debate on 'compulsory and supplementary health systems and general interest' .
Mr President, my dear colleagues, the Commission regularly presents an up-todate report on social protection in all Member States, in order to give political decision-makers a good perception of the situation, which should enable them to implement the best social policy possible.
The Union thus has every interest in investing in its social protection and not considering it as a burden on the economy, but well and truly as the expression of a society model, or even a motive power of productivity and so growth.
The Union is in the process of completing its economic union, inviting all the Member States to respect the convergence criteria defined in Maastricht.
The constraints linked to the application of Maastricht criteria serve as a pretext to governments to put pressure on wages costs and make cuts in social expenditure.
As explained by the Commission in its communication on social protection: ' The globalization of the world economy and the imperatives of competition will probably necessitate a continued moderation of the growth of wages costs.
Health and social protection would thus be considered simply as goods, making it more difficult for the population to gain access to care.
Our group estimates that the taxation of capital movements and its contribution to social protection would make it possible to lighten the cost for workers.
Only systems of social protection and social security based on solidarity permit a high level of social protection and services for everyone, with a good contributions/efficacy ratio.
The maintenance of a high level of social protection is linked to the values of solidarity, respect for individuals and democracy, values which are ridiculed if one applies the rules of competition.
We are anxious to do something about social dumping but do not consider that standardising social security systems and national labour market policies is the best method of achieving this.
This is why we are abstaining from the final vote.
We think it is important that each individual in the EU has the right to reasonable basic levels of social security.
The Weiler report contains a number of sensible points covering actions to promote employment and sustainable economic development.
This report expresses concurrence with the Commission that Member States should uphold the commitment to promoting a high level of social protection and assist with the gradual coordination of Member States' social protection regulations for the creation of minimum standards.
From a British perspective it is interesting to note that the report reflects a Council Recommendation signed under the British presidency in July 1992.
The 'Lamont' Recommendation of 1992 underpins much of what has been said in this report and what has been agreed today in Parliament.
The Commission's report emphasizes in this respect the importance of the informal services rendered by the family, when one of its members does not have a remunerated job in order to be able to look after young children, handicapped adults or disabled elderly persons.
As our society is also characterized by a growing number of women in remunerated work, it is more difficult now for many women to provide important informal services free of charge.
The Commission unfortunately confines itself to these facts and analyses and does not venture forth into innovative proposals which would be of a nature such as to permit the maintenance and development of these informal services, which it acknowledges would permit a significant reduction in social protection costs.
It might therefore be useful for the Commission to continue its reflection by examining in particular to what measure the introduction, for example, of a parental wage instead of the existing specific allocations, would encourage the development of informal family services which our society, in its current structure, needs most and from which it would draw the most benefit.
Developments to date, in which the labour force in the Member States has seen 'Europe' being used in practice as a battering ram to break down the national systems of social security, must be radically reversed.
At the same time it should once more be stated clearly that our Europe will forfeit its future if it does not really take these first cautious steps, not to mention the necessary parallel steps in other areas, ranging from the restoration of full employment to the establishment of a supranational right to strike.
As a first step a clear labelling system is required to inform and reassure consumers about the quality and true origin of these products.
Better labelling and an effective identification and registration system for beef cattle are indispensable both in production and subsequent marketing.
We have chosen to vote for the report on the proposal for a Council Regulation on the labelling of beef and beef products, although we think it would be better for this to be controlled and determined nationally.
We would like to make it very clear how important we think it is that Member States themselves are able to introduce stricter labelling requirements if they wish.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, in its first paragraph, article 129a of the treaty makes reference to article 100a as the most appropriate instrument to deal with all the legislative, regulatory and administrative measures of the Member States intended for completion of the single market.
The authentic single market, the real single market, will only be completed when consumer protection applies in transborder disputes.
And this requires a series of legal, economic, social and informative measures.
From the legal point of view, which is my committee's remit, it must be stressed that the rights of consumers, as parties in cross-border disputes, will only be effectively protected by a combination of the following measures: at the international level Member States must recognize their duty to apply the 1968 Brussels Convention, the 1980 Rome Convention on the law applicable to contractual obligations and the 1965 and 1970 Hague Conventions, on unification and on the taking of evidence abroad respectively.
We need to put impetus behind a study to identify the reasons why, despite the existence of the Brussels Convention, difficulties are still experienced in securing the enforcement in one Member State of a civil judgement handed down by a court in another Member State.
The possibilities of widening the scope of the Rome Convention on the law applicable to the commercial field should also be analysed.
Parliament's resolution on payment periods contains interesting suggestions which are worth looking at.
Finally, Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to support the criticism made in the Whitehead report that the Commission does not include a detailed timetable for the priorities for consumer policy 1996-1998.
The lack of it can turn these priorities into a mere wish-list which does nothing for the credibility of Union consumer policy.
Some of the priorities have had to be carried over into the programme for 1996-1998.
We have adopted the draft directive on injunctions at the first reading as a preventive measure for the collective protection of consumers.
I hope that we shall soon be receiving the common position from the Council.
Because, and the Commissioner should take this a little bit to heart, the communication on priorities we are considering is to my mind far, far too wide-ranging.
A Green Paper came out more than three years ago.
One of our great concerns in the Liberal Group is that we not only create a Europe for companies, but also a Europe for citizens, a significant aspect of which is a Europe for consumers.
We in the Liberal Group are staunch supporters of the internal market, but the counterpart to the internal market is free choice for the consumer.
This is a great declaration of confidence on the part of the Commission.
A survey shows that in many countries 60 % to 80 % of the population is against consuming products developed through genetic engineering, out of anxiety about their effect on human health.
Finally, we agree with all the points.
Paragraph 19 refers to an EMU information campaign conducted by Parliament and the Commission.
Regrettably, my Group cannot vote in favour of this paragraph or welcome such campaigns.
There is also need to promote the labelling of products with environmental and energy information, and to establish consumer legislation in all Member States.
Article 129 A is still lacking a number of points of clarification and improvements.
Mr President, our work in this House, within this structure, would amount to very little indeed were we not to place consumers at the forefront of all of our activities.
A policy on consumers is not in fact a sectoral issue.
We welcome in particular the five aspects which the rapporteur mentioned and to which I wish rapidly to draw your attention: making it easier for consumers to have access to justice in the courts; constantly converting consumer information; promoting a sustainable food policy in the consumer interest and guaranteeing consumer access to a universal service.
Having said that, it is well-known that in some Member States, concern for consumer rights has developed at a slower pace than in Europe as a whole.
By guaranteeing the short and medium-term development of consumer associations we shall in fact avoid undermining the Maastricht Treaty which, while it recognizes a new consumer function in education and other important sectors, also creates new areas which are likely to remain inaccessible to associations with less clout.
Mr President, I also want to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent report he has produced.
Given the establishment of the internal market and the imminent introduction of the single currency, consumer policy must be implemented on a pan-European basis rather than by Member States acting alone.
Since the Whitehead report was adopted in the Committee on Environment, a number of major events have taken place, the most important being the transfer of responsibility for food safety to DG XXIV.
DGXXIV's new duties in this field were given further impetus yesterday when the Commission announced to the House their response to the BSE report.
I agree with President Santer's claim that the European Veterinary Office based in County Meath in Ireland can play a vital role in restoring consumers' confidence in food safety procedures.
I am however concerned that the Commission might be repeating the mistakes already clearly identified in the BSE report.
Like her and like other speakers, I regard this as an absolutely hopeless document which really was not worth writing.
I hope he or she is no longer with the Commission, certainly not in DG XXIV.
The three areas which I would focus on particularly are safety, information and help to consumers.
I would say that the Commission should examine the way in which consumers need these three elements, because of the activities of the Community, in particular with regard to cross-border trade.
Here is a great crisis boiling up on the margins of Europe, on the margins of our consciousness, that is being dealt with by DG VI when one presumes that DG XXIV was saying nothing about it.
Secondly, on the matter of information, I should like to draw the Commissioner's attention to a point which I raised with Commissioner Bangemann yesterday regarding food labelling.
Mr President, I do not know whether it was a coincidence, but almost all the speakers on this issue so far have been women.
In my short speech I would like to stress the great gulf that exists between the general principles, between - if you will - the Commissioner's sincere and 'hyperactive' intentions, between the legislation on the one hand, and the real situation prevailing in the Member States so far as consumer protection is concerned.
While I am on the subject of television, Mr President, I would like to say that there are clauses on consumer protection, protection of the viewer-consumer, for example relating to television without frontiers, concerning the timing of advertisements, etc., which at least in my own country are completely disregarded.
The report exudes a spirit of realism which is most apposite, I think, in consumer policy.
If there are powerful consumer bodies which are good at getting their message across clearly to the producers of goods and services, the battle of consumer protection is already half-won.
So I welcome the report's recommendations for strengthening the position of the consumer by spreading information (paragraphs 20 to 26).
I am thus very amenable to the rapporteur's suggestion that the proposals under the previous programme of consumer policy priorities should be consolidated and I compliment him warmly on his excellent report.
Now Mr Papas has already gone and has been replaced by a new Director General.
The rapporteur, after all, sets five priorities with which I agree: access to justice, either through courts, through arbitration machinery or through other mechanisms, the protection of the financial interests of consumers, improved information, converting consumer information into consumer power, a food policy and a human and animal health policy which is different to the one pursued so far and a clear and simple definition of what a universal public service is and how it can be applied.
Mr President, Members of Parliament, I must say that I am rather disconcerted by this debate.
Pimenta, this plan is presented under my name and I dare hope that the Director-General has not betrayed me.
If you think that he has done so, why did you not say so?
And this Parliament is apparently very fond of disciplinary sanctions.
I remember very well that before this document was submitted to the Council and to Parliament, Parliament had asked me not to present a detailed action plan, but a general outline of intervention policies.
The debate should therefore be put back into context.
I do not have a miracle solution, Mr Whitehead, and I have already said that I would come and listen to you in the middle of March to find out what you are proposing.
We have made a leap forward to the advantage of the consumer, but we should now set to work without excessive demagogy.
Mrs Kuhn, as regards baby food, one can always dream of revolution.
I think we are now ready to publish in the Official Journal the result of our work, which has not been easy.
After a year's work, we are in a position to start projects covering the four countries of Mediterranean Europe - Italy, Portugal, Greece and Spain - in order to reinforce a consumerism culture which is little developed in southern Europe.
The DG XXIV has already launched a consultation and study involving consumer associations to try to define jointly what would be clear, important and pertinent information, so that consumers are no longer flooded with a tide of information in which they are lost.
I will therefore come back to it in detail with my colleague Monti.
You mentioned that we have also received the draft directive on guarantees for consumer goods.
Mr President, just to be quite clear: I cannot react to a statement by my Director-General because I have not been informed.
Owing to the new responsibility and weight that we have as consumers, I have to take this opportunity to review the Green Paper and I will do it in the light of an empowerment that has been given to consumers.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
The variety of financial services offered to consumers has increased, as has their use but, as a result of a lack of information or regulation or because of failures to act or fraud on the part of unscrupulous operators, many citizens have suffered damage and others have developed prejudices.
In this sector also, the internal market offers consumers new opportunities but it can also add to their unease and increase the disadvantages.
The fact is that while, on the one hand, competition and the opportunity of choosing between suppliers of these services, including from outside the national territory, add to consumer freedom of choice, the differences in legislation may be the source of new problems.
In December 1995, at the same plenary session at which the exclusion of financial services from the proposal for a directive on distance selling was confirmed, the Commissioner, Mrs Bonino, undertook to the House to present a Communication which would - and these are her words - contain an action programme or even, should it prove necessary, a directive.
But we do not agree with the Commission when it says that the aim of the single market in this area has largely been achieved through some 50 directives.
Furthermore, the second part of the Green Paper itself analyses the problems that still exist, such as the possible discrimination against non-residents, the lack or poor quality of information, the lack of rules on intermediaries and the lack of fiscal harmonization.
On the issue of consumer credit, directive 102 of 1987 does not cover new services that did not exist at the time of its adoption.
The concept of the general interest has therefore to be better defined.
The problem of distance selling, finally, dealt with in the third part of the Green Paper, is not covered by the legislation in force.
The relevant legislative committees have discussed the Green Paper in great detail and very perceptively and have overwhelmingly focused their proposals on the need for a coherent and complete Community legislative framework that takes a horizontal approach to problems recurring in more than one sector and a vertical approach to specific issues such as distance selling.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the opinion I drafted on this Green Paper for the Economic Affairs Committee I came largely to the same conclusions regarding the continuing problems which the consumer encounters over financial services.
The Economic Affairs Committee has identified five.
One: the internal market is not really working.
Two: the absence of fiscal harmonization forms a serious obstacle to the free movement of financial services.
In some Member States life assurance policies are still not tax-deductible if they are taken out in another Member State.
Three: the dubious activities of non-regulated financial intermediaries, often operating by post or telephone, cast a shadow over the whole sector.
And lastly I would advocate a further extension of the role of independent ombudsmen for the banking and insurance sector.
Madam President, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizen's Rights has welcomed the work done by the rapporteur and has put to the committee responsible for the substance a number of points which I wish briefly to mention.
We have also sought to stress that Community legislation should act to limit the costs of cross-border contracts; promote the use of the language of the potential client; promote the search for and acquisition of information by one contracting party on the other on the basis of respect for rules governing personal data; promote the exercise of the rights of each contracting party in the Member State of the other contracting party; promote consumer information and education; guarantee respect for the principle of mutual recognition and ensure that due respect for the regulations of the client's Member State of stay or residence does not hinder effective freedom of movement and competition between financial products.
I want to congratulate Mrs Marinucci on what she has had to say about these matters for our committee and, indeed, for the Parliament.
The rapporteur rightly says that what we need is a clearly defined framework covering issues that are common to all financial services legislation, supplemented by vertical measures covering issues such as the distance-selling of financial products and the market for credit.
The more the single market develops and the more the proportion of cross-border trade develops, the need for consumer protection will also increase.
The Marinucci report begins and ends with the recommendation that we begin to move towards a directive that will specifically protect consumers in this field.
I hope that her colleague will report the strong feelings of the House on that matter.
Madam President, it is worth remembering that the whole debate on financial services actually got going after the European Commission initially included financial services with distance selling in the distance selling directive.
Clearly we cannot deal in more detail with the specific case that I cite but our contribution to this debate today should signal our determination to ensure that the rights of vulnerable people in these circumstances are protected.
On the occasion of the vote on the second reading of the - now adopted - distance selling directive, the Commission said that in agreeing to the exclusion of financial services, it would undertake to assess the need to protect consumers in relation to the distance selling of financial services and, more generally, the whole of the financial sector.
Today's report backs the effort the Commission has made to strengthen the protection of consumers as natural persons.
At the same time, taking into account the high level of interest attaching to consumer policy in the field of financial services, I have, together with Commissioner Bonino, undertaken to present a communication as soon as possible.
Basically, we are able to accept various of the proposals put forward and I am referring in particular here to paragraph 5.
In the field of banking services, the Commission has already published a draft communication on the exercise of the freedom to provide services and the concept of the general good, firmly established in the second banking directive.
Paragraph 13 of the report calls upon the Commission to set under way a dialogue with the professional associations and bodies to identify, where possible, agreed solutions to disputes between consumers and the industry.
The important paragraphs 14 and 15 of the report call for a variety of proposals.
The Commission intends monitoring closely the experiments under way in the Member States.
We shall shortly be proposing to the Commission a proposal for a directive on the distance selling of financial services; this is based on the provisions of the general directive that has already been adopted but takes account of the particular features of the financial services sector.
This would protect consumers by according them, for instance, the right to a cooling-off period, where appropriate, and to information, and would also allow the industry to benefit from a market without frontiers which would otherwise be hampered by differing national legislation.
As regards credit cards, pre-paid cards and home-banking, we are looking into the appropriateness of proposing legislative measures at this stage, given that the market is developing at a great pace - we have therefore to consider whether this is appropriate just now.
On the issue of mortgage credit, we agree that there needs to be a more detailed review - in particular on the point of transparency - before further measures are taken.
In that context, we have also to bear in mind that all of the vertical measures involve some standardization of the financial products, and this would automatically lead to greater transparency of the markets but would also make it easier for operators to reach agreements on prices, to the detriment of consumers.
The Commission has undertaken to submit an action plan for the completion of the single market in time for the Amsterdam European Council.
We know that another recommendation would have more or less the same effect as the last one.
As regards the legislation on the distance selling of financial services, I have already said that we believe this to be a useful measure and can tell you that we are aiming to submit it by September 1997.
And so, from the point of view of the consumer also - and, as I believe I have made clear, we attach great priority to consumers - there are cases in which it is not clear which is the best solution because while consumers certainly have an interest in markets with a high level of competition, they also have an interest in financial instruments and methods of payment that are extremely stable and secure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Union policy towards Algeria The next item is the Council statement on Union policy towards Algeria, followed by a debate.
Madam President, I am very grateful to the European Parliament for this chance to explain the Council's position on the crisis in Algeria, because the Council fully shares the European Parliament's concern at the situation in Algeria and is watching events there carefully.
Just the night before last 33 inhabitants of a village south of Algiers were murdered.
According to press reports the victims included eight women and two four-year-old children.
The sharp increase in violence alarms us greatly.
The random killing of innocent civilians by way of intimidation or political reprisal has constantly shocked the Council and always will.
In its contacts with the Algerian leadership the Council unceasingly and repeatedly expresses its concern at the situation.
The speedy conclusion of an association agreement with Algeria may be a favourable political factor in that country's efforts to restore law and order and democracy.
This association agreement will after all offer the European Union the chance of a structured political dialogue with Algeria and in the context of that we can raise the question of the Algerian Government's human rights policy with it.
The only way out of the crisis seems to be for Algeria to hold fast to its policy of a return to democracy, to legitimate government.
The Algerian Government has already taken a number of important steps in that direction.
For example the 1995 presidential elections and the 1996 change to the constitution.
The Council is expressly urging Algeria to complete by the end of 1997 a next step in this vital series of measures leading to democratic legitimation, namely the holding of general elections.
One: the maintenance of European faith in and European support for Algeria and the Algerian Government in their efforts to give a stronger democratic legitimacy to the administration.
Only in this way does the Council believe that the European Union can contribute to a lasting solution of the crisis in Algeria.
And to this end the European Union gave Algeria 125 million ECU at the end of December 1996.
The situation is demoralizing and seems hopeless.
The present Government has not yet managed to stamp out the violence and there seems to be no political solution to the conflict in sight.
It is easy to agree on that, but the Algerian Government cannot do it by itself.
National dialogue, with a place for everyone and elections in which all peaceful parties can take part, are needed to achieve that objective.
The EU should take action as outlined in the compromise resolution now before us, in the form of collective measures by the Union, a signal that the EU takes its relations with the region seriously and does not back away from serious problems.
We must therefore consider the situation as it really is and be absolutely clear about the fact that it is high time to consider the basic principles of peace here.
We regard peace and reconciliation in Algeria as vitally important.
Let us not forget that we have already ruined our reputation as it is in Bosnia and elsewhere.
I have visited Algeria many times, and I know what that meant to the French people, including those who lived in Algeria, but we have a responsibility towards that country.
We must apply quite different principles, and that is the purpose of our resolution.
Madam President, President of the Council, it is not without some outrage that I speak today in this context to denounce yet again the fresh outbreak of blind terrorism experienced by Algeria these past few hours.
I am thinking in particular of women and children.
The situation in Algeria preoccupies all Western democracies who are seeking positive dialogue whilst respecting cultural differences.
The European Union is searching for an association agreement with Algeria, wishing to establish structured political dialogue.
Last December, the European Parliament already voted on a resolution concerning Algeria, which the UPE group neither signed nor voted on.
Discussions have been undertaken with all the parties, except the FFS.
All the parties have let it be known that they would take part in the elections.
So my group will not vote in favour of this resolution.
Like the Council, we say that Algeria deserves confidence and critical support.
Over 300 Algerians, men, women and children, have died.
Since the end of Ramadan, press accounts issued during these last few days have recorded over 200 deaths.
The resolution passed here by our Parliament last December was, it is true, severely condemned by the Algerian authorities.
To regain peace and eradicate the terrorism which rages in Algeria, the government must establish dialogue with all the democratic opposition.
The European Council will have to assume its responsibilities and take part in the negotiations which will allow Algeria to go towards truly democratic elections, next June.
And with reason: the new law passed yesterday by the national Council of transition aims to harden the conditions of creation of political parties; all references to religion, language or region are prohibited.
The European Union must aim to support an economic transformation of Algeria, so that it can change from a State-controlled and oil-dependent economy to a more diversified economy with more emphasis on the private sector.
The new draft law on the press which the government is preparing to introduce aims to muzzle the press.
Although I can understand the difficulties facing the Algerian government, I cannot accept that, every day, civilians pay with their lives for this violence which unfortunately has become established in Algeria.
I would like to express the full and complete solidarity of our group with the Algerian people, and in particular Algerian women who suffer absolute martyrdom and reject the unacceptable.
Placing all the parties involved in this conflict on the same footing, as in point 8, is to consider the murderers as political interlocutors.
That is unacceptable, as are the presence and activity in broad daylight of some of these financial partners in the Member States.
The Member States and the European Union should effectively support the eonomic recovery of Algeria.
The opening of negotiations for an association agreement can help, provided we go beyond the free trade logic which too frequently characterizes relations between the European Union and its external partners.
These matters cannot continue to be considered as tabooed by our countries and the Union.
At all events, the right of the Algerian people to decide its future for itself, with no foreign interference, is not only an intangible principle but also a guarantee of efficacy for any solution.
Here, we are behaving as if to give lessons was not our duty.
Representative of the Council, stop, in your naivety, which is the naivety of French foreign policy, saying: ' Everything is fine in Algeria - things are going in the right direction' .
I would like to know what Western and democratic countries want in Algeria.
On the other hand, it is clear that we are on the side of the Algerian victims and people.
That is our problem.
When we now say we would like a solution involving dialogue, we must obviously ask the so-called Islamic organizations to condemn, not only politically but also morally, the use of terrorism.
We should push each other in a certain direction, and this means dialogue between murderers.
In this dramatic and difficult situation, there is no easy solution.
We must give lessons in politics to all those who dream of a society that does not exist in Algeria.
Several years of this regime have led the Algerian people to a state of absolute despair, but the time has nevertheless come to recall the contents of the texts signed by the Algerian government in Barcelona, in 1995, on the exercise of fundamental freedoms and human rights.
The signing of an association agreement between the European Union and Algeria is on the agenda.
With regard to the proposal of mediation that could help the Algerians emerge from the drama which is tearing them apart, it arouses considerable emotion, especially among those who consider such a proposal as imperialistic, colonial, what do I know?
The multiplication of armed groups places national unity in peril.
The confrontations between progovernment militia and armed integrist groups maintain a permanent climate of violence in both urban and rural environments, which is ruining and discouraging efforts of development.
Firstly reaffirm, very clearly, its desire for the survival of Algeria as a State.
Instead each of our countries has an interest in that it should emerge from chaos, even if in a fumbling manner, and become a stable pole, organizing its development in partnership with us.
The development of Algeria and better mastery of migration phenomena are unquestionably linked.
Secondly, it is best to avoid anything that can feed civil war.
Because a text of this Parliament will have condemned violence, denounced terrorism - blind, of course, as if terrorism were anything but blind! - denounced infringements of human rights, called on democratic elections and dialogue between all parties and expressed its support for democratic forums, will the number of deaths decrease in Algeria?
They are often the same who, in 1980, partisans of the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia, of the Vietcong in Vietnam, Maoists converted in the 'New Philosophy' , the press, show business, advertising, signed petitions in favour of the 'boat people' , victims of their ideology.
They carry a fairly high responsibility in the misfortunes of Algeria, which do not go back to 1992, but to 1962.
All the governments of the Vth Republic, after delivering French Algeria to the killers of the FLN, did not stop supporting the Algerian dictators from Ben Bella to Zeroual.
In January 1992, our leaders took part in the Algerian civil war, supporting the military coup d'tat which quashed the first free elections.
In this Parliament we surely are going to condemn that out of hand and condemn all those who support it.
The Algerian Government must of course recognise that it cannot underestimate the immense importance of upholding democratic values and human rights if it is not to alienate those who oppose fundamentalism but believe in freedom and democracy.
It is vital that everything possible should be done in the difficult circumstances which prevail to enable all genuinely democratic forces to participate.
Madam President, for quite a long time now European citizens have been horrified - and that word has been used quite a lot in this debate - by events in a country very close to the southern countries of Europe, and as a Spaniard I am particularly aware of that.
The terrorists in Algeria are knifing hundreds of innocent citizens almost daily, including women, children and journalists, as the President of the Council has mentioned.
Algeria is a Maghreb country, and like all the Maghreb countries, its political, economic, social and cultural development has special features which should not be forgotten.
Countries like Spain, Italy and France, which are close geographically and in terms of their economic and social inter-relationships, are especially sensitive to the vagaries of the events taking place there, and hence they affect the interests of the European Union as a whole very directly.
The policy of assisting the economic and social development of those countries is intelligent and right, because the spread of fanaticism and violence has economic roots in underdevelopment and real misery and hunger.
Furthermore, everything that can contribute to its political development, in terms of technical support and observation of its electoral processes and in the sphere of dialogue with the government, which has to deal with the terrorist violence, will undoubtedly contribute to bringing that country closer to the democratic culture and respect for human rights espoused by western countries.
The Council must bring forward initiatives which foster understanding and dialogue between the political and democratic forces in that country and cooperate in the fight against terrorism, which is unfortunately being transmitted to our own European soil.
Finally, the European Union must play an active role to avoid projecting the poor image it has had in other conflicts very close to us in time and space.
France has political responsibilities, but the first group of speeches in this sitting have shown that we too have the right and indeed the duty to speak.
Madam President, what is at stake in Algeria is the safety of the people, and also respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the stability of the Mediterranean basin and the future of EuroMediterranean policy.
The European Union cannot remain silent, powerless and passive in the face of the dramatic events that are taking place in that country.
These democrats are unfortunately divided, which is a factor of weakness, but they all lead the same courageous fight against the power at the risk of their lives, also against the Islamics.
We must urge the Algerian government very strongly to finally open a dialogue without second thoughts, with all the democrats in Algeria and all the politicians and groups which would agree to renounce violence.
Finally, we must announce our confidence in the Algerian people.
We must help Algerians to believe in Algeria, to be aware of Algeria's assets, as Algeria does have assets.
First of all the quality of the men - and especially the women - who are fighting often with admirable courage.
He told me his dream of making Algeria the leading Muslim country which, without renouncing its roots - all its roots - could become both a democracy and a nonreligious country.
A few days later, President Boudiaf was assassinated.
Madam President, Mr President of the Council, despite the parliamentary respect you are entitled to receive from me and the respect I accord to the fine parliamentary speeches - flamboyant, emotional, stirring speeches - that we have heard this afternoon in this debate, with all due respect I do not think this is what is needed in Algeria now.
And we need to be capable of knowing how to help in the right way.
Last Ramadan indeed resulted in an escalation of violence and terror.
Mr President of the Council, the next general election must become a genuine step forward towards democracy and peace.
Algerian women should lead civil and political society in that country.
And the Algerian people will support this aim.
The second proposal is for the European Union to join forces with Algeria to provide some minimum guarantees of safety and freedom at the next elections.
Mr President of the Council, the motion for a resolution the European Parliament is going to adopt also makes positive points which need to be taken into account.
Since 11 February, President Zerual and the representatives of the various political forces have been involved in the necessary dialogue we are calling for, and that is an encouraging sign.
But I think that the great majority of speakers also advocated continuing our cooperation with Algeria and I should like to stress the importance of that again.
The Council remains willing to work with the present Algerian Government provided we are convinced that it is working to restore democracy and better respect for human rights.
We thus call on the Government to hold elections in 1997 and to make them open and free.
For our part I repeat that the European Union is prepared, as part of its Mediterranean policy, to give structural aid on a longterm basis for the social and economic development of the Algerian people under a bilateral cooperation agreement.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Question No 1 by Wayne David (H-1026/96) Subject: Police treatment of Sonia Esmeralda Gomez Guevara and Carmen Velasquez Is the European Council aware of reports by Amnesty International concerning two Guatemalan girls, Sonia Esmeralda Gomez Guevara and Carmen Velasquez?
This is apparent too from the fact that the development cooperation programmes of the European Union and its Member States in Guatemala are aimed particularly at promoting human rights and providing information and training on human rights.
I recall that very recently an important process of political reconciliation was completed there, something absolutely essential if democratic conditions are to be fully restored, and if human rights, including the rights of street children, are to be properly upheld, and in these circumstances there is little reason at present to do anything specific on behalf of the European Union.
As part of the San Jos dialogue, which resumes in a few weeks' time, we shall of course raise this specific issue in the appropriate manner.
Question No 2 by Felipe Camisn Asensio (H-1029/96) Subject: Multilingual computerized services What plans does the Council have to promote language diversity so as to encourage multilingual computerized services?
On 21 November 1996 the Council adopted a multiannual programme to promote linguistic diversity in the information society in the European Community which exactly meets the concerns of the honourable member.
This programme, which has already begun and for which a total of 15 million ECU has been earmarked to be spread over three years, has the following objectives: firstly to encourage the use of technologies, aids and methods which will cut the cost of information transfer between languages and of developing multilingual services.
The Commission is responsible for implementing the programme and for coordinating it with the other programmes of the Community.
The Council has told us today that it has made a budget of ECU 15 million available for the promotion of a programme of linguistic diversity within the Union.
But I want to draw attention to the fact that, in addition to this, there should be recognition of the importance of facilitating access for SMEs to this type of facility and reducing the conversion costs.
I shall end, Mr President, by saying that all this is necessary because, unfortunately, the goal of a single language is not as close as the goal of a single currency.
Question No 4 by Anne McIntosh (H-1033/96) Subject: European Union measures to combat paedophilia Will the Council outline the measures it proposes to take to ensure a common European Union approach to tackle the sexual exploitation of children, including measures that will ensure judicial cooperation between Member States in this area?
In view of the Council decision to agree to joint action to fight paedophilia, can it give further details on the multi-annual programme (1996-2000) for the training and exchange of persons involved in combating the problem?
The European Council in Dublin expressed its abhorrence at the sexual exploitation of children and trafficking in human beings and undertook to take all necessary action against it.
The European Council called on the Council and Commission to implement the measures agreed by the Council during the Irish presidency in an ongoing manner and to consult about the further measures required.
Fourthly, a Belgian proposal for a collective approach to the prevention of sexual exploitation of children and trafficking in human beings, together with measures for cooperation among Member States.
The Council attaches great importance to the need to have these issues tackled swiftly and efficiently and the Dutch presidency will also give these things high priority.
I thank the President-in-Office for his reply.
It would be easier for us in the European Parliament to monitor this if we knew in some more detail what these measures are, as they are agreed.
For example, the Irish President-in-Office was very keen on safe streets and proposed measures to make them safe for children as well as adults.
The main concern is to stop abuse by means of good national and international agreements and measures, but at the same time to prevent the huge economic potential of the Internet from being fragmented and weakened by a multiplicity of uncoordinated national measures.
Question No 5 by Irini Lambraki (H-1036/96): Subject: Funding Community action to deal with exceptional circumstances Everyone knows that agricultural production is directly dependent on weather conditions and a number of other unforeseen factors.
We also have Title B 7.2, which covers food aid and humanitarian aid to population groups in the developing countries who are the victims of natural disasters or serious crises.
In the second place the recent BSE crisis has shown that the Community is reliably able to be flexible and to find the resources it needs to meet dramatic and unforeseen situations which cannot be categorized as natural disasters.
Title B7 provides for European Union aid, not to the EU Member States, but to third countries.
It was right to help them, but not to the cost of other breeders or farmers in our countries.
As the author is not present, Question No 6 lapses.
Question No 7 by Jonas Sjstedt (H-0057/97): Subject: The consequences for Norway and Iceland of integrating Schengen The current IGC is discussing the integration of the Schengen Agreement in EU law.
In reply to Mr Sjstedt I must say that it is true that when the Intergovernmental Conference addresses the question of greater cooperation under the third pillar it will have to consider the question of how to integrate the cooperation which already exists amongst the Member States which are parties to Schengen and how to implement it.
The first is whether we need a new agreement with Norway and Iceland if the Schengen Agreement is incorporated into EU law, or whether we can use the agreement which is already in place and which has been signed by representatives from these countries.
I think it is still too soon to talk about whether a new agreement is needed with Norway and Iceland as a result of any change in the treaty relationship between the European Union and the countries cooperating under Schengen.
Perhaps it will be, and in that case the Schengen Member States plan to consult with Norway and Iceland at the appropriate time.
If the European Court of Justice is given powers over parts of the total scope of Schengen cooperation, if it ever comes to full integration of Schengen into the European Union, we shall need to regulate the position of Norway and Iceland in greater detail.
Mr President, I represent Bavaria here, and I should like to ask you first of all whether the timetable has been fixed for the accession of Austria and Italy to the Schengen Agreement and what you can tell us about the current timetable for accession.
Secondly, I should like to ask you about security at the eastern borders of the European Union.
You are putting a question now not to the President of the Council but to a member of the Intergovernmental Conference; I must make the distinction.
As the author is not present, Question No 8 lapses.
The shape and materials to be used in the Euro coin were discussed for the first time by the Council of the Union's finance ministers on 27 January.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first I want to say that I am reassured by your remarks because we still have until 1998 for the final design.
I would just like the European Central Bank to be informed, through the Presidency of the Council, of the concern of millions of European citizens who live in the Canary Islands, the Azores, Madeira, the Greek Islands, Ceuta and Melilla, in other words a series of very important territories, because this map does not show their territories, so it could be thought that the currency is not valid in these regions - given that there does seem to be an identification between the map and validity of the currency.
Question No 11 by Nikitas Kaklamanis (H-1046/96): Subject: Threats by Mrs Ciller against a Member State All the news agencies report from Ankara that, on her return from the European Council meeting in Dublin, the Turkish Foreign Minister, Mrs Ciller, made the following statement at the Turkish capital's airport: 'If Europe does not accept the hand of peace that we are extending and Turkey remains outside, then Greece should really be fearful.' How will the Council respond to such a direct threat to an EU Member State which is totally contrary to the spirit of the July 1996 Declaration of the '15'?
And a final question relating to recent statements by Mrs iller: what is the Council's position on statements by Mrs iller that unless the European Union goes ahead with talks on Turkey's accession to the EU, Turkey will never allow Cyprus to accede to the European Union?
To my mind not all the conditions have altogether been met and I think it is a matter of urgency that the Council should continue its dialogue with Turkey to reach total agreement on the conditions stated in this 1996 declaration so that the customs union can, as far as the Council is concerned, become operational as soon as possible.
Question No 14 by Brian Crowley (H-0097/97): Subject: Discriminatory age limits Does the Council consider that establishing low age limits for prospective applicants for employment in European Institutions discriminates against a large proportion of the workforce, and, furthermore, will the Council take immediate steps to abolish the 35-year age limit for applicants for administrative posts in the European Institutions?
This guarantees uniform treatment in all Member States.
The procedure for recruitment via an open compeition is set out in Article 29 and Annex III of the Staff Regulations.
Thus in practice the age limit is raised in certain cases, for example by five years to allow for the bringing up of children below school age or to allow for military service or handicap.
For the last two years the Community institutions and organs, the Council included, have decided to streamline their recruitment methods and have pledged themselves to recruit officials by publishing notices covering several institutions, unless a specific institution has specific requirements.
As for the quality criteria required in Article 27 of the Staff Regulations, it has been established that the age limit of 35 enables officials to be recruited who do, as the Staff Regulations require, meet the most stringent requirements of ability and performance.
For entry to the interim grades, in particular grades D1, C3, C1, B3, B1 and A5, the age limit is generally 50.
I thank the President-in-Office for his very comprehensive answer on the general issues.
My specific question related to the situation that now seems to be arising in one Member State - and I congratulate Ireland for taking this step - which has banned advertisements that imply age discrimination.
I take on board your question about Irish law and Irish recruitment practices.
Irish law is not specifically applicable to the recruitment of European Union officials.
I am not sure that I agree with the President-in-Office when he says that it is premature to speak about what the result of the IGC will be, because this Parliament has already put down several proposals with regard to an antidiscrimination article for inclusion within the new Treaty.
It is important to come back to the increased longevity of the citizens of the European Union.
Bearing in mind that people are living longer and need to work longer, the apparent need for more experienced people and the excellent decision that has been taken by the Irish Government, could the Council not now, without waiting for the IGC, examine the situation and bring forward proposals to abolish age discrimination throughout the whole of the European Union?
Recent events in Cyprus have shown once again the urgent need for work to be done, under United Nations guidance and in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, to reach a comprehensive political settlement for Cyprus based on a bi-communal and bo-zonal federation.
The Council reiterates its full support for the UN Secretary-General and his special representative on Cyprus.
As regards the promotion of security through European Union initiatives for the region, the Council would point to the Euro-Mediterranean process under which confidence-building measures are being developed as one aspect of our political and security partnership.
In no case would I wish for any kind of military solution.
Although I worked for the Ministry of Defence for years I do not now want to start a debate on the strict need to procure rockets with a range of 150 km as a legitimate means of defence against threats on Cyprus.
I thank the Council for that reply and for the efforts it has made in the past.
As well as that, would the Council not agree that the real solution to stop all these sorts of acts - and there have been many deaths in Kashmir over the years - would be to grant the people their self-determination?
Question No 17 by Sir Jack Stewart-Clark (H-0015/97): Subject: Role of the EMCDDA in the Dutch presidency's work programme I note that the Dutch presidency in its presentation of action to be taken calls for a 'multi-annual programme for the exchange of knowledge by the Member States on research methods, public information campaigns and facilities for specific target groups'.
At the European summit in Dublin a progress report was given on the fight against drugs which named a number of specific focuses for action in 1997.
One of these was that a greater role should be given to research in the combating of drugs.
One of the programme's objectives is to improve knowledge about drugs, drug addiction and methods of prevention.
Question No 18 by Niels Sindal (H-0018/97) Subject: Ratification of Europe Agreements Two years have passed since the Europe Agreements with Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania were signed.
In answer to Mr Sindal, the Europe agreements of association with Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania were signed on 12 June 1995, that is to say just over a year and a half ago.
My question, therefore, is: can the Council confirm that the Commission has no favourites in its readiness to accept new countries?
I can confirm that the Council has no favourites among the eleven countries seeking to join the European Union.
The point which makes these ratifications so urgent is the situation in which we find ourselves in other areas.
I should point out to the honourable member that under a decision of the European Parliament and Council on 16 December 1996 a Community action programme on the prevention of drug addiction was approved as part of measures in the field of health.
This programme includes a whole range of incentives and support measures aimed at achieving this objective.
The programme in question is geared broadly to two areas of action.
We shall also look at which elements of the collective strategy against drugs, adopted by the Council in December 1996, merit implementation in the area of preventing drug addiction.
Question No 20 by Nuala Ahern (H-0022/97): Subject: Prior notice of radioactive shipments to en-route countries In the light of the fact that in signing the Barcelona Convention the French Government has clearly accepted its responsibility, in regard to shipments of radioactive and toxic materials from French ports, that prior notice should be given to countries en route, does the Council believe that France and the UK have similar responsibility in informing en-route countries in respect of nuclear cargoes sent by sea from their reprocessing facilities at The Hague and Sellafield respectively?
This body of legal and administrative regulations also applies to movements of radioactive waste originating in the reprocessing plants which the honourable member mentions, namely La Hague and Sellafield.
This is an individual responsibility incumbent on Member States, at least to the extent that Community law is not involved.
Currently there is a nuclear shipment from La Hague in France wandering around the planet between France and Japan.
As the author is not present, Question No 21 lapses.
Question No 22 by Alex Smith (H-0028/97): Subject: Nuclear reprocessing plants and leukaemia The 11 January 1997 issue of the British Medical Journal (Volume 314, pages 101-106) published a detailed article on the measured occurrence of leukaemia in young people living close to the nuclear reprocessing plant operated by COGEMA at La Hague on the Cotentin Peninsula in Normandy.
This week we have debated a report by a temporary committee of inquiry, which criticised not only the Commission but the Council for not acting quickly enough on a public health matter.
However, in my report I propose that the standardized calculation for the year should be made only on the basis of 365 days.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has given its support to this proposal, as have the votes of my group.
It would mean that the actual value and the actual period of time would have to be used in each case, with the result that in February, for example, we would have only 28 days, whereas in January we would have 31.
Since this draft directive does not undertake a complete harmonization of the bases for assessment, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is also opposed to the Commission's proposal to introduce a symbol when quoting the actual interest rate.
Such a symbol, therefore, could be misused in order to deceive the consumer, and would be contrary to the aim of the proposal.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, in its report, did not merely make a critical evaluation of the Commission's report; it also attempted to offer practical solutions to the questions raised by the Commission.
My second point is that the Commission has raised the question of the appropriateness of a European directive on mortgage credit.
The Committee and my group take the view that such a European directive at the present time is something that they cannot agree to.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the market in consumer credit has expanded very rapidly in recent years and will experience exponential growth in the years to come.
We believe that, in order to protect consumers, we have basically to apply the principles of free competition, and that means offering consumers genuine choices and according them both the right to choose between different products and the right to change without incurring a penalty.
A broader range of supply and greater competition will mean that consumers are given real freedom of choice between several products and therefore the possibility of exerting an influence on the supply-side and on the development of the market.
That is why we are drawing attention to a number of crucial points in our report.
We also believe that lack of openness in the market in consumer credit is most apparent from the usury that exists and the transfer to the black market of a whole range of possible and potential consumers who do not find in the banks and financial institutes the variety of offer they need.
We have tabled an amendment on this that leaves the question open and would ask our colleagues in the other groups to support it.
We would ask that the House support the amendments concerning the standardization of contracts with a view to a self-regulating code of conduct; we ask the House to back the extended concept of consumer as well as the possibility of making a close assessment of the concept of mortgage credit; we ask the House to support the new concept of opening up the market and opening up competition.
The timetable of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights forced us to issue an opinion as early as the end of April last year.
Our Committee believes that we do.
Paragraph 16 of the resolution says there should be no Community rules for credit secured by mortgage.
Consumer protection at European level as regards credit is becoming increasingly complex, as a result, amongst other things, of the free play of supply and demand and the imminent entry into force of the third stage of monetary union, which presents a crucial legal problem around the principle of continuity of contracts.
There is just one point I would like to express a difference about, point 10 of the report, because it establishes absolute unilateral cancellation.
That is why I have enthusiastically supported the report, particularly the point on usury.
I also welcome point 9 of the proposal which concerns stricter regulations governing advertising.
I hope that we will study point 9 and revert to it when we do discuss business communication.
Unfortunately, Mr Caccavale, I cannot say the same for Amendment No 6; in this case I believe that your original version was more precise than what you are now proposing.
But I would like to use this opportunity to highlight the difficulties that people on low or no earned incomes have in the European Union and the fact that credit must not become a source of financial assistance simply for those who are well-off.
People without security or assets have great difficulty obtaining credit.
Finally, I would like to draw the Commission's attention to the micro-credit conference that was held between 1 and 4 February in Washington, which tried to highlight the usefulness of micro-credit to people who cannot traditionally get credit from normal credit organizations.
I in fact believe that now, in the light of the responses to the Green Paper, not even the producers of financial services can claim that the problems do not exist because they have actually been documented.
At any rate, it seems to me to be important that we have somehow reached the final stage.
The Commission wishes only to stress that the criterion of the actual calendar year is more precise than the standardized year - which you are proposing - which would perhaps be easier but, from the point of view of the consumer, simply less precise in terms of the calculation.
One last comment concerning what we might describe as the positive list, or the negative list of the elements to be included or left out of the calculation.
In conclusion, it seems to me that we should all welcome the fact that this directive is now on the way to completion and that, therefore, as far as consumers are concerned, the adoption of a single mathematical formula for calculating the actual annual rate, although still limited in some respects, represents a major step forward as compared with the legislation of ten years ago.
Turning to the report on consumer credit, I wish to make just a few points, perhaps to clear up some misunderstandings that may have arisen and that I am anxious to sort out.
For all of those reasons, the Commission - and I think that Commissioner Monti announced this today - intends putting forward a directive amending the old directive on consumer credit, in the light also of the Green Paper on financial services.
All in all, a directive the substance of which has been genuinely amended.
Let me now consider, simply in order to prevent misunderstandings, paragraph 4 in which the House rejects the Commission proposal to include in the scope of the directive loans for renovation and modernization work not guaranteed by mortgage.
It seems to me, then, that on this point, greater clarity could perhaps help us each achieve a better understanding of what the other is trying to do.
As regards paragraph 16, which rejects the idea of Community rules to harmonize mortgage credit, here again what we have is a misunderstanding because it is not the Commission intention to align the national laws in force or the provisions of civil law - that would not in fact be possible - but simply to set under way a process of reflection on the possibilities and ways of extending to cover that form of credit also the rules on information, transparency and protection provided for in the current directive.
Moving on then to my third point: as far as paragraph 10 is concerned, and this limits to consumer goods only the right to early payment which the Commission is in fact proposing as a general principle applicable to all forms of credit, Parliament's position appears generally to be too restrictive.
Finally, paragraph 12 also seems to the Commission to be too restrictive.
The vote will take place at 12 noon tomorrow.
This directive has another dimension.
It creates clarity with regard to professional development opportunities in the European Union, and it strives for equality, which is a fundamental citizens' right.
Translated into present-day terms, galit means equality of opportunity.
Anyone who is master of his craft, who knows his job, is just as good in Rovaniemi, in the Arctic Circle, as he is in Paris, Athens or some little town in Southern Germany.
A document that was intended to simplify and make more transparent the opportunities for professional development in Europe.
Therefore I invite the Commission - and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is with me on this - to provide Parliament with this information without delay, so that we can rapidly improve this half-hearted directive and really give people, in commerce, crafts and industry, freedom of movement and freedom to establish themselves in the Member States of the European Union.
We are now taking a pitifully small step in that direction, but we, as a Parliament, owe even these small steps to our citizens.
We very much welcome Mrs Gebhardt's report.
The report aims to achieve legal certainty and transparency.
As you know, in Germany we have a dual training system, in other words we have parallel training in industry and in vocational schools.
Only about 500 EURES places are available each year, and very few of them actually lead to real jobs.
I also believe, given the rapid development of the new technologies, that it would be helpful for all those who are involved in the labour market to establish a wide-ranging European data bank, in which available jobs are described, and in which any interested employees could also get themselves registered.
The main task facing us now, in my opinion, no longer lies in regulating the recognition of qualifications.
The Commission's draft directive clearly shows a desire to encourage mobility within the European Union and to remove obstacles.
I am not a member of the Legal Affairs Committee, Mr President, but as an MEP I do take an interest in citizens' rights.
Unfortunately, progress in this direction is still inadequate.
The flood of complaints demonstrates that much still remains to be done at Member State level to eliminate obstacles.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's proposal for the recognition of qualifications in respect of the professional activities covered by the directive on liberalization and transitional measures is to be welcomed.
I believe that, especially in a Europe of citizens, where freedom of movement plays a very important role, at least on paper, but also in our thoughts, it is absolutely essential that we should remove the obstacles that hinder this freedom of movement.
Therefore the directive that we are discussing, on the recognition of qualifications, is intended to help to make such recognition easier and quicker.
I think it is important that we should deal with this question, so that people who have a qualification can go to another country.
I myself did so, twenty-five years ago, and I could recite you a long list of the problems that I encountered in doing so.
I hope that we are able to clear up these problems, and that in future a Europe of citizens will be constructed, in which the European concept really is firmly established in the minds of all the people.
Mr President, this report appears to be of a technical nature but is in fact of huge political importance because it concerns citizens.
Fortunately, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights approved this report, thereby avoiding prolonged debate on the technical complexity of the proposal.
It has thus backed the work of the Commission in simplifying Community law and has confirmed the assessment of this proposal for a directive made by the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment which considered it to be a contribution to the fight against unemployment.
For the most part - I am happy to tell you - the Commission is able to accept all of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs.
The Commission approach is to give priority to the citizen.
The approach of this Commission is to work for the Europe of citizens even in relation to what may appear to be the most economic-based aspect: the single market.
And this proposal, on which we have this evening Mrs Gebhardt's excellent report, reflects the approach of the Commission: priority for the citizen, simplification, transparency and information.
Within that context, and again with the support of the House, but with the enthusiasm of first the Commission and then Parliament, we launched the programme Citizens First - Burger Europas, specifically designed to provide the outside world in this area also with detailed and accurate information which will finally enable citizens to understand what Europe is really doing for them and will allow us, via extensive telephone feedback, through the Internet etc, to understand the real obstacles citizens encounter in exercising their rights of European citizenship.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 12 noon tomorrow.
The EU has spoken out against all forms of discrimination in many reports, for example those by Vayssade and Roth, and in many resolutions.
This has applied to Member States but more particularly to countries outside the EU.
We are now giving Parliament as a whole the chance to show that the EU as an employer is prepared lead the way against discrimination and for equality.
In addition to seeking to correct this process, the measures and amendments are positive because they are transitional measures and do not adversely affect formal equality, since they are only intended to correct inequalities in the sphere of appointment, promotion and development, and the preference is of a temporary nature.
Mr President, this evening we are talking about the status of officials and the employment of officials in the institutions of the European Community.
Regardless of whether this is in the area of employment or in other areas, the important thing is that we should set a good example, and that we should be the ones to show what we in the European Union want.
This applies not only to salaries, but also to social insurance, in cases of sickness and in many other areas.
The second point that I should like to raise is the question of the age limit.
The age limit must be removed.
First of all, my group fully supports all aspects of the report concerning equal treatment for men and women.
My second point, however, is that we have some reservations concerning Amendments Nos 3, 8, 10 and 11 which we shall be voting against because they introduce, unintentionally, I believe, an element of discrimination by equating the family, based on heterosexual marriage, with de facto partners and homosexual couples.
As for equal status for various forms of relationship, I cannot see that this poses a threat to marriage or the family in any of the Member States.
Mr President, of the amendments passed in Parliament's part-session of November 1993 and put forward for incorporation into the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities, the Commission has only adopted the one expressly prohibiting direct or indirect discrimination based on sexuality.
But there are other amendments geared to drawing up measures to convert the prohibition of direct or indirect discrimination into practical reality, measures such as the creation of a committee responsible for promoting and monitoring the application of the principle of equality, bringing forward appropriate programmes of positive measures, and proposing a system of promotion for officials based on a preference clause, and the Commission has ignored them.
But in terms of rights - particularly individual rights - European legislation has been intended to be a model, and has sometimes succeeded in establishing a legal, and also a moral, point of reference.
But the elimination of discrimination based on sexuality obliges us to go into detail: legal guarantees of equality of treatment cannot disregard details like the under-representation of women, their vertical segregation in management spheres, their horizontal concentration in certain activities and, in the case of European officials, in certain categories.
Not to deal with these issues would leave the principle of equality of treatment devoid of content, the opposite of what is sought by these amendments, which have my support, on behalf of my group.
Finally, taking on these commitments means making progress towards not only a more democratic society but also a freer society.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the present case we are dealing not only with equal treatment between men and women in the staff regulations of officials of the European Communities, but also, as Mr Casini has just explained so impressively, with the removal of discrimination of any kind on grounds of sexual, religious or philosophical orientation, in other words, exactly as set out in Amendments Nos 3, 8 and 11.
The European Parliament has a double obligation here.
It cannot fall below the standards adopted by other transnational institutions such as the United Nations, the World Bank or the European Monetary Institute, and neither can it forget the decision on equal treatment for persons of the same sex living in a permanent relationship, which was taken by this House in February 1994.
It would be contrary to the liberal basic principles of the European Union if any restrictions of any kind were to remain in the staff regulations for its officials.
Mr President, the European Radical Alliance group fully supports the aims of the draft regulations submitted to us.
If the European institutions wish to continue playing an active role in the fight against sex discrimination, they should start by giving an example in the treatment reserved to their officials and agents.
Speaking on my own behalf, and aware of the fact that I am going against the current of current trends, I must nevertheless say that I do not feel it possible to support amendments 5, 12, 13 and 14, which pose a true problem of political philosophy, as they establish an inequality of right in the recruitment and promotion of Community officials.
In the case in question, it is not only equality between the sexes, but a different vision of society.
The main currents of thought latched onto these problems a long time ago.
For my part, I am radical and I refer to the principle of justice whereby discriminations based on objective criteria (race, sex, language or origin) must be condemned and the equality of rights and chances must be ensured.
This is why, more generally, I think that an inequality of fact is not corrected by creating an inequality of right, unless we move towards an 'ideal' society where each man and each woman occupies a place assigned to them by arithmetic calculations.
Mr President, Commissioner, my dear colleagues, the Council's draft regulations submitted to us have received the approval of our group, but I am led to make two comments, one on procedure, and the other on substance.
I would like to say that I am happy to point out that on the 6th February, the Committee on Legal Affairs accepted as its own a draft I had made in accordance with the letter of the regulations and the logic of the procedure, which aimed to invite it to issue an opinion on the Commission's initial draft.
The situation of inequality of treatment of men and women has led to the adoption of measures which raise serious legal problems, calling into question the very basis of our republican regimes.
To sum up, we have moved from a system of quotas in the positions offered to a system of positions reserved by the famous positive discriminations.
The constitutional Council in France, the constitutional Court in Italy, the constitutional Court in Germany and the European Court of Justice in the Kalanke judgement, have condemned the measures which systematically favour, in an equal situation, the recruitment of women in the name of the famous principle of equality.
It goes a great way to removing the inequality that exists not only for women, but also for men and women who are victimized because of their sexual orientation.
But he turned around and struck at the very core of the report by saying that he could not support Amendments Nos 5, 12 and 14.
The European Commission does nothing about it.
We should not forget that the family is not, in fact, the norm, or the universally applicable way of life in our society.
There is no reason why these people should be disadvantaged merely because they say quite openly, ' I live as I am, and I would like to have the same opportunities and the same options as other people' .
There is no reason why we should deviate from the basic principles that we have already adopted here in the European Parliament.
Mr President, the Commission proposal on which Parliament is now being consulted has a long history behind it.
The Commission first forwarded a proposal for consideration by Parliament four years ago, in March 1993.
The proposal has two objectives.
The proposal suggests that age limits for competitions to recruit staff to the Community institutions be abolished.
I should like to stress that the Staff Regulations permit the use of an age limit but do not require it.
If a similar competition were to be held now, as it shortly will be, the number of applicants from all 15 Member States would no doubt be substantially larger, yet at the same time the number of new jobs will be significantly smaller, because of budgetary constraints.
Many temporary staff have been recruited by the Commission without any age limit being applied, and many of them have gone on to become permanent officials through internal competitions.
This procedure has already been used when recruiting in the new Member States.
Of the young applicants from the new Member States who were placed on the A-grade reserve lists, 51 % were women.
In the more mature age group, only just over 30 % of the applicants placed on the reserve lists were women.
The position of young women is already a good deal stronger now than it was 10 or 20 years ago.
One alternative is to take a decision on this small reform now and then go on to prepare a complete revision of the Staff Regulations, which in many respects needs to be undertaken before enlargement.
After two and a half years I think I am entitled to some.
Please, Mr President, will you see to it that Parliament receives answers to these three specific questions.
Personally I would be inclined - although this is a matter for the Commission to decide - to take a decision today to approve this small reform; the views stated by Parliament could then be taken into account when considering the Staff Regulations as a whole.
The debate is closed.
