Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of the methods of handling the tourism policy has ended up confirming what we have feared or known for some time.
Serious irregularities have been found in the field of tourism, including the abuse of direct subsidies, the choice of unclear procedures for selecting projects in the case of invitations to tender and the inadequate training of employees, both in management and in financial control.
All that Parliament needs to do is to make the 1996 excuse conditional on an exhaustive and particularly convincing demonstration by the Commission that new, effective administrative measures have been adopted and that decisive action has been taken to recover the sums unduly paid.
We therefore believe that we need a committee of inquiry, not so much to establish the state of corruption in the limited tourism sector, but because we are concerned that a similar situation can also be found in the far larger 20 % of financing handled by the Commission directly sheltered from any real institutionalized control.
In this respect, his contribution was also, in a certain sense, a report on the Commission's policy on tourism.
In this respect, my report does not deal with the Commission's tourism policy.
If we look at the list of reports drawn up on this subject, and the number of investigations carried out, then we might well believe that never before in the history of the Commission has a matter been so thoroughly and so extensively examined, and that, consequently, Parliament's interest in it must have been very comprehensive indeed.
Nor were the results of the investigations ever sent out posthaste to where they belonged, but were, in fact, often only forwarded to us after repeated inquiry and sometimes - and here we can only speak about documents we know exist - they did not even arrive.
I do not wish to judge, but one thing which must be brought home to the Commission, to the general public, to those working in the Commission, to the Members of this House and to all those who may be involved in any way, is that the Commission and its staff are subject to exactly the same justice - I nearly used the word "mortal' there - and to the same laws as every other person.
Mr President, this particular fraud in the tourism sector has cast a very dark shadow not only over the tourism sector but over the whole of the European Union.
However I also want to acknowledge the progress the tourism section has made over the last couple of years under its new Commissioner, Christos Papoutsis.
Let us remember that tourism is one of the most important industries in the entire European Union and creates millions of jobs, in many, many countries around the European Union.
So we need now to condemn what has gone on in the past but at the same time to move forward.
This has been, to some extent, a Cinderella industry in the European Union for far too long and should be encouraged in order to create more jobs, more stability and more growth in our countries' economies.
And those remarks concerning the Commission's modus operandi and the way the Commission cooperates with Parliament find us all in agreement, and we will certainly all contribute towards that direction.
Mr McMillan-Scott blew the whistle in 1989 about events then, and during the five years afterwards his reports were to some extent ignored and overlooked.
The Committee on Budgetary Control's earlier report did not whitewash DG XXIII, but it really let them off the hook.
As two speakers have already said, the tourism policy has suffered and must be allowed to get under way.
In summary, the Wemheuer and De Luca reports have vindicated two people completely.
In order to fight this scourge and enable the Community to protect its financial interests better, these policies must not be diverted from their objective and the citizens of Europe must be given an assurance that public funds are well used, and used in the public interest.
Certainly, the Commission has been caught out in the management of one of its most significant internal policies, but the most important thing must be to analyse clearly the shortcomings which permitted such a torrent of irregularities in operations linked to tourism policy and to put in place constructive proposals to remedy it.
The rapporteurs have done a splendid job but, to my mind, have paid too little attention to negligence on the part of national monitoring bodies.
The European Parliament is only doing its duty as the EU's supervisory body.
Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating these two brave rapporteurs, who have set out all these fairly unpleasant facts so very clearly and without beating about the bush.
We know it can provide more jobs - mention was made of 100 million, but we know there can be still more with more inter-state cooperation and marketing and with longer seasons in some Member States.
Discharge provides a very strong weapon for Parliament, but it is very difficult for the job to be done if the information is not before the Committee on Budgetary Control and Parliament.
We really must be sure that we get the information before we grant the discharge in 1996.
These are the questions I would leave with the Commission.
Since that date, reports, internal audits and special reports concluding that there were serious administrative weaknesses and flagrant irregularities have followed one after the other.
The Commission must not longer act as if it were a state within a state, to use a French expression, or like an extra state of the European Union, as someone said earlier, which is subjected to no political control, be it internal or from Parliament.
The 1996 acquittal is from now on conditional on the responses that the Commission will give to these two reports.
An intelligent European tourism policy could well provide new job opportunities like practically no other sector of the economy.
And even more importantly, we have entrusted ourselves with reforming the way in which our Committee on Budgetary Control operates.
This has now become an important issue because both these reports have made clear, and indeed this has been done by other reports - such as those submitted by Mr Vallés to the MED Committee and Mrs Kjer-Hansen to the PHARE -, that on the basis of the clearly insufficient flow of data available so far, we are not in a position to fulfil our role as the political representatives of the interests of European taxpayers.
We must also ask ourselves, in the light of this and the decisions which we have to take in respect of these reports - and this must be done by Parliament and not by the Committee on Budgetary Control - just where we should locate our secretariat, for example.
We are in the middle of re-defining our role as the controlling body of European bureaucracy.
We must make it clear that the interests of the Commission and its members are not necessarily ours, and I think that in this light the two reports which have been submitted can be given our full approval.
It would be much more useful to put our own house in order by strengthening the powers and personal resources of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
On this occasion, we are not talking about national operators, nor about Member States, but about what a little-loved Commission official called "the rotten heart of Europe ' .
Mr President, the findings of the Court of Auditors on financial management in the tourism sector during the period 1990-1995 are disconcerting.
But if the Commission does not comply suffieciently with the requests in the De Luca report, Parliament will be forced to use this instrument.
Unfortunately, there are those in the Commission who have not carried out their work properly in this matter, and here I am not only thinking of those who have taken part in actual fraud, but also of those who have subsequently investigated the matter and whose responsibility it has been to inform Parliament.
Those who have not carried out their work properly bear a serious responsibility.
I believe that the Commission has learned from this regrettable issue of tourism, but that will remain to be seen when the next fraud case comes up.
Another substantial factor, Mr President, in which your own personal contribution will be important, is that the structures of the Committee on Budgetary Control must be reorganized.
Mr President, I commend the two rapporteurs and agree with what has already been said here tonight.
My few words are in regard to the De Luca report on the policy on tourism within the Union.
The present tourism operational programme for my own country, Ireland, accounts for IRL 369 million, which is over 8 % of total Structural Fund spending.
This saga is nearly ten years old.
But this saga is a litany of failure.
In that process two things have been seriously damaged: the tourism policy itself has been damaged, but so too has the reputation of the European Union in general and that of the Commission in particular.
And that is so despite the fact that Parliament is fulfilling its control function, the Court of Auditors has produced its reports, UCLAF has carried out its investigations and, Commissioners, I do not even have any doubts that the Commission is making a great effort to improve its control over the matters under discussion.
Also, there is still a need for the Commission to guarantee that it will automatically turn to the relevant national judicial authorities in cases of justifiable suspicion of fraud, corruption or any other crime in which officials are implicated.
Mr President, perhaps it is appropriate that I have the last word in this debate before the Commission.
My conclusions, as a result of this, are that (a) there should be no immunity for Commission officials; (b) that UCLAF ought to be separated from the Commission completely and made an independent body; (c) the Court of Auditors ought to be ashamed of the two reports it produced on the subject.
It ought, like the watchdog committees in the US Congress, to have the power to commission its own inquiries and then to bring in the Court of Auditors or UCLAF as appropriate.
Lastly I am not satisfied that judicial action in the two Member States referred to - France and Belgium - has been quick enough.
Mr President, the fight against irregularities, fraud and corruption is a high political priority for this Commission.
My services have been instructed to cooperate with Parliament in an open and constructive manner, whether it be tourism or any other area.
I have made it clear that any suspicion of criminal behaviour should be pursued vigorously.
In the case of tourism, my services have been involved from the outset in the investigations.
UCLAF established immediate informal contacts with the criminal authorities in July 1994 and formally requested in December of the same year that criminal investigations be launched.
Over the past few years UCLAF has investigated more than 150 cases in the area of direct expenditure.
Since 1995, Financial Control has conducted over 500 audits of beneficiaries and 20 financial system audits within the Commission.
A number of new measures in the area of sound and efficient management are presently being implemented in the Theme 2000 exercise.
These measures include the strengthening of preventive aspects and a greater focus on audit and financial follow-up of results.
I welcome a number of suggestions in the De Luca report which go in this direction.
The Commission has outlined in detail the rules, practices and procedures in a document transmitted to you in November 1997.
The same document also announced a number of action lines that would be implemented.
Let me explain how I have followed up the action in my area of competence.
This will allow UCLAF to act more rapidly and without obstruction.
This was proposed in the Tomlinson report on transit.
But it should be clear that this unit can only be a reality if the budget authorities support it.
Fourthly, I will also improve the links between UCLAF and Member States.
A number of these questions will also be discussed next month in connection with the report from Mr Bösch.
However, it is my firm intention to continue the dialogue with Parliament on how we can continue to improve our performance in the fight against crime.
As you know, we decided to re-examine all the direct action undertaken on behalf of tourism between 1989 and 1995, even though the Court of Auditors had only asked us to re-examine the activities undertaken during the European Year of Tourism.
In parallel, many of these cases may end up in the courts since already 40 % of those ordered to return funds have disputed those orders.
Some of those conclusions have been applied, initially in the adoption procedure, but also in the content of the Commission's proposal for the first multi-annual programme on behalf of tourism in Europe, HOSPITALITY, a programme that has been examined repeatedly by the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the tourism industry and 13 Member States.
The members of the Committee on Budgetary Control have already received a detailed note about all those changes.
The result of those procedures is that today DG XXIII is one of the best Directorates in relation to implementing the SEM 2000 programme.
I am sorry, however, Mr President, because, despite the fact that tourism is very important for employment and development, as the rapporteurs also recognise, this affair has unavoidably negative consequences related to the prospects of implementing an effective policy for tourism.
This has not always functioned properly, but our new procedures will make it function properly.
I want to say that here, because there are many Commission officials today who feel threatened by this issue.
We have the Court of Auditors with whom we work.
The Belgian police confirm that it was not the Commission but myself who called in the police.
Can I repeat a question that I put to the Commission on 23 November: on how many occasions has the Commission called in the police on matters of internal fraud in its 41 year history?
I would therefore like the Commissioner to be more specific and tell us which officials, when and why they have been penalized.
Otherwise, we will perpetuate an extraordinary situation in which some people go before Parliament to provide information and then the Commissioners state the contrary.
I would not like it to be simply a slip on the part of Commissioner Liikanen.
Mr President, as far as I am aware, the Commission contacted the Belgian police in September 1994, whereas your contact came in February 1995.
Mr President, the text is in French.
I will read it to you, "the authority invested with the power of appointment, through the decision of 22 June 1995, with effect from 1 August 1995, imposed the punishment of dismissal, with full pension rights, on a civil servant.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Macro-financial assistance for Ukraine The next item is Mrs E.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report before us is once again quite a technical one.
The Commission announced this back in December 1996 and the Council of Economic and Finance Ministers gave the plan its basic approval in January 1997.
The ECU 150 million loan means that the European Union will be meeting almost one quarter of Ukraine's anticipated financial deficit for the 1997 to 1998 period, which has been estimated at ECU 765 million.
Each year the Commission will report to the Council and to Parliament on the continuation of these loan options.
As has already been stated, this is the third package of financial aid which the Community has made available to Ukraine for its extensive programme of adaptation and reform.
The progress being made in respect of stabilization and macro-economic reforms has clearly slowed down.
That, if you will, is why the Committee on Budgets has been particularly strict in respect of the prerequisites for granting the second instalment of the new loan.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, I would like to start by also congratulating Mrs Mann on her excellent report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, financial aid sounds all very well.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current proposal aiming to grant supplementary macro-financial assistance of a maximum of ECU 150 million to Ukraine follows the "Ecofin' Council's agreement in principle of January 1997.
Secondly, there were changes beyond our control in the implementation of the 1997/98 economic programme, which was supported by an IMF stand-by arrangement of US$ 549 million.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, if today we are to debate the 1997 annual report on the EU's research and technological development activities, then we should also be asking a number of fundamental questions.
But some fundamental aspects are still outstanding, such as the links which exist with other programmes and the work of our JRC.
Only in very few cases does it contain any well-founded or singularly interesting analyses, such as in the description of the scientific and technical results achieved through the Fourth Framework Programme.
In my opinion it would be far more sensible to set up a Commission department exclusively for small businesses - rather than for their medium-sized counterparts, for which we already have a staff of up to 500 - to help them with their applications.
I would to like to examine in more detail whether the report is supposed to be a description or an evaluation.
Secondly, the EU research policy is like a string of lights with 20 specific programmes.
When I look at this research report, I see that two whole lines have been devoted to the setting up of the task forces.
I think that we have given these task forces not just a first-class burial but a third-class one.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, like the two Members who have already spoken, we also think that this report ought to have a very different focus in order to be of use to the Commission, the Member States, research centres, Parliament and everybody.
It will be very difficult for you to submit the report on 31 March because many accounts have not been closed.
We think it would be useful if you were to carry out and include in the report a benchmarking operation - a comparison - of our results compared with those of Japan or the United States.
But this will require us all to be much more efficient and to use the resources much, much better.
The Fifth Framework Programme offers us many opportunities and I hope that we all avail ourselves of them.
In any case, we will support this report.
I welcome her statements in paragraph I that SMEs are the most important source of technological innovation but we must remember, as other colleagues have said, that participation for SMEs is more difficult and we should not expect too much from them.
Mr President, Commissioner, Europe must be competitive in the area of science and research.
However, this aim of making technological research and development competitive should not obscure the other three objectives that constitute the very foundation of its policies: to speed economic and social cohesion between its Member States and between European regions in this field; to direct research and priority actions towards achieving a better quality of life; and to open up to cooperation with the emerging economies by adapting strategies to the conditions that prevail there.
While the Commission report refers with satisfaction to the rising percentage of Objective 1 Member State participation in European projects, it neglects to mention the quality of this participation and the assessment of results.
The major difficulty encountered by small and medium enterprises lies precisely in translating the results of research into applied innovation.
But before commenting in further detail on this report, I would like to share with you the recent developments which have occurred with regard to the Fifth Framework Programme, which is currently under discussion within the European Parliament and the Council.
Unfortunately - and this is the worrying point - the common position in question is quite far from that which was proposed by the European Parliament and the Commission.
The Council agreed on a figure of ECU 14 billion, well below the ECU 16.3 bn proposed by the Commission, which remains convinced of the validity of this figure, and even further below the figure of ECU 16.7 bn which Parliament gave in its opinion during first reading.
This amount is ECU 500 million less than a simple renewal, in real terms, of the Fourth Framework Programme.
By setting up separate committees for energy and the environment, as well as socio-economic research, the effect will be a virtual de facto creation of distinct programmes in these areas.
Let me return now to what is concerning us today, the draft report and resolution on the 1997 annual report on the Union's research activities.
The point which must be borne in mind is the following: this report must be seen in the context of a wider system which also includes all of the follow-up reports on each specific programme and the Framework Programme as a whole, along with the five-year evaluation reports.
Thus, two series of follow-up reports for 1996 and 1997 have been prepared and published.
In the context of the preparation of the Fifth Framework Programme, fiveyear evaluation reports have been prepared for all the specific programmes as well as for Programme itself.
The information contained in all of these documents and the conclusions of the different exercises must, moreover, be made available in such a way that enables all potential users, starting with the European Parliament, to become acquainted with it within the necessary time frame and under the best conditions.
The Commission intends to apply itself to improving the system in this way and will gladly welcome any suggestions that may help.
I am sure I will be able to count on you in this respect and I thank you for your efforts.
The Fifth Framework Programme has been designed to concentrate its actions.
We have gone from 22 to four programmes, four large programmes which are then divided into a variety of key actions.
Many of you have emphasized the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises and it is a problem I am very aware of.
You know that, although it was very weak at the start, the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Union's research programmes has continually increased.
One essential step was the inclusion, in the Fourth Framework Programme, of what are known as technological stimuli, aimed particularly at small and medium-sized enterprises.
In its statement the Commission also failed to say anything about the work of the task forces.
So the work that has been done by the task forces has not been lost.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
First and foremost, it will be more secure and healthier to work in the Member States of the EU, and companies and workers alike can rejoice about the transparent and uniform regulations in the area of the working environment throughout the EU.
It is important to take the problem of social dumping seriously, particularly in the light of forthcoming enlargement.
The proposed directive has two important components, to my mind.
One of the most important instruments in this area is the possibility of establishing limit values.
Amendment No 4 addresses how to solve this problem.
It is as if we now dare to recognise a social and international responsibility.
Mr President, I wish to congratulate Freddy Blak very warmly on a tremendous job in preparing this report for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
One of the most important, from my point of view, is Amendment No 4.
I understand the logic of the Community laying down indicative limit values, requiring Member States to disseminate information on those indicative values and further requiring Member States to take them into account when they set their own corresponding national occupational exposure limit values.
I was therefore concerned that this might lead to a continuing disparity and I am glad that Amendment No 4 would address that by allowing a regular review, based on the information provided by Member States under Article 15, leading, where necessary, to the Commission taking appropriate action to bring about closer harmonization.
Another important point, in view of recent cases I have dealt with, involving trichloroethylene and the recent exchange we had in committee with the Commission's representatives, is Amendment No 7 concerning substitution.
That is leading, for example, to the situation where in some Member States trichloroethylene, a dangerous solvent, is banned, and in some Member States it is subject to exposure limits far greater than those laid down in others.
We have to work for a full and proper implementation of the framework directive but, in the meantime, the importance of substitution needs to be underlined in this directive, and Freddy Blak was quite right to do so in Amendment No 7.
The original 1986 directive on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to noise at work has exposure and action levels which are hopelessly out of date.
The then UK Government was very proud to have succeeded in pressing for a 90 decibel level for the mandatory use of ear-protectors at work.
That 1986 directive was supposed to be re-examined by the Council, on the basis of a Commission proposal, before January 1994.
It is now February 1998 and unless that physical agents directive can be revived, we must in any case review that earlier noise directive.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report that is currently under discussion regarding the common position established by the Council with a view to the adoption of a directive which provides a framework for the protection of the health and safety of workers is extremely important and useful for workers who may be subject, in any Member State, to exposure to chemical agents.
The matter in question deserves the greatest urgency and the closest attention of Member States, social partners and institutions of the European Union.
The report reflects some of the concerns raised at the present time, and no doubt in the future, by the common position.
Meanwhile, however, the amendments now submitted by Parliament complement, improve and clarify the document under discussion.
Amendment No 10 relates to the importance that should always be attributed to the training of workers, as opposed to mere information.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has certainly taken a long time for the Council's common position to appear.
I therefore did not need to submit further amendments, although I intend to support Amendment No 16 by the Christian Democrats.
We have also submitted an amendment on this point.
This directive was featured in Parliament's first reading four years ago.
Mr Blak has proposed some amendments to the Council's common position, most of which I completely agree with.
Mr Hughes has already referred to two directives which are still pending.
I do not believe that Amendment No 16 is better than Amendment No 3, and in the case of Amendment No 18, I would ask Mr Blak why the risk assessment has to be made at the beginning of the information form.
This is a well-known fact and eight thousand of these people unfortunately die every year within the European Union.
We all cross the roads, perhaps without looking, and we all take inappropriate care.
This is a bad attitude for life, and definitely a bad attitude for work, but these attitudes can be dismantled and reassembled in a progressive and positive way to stop the kind of problems we face at work.
In small businesses, for example, workers are 50 % more likely to suffer from an accident at work.
I remember the case in Bhopal, India.
We must not forget that, if this is a directive which adds to the sum total of European workers' rights, perhaps we could be exporting this type of model elsewhere in the world.
The Council allowed itself three and a half years before submitting a common position to Parliament after first reading.
No blame whatsoever can be attached to Mr Blak for this situation.
The real victims of all this delay are the working people of Europe and we, as serving politicians in this European Parliament, cannot tolerate this situation any longer.
The Council has recognized this in the common position and, although the text is clearly not perfect, it represents a considerable advance in the field of health and safety.
Most of the European Parliament's amendments to the text of the common position are real improvements and can therefore be accepted by the Commission.
I am referring to Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, the first part of 5, 6, 9, 11, 12, 13 and 18.
I would now like to comment on the few amendments which cause some problems for the Commission and which, consequently, cannot be accepted.
The second part of Amendment No 5 imposes on employers the need to record a risk assessment in a suitable form, taking national law and practice into account.
This idea cannot therefore be retained.
Amendment No 7 stresses the principle of substitution to eliminate risk.
Amendment No 8 is politically delicate.
It was only after difficult negotiations that the Member States and the Commission came to an agreement on this text.
As the proposed addition goes beyond the compromise reached and, although the Commission understands Parliament's position, it prefers to keep the text as it is, given that on the basis of Amendment No 4, which can be accepted, it is possible to come back to this question at the time of the five-year evaluation.
In the case of Amendment No 10, the Commission considers that the withdrawal of the paragraph on the nature of information would not facilitate the task of the employer on this very important point.
I have one last observation concerning Amendment No 14.
This principle was, moreover, approved by the Council in its common position and on many other occasions.
Regarding Amendments Nos 16 and 17, the Commission is not able to accept them, for it considers that Amendment No 3, which it does accept, is better than Amendment No 16 and that Amendment No 17 adds no further information to Article 8 of the common position.
I fully concur with you - this is also a gentle hint to my colleagues - that there is no reason to vote on Amendment No 16 when the Commission and the Council already accept Amendment No 3.
However, I do hope, Mrs Cresson, that you dream tonight that you want to have a hand in reviewing these matters once again, because then we can get a directive through that has been standing still for four years.
The debate is closed.
