Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 17 July 1998.
Allan Macartney was a member of the Scottish National Party for some 40 years, being the founder president of the student wing of the party.
He was deeply involved in his party's preparation for the new Scottish Parliament.
The final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents pursuant to Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed.
DG I had in fact indicated, following the majority vote in favour of this report in the Committee on Budgetary Control on 4 September, that it would be put on the agenda.
I think your committee will be able to meet those two requirements of Rule 50 in time for the first October part-session.
The legal basis simply needs to be stated in the report; as you know better than I do, Article 138b should be invoked and the vote should be taken by an absolute majority, so that the Commission is forced to consider the legislative proposal you are requesting.
And under Rule 50 a financial statement is also required.
I assume it must be relatively straightforward for the Committee on Budgetary Control to determine the cost of an organization with 300 posts.
Mr President, I wish to address the same subject, with reference to Rule 96(1).
Mr President, you have been wrongly informed.
Neither Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure nor Article 138b of the Treaty applies here, and all the Members present will bear me out.
Hence Article 50 does not apply and we do not need either a legal basis or financial statements.
The Committee on Budgetary Control is asking the Commission to take action.
This is certainly not a legislative proposal as you have inaccurately stated.
This report must therefore be placed on our agenda, because the measures that must be taken are urgent and are related to budgetary matters; if we wait until the first October part-session we will have missed the meeting of the Committee on Budgets on 28 September.
You will also be aware that when the Commission is requested to submit a legislative proposal - and that is the purpose of paragraphs 2 and 3 of the resolution - Article 138b of the Treaty has to be applied, unless the committee in question states that it does not wish its request to fall within the scope of that article.
That is why it is unfortunate that the Committee on Budgetary Control did not specify the legal basis, because this has implications for the majority that is required.
It is for this reason that our Rules of Procedure, under Rule 50, require the text of the resolution in question to indicate the legal basis.
I also think it will be quite easy to give Parliament the chance to vote on a proposal to create 300 new posts on the basis of the financial statement.
My group has also presented this request to you in writing.
I am sorry to have to say, Mr President, that with or without all your legal arguments, this political manoeuvre appears all too obvious to me, and whilst on the matter, I would tell you that your reference to Rule 50 is completely unfounded in my view!
Thank you very much, Mr Crowley.
Mr President, this proposal stems from a directive establishing a safety assessment for third-country aircraft using Community airports.
The problem was highlighted by the February 1996 crash of a Turkish aircraft chartered by a tour operator in which all 176 passengers died.
During the short period since the end of August, one aircraft which had been in service for 20 years crashed in Quito, Ecuador, while another, newer aircraft belonging to Swissair crashed into the sea near Halifax for reasons as yet unknown.
Nevertheless, 14 amendments were adopted, aimed at strengthening collective action, extending the sources of information and introducing a degree of transparency by providing for the publication of groundings in cases where there is an immediate safety hazard.
This was an essential amendment, since Parliament has always considered the release of information on aviation safety to the public to be an essential part of a Community aviation safety policy.
Amendments Nos 3 and 4 address the matter of the Commission's power to decide on penalties.
The report is of particular importance because it involves the safety and lives of both crew and passengers.
Against this background, I cannot understand - and nor can nearly all my colleagues here in the House - why the Council has cut back the original proposals of the Commission and Parliament quite considerably in its common position.
I am therefore very grateful to the rapporteur for the solid and fair compromise which he has proposed in his amendments and which we have adopted unanimously.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief and thus hope to make up some of the extra time which my colleagues have previously taken.
The Council would also be well advised to adopt our amendments.
Mr President, this directive came as a direct response to the plane crash in the Dominican Republic in February 1996 in which 176 people died.
Unfortunately, many of these pensioned-off aircraft - often 20 years old - are to be seen dressed up in new clothes and operating in the European area under different flags.
The opening of a new air traffic control centre in England is four years behind.
As in the first reading, the rapporteur has adopted a very supportive stance in his recommendation and I am glad to say that his four proposed amendments provide the basis for an acceptable compromise between the common position of the Council and the Commission's proposal.
I am pleased therefore that the amendments proposed by the rapporteur will allow the Commission to propose common action against dangerous operators and will also achieve the correct balance between the dissemination and the protection of safety-related information.
The debate is closed.
Legal protection of designs The next item is the report (A4-0315/98) by Mr Medina Ortega, on behalf of Parliament's delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the legal protection of designs (C4-0467/98-00/0464(COD)).
The Commission first presented a proposal in this area five years ago, in 1993, involving both a directive and a regulation.
Mr Kinnock was talking about aircraft accidents just now but, as we all know, far more people die on our roads in car accidents and, of course, the material damage caused each day in our Community amounts to truly astronomical figures.
Five years have gone by and all we have been able to achieve is a kind of armistice.
Parliament came out in favour of a formula involving the right to manufacture spare parts against payment of compensation to the vehicle manufacturers, but the Council was unable to reach agreement.
In the end, the final text maintains a sort of armistice - as I have just said - because Article 14, the 'repairs clause', was turned into a transitional provision, and under Article 18 the Commission must make an analysis of the situation and present proposals to complete the directive within three years.
The directive must be incorporated into the legislation of the various Member States.
I hope the directive will achieve a final formula and also that, in the meantime, Parliament and the Council will progress with the approval of the regulation on the utility design and model, so that we end up having Community arrangements permitting free movement of all these products.
The European Parliament has found a balance between the interests of the car industry, spare parts manufacturers and consumers.
We shall therefore only agree to this legislative standstill because nothing will become worse through it, and because we assume that it will still be possible to achieve a satisfactory ruling on spare parts.
Commissioner, we in Parliament and my group in particular will keep a close watch on how and whether this is happening.
We had a fundamental divergence with the Council on an important point in the directive.
The Council, for its part, rejected it unanimously.
I am grateful to our delegation - and particularly to our rapporteur, Mr Medina Ortega, whose work has been outstanding and who has been angelically patient, if I may say so - for being so clear-sighted.
The second point that I would like to raise relates to the active support we have received from Commissioner Monti personally in this matter.
Our rapporteur and other Members have already spoken on the substance of the compromise proposal and so I will say only that, in my opinion, the 'standstill plus' solution, in conjunction with the Commission's very firm commitment, may well bring about the desired agreement between the parties involved.
Mr President, I wish to extend my warmest thanks to the leader of our delegation, Mrs Fontaine.
After nearly a year of conciliation, not only have Parliament's initial proposals not been taken up, but the agreement does not contain the repairs clause, and the inclusion of that clause was fundamental to being able to establish a framework for fair competition between spare parts manufacturers and motor vehicle manufacturers.
This attitude goes against the interests of consumers, and the approval of Article 10 of the directive, providing up to 25 years' protection for designs and models, does little to help.
All I can do from here is express our disagreement with a stance which benefits the great motor industry, but does not take account of the interests of the Community's citizens, whom we were elected to defend them.
The proof of that torment is provided not just by the length of time which has elapsed between the Commission's proposal, which dates from 1993, and the first common position in 1997; not just by the delay in bringing it to the Conciliation Committee; not just by the contrast between Parliament's amendments and the Council's position; but also by the simple fact that a proposal for a regulation was presented jointly with the directive.
We can also take that path, and that is why, as rapporteur on that regulation, I take a particular interest in the matter.
Five years have gone by, and we cannot feel particularly satisfied at our failure, in all that time, to resolve two issues which have a considerable effect on European industry, in terms of both the internal market and international competition.
The conflict between spare parts manufacturers and motor vehicle manufacturers will certainly continue for a long time to come.
The consultation exercise and voluntary agreements may perhaps lead to a new and final directive and put an end to the antagonism.
I have no difficulty at all in supporting this particular compromise because it allows the development of the single market in such things as vehicle spare parts but at the same time it does not inhibit the development of design protection in those areas which need it.
We have achieved progress and something positive here.
All independent garages and the market in spare parts with all its employees, the many small and medium-sized enterprises, can also breathe a sigh of relief, however.
Parliament had already delivered a most carefully considered opinion on this infamous repairs clause, which was that there should be liberalisation but also compensation for the design holders, but unfortunately these proposals were not accepted.
Mr President, the Commission is very pleased that, after five years of intensive and complex discussions, agreement has been reached on the design directive within the context of the conciliation procedure.
The Commission, therefore, welcomes the reaching of agreement to freeze the existing legal provisions relating to the protection of the design and the use of spare parts and, meanwhile, to review the consequences of the directive in the foreseeable future.
The so-called 'freeze plus' clause ensures that each Member State must maintain in force the provisions of its design law in relation to both the criteria for the protection of the design of spare parts and the free use of spare parts for repair purposes.
Furthermore, Member States may only introduce new provisions on the use of spare parts insofar as their objective is to liberalise the market in spare parts.
I conclude, therefore, by thanking the rapporteur on the design directive, Mr Medina Ortega, who has grown older through the experience or, at least, through the years, although his appearance belies the advance of those years, and the chairman of the Conciliation Committee, about whom it can be said in the words of Shakespeare: 'Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale her infinite variety' - in the manner of Cleopatra, of course - for the decisive role that both have played, together with their colleagues, in achieving a workable agreement on this important directive.
The debate is closed.
Coffee and chicory extracts The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0278/98), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the common position adopted by the Council (C4-0306/98-96/0117(COD)) with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council Directive relating to coffee extracts and chicory extracts (Rapporteur: Mr Lannoye).
I have retabled two comitology amendments seeking to restore the powers conferred on the Commission in the area of adaptation to technical progress and not, as unfortunately appears in the text of the amendments, to confer powers on the Commission in the area of adaptation to Community legislation and to general Community provisions applicable to food products, since this was rejected by Parliament in first reading.
The rapporteur has already discussed a number of points that we still hope to settle through amendments.
Three of the five amendments were not adopted by the Commission at first reading.
I should like to explain briefly now why Amendments Nos 1 and 2 are not acceptable to us.
So that is our intention.
Amendment No 3 tries to establish ISO standard 11292 as binding for the determination of the free and total carbohydrate content in soluble coffees.
The debate is closed.
Transatlantic relations/Echelon system The next item is the statement by the Commission on transatlantic relations following the 18 May 1998 EU-US summit and the use of monitoring techniques in the field of communications (Echelon system).
Mr President, with your permission, I should like to deliver two separate statements.
Of course, this also shows that our fundamental values are in harmony.
That is not so.
We are appearing more and more as a player on the international stage, and even when differences arise between the USA and ourselves - and they can arise without being serious - it still remains a lasting relationship between two equal partners.
We are able to do so because our relationship is based on sound foundations.
The progress we have achieved in the past three years in all these areas is perhaps not what we might have hoped for, but it is nevertheless quite considerable.
We are continuing to extend our cooperation.
We have been able to give our businesses and citizens real advantages through our cooperation in international organisations such as the WTO, as well as within the framework of our bilateral agreements.
We have already achieved some tangible and satisfactory initial results here - perhaps even unexpected ones on occasion.
Progress can be made at bilateral level, and multilateral cooperation can also be promoted at the same time.
The essential element in bilateral cooperation is the large-scale removal of regulatory barriers and, as a result, opening up our markets more for both goods and services.
The agreements reached in London are advantageous for Europe and European businesses, as they open up real prospects of neutralising the extraterritorial effects of the Helms-Burton Act and the Act on sanctions against Iran and Libya.
The EU will not implement the Understanding on disciplines for the strengthening of investment protection until waivers are made possible under Title 4 of the Helms-Burton Act.
In addition, the agreement represents an important step forward in investment protection policy which goes far beyond the issue of possible illegal expropriations in Cuba.
As regards the d'Amato Act or the Act on sanctions against Iran and Libya, our investors are being given legal security by the lifting of the sanctions imposed on the Total company under Section 9© and the prospect of similar decisions for EU businesses in comparable cases.
Sir Leon Brittan is visiting Washington on 24 and 25 September in this connection.
Apart from all the other areas of transatlantic cooperation which I cannot go into in more detail here for reasons of time, the agreements on the Transatlantic Economic Partnership and the Helms-Burton Act show that our cooperation is intensive and constructive.
An important point which you have already addressed is naturally the Helms-Burton Act.
Unilateral sanctions, as the Helms-Burton, d'Amato and ILSA cases have made clear, have not exactly shown the best side of American economic policy and have raised the question time and again of whether economic policy is not being confused with foreign policy here.
Certainly, those who caused these conflicts were our colleagues in Congress and the Senate.
The delegation for relations with the United States, led by Mr Donnelly, has made some excellent proposals in this respect which we should then discuss in November and December in the context of the report on the Transatlantic Economic Partnership.
I welcome the proposals and the progress which you have described in this area, and I hope that we can agree with both the Commission and the Member States on this.
Many differences can be explained by the tensions between existing common interests and values and global economic competition between the EU and the USA.
Mr President, I am particularly pleased that Commissioner Bangemann is here for this debate and also that it has been possible to hold it.
Certainly the agreements of 18 May are, by their very nature, complicated to read and very difficult to interpret.
But it is equally true that, both in the context of those May agreements and in repeated statements by President Santer and Commissioner Brittan himself to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the European Union has made it clear that this is an illegitimate law, especially in terms of its extraterritorial effects.
The European Union ratified that agreement through the General Affairs Council, while the Clinton administration has not yet finished asking the United States Congress to amend Title 4.
So I find it very satisfactory that Commissioner Bangemann has said that as long as it does not fulfil those requirements, the European Union will not fulfil its commitments either.
I wonder, Mr President - and I would like to ask the Commission - whether the European Union is going to continue demonstrating unilateral magnanimity as it has done up to now, when the United States is not fulfilling the commitments it has made as well.
I know this is a politically sensitive and economically important issue and I believe the European Commission should take a position on the way these agreements are interpreted in the Secretary of State's letter to the chairman of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee, so that any doubt on the matter is entirely dispelled.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Liberal Group attaches great importance to the liberalisation of multilateral trade, and eliminating trade barriers between the EU and the United States is an important part of this.
The transatlantic market is the biggest in the world, not just in terms of the volume of trade and investment, but especially in terms of employment.
My group is therefore delighted at the proposals for a new Transatlantic Economic Partnership and very much welcomes the undertaking to remove trade and investment barriers in a number of areas.
A great deal of good work in this field has already been done in recent years through the Transatlantic Business Dialogue.
However, the Liberal Group would also stress the importance of having a democratic input in the development of the transatlantic market, and it therefore expects the European Parliament and the American Congress to be kept fully informed and involved in the forthcoming negotiations on the Transatlantic Economic Partnership.
The Liberal Group therefore wholeheartedly supports the Commission's budget proposals in this field, which will enable projects launched last year such as the Transatlantic Information Exchange Service (TIES), the ten European institutes at American universities, scientific and technical cooperation and other social initiatives to be continued and expanded.
My second point - and this is why I am so pleased that Commissioner Bangemann is here today - concerns the report on the Echelon network and the study carried out by the STOA group in this field.
The statement that was unanimously adopted by Member States during the London summit on 18 May strengthens the Transatlantic Economic Partnership and turns it into a key instrument.
The objective is to develop a genuine transatlantic partnership, based on true reciprocity in relations of cooperation between the European Union and the United States.
The Echelon network falls within the scope of a bilateral agreement between the United Kingdom and the United States, which was strengthened after the end of the Cold War and subsequently devoted to information of an economic nature.
Mr President, last March our group opposed the draft transatlantic agreement on the deregulation of trade between the European Union and the United States.
However, when we read the conclusions of the EU-US summit of 18 May, there are grounds for wondering whether the principles rejected at that time are not now back on the table.
The Council, like the Commission, has strongly opposed the way in which extraterritorial legislation such as the Helms-Burton Act is applied to Europe.
Where individual liberties are concerned, we are all aware that technological developments in the communications sector provide a means of allowing the flow of information and knowledge.
The progress made in relation to Cuba, as described to us, appears extremely tenuous.
Today we have listened to a speech which, with consummate skill, built up the advantages which the European Union might gain from the transatlantic partnership between Europe and the United States, and played down the disadvantages of this partnership between partners who are fundamentally unequal.
You say that this transatlantic agreement is feasible because it is based on a fundamental agreement between parties with common values.
Because you are indeed sanctioning this political inequality between the United States and Europe.
It has now come to our attention that an agreement may have been concluded in the European Union in 1995 whereby the secret services of EU Member States would acquire the use of the Echelon system via the FBI - the American intelligence service - and the NSA.
It is now for you to tell us, Commissioner, the Members of the European Parliament, whether or not such an agreement was concluded in 1995 and, if so, what was actually agreed.
Europe insists that it is opposed to the Helms-Burton and d'Amato-Kennedy Acts, but in practice it clearly accepts them, because in exchange for a waiver for European investors, we feel that we can withdraw our complaint to the WTO.
Mr President, I am extremely surprised, Mr Bangemann, that you are exploiting this joint debate so as to put the statement on Echelon at the end, thereby actually avoiding a debate on it.
I said at the start that I would make two statements, the first on general relations with the USA, which could then be discussed.
I do not believe, Mr Voggenhuber, that the Echelon affair, if that is what it is, should take up the whole debate on relations with the USA.
I should now like to answer a number of questions which have been raised concerning general relations with the USA.
Furthermore, like the Japanese, we have invoked the WTO panel procedure regarding both these issues, namely the Foreign Sales Corporations Act and the Burma-Massachusetts Act.
In other words, we have done exactly the same as Japan.
I do not wish to go into the details - not least because of the time - and you may still have questions on my statement on Echelon as well.
I did at least have a basis for my assessment, however, whereas when you talk about free trade, you have to try very hard to find a few words of support for free trade from within the ideology of your group and party.
We have no indication either from the Member States, Mr Lannoye, or from anyone whose rights could be violated - a citizen, a business or anyone else - that this system exists in the form in which it has been described here.
The second point is that we know - and this is something we encourage, not least in the interest of, and following the calls from Parliament - that there is cooperation in fighting crime, in other words organised crime and other international forms of criminality.
Thirdly: we are doing everything possible to ensure that such information or other communications cannot be misused in this new infrastructure.
You can gladly put questions to the Council too.
I think there is a difference between someone who writes a book - if I may just make this point -or a Member of Parliament who is also able to say what he or she may think, and a representative of an institution which can only act in a democratic system when it knows something for certain.
Mr President, I think we should address this subject again quite calmly, Mr Bangemann.
We could certainly accept one point as a proposal, Mr Bangemann, namely that we - meaning you, of course, rather than ourselves in Parliament - should consider with the Council whether some kind of code of conduct could not be signed, not only between the individual Member States, but also between the Member States and the United States, so that when information is received through whatever channels - and this involves above all economic information, industrial espionage - it is handled with the appropriate care.
So to the questions: on the question of the global business dialogue, Mrs Mann, we are trying to agree on all these issues, encryption and privacy as well, in such a way that everyone, not just the United States, but all the other members of this global information society too, can come to an agreement on what needs to happen politically.
The debate is closed.
