So my point was different.
Madam President, I should just like to point out that my name is not on yesterday's attendance register, although I took part in all the votes.
Madam President, item 1 of yesterday's Minutes states that I made clear that I had intended to vote against in most votes.
I hope that emotions will stop running quite so high, that there will be no more red faces and that we can now move to the vote. (The Minutes were approved) Votes Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this in brief is a matter of correcting one word.
The third part of Amendment No 10 says that users' rights must appear on the ticket.
In order to maintain a balance between our territories, it is indispensable to preserve the vitality of rural regions and regions dependent on fishing, which, need I remind you, cover 80 % of the area of the European Union.
Orlando report (A4-0222/98) I should like to declare my wholehearted support for a report which aims to step up the fight against organized crime in all its forms.
The Council has proposed a joint action with regard to the methods of cooperation between Member States in the fight against organized crime.
It is certainly not the business of this Parliament to give an opinion on this type of issue, nor is it Parliament's business to recognize the competency of the European Court of Justice by means of Amendment No 13 to Article 4.
Macartney report (A4-0249/98) The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations supports the fisheries agreement between the European Union and the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros.
France is directly involved in this agreement as it relates to 21 French tuna seiners.
The Council must remain in charge.
Fight against crime The next item is the report (A4-0222/98) by Mr Orlando, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, on the draft Joint Action adopted by the Council on the basis of Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union concerning arrangements for cooperation between Member States in respect of the identification, tracing, freezing or seizing and confiscation of instrumentalities and the proceeds from crime (6490/98 -C4-0184/98-98/0909(CNS)).
Madam President, this draft joint action aims to strengthen cooperation in the identification, tracing, freezing, seizing and confiscation of instrumentalities and the proceeds from crime.
It is another step forward along the road traced in Dublin in 1996 and continued at the Amsterdam Summit in 1997.
First, I must mention the mechanism to evaluate the application and implementation at national level of international undertakings in the fight against organized crime, a joint action programme already approved by the Council of Ministers on 4 November 1997.
This programme was approved by the Council of Ministers on 19 March 1998.
This is a joint action programme that provides the first definition, accepted internationally, of a mafia association and participation in it, approved by the Council on 28 May 1998.
The mafia, like all forms of organized crime, enter the legal sphere through financial channels.
Madam President, in the action plan on organized crime, it was decided that the search for and seizure of proceeds from criminal operations should be strengthened.
The net is now being pulled tighter around drug dealers and international organized crime.
The Council has still not given its opinion on this proposal.
This is a central point which the rapporteur makes clear in his critique and for that we are grateful to him.
Mr Orlando has tried to correct that imbalance and for that reason our group will vote in favour of all his amendments to this proposal.
And it is important to act against these organized groups of criminals, characterized, among other things, by their financial strength and also by the fact that they have firms of legal advisers who are highly skilled in exploiting the byways, cracks and loopholes that exist in national and international law.
We also find some of the practical amendments - Amendments Nos 6, 7, 10, 15 and 16, which seem to us to be aimed at the central issue - very positive.
In that respect, Amendment No 6 - on free and direct access by Member States to information held by another state - seems important to us because it will speed up the work of prosecuting this type of crime.
We do not, however, agree with Amendments Nos 20, 21 and 22, because we feel Mr Orlando's text is more precise.
Madam President, the Orlando report deals with a joint action of the Council in the framework of the detailed action plan to fight organized crime as adopted in June 1997 by the European Council.
The Orlando report was quite negative about this proposal concerning the cooperation of Member States in the area of identification, tracing, freezing or seizing and confiscation of the instrumentalities and proceeds from crime.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that with this report we are moving in the direction of cooperation between Member States in the fight against crime and, fortunately, we have a certain consensus on this subject.
In my opinion, this includes Amendment No 13, which proposes that Member States should recognize the Court of Justice as the competent authority on the interpretation of Article 4.
Mr President, in my view, organized crime stems first and foremost from the unaccountable free market, the so-called free, and henceforth, global economy.
Lastly, I would like to say, Mr President, that we are fighting a form of organized crime which acts, as I said, within the framework of the free market and which has allies in the banking system, in the police and in the courts.
Mr President, it is clear that this draft joint action is good.
Mr President, first I would like to thank the rapporteur for his consistent action in the fight against crime.
I particularly agree with Mr Orlando when he stresses that Member States which have not already done so should ratify the Council of Europe's 1990 Convention on laundering, search, seizure and confiscation of the proceeds of crime.
The Commission also endorses the amendments which improve the way in which direct cooperation in legal assistance is offered.
Thank you, Mr Kinnock.
The debate is closed.
Before the vote on Amendment No 13 Mr President, may I ask the rapporteur a question on this point?
Mr Wolf, if the rapporteur had asked to speak as rapporteur, I would immediately have allowed him to speak.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it truly is wonderful that young people from the countries of central and eastern Europe can now take part in European exchange and training programmes even before their countries become full members.
I really must stress here that educational exchanges with central and eastern European countries will not be a one-way street and exchanges will work in both directions.
Now there is a risk that de facto training projects and candidates from central and eastern European countries will have to compete with projects and candidates from the EU for even less funding.
Thank you, Mr Kerr.
It is important to ensure that programmes are open to all young people, including those from socially disadvantaged families, that they succeed, therefore, in working towards a joint project which enables these young people to learn about their own history, their own values, their own identity.
We need a 100 % increase in these funds if we are to be able to do justice to these tasks.
As the House will recall, the participation of candidate countries in Community programmes fulfils an objective that was recognised by the 1993 Copenhagen Council and has been confirmed at subsequent European Councils.
The Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania were the first countries to participate in Community programmes in October 1997.
Early last year the Czech Republic announced that it would bear the full cost of participation in the education-related programmes from its own budget in 1997, 1998 and 1999, rather than using PHARE support.
As the House will know, such support was reaffirmed by the Member States at the Luxembourg Council last December.
Thank you, Mr Kinnock.
The debate is closed.
On page 9 of my report we see a series of six headings, including support for the ministry of fisheries, study grants, practical training courses, financing of scientific and technical programmes and even participation in international meetings.
I have one or two concerns that perhaps represent my own views rather than those of my political group.
First of all we should remember that we are dealing with an extremely poor part of the world: half a million people with a GDP per capita of something like ECU 600 annually or 3 % of the European Union average.
But there are 44 seine vessels and 16 longliners.
We should not mix up development aid with an economic policy that the Community is pursuing in relation to fishing.
That is why it is very important that funds in the fishing agreement between the EU and this region are in future targeted mainly at the development of the fishing sector in the Comoros and the monitoring of fishing.
Mr President, if this report on the Comoros is important, then it is important not only because it illustrates the shenanigans at the top, but also because it teaches us something, in other words, how important fishing is to us.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 1, because we consider that the expenditure relating to the agreement is compulsory.
We accept the spirit of Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4 and 5, but we stress that we already give regular information to Parliament, as I mentioned earlier, on the use made of fisheries agreements in the statements and reports that are made to the Fisheries Committee.
The Commission does not entirely agree with the objectives of Amendment No 6 and, in particular, the reference to small local fishing enterprises, since these fisheries agreements, which are, obviously, commercial in nature, seek to provide fishing opportunities for Community shipowners, while taking into account compatibility with other Community policies and especially development policy.
The debate is closed.
Mr Hallam, once again I find this an interesting point.
That is why the report was referred back to committee and, in fact, we did it for her own good, in her own interests.
Thank you, Mrs van Dijk.
