I would ask you, Mr President, on behalf of the third largest group in this Parliament to protest at the treatment meted out to Members of the European Parliament by the Angolan Government.
There has to be two sides, Unita and MPLA, implementing the Lusaka Accords to have a solution in Angola and the tension in the region.
Thank you very much, Mr Andrews.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot go into the detail of this complicated subject here, but I shall attempt to give you the gist of my report on the Commission's Green Paper on relations between the European Union and the ACP countries on the eve of the 21st Century - challenges and options for a new partnership.
My reply and that of the committee to this first fundamental question is clear and unambiguous.
We must continue the cooperation with the ACP countries, not only out of solidarity with our ACP partners or because of our own interests, but also because as the resolution states, the spirit and the policy of Lomé are essential elements of the political identity of the European Union.
We also wish to continue the cooperation without damaging the coherence and solidarity of the ACP group.
Therefore we are convinced that in principle the composition of the ACP group can only be expanded or changed with the approval of the ACP countries.
Continue the cooperation but also adapt it, renew the agreement and give it a new basis.
The fourth idea is that the new partnership be characterized through the appropriation of the cooperation by the people which requires transparency and accessibility.
But this new partnership must also be aware of the people's needs.
By the year 2015 the resolution states that we wish to reduce poverty by one half in the ACP countries.
The originality of the Lomé Convention is in fact this concept of partnership that saw the light of day 20 years ago and today is recognized by everyone and also accepted by the OECD and the G8.
We must maintain and renew in this partnership the fundamental achievement of cooperation between the European Union and the ACP countries and the Joint Assembly also plays an important part here.
The Green Paper has stimulated a broad debate in the European Union.
The European Commission has done well to launch a thorough debate over the past few months which has already involved thousands of participants, both from the institutions and society in general.
We must therefore speak our mind very forcefully to make sure that there is a 5th Lomé Convention, even before the year 2000, based on the same geographical limits and the same essential principles as the convention currently in force, but with a far-reaching reorientation of its content.
European cooperation on development must therefore cease to be on the political sidelines and must become an essential part of our foreign policy and contribute to a reorientation of our strategic options.
Fighting poverty and helping the poorest countries to become part of the international system must therefore become two sides of the same coin.
On this not only depends the future of hundreds of millions of people in the ACP countries but also the possibility of the European Union becoming an effective and efficient player on the international scene, capable of furthering the cause of equality, justice and prosperity in all parts of the world.
It is excellent because it provides a broad vision of the relationship between the European Union and the third world and also excellent because the report above all also shows an understanding of the difficult position in which many developing countries find themselves.
In this connection I wish to make a few remarks in order to underline our vision once more.
My first comment concerns regionalization.
In my view that is an important point in the new Lomé V.
My third comment concerns civil society.
Many of them are among the ACP countries, but the relationship with the European Union and the ACP countries is particularly complicated.
I would call upon Commissioner Pinheiro to submit the OCT decisions as quickly as possible and to ensure that the relationship between the OCTs, the ACP countries and the European Union also improves and does not lead to havoc as was the case, amongst others, with the rice dispute.
Mr President, the Lomé Convention is a first-rate model of cooperation which, despite its imperfections, is now preparing to enter the third millennium.
The various problems raised, studied and dealt with in the Commission's Green Paper, along with the worthy contribution of the Committee on Development and Cooperation - here I would like to pay tribute to our rapporteur - have led to the drafting of this motion for a resolution, in which Parliament's desire to see the birth of a Lomé V, whose main objective would be the plugging of gaps in our cooperation, is clearly highlighted.
While the wider principles which governed the drafting of the Lomé Convention in 1975, its contractual character, partnership, security, forward planning must be maintained, it is also desirable that more appropriate and substantial means be made available by the European Union in order to satisfy the real needs that are appearing in the negotiations.
Furthermore, the reconciliation of the European Union's duty of solidarity towards countries once subject to European colonization, and the safeguarding of our commercial interests through partnership with the ACP countries, which is also a legal obligation, are above all moral duties that we all share.
Finally, I would like to stress the need to take into consideration the dimension of regional integration and decentralized cooperation, through the implementation of legal mechanisms and adequate means enabling the development of concrete relations between, above all, the ACP countries and certain ultraperipheral regions of the European Union.
I and my group agree with the need to reduce the number of conditionalities but at the same time it must be stressed, forcefully, at the same time that the instrument of conditionality is the best way to make sure that the country sets out on the road to democracy and respect for human rights.
From our point of view, it is essential to use the Lomé V debate to consider some vital questions.
Firstly, we must promote greater consistency in provisions for development cooperation and in other policy sectors, especially trade.
In this respect, we must bear in mind the regrettable and negative example of the cocoa directive.
Scientists have produced models for us here, and I think we should put them to use.
Despite the trade preferences, the share of the ACP countries of the internal market of the Union has fallen from 6.7 % in 1975 to 3.7 % in 1994.
However noble these principles may be, they have not brought about any improvement in the situation of the ACP countries after some 20 years.
Continuing more or less in the same way, as the rapporteur proposes, is not in the interests of the ACP countries.
In particular I wholeheartedly support paragraph 20 on decentralized cooperation and paragraph 43 on the strengthening of trade cooperation and the elimination of the residual obstacles.
However, I do object greatly to paragraph 80 in which it is regretted that development cooperation has not been further "communitarized' .
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the summit of the ACP Heads of State which is due to take place in Libreville, it is now necessary for Parliament to give them a very strong political signal.
My group, the European Radical Alliance, is convinced of the absolute need to maintain the framework of reference of the Lomé Convention by revitalizing its content.
We are therefore in complete agreement with the rapporteur, whose remarkable work will, I hope, be able to convince not only the Council, the Commission and our ACP partners but also all the citizens of Europe, of the need for a 5th Lomé Convention.
There are still shared interests between the countries of the Union and the developing world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a supporter, not of a Europe of fusion and confusion but of a confederal Europe which respects the freedom and sovereignty of our peoples, you will not be surprised when I say that we do not approve of all of the spirit of the Green Paper nor the report by Mr Martens.
France can work best with Senegal, the Ivory Coast or Togo, as Portugal probably can with Angola or Mozambique.
Mr President, I have the honour of being the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
It is a shame that the tight agenda has not allowed the Committee on Development and Cooperation to take this opinion into consideration.
The Commission's Green Paper has the quality of presenting us with interesting trains of thought on new forms of cooperation with our ACP partners.
It reflects the clear desire to perpetuate cooperation between the European Union and the ACP countries.
Whatever may be said, we must not forget that the Lomé Convention is the most advanced model of cooperation and development.
We want the cooperation between the EU and the ACP countries to be renewed, on the basis of a partnership in which the political dimension must be strengthened and which must link the populations more closely into the process of development cooperation.
This is particularly true in terms of agricultural issues.
Since the last Lomé Convention, agricultural trade has dominated our relations with these countries.
If we want to put an end to situations of dependency, if you want to strive for self-sufficiency in national and regional markets, if you want to ease the integration of ACP countries into world markets, then the European Union must face up to its responsibilities, both domestic and international.
These, ladies and gentlemen, are the directions which it is essential to take if we truly want to revitalize our relationship with our ACP partners.
Thank you very much, Mrs Barthet-Mayer.
Secondly, despite the short time available to you, please speak slowly because otherwise the already difficult work of interpretation is made even harder.
Mr President, Mr Martens has presented a report of exceptional quality.
When we speak, Mrs Barthet-Mayer, of the rural world, this is what we have in mind, and I think you have forgotten that.
Thirdly we need to speculate in decentralized cooperation by stressing, Mr Commissioner, the fact that in decentralized cooperation local communities are not treated as NGOs, but as a different category.
Finally, and this is my last point, we stress the emergence of this new and very hopeful concept of micro-credit.
Mr President, the report by our group leader, Mr Martens, who has the constant support for the Group of the European People's Party, is the mirror image of our years of experience in the Europe Parliament of development co-operation, not only in the Committee on Development and Cooperation, but also in the ACP-EU Joint Assembly.
The poorest developing countries, who are neighbours of our partners in the Caribbean and Pacific, must also be able to participate in permanent economic and social development.
Mr President, there are many important views, analyses and conclusions in the Commission's Green Paper and in Mr Martens' report, and so the debate should not end today.
I am also saying it because, regardless of all our possible reservations about a regime's breaches of human rights and our restriction of aid in that context, it must always be our aim to give help where the need is greatest.
This example is unique, its results positive.
The desire of the ACP countries is to continue this partnership.
We will however vote in its favour, because of the positive will it clearly confirms for resolutely continuing our partnership with the ACP countries.
Mr President, I also would like to welcome this report and commend it to this House.
Commissioner Pinheiro will recall that many of us expressed some reservations about the Green Paper but we very much welcome the consultation that has taken place and the opportunity for dialogue since the publication of the Green Paper.
The Commission must continue to support our view that without aid and trade preferences to provide the social safety nets there will be never any possibility of delivering equitable growth to the poorest countries.
Moreover, the ACP-EU Joint Assembly should be consulted should there ever be a situation when Article 5 is invoked in the suspension of countries under consideration.
An important change of vocabulary has taken place and Commissioner Pinheiro has used that new vocabulary.
Mr President, this discussion regarding what a new partnership between the European Union and the ACP countries must be the opportunity for the European Parliament to stand firmly by a certain number of obvious facts.
The European Union must be exemplary with regard to cooperation with poor countries.
We must also remember that, for the European Union, it is in no way a question of imposing a model on countries in other continents, with other cultures.
We must also remember, at a time when the European Union is initiating a new process of enlargement, that this process, which will probably bring new costs for the European Union, must not be carried out to the detriment of our cooperation with the ACP countries.
This would be to forget our responsibilities with regard to these countries and to forget our vocation in the world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Martens Report is a good basis for guidance of future discussion and, I hope, the design of Lomé V in accordance with future needs.
We have the concept of mainstreaming in the European Union and I think mainstreaming must be valid also for our development work.
A third point concerns resources, which are sometimes rich.
In this context one must also ask whether all ACP countries are equally poor, or whether there should not be a certain amount of differentiation.
Mr President, now that we are agreed on entering into a new Lomé Convention, it is also important that we have the courage to recognize the faults of the old one.
Mr President, I would first of all like to say that in the past the European Parliament has always been a fundamental partner in the definition and pursuit of cooperation policies.
I say this openly because it is, in my opinion, a report of truly exceptional quality.
My dear friends, our cooperation could be a fantastic model.
I honestly hope that, at least politically, we may all have the courage to put pressure on the Bretton Woods institution so that initiatives in favour of the most indebted countries may be a little more ambitious.
You can discuss macroeconomics, trade, micro-credits, the informal economy, but the very spirit of the Convention must lie in the fight against poverty and a long term vision of human and social development.
I honestly believe that the Martens report underlines this on many occasions and that, in this respect, we are totally in agreement.
And in my opinion, both the Commission and Parliament must continue to do all they can to include the EDF in the budget.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that the Commission has decided to make proposals for a negotiating brief in two stages.
The first stage will be that of a political framework for the negotiations that we will submit to the Council and to Parliament.
I am telling Parliament that in advance, Mr Martens, and you will recognize your own report in a good many of these orientations.
I hope that Parliament will be able to support us in this frontal approach, because in my opinion it is the best way of anchoring the Lomé V Convention.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
Mr President, this report on the transport of horses and other animals has not just appeared from nowhere.
In October 1994 the President of the European Parliament received a petition with more than three million signatures.
Because under pressure from the same public opinion, in 1995, the directive on the transport of animals was amended.
The 1995 directive lays down that the travelling time of animals may not amount to more than eight hours.
After that the animals must be let out, given a rest period of 24 hours and be fed and watered.
In the first place, it is a fact that some five Member States still have not fully implemented it in their national legislation.
In short, in this way the 1995 directive has become a dead letter.
The report clearly requires a maximum travelling time of eight hours for animals that are going directly to the slaughterhouse.
In the case of animals that are going for fattening or to be used for breeding, then an exception may only be made when they are transported in extremely good quality vehicles for which the criteria are listed in the report.
It is the first time that the Committee on Transport and Tourism has actually ever addressed the issue of animal transport.
That shows the strength of feeling of the people of the Union that something needs to be done in this area.
It is going to be of growing importance and it is right that this Parliament address the issue today.
To transport animals in the undignified way in which it has happened in the past is totally wrong.
This report is really providing what I believe is the minimum necessary to ensure proper respect for animal welfare in the transport of animals.
I now feel that I am repeating myself.
I am very pleased that we are discussing this subject today in the European Parliament, because awareness of animal protection and animal welfare has a high priority in the minds of Europeans.
Sanctions might consist, for example, of withdrawal of export licences, or import quotas granted to third countries.
Furthermore, the proportion of live cattle to total exports has shrunk in recent years from 16 % to about 10 %.
The rapporteur urges the Commission to cut the import subsidy for one third of the countries involved.
Finally, I demand that all Member States incorporate the directives in force as part of its national law, and I mean those five countries which have still not done so.
The rapporteur should have named those five countries to put pressure on them.
It must also be the opportunity to see what perverse mechanisms of international trade are permitting the expansion of all these misdeeds.
From an economic point of view it would be logical in relation to paragraph 35, which proposes putting an end to the granting of export refunds.
But it is incredible - and this, of course, echoes what my colleagues have said - it is incredible that we should still be dealing with the subject in spite of the directives of 1991 and 1995.
It is a feeling which all mammals have in common.
Therefore it is also necessary for us to show respect for animals, and we can only do that by reducing the suffering they have to go through.
We often discuss the people's Europe but here is a subject that has been raised by three million people.
I can fully support all the suggestions she makes in it including point 35 which is being discussed.
It is easy to be pessimistic when you read that the European Parliament has in fact voted to have improvements in the area of animal protection since 1983.
I am particularly pleased about two points which are the only the only reasonable options, namely putting a stop to export subsidies or other forms of direct or indirect subsidy for the transport of live animals for slaughter, and also that the EU's policy should be that animals for meat consumption should be slaughtered as close as possible to where they are reared.
Yet again, without effective penalties, without considerable fines, we are just achieving half a solution.
The Commission also considers the protection of all animals - which obviously includes horses - during transport to be a matter of great importance.
The Commission has become increasingly concerned about the welfare of animals during transportation and, in particular, the long-distance transport of animals.
The Commission has opened infringement proceedings against Member States in default.
The Commission also presented a proposal to the Council under which the payment of export refunds would be subject to compliance with the provisions on the protection of animals during transport.
These have indicated that the uniform application of the relevant Council directive has not yet been achieved in all Member States.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
Of course, Mr Trakatellis.
To do all this we therefore need a little more time, without losing sight of the objective of then ratifying the agreement, but in a political context in which peace has been restored.
To help the services perhaps it would be best if it were included after Article 16 of my resolution.
So I suggest we vote on everything up to paragraph 16, then vote on 2 to 7 from the Committee on Foreign Affairs as a whole and then continue with paragraph 17.
I would add as guidance to the House that the Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted its resolution unanimously.
As draftsman of the opinion I deplore the fact that the timetable did not permit the Committee on Development and Cooperation to take this opinion, which places the right emphasis on agriculture, into consideration.
I therefore call on Members to vote in favour of this amendment. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Madam President, may we have some clarification from the rapporteur regarding paragraph 22.
That is paragraph 22.
With regard to paragraph 26, the English word 'monitoring' is in fact better than the word "control' .
Madam President, I would just like to ask you to check paragraph 5 in the Swedish version when you check the different language versions because there is a mistake there.
Hopefully, the EU's conclusion of the Convention on the Law of the Sea will lead to the Union being forced to a greater extent to respect environmental requirements and to cooperate with countries in the third world on equal terms.
Pettinari Report (A4-221/97) The intensely sad history of Cambodia is written in blood.
After the 1993 elections, the situation in Cambodia seemed to improve, but the recent battle between Premier Hun Sen and Prince Ranariddh has again brought the country to the edge of the abyss.
We must wait for the parliamentary elections in 1998.
Furthermore, an agreement with Cambodia, but also with Vietnam and Laos, is above all a gesture of friendship by the EU as support for reforms in these countries.
Madam President, in the explanatory statement in the report on behalf of the Committee on External Economic Relations it is stated that ASEAN was initially meant as an alliance against rising communism.
In the name of economics, of business, solutions are sought for awkward situations, but they cannot rely on our silent complicity, because there is a military operation and invasion, because there is disrespect for the right of a people to self-determination, because there is cultural and physical genocide going on.
The development and readjustment of our relations with this part of the world is indeed a challenge and an objective common to all the Member States of the Union.
The European Union must take into account both the potential markets in these countries and their distinctive commercial aggressiveness.
The extension of the benefits of the cooperation agreement to Vietnam is, for the Union, a way of signalling our interest in this country and our desire to take into account the realities of political and economic developments in the region.
With regard to the cooperation agreement with Cambodia, the I-EDN group would like to signal its agreement with a policy which is, in this case, both wise and reasonable for, whilst adapting our cooperation to the difficult situation that this country is experiencing, it manages to preserve its achievements and encourages, in advance, any positive change.
Hindley Report (A4-0262/97) Since this is an area of extraordinary potential, the European Union's concern to establish a new dynamic in relations with ASEAN is understandable.
This is a point to which we on the Committee on External Economic Relations have paid special attention, and it has been considered in paragraph 16 of the approved resolution, where its importance is emphasized and there is even a demand for 'the adherence to human rights conditionality in the bilateral relations between the EU and certain ASEAN member states' .
The relationship between the ASEAN countries and the EU, which has changed a great deal since 1980, certainly requires a new dynamism.
The EU should particularly create the preconditions in a multilateral context.
The disgusting sexual exploitation of children in Thailand and in the Philippines and also the white slave trade call for joint measures to combat them.
Countless NGOs in the region are doing good work in that field.
In cooperation with the ASEAN countries the battle against poverty and underdevelopment must be continued unabated.
Hindley Reports (A4-0195/97 et A4-0262/97) I voted for the report on the EU's relations with the ASEAN states.
For a long time the trades union and democratic movements in these states have been subjected to oppression and persecution, not least in rural districts.
Indonesia is also responsible for the terrible genocide in East Timor and the occupation of that country.
Graziani Report (A4-0140/97) The Euro-Canadian common declaration of 17 December 1996 and the plan of action which goes with it, in our minds, do not respect the current law of the Union, and we do not understand how the national governments represented on the Council could have accepted it.
Furthermore, reservations must also be expressed on the nature of the areas covered by the declaration and plan of action: they certainly deal with trade relations, in which the Community has authority, but also with security, disarmament, justice, immigration, terrorism, etc., in other words areas which are strictly national or inter-governmental.
The surprise is even greater when one notices that the whole of this hotchpotch document is co-signed by the Commission, when it only has the authority to negotiate certain limited parts of it.
It is true that the Commission, since its initial communication to the Council at the beginning of 1996, has coldly explained the need to take into consideration the changing nature of the Union's foreign relations since Maastricht.
One would indeed like to know what this changing nature consists of since, after Maastricht as before, common foreign policy is still of an inter-governmental nature.
It is the only place in the text where the reader learns, by chance, that there are Member States in the Union.
I note, as do several of my colleagues, the happy coincidence of the particularly notable visit of the Prime Minister of Quebec to Paris and our debate on relations between the European Union and Canada.
And it is also the reason why we see today, across Europe but also elsewhere, so many federations falling apart.
Willockx Report (A4-0255/97) The Willockx report is the result of an initiative of the European Parliament which wanted to clarify, in its opinion, what the links between the convergence criteria for monetary union and the financing of the social security systems of Member States were.
Indeed, this resolution, after having shown that it is difficult but necessary to reduce the deficit on social schemes (who would say otherwise?), gets round the problem by proposing to lighten taxation on labour in order to facilitate, in exchange, the levying of social security contributions.
Indeed, as the preamble shows, the most substantial consequences of monetary union will develop after it has come into effect: a centralized redistribution will have to be put in place on a European scale, for the benefit of less developed regions, notably in terms of their social security.
Looking to evaluate the cost of this redistribution, the rapporteur quotes from studies that conclude that a European budget of around 5 to 7 % of Union GNP (as opposed to 1.2 % now) will be necessary.
The link established by the report between the criteria for convergence and social security systems does not seem justified to me.
Whilst our rapporteur has in no way challenged the pertinence of the criteria, I do not share his view that the convergence criteria would limit the margin for manoeuvre of Member States in their social mission.
Indeed, once deficits go below the 3 % mark and have been reduced to the balance required by the pact for stability and growth, the states will have a true margin for manoeuvre: they will then have the possibility of increasing their deficit up to 3 % of GDP in order to face up to possible economic and social shocks.
Under no circumstances must the safeguarding of our social security systems cause new increases in taxes on capital, as the rapporteur suggests.
We would be going against much sought after economic efficiency, that is, against growth and employment, without managing to resolve the different social problems and deficits on our social accounts.
On the contrary, it would be much wiser to rationalize our social security expenses without jeopardizing the social structure.
That includes, for example, paragraph 4, where it says that in future there will be a need for more money in the social services sector because of increased pension and health insurance and that this increase in expenditure shall be compensated through reduced expenditure on child support and unemployment benefit.
I do not share these visions of the social model of the future in the countries of the EU, and I have therefore voted against the report.
Willockx, which is concerned with the relationship between EMU and the social security systems of the Member States of the European Union.
The report finds that in trying to meet the convergence criteria, countries have restricted the room for manoeuvre in their budgets.
On the contrary, in numerous countries of the EU, there are growing threats to the level of pensions or people's right to health care.
Consequently, I am voting against the Willockx report.
Alber Report (A4-0276/97) Strange coincidences sometimes occur in European affairs: at the same time as the Alber report of the European Parliament raises concerns about national resistance to the omnipotence of Community law, the draft amendment adopted at the Council of Amsterdam proposes to resolve the problem in a radical and, in our opinion, undemocratic way: to completely subordinate national constitutions to Community law.
Moreover it draws this principle from deductive reasoning and not from the treaty itself, which has never contained a general rule on this subject (except the particular rule of article 189 regarding regulations).
In fact, the Europe of Nations Group has long outlined its counter proposals, notably in the draft report on the institutional nature of the European Union which I myself introduced and which, of course, was not supported by the ruling federalist majority in this Parliament.
It can only succeed, after having dismantled everything, in leaving our citizens in a vacuum, which cannot profit anyone.
We therefore consider that it is necessary to protect the national democracies, and to build on this base, little by little, complementary cooperation at European level.
For all these reasons, we reject the Amsterdam proposals as well as the Alber report on Community law.
We shall therefore vote against the report.
Martens Report (A4-0274/97) Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party voted against paragraph 87 of the resolution in the Martens report.
Paragraph 87 relates to a Commission proposal for a new cocoa directive.
However, we cannot agree to paragraphs 84 and 85 because we think the WTO's trade rules should be followed in all areas.
The Commission's Green Paper on the future of relations between the European Union and the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific (ACP) is an initiative with wide political implications, in terms of both strategic options and operations.
A prioritizing in which I think that information about poverty and partnership - perhaps with more concrete content - should be given pride of place.
I voted for the Martens report for the following reasons: 1.Over the last 3 years within the ACP-EU Joint Assembly we have published, together with our ACP partners, pioneering concepts in central reports.
This is one firm outcome from our discussions with those concerned in Africa.3.We need to have a single, European, foreign policy towards our partners in the ACP countries, combining on the one hand peace safeguards, prevention of warlike conflict and humanitarian aid, and which also particularly encourages co-operative foreign economics and foreign trade with ACP countries, coordinating with that our development cooperation instruments.4.The new partnership, particularly with Africa, also demands greater efficiency and quality control of financial payments.
Other necessary and vital practical changes which have to be decided within the framework of the new Convention are the financing of development cooperation as part of the communal budget, effective control by the European Parliament towards more efficient and more sparing use of means by the Committee on Budgetary Control, systematic encouragement of aid for self-help, and observance of the subsidiarity principle.Private local development organisations and the numerous development initiatives in Europe for the African Continent must be supported as a basis for the solidarity of the European population with that of Africa.
In presenting this Green Paper, it enables a true debate to be established around different options, without it prejudging the proposals which will subsequently be made.
The renewal, but above all the strengthening, advocated by the rapporteur of future relations between the EU and ACP countries entirely satisfies me.
The 5th Convention will need to provide a global agreement applicable to all of the ACP countries, suited to unique institutions in order to promote interparliamentary dialogue and including tools adapted to the different levels of development of our partners.
I am very favourable to the development of a level of regional cooperation which will better enable the prevention of certain crises.
The EU must continue and deepen its relations with these countries and contribute, through a real partnership, to the fight against poverty, to the development of the awareness of environmental problems, to the involvement of civil societies and to a better awareness of the social dimension of the problems encountered.
For all these reasons, I fully support my colleague's report.
For this reason I am very pleased that this resolution has been passed in Parliament with such a large majority, because then people in the national parliaments may wake up and think for themselves what it means to live together in this creation, in this world.
Madam President, I want to express my delight at this report having been adopted without amendment.
We were simply unable to vote for this measure, because anything else is for us cruelty to animals, and in our view should be prosecuted as a crime in all European countries.
The question of export refunds is a fundamental part of the support system of the CAP.
EU Member States, including Ireland, have taken considerable steps since January this year to improve transportation conditions for animals.
In fact, it is not at all normal that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has been excluded from the legislative process and that it has never had the possibility of debating and giving its opinion on this subject, which has a direct impact on both the meat market, farmers and companies operating at all levels in the chain.
The I-EDN Group asked for a roll call vote on two essential points.
Point 16 of the motion for a resolution considers that the total journey time involved in the transport by road of animals intended for slaughter should not exceed eight hours.
We of course voted against this point.
In fact, in the guise of a report on an initiative regarding transportation of horses, the transportation of all animals is in fact covered by the text (cattle, sheep, etc.).
Let me remind you, on this precise point, that the European Union exports live animals to certain third countries, particularly the Arab world, who prefer to kill the animals themselves for religious reasons, because of refrigeration infrastructure or simply for employment.
If we no longer export to these destinations, others will do it in our place.
Finally, along the same lines, I am surprised that the same pressure groups, defenders of the welfare of live animals, do not concern themselves with the conditions of transportation of live animals imported into the European Union from third countries.
This is especially true of paragraph 1, which states that animals should be slaughtered as close as possible to their place of origin, paragraph 16, which sets a maximum of eight hours for the length of time long-distance transports of animals may last without a break, and paragraph 35, in which the Commission is urged to stop paying export subsidies for the export to third countries of live animals intended for consumption.
I consider these three points to be of great importance.
It is also important to make clear that these requirements are only minimum levels.
I am voting against the van Dijk report on the transport of live animals because it is designed to make the whole business of trading in live cattle impossible.
A proposal in paragraph 35 to withdraw export refunds from live cattle would seriously discriminate against farmers in remote regions where a live trade is necessary to ensure competition and maintain reasonable prices.
Organizations such as the Irish Meat Processors Association have argued that it would make more sense for the government to end live exports and instead develop jobs in the meat processing sector by slaughtering animals in Ireland, instead of exporting them live.
I would urge all MEPs to campaign for a complete halt to long-distance live transports.
Before commenting on the van Dijk report, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I would like to state my astonishment at the fact that a report concerning the transportation of horses and other live animals has not been put to the Committee on Agriculture for an opinion, given that it is directly concerned.
Regarding the vote on this resolution, my group asked for a certain number of votes by division, separate votes, as well as two recorded votes in order to avoid issues being mixed up, withdrawing from this resolution the points which had been unjustifiably added and which did not concern its direct objective: the transportation of horses.
In fact, after pressure from certain associations and following a petition presented by the International League for the Protection of Horses, the 1991 directive had already been modified in 1995.
It is completely abnormal that the Committee on Transport of the European Parliament, under the influence of these same pressure groups, should have undertaken this own-initiative report with the clear aim of challenging a text that was modified barely two years ago, and of which we know the difficulties of implementing.
In fact, the Committee on Transport was hoping purely and simply to abolish all the export refunds for the export of live animals to third countries (including, of course, cattle).
If we ourselves were to block our own exports to these countries, others would immediately take hold of this important market.
We note with surprise that the Committee on Transport and Tourism has not proposed the abolition of the tariff advantages we grant to certain third countries regarding imports of live animals into the EU.
