I probably forgot to sign in but I took part in the roll-call vote, which you can check.
For example my good friend Mr Falconer appears as Falconero; my colleague from our party Mr Dührkop Dührkop is down as Donnerp Dührkop.
Mr President, I am now called 'Marcet s' .
Mr President, my name is listed too.
Mr President, I am not mentioned in the list of those present, but I am listed among those who took part in the nominal vote.
I signed in and I voted in a roll-call vote but my name is not there.
We will see how it turns out once it has settled. (Parliament approved the Minutes) Decision on urgency I have to tell this House that the Committee has decided to vote against this urgent procedure, that is it does not accept the urgency requested by the Council because it does not find that reasons put forward by the Council to be well founded. (Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure) Mr President, the Committee is in favour of the urgent procedure and already reported yesterday that the subject could be debated in the plenary session. (Parliament approved the request for urgent procedure) Cloning animals and human beings The next item is the debate on the statement by the Commission on cloning animals and human beings.
The Commission is actively encouraging the Advisory Group in this project, which ensures dialogue and transparency.
It should be pointed out that these experiments raise an entirely new set of problems, in relation to the transfer of genetic information from an adult mammal into a receptor cell which is an unfertilized ovocyte - which had been thought totally impossible until now.
Following this surprise result, we need to give ourselves the time to consider how far existing legislation at both national and Community level covers this kind of practice and whether there are any legal loopholes.
The question is whether we need a strict moratorium at international level, in forums such as the United Nations and the Council of Europe.
Turning to animal cloning, we need consider the ethical implications in greater depth, especially in relation to respect for the principles of animal welfare and biodiversity and, of course, the possible risks of extending this technique to human beings.
It is clear that in the light of all the on-going discussions and, in particular, the opinion to be delivered by the Advisory Group, the Commission will adopt a clearly-defined position and take the appropriate measures within its powers.
I think that is of capital importance in a field such as this, which has profound philosophical implications and touches on everyone's most deeply-held beliefs.
My group is in favour of affirming clearly that all human cloning must be banned.
We clearly affirm the principles of the dignity and integrity of the human body and must reaffirm them here this week.
Obviously cloning presents problems in this latter area too, but they are different problems.
I believe respect for human beings demands a clear 'no' .
The Commission says we should go even further; well, let me go even further and repeat what the European Parliament already called for in a decision addressed to the Council of Europe last September: ' no' to cloning, but 'no' to experiments on human embryos too, because that is where cloning begins!
In the United States, despite the proposals of the political leaders, some scientists are reluctant to advise a moratorium.
One such is Professor Harold Varmus, Nobel Prize winner and director of the NIH.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is in the nature of scientists always to doubt, but the politician who is aware of the vagaries of human behaviour must, in his capacity of legislator, attempt to evaluate them more closely.
Mr President, ever since the cloning of an innocent little animal has been so widely publicized in the media, we have plunged into the most breathtaking simplifications, as shown, incidentally, by the fact that some of our colleagues rigged themselves out in extremely misplaced and even grotesque masks a few minutes ago.
A democratic state has the means to protect society from abuses in every area and to ensure respect for the rights and freedoms of the individual, in biotechnology as in other research fields.
At national level, scientific and medical ethical committees would act as guarantees in every research centre.
At international level, as has been said, a number of conventions, from the 1946 Nuremberg Code to the 1996 European Convention on Bioethics, have already banned any useless genetic manipulation that conflicts with our concept of the human being, such as cloning, implanting a human embryo in the uterus of a different species or vice versa, and so forth.
All we need do is to introduce systematic bans, within limits, under an international convention or under agreements with other countries such as the United States or Japan, where genetic research is very advanced.
Mr President, it is essential that the political decision-makers must take up a position without delay on the cloning of human beings and animals.
The cloning of animals must be kept under close surveillance as a part of scientific research.
In 1993, following Jerry Hall's experiments in cloning human embryos, the European Parliament called unanimously for a ban on cloning.
The statement by the Commissioner and the position of the EU Commission are pitiful.
So let us beware a little of our own emotions.
This is a clear sign that there is no dialogue between the political and the research level.
Our task, your task, Mrs Cresson, and ours as the European Parliament is to discuss this matter with the researchers: what do we want, what is the purpose of research, what is the ethical responsibility of research in our society?
I am also convinced that in individual cases cloning can be ethically valuable and very important for people; but we must define the limits of the usefulness of experiments.
At present it is not a question of saying what we lack in the Union but of saying where our ethical limits are in the world.
I ask you, Mrs Cresson, to assume your responsibility in relation to this question for the European Union, together with North America and Japan and the rest of the world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, modern biotechnology offers us great opportunities.
I am in favour of being very liberal about this because we have to support the undertakings in making advances here.
If my information is correct - and this is my last question - the situation is that this advisory group will only be working until June and that it has a whole lot of other jobs to do too.
The group has to continue working and if it is to have a new membership, perhaps this can be done at the same time.
But then Parliament should also be involved in the appointment of its new membership.
Mr President, a clear 'no' to human cloning is emerging from the debate; but I believe that an unequivocal 'no' to cloning of animals is needed too, because where there is cloning of animals, there is almost bound to be cloning of human beings as well, and we really ought to be wondering today how we ever came to be talking about cloning.
The purpose of such techniques is not scientific knowledge, but industrial production of a commercial product, for example, animal organs to be used as spare parts for human beings.
But human beings and animals are not machines whose organs can be automatically replaced by organs adapted from other animals.
We should also support the conclusions of the European Council's resolution of 16 March 1989, as well as the results of the first Convention on Bio-ethics, approved in December 1996, which banned both human and animal cloning, and we should work to impose limits on the scientific process that respect ethical values and serve to shield the human being from possible manipulation by science.
I come from the country where this experiment took place.
The average citizen must be aware of what work is being carried on when we get near to the frontiers of what is acceptable and in some cases beyond those frontiers.
Mr President, I am glad I can speak in this debate.
The technology is important.
So we must take very strict measures to ensure that.
The European Union certainly did not finance the cloning of Dolly the sheep.
Nor is it a research problem; rather, the problem lies in the lack of strict veterinary controls and the laxity of some of these controls.
I quite agree that the ethical committee's work needs to be publicized more widely and that the Members of the European Parliament should have wider access to it.
Furthermore, as I said in my opening statement, I agree that MEPs should take their due place at the round table side by side with the ethical committee and high-level scientists, to ensure that this is a democratic debate.
Science is obviously an issue, not just science however, but also the social and political system in which science evolves.
That is why this social and political system has to be extremely careful about scientific advances and why scientific advances must be publicized in such a way as to ensure that they can be monitored and if necessary anticipated by imposing bans such as the ban on cloning human beings.
Before drafting any international agreement, which would indeed be entirely desirable, I think it is important for us to reach agreement at European level.
Quite apart from the question of cloning, I find that the ethical principles in the field of biotechnology are not the same in the various Member States.
I have always regretted the fact that we do not have an ethical committee in every Member State, as I have often said to the Council of Research Ministers.
If every Member State, like France for example, had an ethical committee that brought together scientists, philosophers, specialists in biotechnology, jurists, magistrates, humanists, in short a committee of this kind chaired by someone with an unblemished reputation, that would be a good step forward.
So it is entirely in our interest - and you are quite right here - to reach agreement with our major international competitors.
I would therefore hope that such national ethical committees will he be set up very rapidly and that you, who relay what has been said here to your own Member States, will plead the cause of these national ethical committees at home too.
Thank you for your extremely useful contributions to this debate.
Once again, I am entirely in favour of the European Parliament taking part in the activities that will commence in the next few weeks.
The debate is closed.
Renault management, in a manner which I can only describe as irresponsible, did not comply with its obligations as regards information and consultation of workers' representatives prior to its decision.
I believe that we have now reached the situation where we need to complement the existing Community rules with more general rules to make information and consultation compulsory on a permanent basis for all relevant aspects of the management of companies at national level.
In this context, the issue of adequate sanctions for non-respect will be a crucial one.
I will propose to the Commission that we proceed in the coming weeks with the first-stage consultation of the social partners at European level on this issue.
I know that the European Parliament has been asking for such rules for quite a long time, and in your recent report on the Commission Communication of 14 November 1995 on worker information and consultation you again supported this idea.
The Vilvoorde case shows that we still have some way to go to strike the right balance between corporate and economic needs on the one hand and the social requirements of workers and society as a whole on the other.
This is why I believe that the incorporation of the social protocol in the Treaty is vital in this respect: to ensure that social legislation applies and is implemented across the territory of the Union as a whole.
This case raises other issues too: questions regarding the need for tighter monitoring of state aids, closer coordination of fiscal and social charges.
Such an attitude would be reprehensible enough within one country, but when the issues are transnational in nature, then the need for openness and consultation is even greater.
The threatened closure of the Vilvoorde plant is a huge blow to the workers and their families.
These are the questions which the workers from Vilvoorde were asking when my group met with them at their demonstration in Brussels last Monday.
Today Renault workers are marching in Paris.
Since the announcement of the closure Renault workers in France and Spain have acted together in a signal of support for those workers and their families who will be thrown out of work in Belgium.
Pious words, solidarity, support and sympathy may make us feel better; they may also make it more difficult for those individuals affected to express their bitterness and anger towards a system which is destroying them, their families' fortunes, their hopes for the future.
We in this House should look to our own decisions and make sure that we are not accomplices through our budgetary allocations.
On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to express our solidarity with today's demonstration in Paris and with those affected in Vilvoorde.
It is a sad fact that social Europe is ten years behind the single market and economic and monetary union.
Thanks to the Council's lax attitude, the 1992 revision of the directive on collective redundancies did not go as far as it should have done or as the European Parliament and the Commission wanted.
The right of workers to be consulted and involved is not just a matter of courtesy or form.
The European Council constantly maintains that fighting unemployment is still Europe's main priority, but the Union's efforts to guarantee or create jobs are non-existent, constantly being postponed or so modest as to be invisible.
Hoover and JVC in fact did the same recently.
We must look at the decision to close the Vilvorde site in this context, not as an isolated measure or a sanction but quite certainly as a strategic industrial decision that will enable Renault to cope with the fact that European automobile market has declined more than expected from the Commission's forecasts - based on the fact that in 1996 less than three million vehicles were sold - and, in the long term, to protect the jobs of 140 000 Renault employees who would have suffered the consequences if this decision had not been taken.
In the eyes of public opinion, it is indeed difficult to see why a French undertaking should decide to close down one of its sites outside its own country; but this decision, for which the Renault management is entirely responsible, was certainly encouraged by a relative and comparative analysis of the production costs.
That is why this decision, which disturbs us so much, must induce all those who are responsible for the future of Europe to realise the need to create a European social area.
It was indeed in that spirit that Jacques Chirac submitted a memorandum to our European partners more than a year ago concerning the adoption of a European social model.
The creation of a European social model and a European social area is as important as social dialogue.
Mr President, the brutal and unilateral decision taken by the management of Renault to close its subsidiary in Vilvorde profoundly shocked European public opinion.
Yet Renault was one of the first companies in Europe to conclude voluntary agreements on worker information and consultation, as the Commissioner pointed out.
I have always been in favour of an economy in the service of man and not vice versa.
Today the people of Europe no longer understand and, in particular, will no longer tolerate unjustified closures of companies and the lack of solidarity between the Member States of the Union.
Europe cannot progress unless the governments that make it up demonstrate a genuine social and collective conscience.
I believe in Europe, in union among our peoples, in our human resources, which constitute our wealth.
Mr President, I have little time so I will confine myself to a few comments.
An undertaking or a company cannot decide the social and economic collapse of a region without any kind of consultation or redevelopment programme.
Let me point out in this regard that the OECD is currently considering a multilateral agreement on investment, which promises us lots of new Renault cases.
Yet the same day Renault shares soared by 13 % on the Paris stock market.
The share of wages and salaries in a Renault car fell from 23 % to 12 % between 1980 and 1995.
Over the same period, Renault's market shares fell by one third, both in France and in Europe.
Since 1986, Renault has made profits of 40 billion.
The first European strike on 7 March made that very clear.
Let me pay tribute here to the determination and courage of the Vilvorde workers and to the combative spirit they have shown, as also to their French colleagues, who have also been affected by dismissals and who have, by their action, defeated the management's attempt to create divisiveness in order to impose its plan.
Our group demands the withdrawal in its entirety of the Schweitzer plan and the opening of negotiations with the trade unions.
For instance, we must object to the 2.6 million in financial levies in order to improve purchasing power, reduce working hours without any fall in wages and finally give a say to the workers by giving them new rights.
Through our proposals, our actions, our solidarity with the Renault workers, we want to do all we can to help build a Europe that is genuinely social and democratic, unlike the Europe of today.
In 1991, Parliament adopted a text which would have made collective redundancies by multinationals invalid if they did not follow the provisions of the directive, but once again the Council of Ministers refused to follow our lead.
And who holds a 48 % share in Renault?
Today, social Europe is an empty vessel.
It is the Commission which is always saying that the car industry needs to be moved to cheaper countries such as Spain or Portugal in order to put up stronger competition against non-European producers.
It is the Commission which grants billions in subsidies for these relocations.
So if it is true that Renault is to transfer a large proportion of its production to Turkey and Brazil, we should now be asking ourselves what measures the Commission intends to take to prevent many other companies from doing the same in future, leaving Europe an industrial graveyard.
I am simply saying that there is absolutely no point in making European firms, which pay their workers relatively high wages and are subject to all kinds of rules and regulations, compete with countries where social legislation, environmental regulations and so forth are virtually non-existent.
I think that is a pity and shows that within this Chamber there is still a lack of European spirit.
This business obviously reflects a lack of solidarity, the lack of a social Europe, but there is also a fundamental economic problem, namely that at present the automobile industry is faced with a 30 % surplus capacity, with a 7 % annual increase in productivity and a 1 % rise in demand.
Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, do not confine yourselves to deploring the lack of solidarity or social correctness.
You cannot escape the need to take serious economic action in this sector.
We agree with what Mr Santer said about the lack of credibility of the European institutions when a question such as this arises; it is correct.
It seems to us that the European Union should manage to get sanctions imposed against companies which do not comply with Community law and the Commission and the Parliament would be well advised to demand the revocation of a decision which so clearly runs counter to Community law.
Mr President, Vilvorde is a textbook case.
We must draw all the necessary lessons from the Renault affair if we are to avoid this kind of economic and social disaster.
There is much talk of a social Europe, but which Europe are we talking about?
A social Europe must be one where everybody has the right to work, to a job, to continuous training, to a rise in their standard of living and to social protection.
It is imperative for the social protocol, which should be incorporated in the Union treaty in 1997, to include a specific article on the arbitrary closure of industrial plant.
It is scandalous for an undertaking to receive Community and national aid without giving anything in return, for example a commitment to remain on a site for at least ten years.
Finally, Mr President, the closure of Vilvorde is not just a one-off case.
The workers have every reason to oppose it and my group supports them in their fight.
The workers in my country, Belgium, have frequently been the victims of intraCommunity delocalization over the past 15 years.
To cite only the automobile industry, let me remind you of the successive closures of the Tudor battery production units, then of the Champion sparking-plug producers and the serious threats looming over the Volkswagen factory workers in Forest.
This situation gives rise to several comments.
Three billion French francs is more than enough to secure the jobs of the Renault workers in Vilvorde, and also of the Clabeck workers in Les Forges.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that is what could and should have been avoided if Europe had taken the necessary solidarity measures for the workers of Europe.
Certainly it was not a posteriori disapproval.
In face of the on-going industrial revolution, in face of the trend towards international capitalism, has Europe given itself the means of countering this by maintaining its social system?
Europe has created a framework that encourages competition and deregulation, translated by the development of surplus production capacity; it has established a competition policy that encourages alliances outside Europe and makes it difficult to form genuine alliances between Europeans, as a result of which employment is becoming the main variable of adjustment.
The closure of the Vilvorde plant demonstrates, if indeed demonstration is necessary, the risks of social dumping.
One reason this unit was closed was that labour costs there were 25 % to 30 % higher than in other sites.
The Europeans will turn against Europe unless it formulates a genuine industrial policy that is in their service, provides public financing of research that matches up to the requirements, opens a social dialogue worthy of that name.
How could we not agree with Jean-Luc Dehaene who said that 'in the social sector, coordination at European level is the only possible response to the individual strategies of the multinationals' ?
Yes, we must indeed incorporate the social protocol in the treaty and abolish the unanimity rule in areas where it still applies in the social area.
I hope it will become obligatory when the euro forces our Member State governments to adopt a coordinated European economic policy.
We are suffering from the absence in Europe of an industrial strategy in the service of Europeans, from the lack of regulation and solidarity, the lack of a political and social Europe.
I do not want to introduce another country to produce a tri-national debate, but simply to put things into context.
But what we must not do is to link this closure with the fact that the Renault company is wanting to expand production in Spain.
I think that in this case Renault is trying to comply with the laws in force and will make use of the economic, social or fiscal options permitted under those laws.
I do not understand how the two subjects are being mixed together here and I am sorry that I had to speak because I think these are two totally separate subjects: the Vilvoorde closure is one thing and the expansion in Spain is another.
What the European Union needs to do - and here we are trying to build it and we have not been engaged for many years on the project and things cannot be achieved all at once - is to have social and fiscal legislation on all matters which is homogenous throughout all countries.
More jobs are soon going to have to disappear, not just at Renault in France but in the European car industry as a whole, since overcapacity is currently running at 20 to 30 %.
Mr President, first of all the loss of 3, 000 jobs at Vilvoorde is an absolute tragedy for the workers and their families, and a tragedy for Belgium, the country which is experiencing this social tragedy and justifiably feels its commitment to Europe has been betrayed.
The powerlessness this Parliament and the Commission are demonstrating in this case is utterly indecent: either Europe succeeds in recovering a sense of itself, or else events like this condemn not Renault alone, but the inability of this Parliament and Europe to respond to the problems of the workers and the unemployed.
For many years Renault was the social show-case of France.
The brutality of the decision, the number of workers involved, have created a new awareness among the unions, the governments and the Commission and I hope this will not prove to be a flash in the pan.
But let us not speak in double talk.
I think in the present case the problem is not wage costs but the profitability of the automobile industry in a context in which, in the end, we wonder if anyone can still afford cars with so many people unemployed!
The first is short term.
And if the Commission wants to be consistent it should apply this pressure to persuade Renault to keep the Vilvorde plant open, to protect the jobs in Vilvorde.
On 17 June the governments are due to approve the results of the intergovernmental conference.
Let me add that I invite all those colleagues who have spoken in support of Vilvorde to join us on Sunday, 16 March at a demonstration on employment.
I will be strange for those historians and students of the time in which we live that on the same day as this debate, in the same European Parliament, another debate on the restructuring of the automobile industry - based on a report by a very high-up member of the PSE - did not focus on social problems or even refer to them.
I hope that the position of the European Parliament on this issue is going to be comprehensible for them, in terms of its social content and its consequences for the future.
Mr President, it is difficult to understand the attitude of the management of Renault in announcing from one day to the next the closure of a production plant in a European country; but it is not right to involve other countries in this problem and to point to Spain in this context; let us not confuse the issues.
This closure is not bound up with the opening of new factories in Spain and this decision by Renault does not appear to be linked to new production centres in other European countries.
This calls in question not only the scant nature of social Europe, but the very idea of Europe.
But here we are faced with a surprise decision with no respect for the minimum rules of the game required without consultation and without negotiation.
Talks between the management of Renault and the workers' representatives should find possible solutions to this problem which is on a European scale and there must be solutions if such dialogue is possible.
Mr President, I wish to thank all those who have contributed to the debate this morning.
This plant had the most flexible workforce one could contemplate in this sector and it is very difficult to understand the decision to close it down.
Secondly, this particular closure raises a number of important issues of European Community policy.
There can be no questioning the right, or indeed the necessity, to make commercial decisions affecting investment, location, operation and even closure of industrial plants in these increasingly competitive times.
The internal market provides an arena without internal frontiers - the biggest of its kind in the world - where business can prosper, where capital and goods move freely, and where competitiveness and industry is encouraged.
It was very clearly stated in the communication on this particular industry some while ago that social dialogue is an important aspect in dealing with the structural arrangements that would be necessary for its development.
In my opening statement I set out the situation of existing legislation in regard to the laying-off of workers in situations such as Renault in Vilvoorde.
Industry must take a fresh look at its responsibilities in an internal market which encourages its competitiveness and its prosperity.
In this particular case Renault, and indeed the government which holds a 48 % share of the company, must abide by European and national law, both in the letter and in the spirit.
The government - all governments - must ensure that in a people's Europe which is to be worthy of that name, social and economic dimensions must be given balanced attention with equality of treatment and protection rights right across the Union.
The role of social policy as a productive factor is a key element in this equation.
I would like to use that instrument in the proposal, to fill any gap that might have arisen or appear evident following the run-through in this particular case insofar as it is pursued at national level.
Finally, I wish to say that, in my opinion, no company, irrespective of its size or influence, is entitled to dismiss its workers and to disobey the law in the cavalier fashion we have witnessed in this particular case.
It is contrary to law and to the spirit that we thought endowed all the actions making up the integration of Europe and the internal market.
The united response that we have here will do much to indicate to all those who have responsibility in this matter that it is not acceptable to act in an irresponsible fashion such as we have seen in this case.
Workers' rights are enshrined in law and they must be respected in the spirit as well as in the letter of the law.
So I wish to stress again that the social dimension is vital if we want European integration to succeed as a precondition for the support of European citizens for the European ideal.
We would look forward to a better response in future from those who have responsibility in this regard.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
We have to get out of this orthodoxy within the European Union of assuming that competitiveness in itself is the answer to all of our problems.
I hope the Commissioner, when he responds, will take account of these issues in the general debate on industry.
It is an excellent initiative but it needs more resources and more support.
And then specifically, on a number of initiatives, we need to make sure that the vehicles we produce are the sort of vehicles that will be acceptable, not only in our own market, but in the United States and in the other markets around the world, and the sort of product that the consumer wishes to purchase.
I recognize that we already have something like 56 directives on the statute book as far as the car industry is concerned.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the chemical industry is the second-largest sector of manufacturing industry in Europe.
The largest chemical companies in the world are located in Europe, so their basic situation is almost comparable.
The annual turnover of ECU 350 billion, which is equivalent to between 3 % and 4 % of total European GDP, offers a good basis for the future.
The Commission communication on the competitiveness of the chemical industry is almost a model project, because it was drawn up on the basis of dialogue with the industry.
Some of the reasons are the growing strength of new competitors in the Asian and Pacific region, the opening up of the Eastern European countries and their increasing integration in the world economy and the more intensive competition in the European internal market.
In these standard areas the chemical industry has also forfeited its technological advantage because these technologies are available worldwide.
The globalization of markets and the siting of new production plants in the growth regions - which is often criticized but is necessary to the companies' survival - meant that employment in the chemical industry had to be cut by 25 % in recent years, to a workforce of only 1.6 million today.
We take the view that the chemical industry could be an exemplary area for the Commission and the Member States to promote the social dialogue on technological lines of development.
I believe that in this overall context the Commission's communication is a useful one.
Now, so far as the shipping industry is concerned, despite the fact that it employs 2.5 million people, it has for a long time been considered a branch condemned to decline in the face of competition from countries with low labour costs and lax rules of operation.
The idea that Europe can counter low labour costs by making the most of its own comparative advantage, new technology, and lax rules with services of high quality, and that upon those foundations a new, modern, dynamic and competitive industry could be built, is precisely the creative idea that the Commission, and the Commissioner honouring us with his presence here today, as well as our common creation, the forum for shipping industries, have been promoting since 1991 with their initiatives.
Implementation of that concept can create a new, real industrial revolution in the branch, with incalculable gains for Europe, but none of this will become a reality without effort and constructive cooperation by all those involved in the branch.
Crews should strive for and demand from the Member States retraining in the new technologies.
Shipbuilding enterprises must be relieved of the necessity for State subsidies and must reconquer the position they once held in international markets.
This has already affected employment in Europe.
So it is important if not vital for the chemical industry, as a highly innovative branch of industry, to promote new development in forward-looking disciplines, such as biotechnology, which can lead to new products and processes and also reduce the burden on our environment.
However, European companies responsible for these innovations should have the same protection under patent law as those in other parts of the world.
We in the Committee on the Environment are currently working on a report on voluntary agreements, in which we attempt to clarify what voluntary agreements can achieve and what they cannot.
Moreover, lower energy prices are not something this Parliament has emphasized in the past.
It is true that at this moment the European shipbuilding industry - to be specific naval shipbuilding - accounts for only 20 % of the world market, but that figure could be greatly increased.
Europe has seen the most serious oil-spillage accidents, although only 30 % of oil passes through our ports.
The European Union, our industries, could build a large proportion of those 700 vessels.
We have over 40 abandoned oil rigs which need to be scrapped and I do not know whether we are prepared with the industry which that requires.
Mr President, following on from what has already been said, I would stress that what makes the maritime industries special is their close involvement in the international trading activities of the European Union.
The role of maritime transport is set to increase, especially in connection with the Mediterranean partnership and cooperation with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, such as Poland and the Baltic States.
Finally, reference has been made to the need to step up activities in the field of research and development.
I would add that this costs a good deal of money and must not be allowed to result in further differences in operating conditions for the maritime industry in Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in its 1994 communication on an industrial competitiveness policy for the European Union the Commission presented a strategy for a horizontal approach to a modern industrial policy.
Promoting immaterial investment, improving industrial cooperation, ensuring fair conditions of competition and modernizing the public authorities are still fields of action of strategic importance to the competitiveness of the industrial sectors we are considering today.
The first point is that the guideline for industrial development is socially-oriented and environmentally compatible products and product innovations.
Nobody in the chemical industry or the automobile industry dreams of talking about obsolete technologies.
Only in recent years did people begin to realise again that for economic and strategic reasons its decline must not only be checked but in fact transformed into a recovery.
So let me just indicate two aspects of strategic importance to the sectors we are discussing today.
The first is the importance of investment in education, training and continuous training, but not only with a view to improving technical skills.
Bearing in mind that nearly 50, 000 people are killed every year on the roads of Europe and that vehicles, especially cars, are a major factor in our environmental problems, it is important to reach the kind of decision which will favour the development and wellbeing of the car industry in Europe.
It may take 10, 15 or 20 years, but the car industry will succeed provided that we do not put any further pressure on it.
My question to Commissioner Bangemann is whether the members of the Commission are willing to draw up and work diligently towards such an environmental target.
The progressive automation of factories and the loss of jobs involve drastic changes in a sector which is suffering from a consumption crisis but which has directly provided some 2 million jobs up to now, not to mention the indirect jobs.
I am thinking especially of Italy, where the government could finally extend the right of companies to deduct the VAT paid on the purchase of vehicles.
They all have problems in adjusting to the great challenge which the European Union itself accepted with the GATT Uruguay Round and its effects for progressively greater commercial openness at world level.
It would be very negative if we were to allow the difficulties of some companies in these sectors - which have become particularly apparent over the past week - to lead us into a protectionist position, trying to protect certain markets and avoiding international competition.
We must consider which are the most important aspects and try to strengthen the three areas mentioned in former President Delors's White Paper, that is improving research and development, improving external markets - and, of course, international promotion - and improving education and training.
Mr President, in March the European Parliament adopted my report on industrial relocation both within the EU and worldwide.
Now the Renault case has given the Commission cause to take some of the measures called for by Parliament in that report.
The European Parliament also called for the Commission to set up a monitoring unit to collect information on the relocation of businesses.
European industry is facing three challenges.
The second challenge concerns research and development.
Madam President, something very disturbing happened this morning: on a request for urgency on Italian fisheries - the conversion of certain fisheries activities practised by Italian fishermen - it was not possible to take the recorded vote we have regularly called for.
The UPE group was in favour of urgency.
Unfortunately, because of this unpleasant incident, Italian fishermen were not able to make their voice heard in this Chamber.
The Council and the Commission were in favour, but unfortunately Parliament decided to reject urgency, denying us the chance of a recorded vote.
Mr President, I do not want to start a debate but only say that this Parliament decided to take that position because a serious Parliament must have the time to do its work.
Votes Madam President, I should like to thank those Members who have placed their trust in this report.
Under this directive, aeroplanes originating in developing countries will be granted exemptions in relation to landing rights.
Through the report by my colleague Mr van der Waal, our parliamentary committee is asking the European Commission to define the term 'developing nation' .
I hope the Commission will take account of our position.
It is unacceptable that private airlines in 'rich' developing countries such as Saudi Arabia and Lebanon should account for most of the exceptions while the 'poor' developing countries such as Uganda and Zimbabwe are granted only a few.
This report is acceptable to the Green Group in the European Parliament because it allows the Member States the scope to introduce more sweeping measures to prevent noise from aircraft.
Caccavale report (A4-0010/97) It is important that consumers' interests are safeguarded and strengthened on the consumer credit market.
However, the report goes too far in the direction of harmonisation towards a single European civil law that I cannot support.
Van Lancker report (A4-0014/97) Madam President, the Van Lancker report is based on a premise that has done considerable damage to Europe over recent years.
Everyone with a grain of common sense is more worried that is doing the opposite.
Moreover, as usual the report calls for the abolition of all internal border controls, including checks on nationals of third countries.
In this context, it is no surprise to find that the majority of this Parliament is in favour of relaxing the compensatory measures provided for under the Schengen agreements.
Our National Assembly has just adopted in second reading an immigration bill providing that any foreigner who leaves French territory must hand in his residence permit to the police services.
It would be more useful to resolve this kind of practical problem than to reach for the sky by abolishing frontiers.
We must also underline that the dismantling of internal border controls must go hand in hand with better protection of our external borders.
We must also make quite sure that the Schengen report is not used as a pretext for interfering in any national asylum policies.
There have now been a number of changes to asylum law in Europe, mainly with the aim of preventing any abuse of it, and this endeavour must not be undermined via a Schengen report.
For all these reasons, and because we are in favour of Schengen, we decided to vote against this report, which does not take account of these considerations.
The European Union, or the Schengen area in this particular case, must not be laid open to this kind of abuse.
We cannot vote for this report.
However, it does mean that each country has a right to say yes or no to whether they want to participate in each of the interstate forms of cooperation.
We cannot support this report.
Secondly, we believe that France is doing the right thing in applying pressure on the Netherlands to alter their irresponsible drugs policy. 'Yes' to Schengen, ' no' to a fortress Europe: that is the watchword of the report we discussed today.
The right to free movement and security must come under democratic control and hence the vigilance of the national parliaments, so that national legislation is adapted to the Schengen agreements in full respect of international conventions on asylum, protection of individual privacy and human rights.
But the limited duration of the agreement, the absence of transparency, the lack of parliamentary control over it, and the delay in replacing it with Community legislation demonstrate that the various Member States have little enthusiasm for abolishing controls at their internal frontiers.
Finally, in our opinion, to debate issues inherent to the agreement like free movement of persons, asylum policies, external frontiers, legal information, the fight against the drug traffic, international fraud and organized crime, we need to open up a discussion which will end in the abolition of the unanimity rule in the Council.
For this reason, we are voting against the report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Schengen agreements were initially intended to guarantee the free movement of the citizens and residents of Europe by abolishing internal frontiers while strengthening police and judicial cooperation at the Union's external frontiers.
This is bad in terms of Schengen's image and, indeed, totally ineffective.
The situation is serious enough to deserve condemnation.
If we want to combat clandestine immigration effectively, we will have to have common policies on the right of asylum, external borders and the fight against crime.
I hope therefore that the intergovernmental conference will reach conclusions in its debates and that the governments will take account of our recommendations and expectations!
So I fundamentally agree with the report when it maintains that 'the abolition of checks at internal frontiers must not be accompanied by the introduction of new administrative checks which would infringe human rights' .
The report wants the Schengen Agreement to be integrated into general Community law.
On behalf of the Spanish Partido Popular delegation in the PPE and speaking personally also, I should like to draw attention to the following aspects in the Van Lancker report.
In general terms, the line taken by the PPE, the various public utterances of its members, both those who hold government office in the Member States as well as in particular those within the group in this House, have clearly shown that we are in favour of developing the freedom of movement specified in the Schengen Treaty and even more of the need to incorporate Schengen within the institutional framework of the Treaty on European Union and within the Community framework of the internal market - the development of the fourth freedom - the freedom of movement of persons - as laid down in Article 7A.
Similarly it is clear - and it goes without saying that the PPE as a whole and in particular the current Government of Spain of which it forms part and the Members on whose behalf I am speaking - have always fully defended the need for a joint approach on the part of the Community institutions to the great transnational problems facing the European Union in the realm of the third pillar and we are particularly keen to see the creation of a common area of freedom and security.
We are therefore clearly in favour of strengthening the principles which inspired Schengen: abolishing internal frontiers and instead having stronger external European Union borders.
Our final vote against the report must be seen in this light.
In this context, we can only hope that temporarily at least some form of border controls will remain.
We must join forces in order to become more effective in the area of prevention, treatment and research.
There is, in our opinion, no reason for the EU to legislate on this.
The Commission's Green Paper is strongly criticized for laying too much emphasis in its analysis of the information society on work, jobs and the competitiveness of the economy.
However, the report contains certain points on which the Danish Social Democrats are sceptical.
There is, in my opinion, no reason for the EU to legislate on this.
We have in our hands a Green Paper on 'Living and Working in the Information Society' , whose letter let alone spirit do nothing to advocate the priority of the human factor and respect for the rights of working people.
Those measures are not a natural consequence of the rate of development and application of technologies, information and communications.
The Green Paper makes it clear with the most cynical frankness that 'the proposed social model is based on competition between enterprises' and calls for a 'stable and dedicated nucleus of working people' prepared to serve the needs of companies for rapid adaptation to market developments.
In clause 23 of the report the establishment of a 'European authority' for data protection is proposed.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin my two minutes' speaking time in the debate on industrial policy by repeating that it is imperative for us to have a European industrial policy based on voluntary agreement.
Our economic strength, our independence, our future, and above all our employment and unemployment rate depend on that.
In relation to the automobile industry, I first want to congratulate Mr Donnelly on the quality of his report and congratulate the Commissioner and the Commission on its responsible Communication.
Of course I am in favour of setting up a panel of representatives of the automobile and components industries, trades unions and user groups in order to define our future priorities and research strategies.
But, ladies and gentlemen, above all we must protect the European automobile industry as such from unfair and unjust competition and social dumping and do our utmost to develop it.
This morning's debate on Renault made that clear and the scandal of delocalization is even more serious in relation to the building of Europe.
People are still hoping that the OECD agreement will also be carried through in the USA and that shipbuilding subsidies can be abolished in general.
The shipyards simply have to maintain or achieve productivity and competitiveness through their own efforts.
The only means of helping the shipyards available to us in the Community is, for example, to withdraw sub-standard ships from circulation through more stringent port controls and thereby indirectly to meet the demand for new ships.
We cannot have DG IV preventing or hindering alliances between European shipping companies, which are urgently necessary to the survival of these companies, by pursuing a misguided competition policy.
On the internal front and in terms of economic initiative, I want to emphasize some of the recommendations our rapporteurs have made: the contribution to harmonizing the maritime policies of the Member States, the investment in port infrastructure and safe traffic control systems within the framework of the trans-European networks, and the contribution to training seafarers.
I propose specific inclusion of coastal regions undergoing transformation because of the changes in maritime transport in the structural funds intervention areas.
I want to make my remarks in the context of today's wider debate on Renault and the discussion now on industrial policy, and largely to make one basic point.
There is no doubt that unemployment is the major challenge that faces us in the next decade, and frankly in relative terms Europe is bad at creating jobs.
What I welcome today in the Donnelly report and in the Commission's earlier report, is that this is the type of strategy that enables.
It sets standards in environment, it sets goals for research and development, it helps to add something to the global challenge for European industry.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this whole cocktail of debates we are holding, I can only discuss the proposals on the chemical industry in the short time available.
But my question focuses on the subject of the workers.
But that Treaty featured one very important aspect and that was the consultative committee of workers and management.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, whether we are talking about the automobile industry, the chemical industry or the maritime industry, Europe is facing the challenge of international competition.
Both the Langen and the Donnelly reports have the merit of pointing in the right direction, which is to adapt to this challenge, in other words to make further research efforts to improve the products in question, further investment efforts to improve productivity and further rationalization efforts to improve competitiveness at world level.
Not a word on the question of labour costs.
Not a word on the rigidity of the labour market.
But we must also realise that if that is what we want, we cannot adopt other legislation tomorrow that goes in exactly the oppositive direction.
But not a week passes without us here in Parliament voting with more or less enthusiasm, depending on our position in the Chamber, for legislative measures which in each case represent further costs or serious handicaps for investment, for research.
Madam President, I, like the other speakers, would congratulate the rapporteur and also the Commission for bringing forward this whole debate at the moment because we are at a vital juncture within the development of the European economy.
The Langen report on the chemical sector is particularly important to my own constituency of Munster, and Ireland in particular, because in Ireland at the moment there are 18, 500 people employed in this sector.
And advances in technology with new research techniques mean that the people employed in this sector are generally very highly qualified.
Over 40 % of all the people employed in this sector are graduates with third-level education.
It is important, when we are placing so much emphasis on one aspect of increasing education qualifications and increasing the opportunities for lifelong learning, that we provide a proper regulatory framework for employment creation in that area.
I would call on this House to ensure that we do not put in place any hindrances to the development of this industry, which is a vital sector for the economy and employment creation.
Madam President, free competition and free market forces are necessary to safeguard the competitiveness of European industry.
Hence we have tabled two amendments, Amendments Nos 6 and 7, with a view to tightening up Regulation No 1475/95 on block exemptions in connection with distribution and servicing agreements.
But, at the same time, we penalize larger companies in the defence sector with over 230 employees that wish to diversify.
If we truly believe in diversification and changing from defenceorientated production to civilian production, then we must tackle this problem.
Just imagine if you were a small firm which had developed a new product after years of research and then had to hand your recipe over to your rivals.
The Renault motor concern has announced that it will be closing its factory in Vilvoorde in Belgium completely and will be making staff redundant in France as well.
I look to the Commission for initiatives in this sector.
The most serious shortcoming is of course that unemployment is not one of the criteria.
I therefore propose that two types of security should be included among the hard EMU criteria: economic security and social security.
More specifically, the points he raises in the motion for a resolution are ones that I agree with.
It is difficult to get the European people to believe in our project when they see state aid going to various enterprises behind the Commission's back and being approved after the event.
Madam President, I would like to speak on the Commission communication on Europe's maritime future.
Accounting for 90 % of extra-Community traffic and 30 % of intra-Community traffic of goods, maritime transport is the cheapest, least congested and least polluting means of transport, all facts which means it should be given increasing importance.
Along these lines, more importance should also be given to the use of small and medium-sized harbours and ports, which are able to accept ships which account for more than 60 % of Community traffic.
Mr President, as one of the last Socialist Group speakers today I would like to clarify certain points which have arisen during the debate with regard to the report by Mr Langen.
This means that we would support the majority of the actions proposed in the report to assist the industry to adapt to meet this competition.
In particular there is the use of voluntary agreements in the promotion of a carbon dioxide tax.
In my opinion, the responsibility for this disastrous course of the shipbuilding industry is the policy of competition implemented by the European Union and its Member States for a number of years.
These questions are not answered either by the statement or by the report of our colleague Mr Katiforis.
In submitting to Parliament a communication on individual sectors, on which Parliament then draws up reports, we are of course dealing only with small parts of a general policy.
The situation of departure was quite clear.
Now, one can look at competition in ideological terms or, if I may put it like that, in a quite relaxed way.
So, as is the case in many Member States, I can finance higher wages and higher fringe benefits and therefore also social systems if my productivity allows it.
It is quite clear, and I am saying this again in relation to the case in question, that an efficient economic and industrial policy are impossible unless we have sensible social components; worker participation in the decisions of a company is not just a question of social policy or justice but a question of the efficiency of that company.
The company will become more efficient if workers and employees have a say in important decisions.
My colleague Mr Flynn has already said how difficult it is to carry something like this through in Europe.
This will be possible in some undertakings because we have now become more competitive than we were even a few years ago.
We must keep to a consistent line and of course we also need a more common approach in Europe.
That really is the first example of benchmarking.
For this really is possible, even in an industry where price does indeed play a decisive part.
Nevertheless our industry has managed very well to retain its position and I think that is an excellent entrepreneurial achievement and also a good achievement on the part of the unions, for in this industrial sector the unions are very open as regards structuring and restructuring and discuss it in a manner we could only wish other industrial sectors would imitate.
Do not ask me how we can justify an industry in which inspite of subsidies German hard coal is DM 200 more expensive per tonne than imported hard coal from anywhere else, including freight costs.
For years now, I think it is five years, we have had the Maritime Forum in the shipbuilding sector and I believe it has been successful.
We are making very good headway in research and development.
We are trying to keep the OECD agreement alive without the Americans while at the same time formulating a new policy for the shipbuilding industry in the broad sense of the term.
So that means - and this is the right approach - that we must check in every case whether there really is any point in granting subsidies from the regional, social or any other fund.
The steel industry was mentioned, not without reason.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media has always acknowledged the importance and significance of the information society for our future economic wellbeing.
The Culture Committee was extremely aware that there had been a serious lack of focus on the content aspect of the information society and the need to concentrate both on educational and cultural opportunities and obstacles that the information society will throw up.
I hope this is restricted to educational multimedia.
Before I go any further, it is important to inform you why I have introduced five amendments to my report, introducing a timetable calling for their implementation by the year 2000.
The European Union must set benchmarks.
It is important that Member States across the continent reach these benchmarks.
These technological developments are occurring at such a pace that it is important that we take a look at what is possible so that we adapt our educational institutions accordingly.
Data retrieval will become second nature to many pupils.
We must ensure that they learn to interpret the data and assess it in a critical fashion.
That is why we are delighted to see that the Commission has again responded to our calls for a Commission report on libraries and IT to be produced.
Madam President, I wish to begin by warmly congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent report.
For this reason, I want to concentrate on paragraphs 27 and 28 - the position and role of libraries in Europe - to which the rapporteur has just referred.
In the information society of the future - a society to which this report more than well refers - libraries must have a major role.
The role of the European Union therefore becomes more important than ever, to protect our culture and our heritage certainly, but also to open new doors to the millions not to the few - doors that will remain closed if we leave the market to its own devices.
Madam President, this is the third item today that has to do with the information society, which just goes to show how obsessive we are all becoming about it.
The main thing - and I am glad to have the chance to tell the Commissioner what I told his colleague this morning - is to ensure that cultural aspects in the broad sense are included in our policy on information technology, and therefore that Article 128(4) is given some real substance.
France indeed spearheaded this cultural revolution by giving every French household access to minitel.
Addressing the question of young people, President Jacques Chirac emphasized the urgent need to combat illiteracy and to give access to information technology to the greatest possible number of people, mainly by making it more affordable.
The decisions we take must reflect this sense of urgency, for the new information technologies are advancing very rapidly.
The sharing of common experiences and common know-how is an important factor in our fight against unemployment and more generally our fight against social division.
The market in multimedia for education is a growth area in which there is a need for cooperation between producers and users and for the cultural and linguistic adaptation of products in order to encourage Europe's diversity.
The INFO 2000 programme should contain more support to this end, and the research programmes should stress the development of multimedia and programmes with an educational purpose.
It is also essential for the Commission to produce rapidly for discussion its Green Paper currently in preparation on libraries, and open up the important debate on public access to electronic information, copyright from the user's as well as the producer's point of view, the place of books and reading and the professional profile of work in the library and information sector, and educational needs in the modern network and information society.
Madam President, the Morgan report has the merit of focusing attention on the central importance of the cultural and educational dimension of the information society.
The new technology certainly represents an extraordinary opportunity but it also conceals extraordinary risks.
The two principal risks are exclusion and homologation.
That is why we think the measures and initiatives set out in the Morgan report are crucial, particularly as regards teacher training.
And the Commission could enter the vast heritage of our museums, art galleries and theatres into the network of available information.
Madam President, first let me voice a regret.
The central issue in this debate is whether the development of these new technologies is synonymous with progress in the science of education, that is to say, whether it is likely to reduce inequalities.
Mrs Morgan's report has many good qualities and courageously points to a number of dangers, while at the same time showing the potential for culture and education.
The crisis facing many young people in their family and in society springs from difficulties with language and communication.
The tools provided by information technology are useful for people who are already in a structured situation and who will therefore benefit from the extra potential they offer.
I fear that these tools are marvels only for those who are already structured, already well-versed in this general culture, which will enable them to profit from them, while they pose a serious threat if we regard them as a palliative.
There are two possible responses on these issues; upgrading education generally, which is the indispensable basis for acquiring new technological skills and developing student and worker mobility, but above all the implementation of a system which permits any individual to gain access to general education and develop approaches to work by adapting training methods to changes in day-to-day reality, due precisely to the globalization of the economy, the rise of the information society and the development of the scientific and technological society.
With the vast mass of messages immediately available in today's information society, teaching cannot remain confined to the scholastic microcosm, but must train the citizens of tomorrow to be able to identify the best strategy for accessing what is most appropriate, useful and relevant in the mass of available information.
Europe is lagging behind in the information sector and this is a serious obstacle to defining educational policies and approaches that are right for the times.
Madam President, the new information technologies are going to have an enormous impact on the fields of education and culture.
The information society provides an opportunity to reduce the educational and cultural disadvantages of the handicapped, people living in rural areas or those who for economic or other reasons do not have access to the traditional channels of education and culture.
The RAPHAEL programme deals with that; it lacks only financial resources commensurate with its ambition, just as a major injection of cash is required to provide schools with the appropriate funds.
It is important to ensure that everyone who is interested has a chance to take part in this high-speed development.
It is fundamental that everyone should be guaranteed access to information so as to benefit from all the educational and cultural opportunities in the public and private sector which arise from the new technologies.
The potential for using the new information and communication technology for executive purposes is enormous.
Finally, we must continue to consider the cultural and educational aspects of the information society, the risks it presents and the benefits it offers, in a calm, just and balanced atmosphere.
In Austria it is up to the state to ensure that every pupil and every student obtains access to this information society.
If the state insists on continuing to control the telephone system, we must make it clear that we are living in a historic time in which the state has the responsibility to ensure that all pupils and students have the same access to learning and studying.
Information technology has already initiated an industrial revolution.
In addition, IT opens up new horizons for the disabled both as regards education and on the labour-market.
The aspect of educational quality is fundamental, especially in regard to the introduction of the new technologies in the educational field.
They have to learn to change their traditional role as sources of knowledge and make more and more use of the new technologies in their teaching and help the pupils to learn how to choose, so that they take a critical approach to the material transmitted to them.
They form the basis of our society, so that acceptance of the new technologies and the concept of the information society, and thus their success or failure, largely depends on them.
So I am strongly in favour of virtual parental education and of the creation and development of virtual libraries; indeed I have proposed a project of this kind to STOA.
The information society relies less and less on material resources and energy, but far more on human know-how.
I therefore welcome the Commission's educational multimedia joint call, which is finally coordinating the various programmes more closely and therefore making them look more user friendly.
Another question that has not really been clarified - and here I am turning to the Member States - is how rapid and how comprehensive the teacher training and further training is in this area.
The procedure for the multimedia joint call last December is very confusing because it docks onto various programmes, as practical experience shows.
Mr President, the Morgan Report is an own-initiative report of the Culture Commission.
The report is very good and will help us in the work we have already started on.
This Forum has adopted its first annual report.
It is dated 1996 and is numbered SEC 96/1426.
On the one hand that is very pleasing because it shows the broad interest that exists, but on the other hand it shows how difficult this task is.
Let me just make two or three other comments on more general questions that have come up again.
In any case, if you look at what is actually being done in the Member States to connect schools - and the informal Council in Amsterdam adopted a report by the Swedish minister which showed how this is done in Sweden and wants to use it to formulate guidelines for the Union as a whole - then you will see that much of it is financed by private initiative, at least in the initial stage.
Of course this cannot be left to private initiative indefinitely, but at least the private sector has made a start.
And here I also want to say in favour of the large public telephone companies that they are being very active here, that they are cooperating with the school book suppliers and are processing the information that in practice already exists in school books and disseminating it in this new way.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Genetically modified micro-organisms The next item is the report (A4-0070/97) by Mr Trakatellis, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a Council Directive 90/219/EEC on the contained use of genetically modified micro-organisms (COM(95)0640 - C4-0271/96-95/0340(SYN)).
Mr President, one of the most important fields in biotechnology concerns the applications of genetically modified micro-organisms produced in laboratories by altering their genetic material.
Now that Directive 90/219 has been implemented for seven years, its positive and negative points have become clear.
Improved information for citizens residing in close proximity to areas in which genetically modified micro-organisms are used, but also more general transparency and information of the public concerning the new knowledge and applications of biotechnology, is the best guarantee for the safety, investment and development of this technology in the European Union.
Furthermore, category 3 projects are characterized by the Commission as medium-risk.
As we know, yesterday the Legal Committee discussed the extent to which the present directive should be based on 130 S, when we would have a cooperation procedure, as opposed to 100 A, when a co-decision procedure would be required.
I should like to stress two things: First, this directive is directly related to the practical application of methods for the production of biotechnological products, hormones, vaccines, drugs and foods, and it is clear that the cost of research for the development of those products in the context of the directive, will be passed on in the price of the end products.
But even where doubts exist about the extent to which measures are available for the internal market and automatically under 100 A, I would like to remind you, as a second important factor, of the decision we took recently in this Parliament on health protection issues.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of my colleague Alain Pompidou, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Research.
Today we are discussing the contained use of genetically modified micro-organisms.
The experience gained over the last 15 years has led to a review of Directive 90/219, with a view to adapting the administrative provisions to the real risks of the operations and take more account of international technical recommendations on bio-safety, namely the protection of human health and the environment.
In relation to risk management, we must ensure that there is close correspondence between the level of risk defined by more accurate evaluation and the complexity of the administrative procedures.
Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group I would like to welcome this report and thank the rapporteur for the immense amount of work he has done.
That means basic research in laboratories and institutions, but also industrial production: for example, brewing, vaccine production and some activities in the food industry.
It will certainly become an important part of the regulatory regime for the biotechnology industry.
We recognize that the present directive needs reform in the light of technical progress and experience gained in the last few years.
The Commission proposal is generally acceptable in principle but we feel we could go further in some areas by focusing particularly on those activities that pose the most significant risks: namely, activities using those organisms listed in Classes III and IV in the risk categories.
In addition, we consider that all the technical annexes to this directive are important and should be subject to adaptation by a technical committee that operates in a way that respects the modus vivendi and which we would hope to see developed into a true partnership between the Commission, Parliament and the Council in the coming few years.
We need to detail this clearly in the annexes to ensure that we have a uniform level of risk assessment across the Union.
The Commission must accept the need for people carrying out activities in this area to accept legal responsibility for the consequences of any accidents.
We need the Commission to explain clearly its position with regard to this subject, and how it will advance the issue of civil liability, not just in this sector, but in other sectors where human health and the environment could be threatened by inappropriate activity.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the proposal it submitted on 6 December 1995 to amend the implementing directive the EU Commission is taking account of more than twenty years of worldwide experience in the use of genetic engineering.
The proposal also abolishes the distinction between research and trade, which was not very useful in practice.
Moreover, Mr Pompidou has successful demonstrated the great importance of this directive for European research establishments and managed to induce the Committee on the Environment to accept many of the proposals.
I think the amendment calling for liability insurance in relation to environmental damage would be difficult to carry through in practice.
This means that we will be supporting a number of amendments in order to make the proposal more acceptable.
To be specific, we think that in the annexes, both in the assessment and classification and in the procedure for urgency, details should be given as to which biological chains, living species, could be affected and how to deal with the risk - because now it is possible to give that information.
Mr President, although the laboratory directive was not adopted until 1990 and has not yet been transposed in many Member States, the Commission has already made a proposal providing for massive deregulation and a drop in environmental and safety standards.
If the situation is as the industry and science promise us, namely that biotechnology is safe, why are they so vehemently against liability?
I think it is totally irresponsible for authorization to be given on expiry of a certain period of time and for that period to be reduced from 60 to 45 days!
We do not need lower environmental and safety standards; what we need is more environmental standards, more safety and above all more transparency!
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 1990 the European Union has had the strictest legislation on biotechnology anywhere in the world.
Some Member States have been even more stringent when transposing these European rules into their own legislation.
Let me give a clear example: a European industrial undertaking, a chemical firm, has 26 research and development establishments, of which 6 are in the European Union, 20 in North and South America, South Africa and the Far East.
Genetic engineering and its innovations will have a decisive effect on every country's economic development in the decades to come.
The 1990 directive on the contained use of genetically modified micro-organisms was based on the scientific knowledge of the 1980s.
My group considers it particularly important that the European Parliament will in future be involved fully in any major changes to the directive.
If the risks can be controlled, as has been shown in the past 20 years, I think it is also our responsibility as Christians to look into the chances offered by genetic engineering and to use this technology in a responsible manner.
The development of this technology and the associated research has to go on for more than a mere five or six years before we can gain an overview of the possible results of the use of genetically modified micro-organisms.
The second amendment is based on our recent experience with the Commission; I am thinking, for instance, of the authorization of genetically modified maize.
In this context it is understandable that some colleagues are dubious about this proposal, which seeks to streamline approval procedures in a very sensitive field.
However, I would like to draw Parliament's attention particularly to Amendment No 22 to this directive, which has been put down not by our rapporteur but by the Energy Committee, and to draw attention to its importance.
There is a real danger for this Parliament and for the people who elect us that this will be one of our few moments of involvement with the draft directive, and indeed the final directive on the contained use of genetically modified organisms; that once this directive is adopted - as I think it will be - we will no longer be able to exercise any supervisory role.
Amendment No 22 by the Energy Committee does make sure that the European Commission would submit to Parliament a regular report on what is happening as a consequence of this directive.
The President kindly announced to us a few moments ago the immediate response of the Presidency of Parliament to the latest ETA terrorist attack and I am deeply grateful, as a Spaniard, for the solidarity of the citizens of Europe; but the citizens of Europe, whom this Parliament represents, should know that this feeling of outrage at each ETA murder is difficult to reconcile, from the moral point of view, with the retention of the right of asylum within the European Union for citizens fleeing Spanish justice in connection with these terrorist activities.
Consequently, I think that everything has moved towards making the United Nations proposals on bio-diversity, which date from 1992, compatible with one another; in this respect, the upholding of the security and dignity of the human race is compatible with the industrial use and continuing research into this subject.
That applies to Annexes I and II of the directive.
In its reply to my written question the Commission announces that it will present its report at an unspecified date in the course of 1997.
Directive No 90/219 is a horizontal directive, and it builds on the precautionary principle.
The most important changes are that the administrative procedures and notification requirements will be adjusted to the risk inherent in the activities involving genetically modified micro-organisms and - a point raised by several speakers - they will be classified into several risk groups.
Of the 68 amendments tabled, the Commission can unreservedly accept Amendments Nos 2, 3, 9, 10, 16, 17, 19, 31, 41 and 42, 49 and 56.
A full legislative procedure, as you know, offers the advantage, sought by several speakers, that both Parliament and the Council have an influence over amendments to the Annex.
Following on from that, the Commission cannot accept 31 of the amendments, and I will comment briefly on some of them.
To begin with, there is Amendment No 1, which means altering the legal basis for the Commission proposal from Article 130s(1) to Article 100a.
Let me also add that the proposed amendment of the legal basis would mean that the Member States would not be free, as at present, to introduce stricter requirements for containment and control than those laid down in the Directive.
Amendments Nos 18 and 20, calling for a separation between Class 3 and Class 4 activities as regards notification requirements, cannot be accepted.
The Commission is not in a position to accept Amendments Nos 44, 45 and 46, which seek to limit the scope of the Directive in such a way that only laboratory work for research purposes is included.
Then there are Amendments Nos 26, 36, 50, 57 and 58, which we also cannot accept, because they mean that information to which the public may have access, or aspects of activities on which the public may be consulted, would be limited to health and environmental protection and emergency plans.
For the same reason, the Commission also cannot accept Amendments Nos 32 and 33.
As regards the Commission's report on experience with the Directive, this requirement already arises in Article 18(3).
The report will be sent to Parliament.
You said very little on Amendments Nos 28 and 30.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, you did not answer me why in your directive there is an inconsistency relating to the previous Directive 679, which concerns the protection of working people from biological factors.
In that directive it is mentioned that category 3 is a high-risk category, while in this directive it is said that category 3 is a medium-risk category.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Question Time (Commission) The next item on the agenda is questions to the Commission (B4-0019/97).
The Israeli authorities are well aware of the importance the European Union attaches to the rule of law and to strict respect for the undertakings to which Israel has subscribed by her adherence to international conventions on human rights and the Barcelona Declaration of 1995.
The monitoring of human rights and respect for democratic principles in countries linked to the EU by association agreements is carried out in accordance with the rules of CFSP.
Once ratification of the recently concluded Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement between the European Union and Israel is completed, the Union as a whole will be in an even better position to exercise a positive influence regarding all human-rights-related issues in the framework of the political dialogue with Israel established by the agreement.
A specific human rights clause stipulates that respect for democratic principles and human rights constitutes an essential element of the association agreement.
The EU special envoy to the Middle East peace process reports regularly on his mission to the Council through the presidency and the Commission, with special regard to his mandate, as outlined in the decisions of the Ministers' meetings of 28 and 29 October 1996 and the Dublin Declaration of 14 December 1996.
I would also be interested if Sir Leon could tell us why it is considered necessary to register some of the Palestinian produce as being Israeli in order to facilitate its export to European markets.
Question No 29 by David Wayne (H-0119/97) Subject: European legislation On average how many rules, regulations or directives applicable to the United Kingdom are agreed each week?
On average nineteen regulations and two directives were adopted each week in 1996, most of them concerning the common agricultural policy.
They do not, it should be specified, include regulations of what can be called transient status, that is, those which concern the day-to-day management of Community policies such as the common agricultural policy, instruments whose titles appear in ordinary non-bold type in the Official Journal and have a period of validity of between a few days and a few weeks.
The global practical effect therefore is that the sum total of regulations and directives which are applicable in the Community remains more or less constant.
Members will be aware that over recent weeks Sir James Goldsmith has been funding an extremely expensive poster campaign in the United Kingdom saying, amongst other things, that Brussels 'spouts' , to use his word, over 100 rules and regulations every week which the United Kingdom must obey.
As to conducting a campaign, I am not sure that the Commission's resources extend as far as those of the honourable gentleman who has been referred to, but in general terms I certainly think it is important that we should put the facts out as clearly as possible, and this is one of the facts that will now be available to the Commission through its offices in London and other parts of the United Kingdom to make the true facts known.
The question of future negotiations is taken up in the agreement on agriculture which foresees that, and I quote: ' Negotiations for continuing the process will be initiated one year before the end of the implementation period' .
The Commission is ensuring that work is put in hand in a timely fashion so that we are placed in a strong negotiating position from the outset.
Many of us in this House, however, are concerned that whilst maybe certain DGs within the Commission are interested in trade negotiations, it appears that DG VI in particular - the agriculture directorate - is perhaps hanging back a little bit.
The agricultural community is well aware of our commitment to resume negotiations, as agreed in the Uruguay Round, and all parts of the Commission are also aware of this.
With regard to the question of the evolution of the CAP, there are, of course, a number of pressures pointing in the same direction: one is the prospect of new negotiations in the context of the WTO; another is the prospect of enlargement and a third is, of course, internal pressures of a budgetary kind, relating to the cost of agriculture.
But it is also fair to say to our trading partners that they cannot expect to get any further progress ahead of what has been agreed in the Uruguay Round, which is what some of them tried to do in the period before the Singapore ministerial meeting of the WTO.
It is in my opinion important to adjust EU price levels to those of the world market.
Since the author is not here, Question 31 falls.
Chapter 3 of the EU-Canada joint action plan contains specific language concerning preservation of the environment in general and sustainable management of forestry in particular.
In the action plan the EU and Canada, for instance, commit themselves to exchanging information and reports on forestry issues.
The action plan furthermore provides that the EU and Canada will work together at the UN Commission on Sustainable Development and will continue to work on a successful conclusion of the Commission's work on the sustainable management of forests.
There is thus a clear mandate in the action plan to continue and further develop cooperation and dialogue with regard to forestry and the environment.
The EU and Canada agree that a legally binding international regime for sustainable management of forests is necessary and we are working together to initiate negotiations on a global forest convention under the auspices of the United Nations.
An opportunity to raise forestry-related issues with Canada on a bilateral level already exists through the so-called ad hoc Working Group on Forestry, which is part of the EU-Canada annual high-level consultations on the environment.
At the last meeting of the working group on 24 October last, the Canadian side mentioned that Canada is launching a new aboriginal forestry programme.
The European Union has raised these issues repeatedly in relevant contexts, such as the Convention on Biological Diversity, and, in line with the conclusions of the Rio Conference of 1992, it has always emphasized the link between the promotion of human rights and respect for the environment.
Thank you, Sir Leon.
Aid is now subject to a customs levy of some 30 % which has to be paid by the recipient of the aid.
The law came into force on 8 January this year, and was designed to eliminate abuse and fraud in the sending of aid consignments.
On 20 February, the Ukrainian Parliament adopted a resolution giving the government the power, in the short term, to allow humanitarian aid to be imported tax-free, on condition that each part of the consignment is properly labelled.
Organizations receiving funding from the Commission, such as through ECHO, and which encounter problems should contact the Commission delegation in Kiev.
Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his answer, and in particular for the trouble his office has taken over this matter.
As you know, the Phare programme began in 1989, primarily as a programme of technical aid to assist the process of economic conversion and reform in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
As part of the pre-accession strategy, Phare was identified in 1994 as the ideal financial instrument for helping the associated countries to adopt the 'acquis communautaire ' and to complete the market reforms and economic restructuring required in the medium term to make them eligible for membership.
The aid in these sectors was concentrated on promoting the integration process either in material terms or in the fields of legislation or education.
Harmonizing legislation and institutional consolidation are important elements of these programmes and are sure to be continued in future.
In this context I was pleased to be invited along with others to speak last autumn to a group of officials from the Polish parliament who were visiting London under the auspices of one of the London universities.
Thank you, Mr Van den Broek.
Question No 36 by Felipe Camisón Asensio (H-0129/97) Subject: Partnership and cooperation agreements with the countries of Central Asia and Mongolia What is the Commission's proposed time-frame for approval of the partnership and cooperation agreements with Central Asia and Mongolia?
Three partnership and cooperation agreements have been signed with Central Asian countries: Kazakhstan in January 1995, Kirgizstan in February 1995, and Uzbekistan in June 1996.
For these agreements to be concluded and enter into force, they must be ratified by the national parliaments in the Member States and, of course, by the European Parliament.
Hitherto, the agreements with Kazakhstan and Kirgizstan have been ratified by the parliaments of seven Member States.
The European Parliament has ratified the agreement with Kirgizstan, but the agreement with Kazakhstan is still pending.
In the case of Kazakhstan it was in fact seven.
The reason why the Commission recommended that the Council should give it a mandate to negotiate a partnership agreement with Uzbekistan was because of the country's importance in the Central Asian region, and not because the democratic and human rights situation there is ideal.
Thank you, Mr Van den Broek.
Question No 45 by Ivar Virgin (H-0077/97) Subject: The creation of wetlands Wetlands are able to trap nutritive salts and can protect our seas against eutrophication which poses a threat to the reproduction of animal species.
Mr President, under Regulation No 2078 of 1992 the Member States must introduce programmes for environmentally compatible agriculture, but the detailed formulation of the programmes is in the main left to the Member States.
Thank you, Mrs Bjerregaard.
It is true that Community legislation on test programmes for industrial chemicals does not cover toxicity to human reproduction or effects on wildlife.
Thus, while it recognizes that there are certain effects on humans and the environment which may be due to disruption of the endocrine system by industrial chemicals, the Commission will seek to clarify how great the problem is, develop these screening methods and establish the causal relationships with a view to selectively regulating specific substances or groups of substances within the framework of a comprehensive programme.
I suggest that this is a clear case of when we should observe the precautionary principle that if even 50 % of the threats implied by our current state of scientific knowledge prove to be real, then we are facing a very serious and very complicated challenge indeed.
I ask the Commissioner to confirm that we might expect from the Commission some specific work in the research programmes of the European Union (things which both the Commission and the European Environment Agency do directly), using her considerable influence to encourage both industrial and theoretical research in this area; and secondly, that she might consider, with her colleagues in the Commission, a review of how this threat impacts not just on the Environment Directorate but across a broad sweep of Commission proposals and activities.
I have submitted a more detailed question on this matter but would be interested in hearing the Commissioner's initial thoughts on the issue.
When we discuss these problems relating partly to human health and partly to the environment, we very often get into a situation in which we quickly need scientific results other than those immediately available to us.
Thank you, Mrs Bjerragaard.
Is the Commission contemplating, if they continue to proliferate, removing cormorants - at least temporarily - from Annex 1 of the bird protection Directive?
The situation was described in a recent study from 1996, entitled Cormorants, Phalacrocorax carbo, a first step towards a European management plan .
In fact, the Member States can control the populations of species locally under the terms of Article 9 of the Bird Directive, if they wish to take action at places where cormorants constitute a problem.
As regards the Cormorant Decree of Land Baden-Württemberg of 16 December 1996, the Commission has not yet received notification of any such a measure.
Mr President, Commissioner, are you aware that the Committee of the Regions' working group on agriculture has also drawn attention to this problem and that the ministers of agriculture of various regions are now also addressing the Commission on this question?
Secondly, will you comment on the position of the British Government where the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries has said it will take three to five years before it reports on this?
I have to say that I am not aware of the reaction pattern of the British Government on this matter, but I stress again that what I have said here today is that we will use the Directive on the Conservation of Wild Birds to ask the committee concerned whether this sub-species, Phalacrocorax carbo sinensis by name, not a particularly easy one to say, can be removed from Annex 1, so that we can solve this problem which has been raised in various quarters.
I find this most regrettable, because the link between cormorants and fish stocks has never been clearly proved.
I was of course not proposing that Annex 1 should be removed from the Bird Directive.
Since Questions No 48 and No 49 deal with similar subjects, they will be answered jointly.
Question No 48 by Carmen Díez de Rivera Icaza (H-0125/97) Subject: Consultation of NGOs for Berne Convention Can the Commission explain why the EU and the Member States were unable to reach a common position at last December's meeting of the Standing Committee of the Berne Convention for Conservation of Wildlife and Natural Habitats?
Question No 49 by Ulla Sandbæk (H-0139/97) Subject: Consultation arrangements and Berne Convention Can the Commission provide information on the form of consultation arrangements between the Commission and Member States with non-governmental organizations prior to and during the standing committee meetings of the Berne Convention for each of the last five years?
Mr President, I have to say that I do not think I have a really satisfactory answer to give to these two questions.
It is not so long ago that we had a discussion on financial support to the NGOs, in which we had the occasion to discuss the role of NGOs in the environmental field and in which I clearly stated my view that we should try to involve the NGOs actively in the work.
Thank you, Mrs Bjerregard.
Ladies and gentlemen, with that question we have used up the 20 minutes allocated for this block and so I hope you will allow me to thank Mrs Bjerregaard for being here and for her replies and to inform you that Questions No 49 to 56 will be answered in writing.
The Commission looks favourably on all measures which promote the integration of disabled people into the Commission's working environment.
The Commission's new buildings will have to comply with the national legislation on access to public buildings for disabled people in the country in which they are situated.
Mr President, it very difficult to answer hypothetical questions.
If this occurred to a disabled person who was carrying out his duties well and wanted to carry on working, I should gladly do my best to ensure that he was able to continue in his former duties, if this was in the interests of himself and the Community.
Concerning age limits, the Commission has decided on a new policy for the recruitment of officials on fixed-term contracts.
I would just point out one factor alone: that in the new buildings we have in Brussels it is impossible for a person in a wheelchair to move from the B block to the C block or from the B block to the A block, because the passageways are too narrow.
Mr President, I have spoken on this matter with individual representatives of disabled people but the Commission has not heard their opinion at organization level.
Mr President, in 1996 there was an underspend in the payment commitments on the Structural Funds of 5.2 % or ECU 1200 m.
In 1997 by the beginning of March 14 % of Objective 1 appropriations and 27 % of Objective 2 appropriations had been spent.
Mr Commissioner, I thought I heard that 98 % of the payment appropriations under Objective 2 had been implemented.
If that is so, then the ECU 1 000 million reduction in payment appropriations suggested by the Council at its July 1996 meeting seems all the more incomprehensible to me, since that reduction in payment appropriations referred only to Community Objectives 2, 3, 4, and 5 - and excluded Objectives 1 and 6.
I should like to know therefore whether the Commission shares my surprise that the Council should make this reduction exclusively as regards those objectives and whether the Commission considers that the Council made this proposal not for technical reasons of implementation, but for political reasons in line with the interests of certain Member States.
Mr President, the Council did indeed decide to cut the appropriations in this way.
This administrative development project, known as the SEM 2000, aims to rationalize administration and create a new administrative and budget culture for the Commission.
At the third stage of the project cooperation will be tightened up between the Member States.
This is important because 80 % of the appropriations in the budget are administered in the Member States.
The working group's first report, which contained numerous proposals for measures, was prepared in December last year and had a positive reception in the Council and in the European Council.
SEM 2000 has many beneficial part-projects.
Our objective is, in connection with the 1998 draft budget, to take significant measures to decentralize administration.
When the funding packages for the years after 2000 are proposed, the Commission must also propose in that connection a concept for the Commission's role for the years 2000-2006: how its activities can be made more efficient and more transparent, to enable it to accept the challenge of enlargement.
As regards criticism in general, I regard this as the basis of any healthy debate.
Thank you, Mr Liikanen.
In 1984 and 1987 the Council in its conclusions stressed the need for an ongoing campaign to combat illiteracy.
And again in 1987 and 1989 the Council and Ministers drew conclusions and adopted a resolution which specifically dealt with combatting failures at school.
The importance which the Council and Ministers attach to professional training for future opportunities for job seekers is evident from the fact that since 1976 the Council and Ministers of Education have passed thirteen resolutions or conclusions on the subject.
May I also remind you that in the decision of the European Parliament and the Council of 23 October 1995, which called for 1996 to be the European year of life-long education and training, the subjects for that manifestation included promoting professional training which ensured that all young people could acquire qualifications and promoting continued education and training.
I would also remind you of the Council decision of 6 December 1994 on deciding an action programme for the development of a European Community policy on profession training, the so-called Leonardo da Vinci Programme, which covers Community measures to improve professional training systems and provisions in the Member States by means of pilot projects and transnational programmes.
The Leonardo da Vinci programme stipulates, and I would refer Mr Crowley to part 4, section 1, that Community aid is given to initiatives in the Member States to set up transnational partnerships in this field and training to submit transnational pilot projects.
So there is already a link between Leonardo and the social fund.
In particular I am looking at people who are at risk, whether because of social problems and their lack of access to formal education, or because of dropping out of formal education and getting involved in crime and other activities.
Question No 2 by Mr Camisón Asensio (H-0103/97) Subject: Madrid to Lisbon high-speed train service Is there any likelihood that the projected future high-speed railway line linking Madrid and Lisbon will pass through the Spanish region of Estremadura?
I recall that this link was included in the decision 1682/96/EEC of the European Parliament and the Council of 23 July 1996 on community guidelines for the development of transEuropean networks.
Now we are told that it is a question of a multi-modal link between Spain and Portugal and the rest of Europe and I am in fact asking this question in order to dispel the doubts once and for all.
As I said, the question of the actual implementation and choice of route are matters to be decided on by the Member States but nevertheless the European Council and the Council as such have always considered it a high priority.
Southern African nations opposed the ban on the grounds that their elephant populations were well managed and in many cases growing beyond the carrying capacity of their land, and wished to resume a legal and controlled trade in elephant products for the benefit of conservation and rural communities.
And I am therefore unable to give a specific answer to the questions put by Mrs Sandbaek.
I would, however, like to point out at this juncture that the report from the panel named in Resolution 7.9, the resolution quoted by the honourable member, forms only the basis for the parties' talks on any requests for transfers from Annex 1 to Annex 2.
I am equally unable to comment on any possible loss of income resulting from the protection of those animals, as elephant products will not longer be allowed to be sold, nor on whether the EU intends to compensate the countries concerned.
I agree with Mrs Sandbaek, but now I am talking in general terms, that with proper wildlife management it should be possible to market the products resulting from that wildlife management.
Question No 6 by Mrs Banotti (H-0115/97) Subject: Interim trade agreement with Israel Is the Council satisfied that Article 1 of the interim trade agreement with Israel is being both properly monitored and implemented?
Respect of human rights and of democratic principles is an essential part of the Barcelona process, the cooperation between the European Union and the countries of the Mediterranean.
The European Union therefore follows closely the human rights situation in countries with which such agreements have been concluded in order to ensure that the conditions for the agreement are being respected.
That refers to both Israel as it does to the PLO, with whom the European Union signed an interim agreement on 24 February last.
Ambassador Moratinos was appointed at the end of last year as the Council's special envoy to the peace process in the Middle East.
What we are particularly concerned about here is doing everything possible to stimulate economic activities and create economic opportunities in the Palestinian areas in view of the unemployment and the social problems in these regions; a strong economic basis is essential for stable, peaceful relations in the Palestinian regions and between the Palestinian authorities and Israel.
Question No 7 by Mrs Hautala (H-0120/97) Subject: Groupeuro In the context of the Information Programme for European Citizens (Prince), the Commission has established a network of independent EMU experts called Groupeuro.
The Commission is entitled on its own responsibility to take a decision on this information campaign and the conditions attached thereto.
I received a written answer today and I am concerned that the Commission really supports this practice.
But I find it rather difficult to answer this question on the basis of documents and information with which I am not familiar.
Secondly, I think it ought to be a matter of principle to reply when you are given a question and not to refer the matter to another institution, especially as it is the Commission's own proposal that is being criticised and the Council has overall responsibility for what is happening in this area, as has always been the case with the Council and the Council's representatives.
As Mrs Stenzel is not present, Question No 8 (H-0127/97) falls.
Question No 9 by Mr Bertens (H-0132/97) Subject: Developments in the negotiations on the ban on anti-personnel mines The European Parliament has declared its unequivocal support for a ban on anti-personnel mines.
I agree with Mr Bertens that the participation of 110 countries in the Vienna conference must be regarded as a great success.
All 15 Member States took part in the Ottawa and Vienna conferences.
The forum is a means, not an aim in itself.
The European Union recently decided to try to start negotiations in the Geneva Disarmament Conference on an effective world-wide ban on the use, production, possession and transfer of anti-personnel mines, with the aim of producing a treaty as quickly as possible.
To Mr Bertens' last question I would reply that the Presidency assumes that all 15 member States will make a constructive contribution in Brussels.
I would like to thank the Council warmly for its commitment to a total ban on the most inhumane weapon we know, the anti-personnel mine or the anti-people mine.
I realise that there are some five Member States of the European Union, including France and the United Kingdom, which prefer it that way, but I hope that this Presidency at any rate will use its diplomatic endeavours to change that position.
The Presidency lays great store by coordination prior to the Ottawa process but especially in developing formal disarmament negotiations which could under the auspices of the UN bring about a treaty on the ban on production and trade in anti-personnel mines.
I just wish to thank the President-in-Office for the excellent, lengthy and detailed answer on this important subject.
I personally learned about it through the media, and without commenting specifically on that visit I think it is very important to create sufficient political support to put an end to land mines as an instrument of terror.
People with vision and power to motivate other people can in their own way contribute to public awareness.
Mr President, I would answer Mr Wibe's questions as follows.
I would remind you that tax-free sales in intra-Community travel does not mesh with an internal market without frontiers.
That is why the Council in adopting the directives on the abolition of tax borders, with effect from 1 January 1993, decided to put an end to these tax-free sales.
For the Community this must be closer to 10, 20 or 30 times more, in addition to the indirect effects of freight becoming more expensive.
It is undoubtedly the case that this proposal will have negative consequences for employment, particularly in those countries furthest away from the centre of Europe.
Reality is more important than any principle.
Employment is more important than abolishing duty-free trade.
I think that if you investigate the amounts the British treasury is currently losing through tax-free import of alcohol in lorries, or perhaps not lorries, but in any case in the luggage of her own citizens, I think that treasury loss could finance a large number of new economic activities in Great Britain, for example, which would more than compensate for the activities on the ferries.
The first question is: How many people will be without work if the EU decision to abolish duty-free trade between Member States is implemented in 1999?
The second question is: If the ferry companies' income is to be reduced by approximately 30 per cent, which probably will be the case if duty-free trade is abolished, how will this affect transport charges?
So if you want to have this debate we must have it on the basis of serious wider considerations with account taken of all aspects which are relevant and which are based on accurate statistics.
I can inform the Honourable Member that after the protocol to the Convention on protection of the financial interests of the European Community was adopted in September 1996 the Council continued to work on combatting international corruption.
Parliament gave its opinion on that in a resolution on 15 November 1996.
I thank the President-in-Office for his response and I appreciate the difficulty he has in being more specific.
Since the Council was not able to be more specific, I should like to ask the President-in-Office if he would be prepared to welcome a Commission proposal designed to secure such a development in developing countries and countries in transition with respect to bribery and corruption?
This subject as such is not really on the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference but will be studied in a group of senior officials which was set up by the Dublin European Council and which was instructed to report in a very short time on organised crime in Europe and beyond, in so far as Europe is involved.
First of all I would say in reply to Mr Sjöstedt's question that the European Council in Madrid fixed the starting date for the third stage at 1 January 1999.
Under Protocol 11 to the Treaty the United Kingdom, however, is not committed to proceeding to the third stage of the Economic and Monetary Union without its government and parliament specifically deciding to do so.
Under the Treaty of the Union or a treaty of accession all other Member States decided to participate in the third stage on condition that the Council, in the composition of heads of states and government, and I refer in this context to Article 109J(4) of the Treaty of the Union, confirms they meet the conditions for participation, the so-called convergence criteria.
As to the operation of the Intergovernmental Conference, it is not up to the Council to comment on the conference agenda or on any initiatives the Member States may wish to take.
Question No 13 by Mr Papayannakis (H-0150/97) Subject: Accession negotiations with the Republic of Cyprus At the recent General Affairs Council on 24 February 1997, differences of opinion emerged regarding the EU's negotiating partner for the purpose of accession negotiations with the Republic of Cyprus, which are scheduled to begin six months after the end of the ICG.
According to official information, some members of the Council consider that the Turkish Cypriot community should also be represented in these negotiations, an idea which has not been rejected by the Government of Cyprus, which has already said that its delegation could include Turkish Cypriots.
This is the Union's starting point which was confirmed again to the government of Cyprus at the meeting of the Association Council on 25 February 1997.
Close coordination within the international community to support the efforts of the United Nations is essential in order to reach a general settlement in accordance with the resolutions of the UN Security Council leading to a federation with two communities and two zones.
As confirmed in its conclusions of 6 March 1995 the Council believes that Cyprus' accession to the European Union should lead to greater security and well-being for each of the two communities on the island.
The Council has asked the Commission to make the necessary contacts with the Turkish Cypriot community, in agreement with the government of Cyprus.
Contacts between the European Union and the Cypriot government in general are very intensive.
Commissioner Van den Broek visited both parts of Cyprus very recently.
Mr Papayannakis' question referred to a very specific point, namely the political dialogue between the European Union and Cyprus.
It is clear that the general atmosphere would be improved by a definite prospect of peace negotiations being resumed in the near future under the auspices of the United Nations and preferably producing results in the very short term.
As Mrs Izquierdo Rojo is not present, Question No 15 (H-0151/97) falls.
Question No 16 by Mr Lindqvist (H-0153/97) Subject: The EU's foreign and security policy The clearest expression of the Union's objectives in security and defence is to be found in Article J.4(1).
For a Member State such as Sweden, the question of military alliances is very important.
It would therefore be a loss and a dilemma - a rather serious dilemma - if new regulations were introduced into a future EU Treaty, which would take the matter even further than the regulations, which still apply and which even during the referendum in 1994 caused an intense debate in our country.
As this issue in some countries is linked to a possible change in their penal legislation, in particular the penalisation of corrupt foreign officials, it may take some time for the legislation in the various member states to be revised in the light of the OECD recommendation.
On the implementation of the OECD recommendation which concerns tax legislation and penal legislation, it strikes me that regulations on competition and the internal market do not directly affect this discussion, so I must think carefully about this one.
As Mr Pirker is not present, Question No 18 (H-0165/97) falls.
Question No 19 by Mrs Cederschiöld (H-0168/97) Subject: Deadlines in areas which are part of the third pillar The IGC is discussing the introduction of deadlines in areas of the third pillar that are now being transferred to the Community domain.
As my predecessors and I myself have said on various occasions in earlier replies to questions on the workings of the IGC, the Council is not a party to this conference.
Not, however, to elicit a reply from the Council as we can all read the documentation and understand the position of the presidency in this question.
We need a majority decision to deal with questions concerning internal security.
It is possible that certain general actions in the framework of the Community action programme on public health, information, education and training which was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council on 29 March 1966 could indirectly contribute to the prevention of cot deaths, but sudden infant death syndrome as such is not specifically mentioned there.
As Mr Andrews is not present, Question No 21 (H-0176/97) falls.
Could I draw the President-in-Office's attention to the fact that the Commission made a case to the Council of Ministers in March 1995 and it included a proposal for aid for the establishment of bad weather unemployment funds.
I am not familiar with the 1995 proposal which was rejected by the Council or by Parliament, I am not too clear about that.
But this form of intracommunity aid for victims of disasters comes specifically under the authority of the Commission.
The Commission decided independently on 16 October 1996 to use ECU 300, 000 for victims of the severe floods in Ireland in January 1996.
Incidentally Parliament may ask the Commission itself to release funds for victims of disasters by adopting a resolution, for example, in its debates on urgent questions.
In reply to Mr Posselt's question I can say that the structured dialogue with the Central and Eastern European countries started in June 1996 under the French presidency in Luxembourg.
A seminar was held on that subject on 24 and 25 October 1996 and the conclusions of this seminar adopted as such by the partners on 28 and 29 November 1996.
A meeting of the working party 'Drugs and Organised Crime' was held with the Central and Eastern European countries on 10 March.
A second meeting with Central and Eastern European countries on this matter will be held under the Dutch presidency.
I reply to Mr Posselt's second question I would say that the Council attaches the utmost importance to cooperating with Central and Eastern European countries on the prevention of and fight against organised crime.
Mr President-in-office of the Council, I thank you first of all for being here and for being willing to discuss the future of driftnets with us.
As you know, the Commission has a proposed amendment to the current regulation on technical measures seeking to ban driftnets exceeding 2.5 kilometres in length as from 31 December l997.
This proposal dates from 1994 and thus far neither the Council nor the Commission has done anything to break the deadlock.
I am putting this question to the Fisheries Committee to underscore our conviction that various events which have taken place since 1994 in the legal, legislative, social, economic and environmental spheres, have placed the Commission proposal in a totally different global context.
Although there have not since 1994 been the serious disputes seen in previous years, that was because inspection vessels were permanently deployed by sea-bordering countries as well as a Commission monitoring vessel.
It seems clear that nets of 2.5 kilometres are not an economic proposition for most ports and the proof is that many countries, under pressure to carry out inspections, have dismantled their driftnet fleet as uneconomical - as in the case of Ireland and the United Kingdom - or for other more complex reasons nonetheless directly related to unprofitability, as is the case with Italy.
Another original - and in my opinion very important - aspect arises from the approval of the New York Agreement on trans-zonal and highly migratory species which the European Union is preparing to ratify.
I would draw attention to some of the points in Article 5, particularly 5 (f), according to which the states undertake to reduce to a minimum contamination, depletion of stocks, waste, fishing by equipment which is used once then discarded, accidental catches of species of fish or other creatures outside the scope intended, by the adoption of measures which include the use of gear and techniques for selective fishing which do not harm the environment and which are not expensive.
There again the ecology movement and those Member states most concerned about the environment have a much clearer view of driftnets nowadays than they had in 1994 and what happened with regard to the United States' threatened embargo against Italy, which directly affects the entire Community tuna and sword fish production, further demonstrates what we can expect if we do not tackle the problem.
Finally, Mr President, I should like to remind you of another factor which has been largely responsible for the changes cited: this Parliament's own resolution on the banning of driftnets dating from 1994 and which was, moreover, by excluding the Baltic and use within the 12-mile zone, instrumental in securing the agreement of the northern countries of the Union.
The only exception to this regulation is the Baltic Sea where special international rules apply.
On 8 April 1994 the Commission presented a proposal to the Council for a total ban on drift nets with effect from 1 January 1998.
The proposal was last discussed at the Fisheries Council of 22 April 1996 when the Council again stressed that the present Community legislation on drift nets must be fully respected.
The Commission representative stated that the Commission wished to see progress made and would welcome any constructive ideas from delegations on procuring a qualified majority on its proposal.
Measures have been taken to encourage fishermen to switch to other more selective methods for the period 19971999 and to offer them compensation for any loss of income.
This proposal of 17 December is currently being debated in the Council and the European Parliament consulted.
In the light of Parliament's opinion the Presidency intends to do everything in its power to ensure that the proposal is adopted during the Dutch presidency.
The Member States are also reminded of the Commission's request during the Council meeting of April 1996 to take the initiative and produce constructive proposals to solved the problem of drift nets.
Italy, or more accurately its new government, has taken a firm line on the issue and it is highly likely that within three years it will have succeeded in moving fishing vessels using driftnets up to 2.5 kilometres in an acceptable direction.
So there has to be a conversion plan covering the whole Mediterranean and it is also important for Europe to develop its Europartenariat role with Mediterranean countries, encouraging awareness in these countries of the environmental effects of this type of fishing.
The fishing industry also means safeguarding people's economic and social living conditions.
The Council's acceptance, possibly revised, of the Commission's 1994 proposal is therefore absolutely vital and a matter of great urgency.
Not even that much, but less than 12 % of the total catch!
Finally, what would be the consequences if French tuna fishermen were to abandon this technique?
In actual fact, these are fishing vessels that derive 50 % of their annual turnover from the tuna-fishing season.
Mr President, if it had been up to the European Parliament there would have been no need to ask this question because away back in 1994 we said that at the end of that year there should be a ban on drift nets.
The Italian drift nets in particular catch less than 20 percent of the total allowable catch of tuna and sword fish, the remaining 80 percent is by-catch.
Now the President-in-Office of the Council says that the Dutch presidency will do its best to discuss this proposal again, this proposal that was last discussed in the Council on 22 April.
I would ask the Council to take seriously the Commission proposal, namely for a ban with effect from 1 January 1998.
Mr President, it is three years since the Commission presented its proposal on the banning of driftnets and the decision is still blocked within the Council.
Although governments, such as the Italian government, are prepared to adopt measures to reduce the use of such nets, these initiatives are not sufficient from any point of view and there are Member States which have banned them, but until there is a generalized ban the situation will be exactly the same.
When these nets are used approximately 80 % of the catch is accidental which has an enormous impact on protected species.
Banning such nets is fundamental, both for the sake of conservation of resources and the protection of endangered species.
The market situation, the low quality of the catches which these nets yield and the high investment and amounts for amortization make their use uneconomical.
The Council should be aware of that and solve this question once and for all.
The problem is that we have before us a 1994 Commission proposal, a series of positions taken by the European Parliament, but also a UN resolution.
This means that a decrease in fishing would involve an increase, by weight, in catches which currently comprise young fish which often have not reproduced.
So the only way to guarantee Italian fishermen an income and a future in fishing is to ban the 'spadare' completely, carry out a conversion process, use more selective methods that are less dangerous for the environment and cement relationships with third countries to ensure control of the use of the 'spadare' in that zone.
Why, Mr President, are we resuming here today the debate on driftnets, when the only new scientific evidence confirms their selectivity, and when other types of fishing equipment are being developed that are highly questionable, such as the 'naveran' , for example?
The last two long-finned tuna fishing seasons in the North Atlantic have demonstrated the responsible behaviour of driftnet fishermen, who have been strictly observing the 2.5 km limits.
What we have to do, Mr President, is very simple.
Mr President, we are conducting an old debate here, since it goes back to 1994, when Carmen Fraga - who is to swordfish and tuna what Astrid Lulling is to honey or what I myself am to vines - the passionate advocate of the swordfish, first brought up this subject, this problem of the conflict between net and line.
Carmen Fraga Estévez herself wanted an immediate ban, with no variations, though as it turned out there would have been some variations - an immediate ban except for the Baltic (why the Baltic?) and for territorial waters, but it is true that, as far as the twelve-mile limits were concerned, the coastal State would have sovereignty.
And then there are the ecological arguments, the real walls round the Atlantic - 20 km in the case of Italy - against which everything is battering, just like in the days of the Second World War!
If we look at the real situation, the actual wastage, if I may call it that, is only 2 %, though I admit that that is already too much.
This poses a problem.
The Commission, in its wisdom - which is rare, and therefore worthy of comment - has finally, for once, arrived at a sort of compromise, which originated with the United Nations, and which the UNO itself adopted in 1989: a 2.5 km net instead of a 5 km net.
But with all the risks that this involved, all the problems of damage to nets, and the time it takes to change a net, this could mean losing at least one day's fishing, if not more.
Mr President, the key word in this question is 'balance' .
We must try in the first place to find a fair balance between viable fishing activity on the part of the Community fleet and the conservation of resources.
Despite what some French colleagues have said, the fall in the number of scombroid species in the Bay of Biscay is alarming and it is a result of the use of these very nets.
Although they are not sufficient, the two vessels chartered by the Commission and other measures taken with regard to fishing for tuna in coastal waters were decisive in reducing tension and avoiding the sad events of 1994.
Mr President, the reply from the Presidency of the Council could not have been more misleading.
And that we find disconcerting, as is the obstinacy of some Member States, because the only thing which the stepping up of monitoring over the past few years by the Member States and the Commission has shown is that driftnets of the regulation length are not economically viable; some Member States' fleets have stopped using them and where they are still used it is thanks to aids granted by some Member States.
The amendments proposed by Parliament might provide the flexibility needed to achieve the requisite majority in the Council - so that could not of course be the Commission's original proposal.
In conclusion, Mr President, I urge you to include this question in the agenda of this Council and to establish the necessary contacts and talks to make it possible to achieve agreement there on a solution which would constitute a step forward in the development of a responsible and sustainable common policy.
Mr President, we are against the proposal for an immediate ban on driftnets in the Mediterranean because it would only hit Community fishermen, while third countries' vessels would continue to fish without rules or controls.
The consequences would be especially serious for Italy, bearing in mind that this activity goes on almost exclusively in the Objective 1 area, and public order problems cannot be ruled out.
A 'spadare' plan has been drawn up, the fruit of an agreement between the government and the organizations in the sector, and providing for financial participation by the Community.
The Commission's proposal for financial support has already been analysed and judged favourably, at the Council of Fisheries Ministers last December.
The commitment we are seeking from the Council, Mr President, is to adopt the support measures to the Italian plan as quickly as possible, bearing in mind the extraordinary situation which justifies not only recourse to the FIFG but also access to other Community funds where the quotas intended for Italy are not fully used.
Mr President, as some previous speakers have said, the Council's answer seems to me to be far from sufficient on this problem of fishing with driftnets.
I am referring only to the problem seen in the Mediterranean and the specific harm which such fishing with driftnets causes for the fishermen, to be precise in the Balearic Islands, which suffer the damage occasioned by the presence of over 500 Italian vessels fishing with driftnets.
It has often been said that the Mediterranean is an ailing sea, a sea with problems concerning the conservation of species.
The conservation of these species depends on the use of fishing techniques which are as selective as possible and driftnets can never be a selective system of fishing.
I have approached the Commission on several occasions concerning the harm being done in the Balearic Islands by this type of fishing.
Mr President, Mr President-in-office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the words of the President-in-office of the Council really are misleading.
We were hoping for much more from the Presidency of the Council and still more from the Netherlands Presidency.
The current impasse in which the legislation on driftnets finds itself is simply untenable.
It has been said here that the Commission asked for these nets to be discontinued from the end of this year - Parliament has repeated it on many occasions - and it appears, ladies and gentlemen, that we are going to have to keep on repeating it.
Allowing time to go by without solving this problem makes the situation worse, detracts from the credibility of the Community institutions and leads to undesirable situations, such as the present situation in Italy where there is pressure from North America, as mentioned here also.
The new situation in the Mediterranean, Mr President, the proposed exclusion of the Baltic should make it possible to obtain a better majority in the Council to break the deadlock on this problem finally as Parliament has requested.
It is the Council which is in a position to solve the problem.
Mr President, firstly, I wish to take the opportunity during this debate on fisheries to refer to an incident off the south-west coast of Ireland on Sunday last on a bright, sunny day, with calm seas and good visibility.
The incident involved the 16-metre Irish vessel, Exodus , and the 33-metre British vessel, the Seahorse , crewed by Spaniards and Portuguese.
I call on Parliament to send its condolences to the relations of skipper Danny O'Driscoll who died as a result of this incident and, indeed, to the community of Castletownbear.
If it is intended to ban driftnets, then logic would suggest a ban on beam trawling or indeed any other method of fishing deemed to be deleterious to the environment.
Since a reduction of the limits to 2.5 km, there has been a 66 % fall in tuna landings in my country.
There has been no economic analysis or consultation with the industry and scientists have never recommended a ban on driftnetting.
But obviously there are two sides to it.
Most of the public sentiment surrounding the whole question of driftnet fishing comes from experiences in the Pacific, where everything is entirely different, where the tuna fish swim close to dolphins and where driftnets do cause a loss of other sea life besides what they are intended to catch.
In the Pacific, also, nets are 40-50 km in length and that is an entirely different situation from what we have in the Atlantic.
What I want to say is that we should try to find a solution.
A sensible solution would be that if the French and the Irish and British are forced out because their system of fishing is unacceptable, then obviously the Spanish fleets will catch more fish and they could concede to the Irish and the British and the French other quotas of similar value and everybody would be happy.
Thank you, Mr President.
That therefore implies a threat to the environment, unprofitability, incompatibility with traditional nets in the same waters, conflict between fleets, real difficulties as regards control and the risk of commercial sanctions.
I should like to put a specific proposal to the Netherlands Presidency: the Presidency of the Council could spearhead an agreement between the Member States for the final solution of this problem.
You, Mr President of the Council, mentioned the consideration of initiatives to achieve voting by qualified majority in the Council.
Consider the possibility of excluding the Baltic from that initiative, laying down the definitive ban on these nets from 31 December 1997.
But they could join forces with a majority with an alternative plan for conversion from driftnets in the Atlantic - a plan financed from the FIFG which could in the course of 1997 and 1998 finance: first the cost of the investment already made in driftnets; secondly training for fishermen in more selective methods of fishing for the same species - tuna; thirdly the investment needed for conversion.
This is one alternative - the other is to carry on with an unresolved environmental problem, a latent conflict in Community waters, vast Commission expenditure, gaps in the legislation described annually in the Commission reports and finally the threat of commercial sanctions by the United States which will adversely affect the entire Community market unless the Italian problem is solved.
As we just heard, Mr Imaz San Miguel has given the President-in-Office the floor.
That is the kind of skill expected when it comes to reaching a Council decision on the Commission proposal of April 1994.
You have encouraged us to do everything in our power to bring the Commission proposal of April 1994 to a successful conclusion.
The other track, even if this is apparently blocked at the moment for political reasons, is to act, for example, on the basis of the Italian government's proposals to work through structural measures aimed at the fishing communities in Italy to phase out the use of drift nets by these communities and encourage them to switch to other techniques or other economic activities.
We cannot continue the debate, Mr Eisma, because we have another item on the agenda.
Mr President, on behalf of Commissioner Bonino, I should like to stress that the Commission certainly also regrets the fact that no progress has been made on this matter in the Council.
As we have heard, the Commission's proposal has been pending there since 1994 and, according to the information I have received, the Commission has repeatedly indicated to the Council that it is in favour of a compromise being reached which could secure a qualified majority.
On a point of order, Mr President, I do not consider that the Commission has answered the question put by the previous speaker and I would ask if the Commission could indicate soon whether in fact it is thinking of playing an active role in the drafting of a new proposal.
The current Agreement which is valid from May 1996 to May 1997, covers the fishing fleets of five Member States - Spain, Portugal, France, Germany and the Netherlands - and includes a considerable enlargement of the possibilities of fishing off those coasts.
This Agreement costs a total of 40 million ECU, which is a considerable increase over the previous Agreement, which cost only 18.5 million ECU.
There are three fundamental reasons for this increase, the first, the most important one, is the increase in the period of duration of the Agreement which has gone up from two to three years; the second reason is a considerable increase in the possibilities for fishing given to the Community's fleet; the third reason is the updating of the cost of compensating the Angolan State, which had not been updated since 1992.
I should like to emphasise the fact that this Agreement is also innovative in other areas, in particular in that it very much respects the principle of conservation of fish resources, allowing for the possibility of declaring biological rest periods on the basis of scientific data calling for them.
On the other hand, I should like to emphasise the fact that although this Fishing Agreement - as is the case of all fishing agreements - is a commercial agreement, it also respects the principles of co-operation and development, in particular because it finances activities such as scientific research into fish resources, bursaries, the promotion of the local fishing fleet, and it also increases from three to five the number of sailors who can sail on Community ships, in addition to providing for vocational training for those same sailors.
Finally, I should like to draw the attention of the European Parliament and the Commission to the habitual delays in consulting the European Parliament, something which is now part of our history!
The rapporteur notes that, in fact, in order for the institutions to be properly respected, we really must change the administrative and political machinery so that the European Parliament can be consulted within a reasonable length of time and so that its opinion can really have an effective influence on the decision-making process.
Mr President, I would echo some of the points which my colleague, Mr Cunha, has made.
We often talk about the dilemma of whether these agreements should be trade agreements or development instruments.
Mr Crampton has made this point in his own contribution to Parliament, as have many others.
I am not talking about EU boats - at least we have an agreement which regulates that - but a number of fleets from elsewhere, particularly from Asia which have been found in violation of the territorial waters of the Republic of Guinea.
They feel vulnerable to blandishments or the simple invasion of boats from parts of the world other than the EU.
Guinea suffered quite severely for standing up for its principles and becoming independent.
Likewise the Committee on Development and Cooperation, as I mentioned, made absolutely the right point in saying that these agreements should be seen as tools of development.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking here on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, and I should like to emphasize the following points.
The history of these two agreements proves yet again how important it was that we should finally improve the procedure for keeping this House informed and involving it in the concluding of international fishery agreements.
I hope, in any case, that the kind of evasive tactics demonstrated by part of the budgetary authority will now be a thing of the past.
The code of conduct that we adopted along with the 1997 budget was intended to ensure that this would be the case.
But for the Council to go on to decide that the agreements should be provisionally implemented, and for the Commission then to pay out not inconsiderable sums of money to Guinea and Angola, namely ECU 2.7 million in one case and in the other case as much as ECU 13.5 million, without having consulted our opinion, that really is too much!
Therefore I would ask the Council and the Commission - and I am sorry that the Council representative is no longer here - that in future negotiations on fishery agreements they should observe the code of conduct, and when concluding an agreement they should inform both the Committee on Fisheries and the Committee on Budgets regarding the progress of the negotiations and the financial consequences.
This is what we agreed jointly - and I emphasize the word jointly - in the code of conduct.
Mr President, one of the key characteristics of the global fishing situation at the moment is that stocks worldwide are heavily depleted.
That in itself means that there is a race to fish in order to make enough money to service that capital, that agreements are made with different countries in order to move fishing volume away from home waters into other EEZs elsewhere around the world.
That is exactly what international fishing agreements, as concluded by the European Union, are all about.
It is a cycle that has to end in order to protect fish stocks for fishermen for the longterm future.
That is why the Liberal Group in this Parliament is the only one that is actually facing reality and saying that the public subsidization of fishing agreements has to stop.
I ask this Parliament to support those amendments to ensure that we safeguard our fish stocks and fishing communities for the future.
Let us hope that the shipowners and Community fishermen using it can benefit in full from the fisheries opportunities which have already been negotiated.
We need to be fully involved in the presentation of these fishing agreements right from the start.
I do not think that these developing countries, especially countries that have gone through such a tragedy as Angola, should be forced into that position.
We have a responsibility all of us, particularly to the developing world, and particularly to countries which were our colonies in the past to whom we have not shown the respect they deserve.
We need to help them develop their own fishing industries so that in the long run - and I emphasize the long run because it will be the long run - they are able to export their own fishing products and get the added value of their fishing industries for their own development.
We must deplore, as we so often need to, the fact that the Commission and the Council relegate the Parliament to a very marginal role beneath its station in budgetary matters.
The European Union pays a fair amount of financial compensation and the agreements are beneficial for the development of those countries and at the same time keep our fishermen in employment.
Mr President, the Commission would firstly like to thank the rapporteurs for these two excellent reports concerning fisheries agreements.
For the first time, the annex to the protocol allows the Angolan authorities to introduce a biological recovery period.
The Commission already ensures that information is provided in an appropriate way on implementation of the agreements, in particular at the meetings of the Committee on Fisheries and prior to each meeting.
However, the Commission will make enquiries of the Guinean authorities as to how this sum is used, and will then pass on the information to the European Parliament in an appropriate way as part of the current information procedures.
