On Paragraph 24 Mr President, in response to the barracking, it was not my wish to make an oral amendment, but we have come to a compromise and it seems to be sticking as far as the vote this morning is concerned.
Mr Wolf, you are fully within your rights to oppose this amendment but for this to take effect you must have the support of 12 Members.
Therefore, if there are 12 Members who support you, the oral amendment will be rejected.
I gather that the five words in English come to eleven in the Spanish text.
In any event, this is a purely linguistic problem.
There is a high risk that this underdevelopment in the countries of the third world will continue or even become more marked.
Together, they control 70 % of world trade.
The political world and public opinion must win this battle, essentially through the help of NGOs.
As the rapporteur points out, Europe's attitude can therefore play a decisive role in ensuring global sustainable social and economic development.
I am also convinced that economic expansion based on social injustice cannot last.
These codes of conduct must be negotiated within a global context so that we can find a compulsory mechanism that can be applied fairly to all enterprises, both in third countries and in the Member States of the European Union.
The Lomé IV Convention already had one innovative aspect in that it referred to the respect for and promotion of human rights in the actual body of the Convention.
I must say that many of the guidelines and measures we advocate in this report would not have any effect and would be inefficient if they were not adopted by the various ACP actors, and especially by civil society in the ACP states, as civil society is the ultimate beneficiary of such measures.
In this field, education is an essential environment for political action seeking to encourage the strengthening of a strong and healthy civil society.
We realise that these objectives, which, although ambitious are no less urgent or utopian, cannot be achieved without working on dialogue both between the European Union and the ACP countries and among the ACP states themselves.
Thirdly, most ACP countries have signed international conventions in the field of human rights and democracy.
The hustle and bustle of finance requires clear legislation for its protection.
Of course we know a close correlation exists between democracy and development, but that can never be used as an excuse to justify anti-democratic regimes and violations of the most elementary human rights, to deny the right to participate in decision-making, to tolerate widespread corruption, and so on.
The Union's approach has evolved a great deal over the years and since the start of the 1990s the focus has been on the issue of democracy as an aim of all development cooperation.
We need to consider whether, in some cases, the rules and procedures set out in the current Lomé Convention relating to contracts, the allocation and management of financial resources, and respect for commercial rules of origin, may not be the subject of mismanagement and even corruption in some ACP countries.
Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report and being brave enough to highlight such issues as corruption and the lack of pluralism in some States.
We are all aware that many developing nations are in a serious financial situation because corruption is adding to the debt problem.
The whole structure of our Lomé agreement is based on democracy, human rights and good governance.
He is quite right to highlight the move from a purely economic approach to a form of cooperation which instead puts the accent strongly on human rights, evolution towards democracy, and aid from the European Union countries to establish the rule of law in the developing countries, not just in form but also, and above all, in substance.
Anyone participating in the ACP assemblies can confirm this concern on the part of these countries.
Furthermore, the Convention must include detailed and very clear provisions on measures to combat corruption, accompanied by very specific sanctions that can be applied to the ACP country, to the Member States or to the economic operators.
Finally, we also believe that the appropriate institutional framework for the debate on the new concepts of the Convention and the pursuit of this policy is a new ACP-EU Joint Assembly that has been adapted and restructured.
I have the impression that we are using the term political dialogue to conceal the fact that what we are really trying to do is to impose a western political system on the ACP countries.
The only effective way to achieve a lasting improvement in the fate of socially deprived or sexually abused children in some of the countries involved is to convey an unmistakably clear message and impose certain conditions within the framework of development policy.
I naturally attach great importance to this report and to the Commission report, because the ever-recurring conflicts between the United States of America and Europe can be attributed not least to the fact that we have particularly close economic ties with 70 countries throughout the world and that great mutual support exists.
I believe that it is quite natural that we, as Europeans, should attempt to introduce and support, in these 70 countries with which we cooperate, certain principles which we have recognised as being correct, and that we look upon them practically as a basic condition in this area.
Allow me, however, to make a slight criticism of this report that seems to me to be very important.
If we look at what is happening in Rwanda and Burundi, it is my belief that it is enormously important for us, as a European Parliament that continually supports not only individual human rights but also the rights of ethnic groups, to ensure that the rights of these groups are guaranteed at an international level, which is not the case at the moment.
Finally, I would urge the Commission to prepare a similar communication on the implementation of democracy and human rights policy in other regions.
Mr President, in September 1998 negotiations started between the EU and the ACP to agree the successor to the Lomé Convention.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to thank Parliament for its proposal for a resolution on the Commission's communication entitled 'Democratisation, the rule of law, respect for human rights and good governance: the challenges of the partnership between the European Union and the ACP States'.
This communication responds to three requirements: the need to clarify for ACP members how the European Commission interprets these principles; the need to contribute in terms of stepping up the debate in the ACP states; and the need to prepare and facilitate the debate on the future relations between the ACP states and the European Union.
Finally, let me repeat what Mr Fernández Martín said in his report and welcome the laudable efforts and progress made in many ACP states over the last few years in spite of the difficult economic conditions they face.
The debate is closed.
This Convention must also ensure that the economic and social partners become stronger in the ACP countries and that a permanent and constructive dialogue is established between them.
In more general terms, it is once again important to support and extend the role of civil society in drawing up and implementing development and democratisation programmes among our partners.
Back in 1995, in the Commission's White Paper 'An energy policy for the European Union', a clear statement was made concerning renewable energies, also from the point of view of foreign economic policy, and in the 1997 White Paper 'Energy for the future - renewable sources of energy', the one million solar roofs programme for photovoltaic systems was introduced, which would satisfy half the energy requirements in third countries, and at the same time provide an opportunity to promote exports for our domestic industries in Europe.
As is made clear in a report, out of 17 potentially relevant EU support programmes, there is not a single one that aims specifically to provide export support for renewable energies.
This Export Council could be funded jointly by the EU and by industrial associations in the renewables sector.
The competition in the USA and Japan never sleeps.
In the USA there is already a 'US Export Council for Renewable Energies', which has offices in the client countries of the future and also has generous funding.
Even in the wind energy sector an average market growth of 26 % is being projected in emergent and developing countries for the period 1998-2002.
The Commission itself has talked of between 500 000 and 900 000 new jobs by the year 2010, and an equal number of jobs could be created by exports in this field.
Mr President, this is a very important issue which should be examined particularly from the point of view of how to create a demand for renewable energy sources.
However, we in Europe are in a situation where there is natural demand.
We have a situation of natural demand in the Member States of the European Union, but there is still more demand in the applicant countries.
The Kyoto agreement as it is obliges us to find solutions.
I believe that, as Mr Elchlepp has already stated, this can go some considerable way to helping third countries meet the environmental standards that were set jointly in Kyoto.
We need to inform our SMEs, who are leading players in this sector, about opportunities in the third world.
At the same time, however, we need to inform third countries, especially the ACP countries, about these opportunities and, above all, about the opportunities in rural development, where, for example, cooperatives and producer groups could implement these uncomplicated technologies.
Finally, this should include pilot projects to show the SMEs what is possible in the third world in the field of rural development.
I am now talking, in my role as Vice-President of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly, about actual implementation for these countries.
We first of all have the possibility of setting up an energy chapter within the framework of the new Convention and then, within this new energy chapter, of giving priority to renewable energies.
Thirdly, we must also inform the Centre for Industrial Development, which is provided for in the Lomé Convention, about this report and, in our next meeting with the ACP countries we must point out to this centre that here we have new opportunities for action which can be very quickly implemented.
Fourthly, I would like to say that we must hold this discussion in the ACP-EU Joint Assembly over the coming months in a very intensive, result-oriented and targeted way.
Renewable energy technology and its markets are a global issue, requiring EU resources for development.
Furthermore, there should be more opportunities for companies in the partnership countries such as those in the TACIS and PHARE programmes.
That means that by the year 2020 the world's energy production figure will have increased by 50 %.
Neither the goal of doubling the consumption of renewable energy by the year 2010 nor the Kyoto agreement will be implemented unless room is made for the new technologies in the production of energy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased with this very detailed and unambiguous report by Mr Elchlepp.
This is also a special challenge for the German Presidency, which is held by Joschka Fischer.
Mr President, Europe is currently in an advantageous position in terms of research and development in the field of renewable energies, despite the scant support received by this sector of European industry in comparison with its most direct competitors, the United States and Japan.
It is estimated that close to one million direct and indirect jobs could be created between now and the year 2010 if the use of renewable energy were to double.
These jobs would also be compatible with the protection of the environment because the use and promotion of these forms of energy avoids the use of fossil fuels, thereby preventing emissions of CO2 into the atmosphere.
The White Paper and the positions of the European Parliament, as expressed in this report, provide a very good framework for stepping up efforts for the further development of technology, mainly through assistance for small and medium-sized enterprises and through the transfer of this technical know-how, so that the huge energy requirements can be met by renewable sources.
Renewable energy is certainly an important future market, because its potential is unlimited compared with the limited and low-entropy energy sources in the earth's crust.
In any event, the European Union must cooperate closely with developing countries in the context of the new Lomé Convention, to promote viable forms of development and to settle their debts - as proposed in the report - in exchange for coverage of their energy needs from renewable sources.
I have been in Parliament for 20 years now and rarely has there been such a good report as the one he has written.
We have a massive market for renewable energies on our very doorstep, that is, in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
In all these regions there is still a tremendous amount of work to be done.
The people in these countries do not yet know enough about renewable energies.
I should therefore like to ask you to ensure that both the people of these countries, and their governments, who also do not know enough, are informed.
We can and should give these countries a great deal, because in these countries we can start from scratch and carve out the correct path.
The EU and our country too leads the world in the large-scale exploitation of renewables, and this will also mean great opportunities for exporters.
Madam President, our group fully supports the factual, in-depth report by Mr Elchlepp.
This report could be the starting point for us to move forward in this area.
In my opinion the Commission must set up a special unit to promote marketing and cooperation here, to support the NGO projects in third world countries and, through the PHARE, TACIS and MEDA programmes, to support projects in the Mediterranean region and in Eastern Europe.
They must make use of our joint potential with these countries to help the people and to maintain the basis for our lives and our existence.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to be able to address Parliament on the issues raised in this very timely report and to respond to the proposal for a resolution.
The report and its explanatory statement are a valuable contribution to the current work on promoting renewable energy and will help us to understand better what opportunities such energy forms offer.
In the work leading up to the adoption of the White Paper at the end of 1997, the Commission tried to take Parliament's contribution into account, as expressed in its resolutions on the White Paper itself and on access for renewable energy to the electricity market as well as the Altener II programme, which was adopted in 1998.
The White Paper reflects the views expressed by Parliament in 1997 on the main renewable energy issues that would be useful when drawing up a Community policy in this field.
Work on the necessary advance studies of the current programmes and efforts being made concerning renewable energies has almost been completed in the Member States and in the Community.
In accordance with Parliament's wishes, renewable energies are, and increasingly will be, promoted in European assistance programmes such as PHARE, TACIS, MEDA, the European Development Fund and other Lomé Convention instruments.
Finally, Madam President, I have briefly tried to explain what we are doing, and what we have in the pipeline in relation to the content of the report and resolution in question.
The European Parliament has once again shown itself to be most constructive in its initiatives for promoting renewable energies.
Thank you, Mr Oreja.
The debate is closed.
The increased use of these cheap and clean technologies also provides an opportunity for industrialised countries in that it may lead to the creation of new jobs in high value added sectors together with access to new and immense markets in the southern hemisphere.
I agree with the rapporteur that the European approach must be transverse and that, within the context of international cooperation and our partnership agreements, we must encourage our representatives to give strategic priority to renewable energy when planning their energy, environmental and development policies.
Impact of financial crisis on European industry The next item is the joint debate on the oral questions (B4-1162/98, B4-1163/98, B4-1164/98, B4-0005/99, B4-0008/99 and B4-0010/99) on the world financial crisis and European industry.
Madam President, this debate could not have been more topical or relevant.
Although this situation could temporarily benefit the Brazilian economy, it has already caused a truly spectacular stampede of capital.
As we all know, unfair practices and increased imports are already damaging two industrial sectors that are particularly sensitive: iron and steel, and shipbuilding.
If these attitudes persist, the OECD or even the World Trade Organisation will find their regulatory role and their prestige severely affected.
The shipbuilding sector, for example, cannot make any more sacrifices.
If State aid disappears before the year 2000 and current practices continue - namely Asian dumping - the majority of shipyards will be forced to close and all the work on modernising and adapting them, financed with European citizens' money, will have been in vain.
Not only does this development look set to continue, but it will accelerate.
The damage inflicted on the European steel market, for example, will be further exacerbated by the dishonest trade practices implemented in certain countries.
In this connection, the intention of the American steel industry to solve the problem through draconian trade-policy measures, or protectionist measures, constitutes a serious threat to the EU market.
Madam President, the previous resolutions of 17 September and 3 December 1998 on the global financial crisis do not make today's oral questions and motions for resolutions redundant or merely repetitive.
If it was considered that the events in Brazil in October were the worst point of the crisis and that efforts had been made and financial resources mobilised to prevent this turning into a disaster, then the news of the last few days must be worrying.
Last year's downturn in the world economic climate undoubtedly had a negative impact on the European Union.
The Commission trusts that Europe's economy will recover in the year 2000, a year in which it is hoped growth will reach 2.8 %.
In that general context, some sectors of European industry are faced with fierce competition from imports.
In the year leading up to September 1998, the European Union registered a trade surplus of ECU 22 billion for industrial products, that is, ECU 16 billion less than the surplus for the same period in 1997.
However, this has been partially compensated for by the high national inflation rates in those countries.
This heavy pressure will probably continue in 1999, although perhaps not at such high levels as in 1998.
When the Commission made its autumn forecast, it pointed out that it expected growth in employment to reach 1.2 % in 1998, a more rapid rate of growth than the 0.8 % rate recorded in spring.
It should have dropped to 10 % in 1998 and should then drop to 9.5 % in 1999, from a maximum of 11.2 % recorded in 1994.
As regards the increase in competitive pressure on European industry, this does not necessarily mean that the Union's trading partners are using unfair trade practices.
During 1998, until the month of September, imports of finished or semi-finished steel products rose to 18.5 million tonnes, 6.6 million tonnes more than for the corresponding period in 1997.
The unexpected increase in imports of steel products into the European Union caused prices to collapse in the second half of 1998.
During the United States-European Union Summit, held in Washington on 18 December 1998, debates were held on a wide variety of issues and one of these related to imports of steel products.
It is essential that all parties involved act in a responsible manner and in accordance with international standards in order to safeguard the advantages of trade liberalisation and avoid further trade disputes.
Following the devaluation of various currencies in South-East Asia, the Koreans, in particular, have enjoyed higher sales in this sector.
However, the Community industry managed to maintain a strong position in the world market in 1998: it obtained 29 % of new orders between January and September 1998, as opposed to 22 % for Korea.
I believe that, at this stage, it is still difficult to give a correct diagnosis, and would, in fact, be rather hasty.
In any event, the European Union and Brazil have important trade links and European businesses have invested quite substantially in industrial development in Brazil, in the automobile sector for example.
I also believe, however, that we all know the success of Europe's economy will be judged not so much in monetary terms but in relation to the real economy, and there the situation is not at all encouraging.
The prospective growth rate of Europe's economy in 1999 has fallen to just 1.4 %.
The money market crisis in the third world, which has of course become a crisis of the real economy there, has brought about huge job losses, reductions in real incomes and a fall of our own exports.
Without oversimplifying matters, common sense shows that we must not make such a difficult situation even more difficult by suppressing demand in our own economy by the restrictions we have imposed on financial policy, in other words the celebrated 3 % deficit limit of the Stability Pact.
They give the same kind of advice to all countries, which are all different, and generally that advice is deflation, or, in the case of industrialised countries, cuts in social welfare.
It is apparent to all that our debate is highly topical and that global problems need to be tackled at a global level.
Exports to Asia, for example, have fallen by 56 %.
Import escalation rates of up to 700 % are currently being quoted.
We can only get to grips with these developments through cooperation, joint strategies and a joint problem-solving approach.
In this context, free access to markets has a crucial role to play.
It is very important to us to prevent further job losses.
In the resolution we have signed there is the suggestion - and I know it is not a very popular one - that we should once again discuss a tax on financial capital transfers in the economies of such countries.
It is well known that the World Trade Organisation does not accept measures against currency devaluations and, until now, the United States and the European Union have not applied any measures in this respect.
Thank you, Mr Oreja.
The debate is closed.
Joint motion for a resolution on the economic and social impact of the global financial crisis on European industry Before the vote on Amendment No 2 Madam President, in the original resolutions the three sectors of most concern are mentioned: steel, shipbuilding and textiles.
Even a moderate slowing down in growth can have very negative consequences if it occurs in a country that has no room for manoeuvre.
Without returning to the issue of the single currency, on which my feelings are well known, I must stress that the European Union can be useful to us in a crisis if it conducts a vigorous common trade policy to combat dumping, for example in the iron and steel industry or shipbuilding, and to ensure compliance with the Community preference, for example in agriculture.
However, we must not delude ourselves: Europe can only provide us with supplementary aid.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to dealing with the specific proposals of the Commission's action plan, I intended in this report to consider, and often to confirm, political issues involving the whole common fisheries policy.
Monitoring is clearly decisive in ensuring the success of the fisheries policy in a situation of declining resources that is affecting a growing number of species.
The social development of the sector also requires policies establishing general levels of social benefits and welfare entitlements that are identical for all Community fishermen and that guarantee them the foundations for a common legal statute in line with higher standards of living.
In this context, the way in which the sector is dealt with in Agenda 2000 does not augur well and this situation must be radically altered.
I must thank all my colleagues for their contributions to the drafting of this report and I must particularly thank all the secretariat of the Committee on Fisheries for its diligence in preparing this report.
The Commission has produced a five-year plan for the common fisheries policy over the next five years.
This happens throughout the Union and it is important that the Commission and the Member States get together and establish some common rules and some common responsibilities.
Member States must face up to their responsibilities and we in Parliament must play our part by ensuring that sufficient resources are voted into inspection and surveillance.
The Commission has a produced a reasonable working document and hopefully together, Parliament's Committee on Fisheries, the Commission and the Council - who must face up to their responsibilities in this - will bring about proper control of the common fisheries policy.
I welcome this report.
Further cooperation between the Commission and the Member States is needed to achieve an effective implementation of the control of EU fisheries policy, even if the responsibility for the control is on Member States.
It is also vitally important that Member States should allow access for Community inspectors to their waters, allowing for a complete and more effective cooperation between national and European authorities.
The Irish navy has the responsibility of policing some 20 % of EU coastal waters.
Madam President, the Commission action plan on monitoring, if its aims come to fruition, is a positive move towards improving implementation of the common fisheries policy.
It is thus important to stress the need for monitoring to be effective throughout the Community and not just in certain Member States.
The use of new technologies in improving implementation is a step forward but clearly such methods should be financed properly and equally across Member States.
It is little wonder, for instance, that Scottish fishermen get annoyed when they are prevented from accessing support available to fishermen of other Member States.
The deliberations by Mr Novo and the Committee on Fisheries on the need to improve the implementation of the common fisheries policy have highlighted four main proposals that we fully support.
However, this issue cannot be considered in isolation or without extensively involving the industry.
The second proposal involves the need for very vigorous international action so that the measures allowing responsible fishing are applied to both third country fishermen and to Community fishermen, so that our fishermen are not penalised.
In our opinion, these proposals are therefore excellent and we will vote in favour of this report.
In addition, this is reflected both in the plan itself as well as in our proposal to amend the control regulation.
Other elements in the report have already been covered in the amendments to the control regulation adopted by the Council in December.
I am referring to matters such as European Social Fund allocations for training in the fisheries sector, or controls in international waters, which are, in principle, dealt with by the competent regional fisheries authorities.
The same can be said of the Community financial contribution towards expenditure incurred by the Member States in implementing control systems, as governed by Decision 95/527.
As for the rest, ladies and gentlemen, we believe it is especially important that the fisheries sector participate in these initiatives in order to increase its level of cooperation and to promote better information.
Thank you, Mr Oreja.
The debate is closed.
Such a pilot scheme should involve some flexibility to enable up to 10 % of over-quota good-quality fish to be sold on the market and taken off the following year's quota.
Member State governments should play their part in cooperating fully with the Commission to ensure fishing grounds under stress within their jurisdiction are closed when necessary and that they are conducting the controls and inspections for which they are responsible thoroughly and effectively.
Madam President, the EPP Group welcomes this initiative particularly because it is the first initiative on discard tabled by the European Union.
The report focuses all its attention on the juvenile problem, but these discards have wider consequences.
The report highlights the need for further studies on discard and its biological, marine and economic consequences.
The report also includes a reference to implementing a ban on discards.
The Commission notes the suggestion included in the report on investigating the value of banning discards for one or two species as a pilot project.
Thank you, Mr Rübig.
The debate is closed.
