The control services of DG VI realised something was not right and made corrections of 5 %.
The Commission's financial controller said that was too little, that serious errors had been made, it would have to be 10 %.
It rejected the advice from its technical services and decided on 5 %.
The loss to the Community budget was in the region of ECU 30 million.
The loss to the budget from the cotton case was about ECU 30 million.
Furthermore, there is in our view the major question as to whether the maximum financial correction of 10 % is indeed enough.
Last year this Parliament gave the European Commission the benefit of the doubt.
Madam President, were we talking about the 1995 clearance of accounts, we could say there is something rotten in the state of Denmark and we could have been referring to feta cheese.
Mr Mulder worked very hard on this report and the Committee on Budgetary Control has not taken it lightly.
Consequently, it has not only accepted losses to the Community budget but also disavowed the work of its own services.
I have also a personal reservation about this 25 % rate.
We have fines of 2 %, 5 % and 10 % when Member States are guilty of carelessness or a failure which may lead to loss of Community revenue.
If we lose 25 % of Community revenue, then surely there is something drastically wrong with the Commission in the first place - and with the national administrations.
In every case where there is public administration at local or national level, fraud occurs.
We have also to point out that it is still up to the Member States to decide on how 80 % of Community appropriations are to be subdivided.
A declaration of intent on the part of the Irish government on improving the control system was sufficient for the Commission to lower the 1991 flat rate correction for Irish beef storage from 10 % to 5 %.
These countries did not protest and had to pay the full 10 %.
Madam President, the amount of the total financial corrections - ECU 800 m for 1992 - shows that the application of Community regulations still leaves much to be desired.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mulder has presented a very well-balanced report here today, and in this report he has, to a certain extent, got to the bottom of the problems facing the Commission when the latter takes its decision with regard to the clearance of the accounts submitted by Member States.
The Commission's auditors found that in 1990 and 1991 in Ireland, there were major shortcomings in the control system for the intervention buying of beef, and therefore, for both these years, a flatrate correction of 10 % was proposed.
Both Ireland and the arbitration body took the view that controls in 1991 had improved, and that the risk of loss in that year was therefore lower.
However, at the time the auditors were not convinced of the effectiveness of these improvements, because intervention buying had been suspended with effect from 1993 until the date of the decision on the clearance of accounts.
On the second question, regarding the cotton situation in Greece, this entirely exceptional correction of 25 % represents the maximum possible loss to the Community budget.
As part of the measures taken to improve control procedures, the Greek authorities carried out ex-post controls at the ginning plants, which showed that the actual losses were very probably not more than 10 %.
In those circumstances, we could not stick to a correction of 25 %.
At any rate, corrections as high as 25 % should be undertaken only after very careful consideration, because the legal bases on which the Commission acts rarely allow a correction to be undertaken that amounts to more than the actual loss to the Community budget that may possibly have arisen.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, our group will be voting in favour of Mr Mulder's report.
No revisions should be called for, even if that is difficult to accept in the light of the substantial losses suffered by the Community budget, amounting to nearly a billion ECU.
We also agree with the call for a flat-rate correction of 25 %.
I should like to take advantage of this vote to emphasize the difference in relation to the 1992 discharges to the Commission and the 1993 discharges on Parliament's budget.
So it happens that the report which I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights - a report which is of interest to at least 10 million assisting spouses in the European Union, and perhaps even twice that number - has been relegated to this sparsely attended Friday morning sitting.
It is true, too, that the sad fate of the millions of assisting spouses working in their husbands' businesses, with no legal status, no independent social security, no financial security in the event of divorce, no claim on the assets to which they have contributed - is a less emotive subject than mad cows for those Members who, this week, tabled a motion of censure against the Commission.
As the report on the application of the directive - drawn up by the Commission after a delay of at least three years - has not been presented to Parliament, the Committee on Women's Rights has had to compile an own-initiative report on these invisible victims of discrimination, the assisting wives working in millions of family businesses, especially in agriculture, the SMEs, crafts and trade, though not excluding those with professional spouses.
I felt that no purpose would be served by lamenting the past and the all-too-obvious fact that the 1986 directive has sadly failed in its purpose.
The reality is that because of this exemption - which is too easy to obtain - out of 2000 craft enterprises where it is obvious that spouses are actively participating in the business, only 164 are affiliated under this rule.
That is why we have also proposed compulsory registration for assisting spouses, so that they cease to be invisible workers.
If that were not the case, I should see no better reason there - at any rate, no better than the reason we have been discussing this week - to censure a Commission that disregards the fate of tens of millions of citizens of our Union.
As the report says, the overwhelming majority of assisting spouses of the self-employed are women who work together with their husbands in agriculture, crafts and commerce, and in the liberal professions.
The 1986 Directive was intended to provide joint action to improve matters.
And on this point I should like to say that, standing as we do on the threshold of the 21st Century, we should not still be relying on old 19th Century family roles where marriage is regarded as an institution to provide for women, certainly not when we have divorce rates of over 30 %.
If the marriage ends in divorce, then under ยง 81 of the Marriage Act, the marital property and marital savings are divided up.
Since 1 July 1990, farmers' wives also receive benefit for a 'non-working period' of one and a half years following the birth of a child.
The fact that this report is being taken on a Friday of the Strasbourg part-session is already an indication of the lack of interest in this subject.
As of 1 January of this year they have stopped allowing independent workers to set part of their income in the name of their assisting spouse and is therefore killing off this tax incentive.
In practice very little has improved and a great deal more will have to be done to ensure that these women are covered by the social security to which they are entitled.
Mr President, I pay tribute to the very welcome initiative taken by the Committee on Women's Rights in producing this report in favour of providing decent social protection for assisting spouses.
After all, there are many more workers who are not counted in GDP or entitled to social security.
Mr President, I wish to congratulate the Committee on Women's Rights and the rapporteur in particular on taking the initiative to highlight the situation of the assisting spouse and to put forward proposals to create a statute at long last for a category of the population which is large in number but small in statistics.
Mr President, I have been following this matter since long before the 1986 directive and I have always wondered if the statute of the assisting spouse would be as empty and insignificant if this group were to consist mainly of men.
But 97 % of this group is made up of women.
As you know, that issue was addressed at Community level for the first time in 1986, with the adoption of Council Directive 86/613/EEC of 11 December 1986.
Thank you, Mr Papoutsis.
Thank you very much, Mrs Lulling.
The debate is closed.
Before the vote on Amendment No 4 Mr President, I should like to alert this House to the importance of this amendment because in the text of the report we referred to social security contributions based on personal income.
I think this is an important detail, but if honourable Members fail to agree with the second part, I shall call for a separate vote on the first, because it is never possible to collect contributions on the basis of personal income.
Members will also recall that last year's report on leghold traps by Carlos Pimenta, which called for their banning, was supported by a huge majority in this House.
On 9 December of last year, the Environment Council followed our lead and demanded full implementation by the Commission.
That was on 9 December.
On 18 December the Commission flatly rejected that demand.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 3254/91 on leghold traps provides two separate options for avoidance by third countries of the trade restrictions imposed by the European Union on fur imports, either by banning the use of leghold traps, or by the use of trapping methods that comply with internationally agreed standards for humane trapping.
Unfortunately, however, as you know, the international standards had not yet been established when the specific order came into force on 1 January 1996.
The European Parliament, at the first reading of the proposed amendment of Regulation 3254/91, also backed the negotiation of such an agreement, but at the same time it called for the immediate application of the restrictions stipulated in Regulation 3254/91 and for them to remain in force until the agreement in question had been concluded.
As you know, in December 1996 an agreement was initialled on international standards for humane trapping by the European Community, Canada and the Russian Federation.
For that reason, on 24 January 1997 the Commission submitted to the Council a proposal for a decision on the European Community's approval of the agreement.
At the same time, the Commission has set in motion the action necessary for the implementation of Regulation 3254/91, as it was asked to by the Environment Council of 9 December.
As for the list of third countries, the Commission's procedure mentioned in Article 5 of Regulation 3254/91 is still in force.
Finally, and again in accordance with the decisions of the Environment Council of 9 December, the Commission has made contact with the third countries involved.
And I would like to inform you that just a few days ago certain meetings took place, in New Orleans on 14 February and in Ottawa on 17 and 18 February, to convey the Environment Council's requirements to the interested countries.
Thank you very much, Mr Kellett-Bowman.
The so-called draft agreement on the leghold trap with Canada and Russia represents not so much a compromise but a suicide note.
For instance, Article 13 says: ' No party may impose trade-restrictive measures on fur and fur products originating from any other party' .
keep on with your cruelty and we will keep buying your furs - everything is fine!' More than 60 nations world-wide, including of course, the European Union, have banned the use of the leghold trap so there is no unfair domestic advantage to the European Union here.
Furthermore, Article 20 of GATT contains the perfectly adequate defence of an import ban under measures which are acceptable if they are necessary to protect public morals.
First of all, the 1991 Regulation is still in effect and it has not been revoked by any legal act approved by the European Parliament or by the Council.
Secondly, Sir Leon Brittan, the 1996 Regulation - which as has already been said here today was presented by the Commission - was rejected at first reading by the European Parliament which voted against the Commission's proposals.
The third lie, Commissioner, is when you said that the agreement reached with Canada was in keeping with the Council's terms of reference.
Yet the same Council, on 9 December last, specifically said in its decision that the agreement with Canada was not in compliance with the terms of reference which it had awarded.
That is the wrong starting point if there is a 1991 directive which says that animal welfare should take precedence over trade interests, and the Commissioner and the whole of the Commission is ignoring that.
I have received a motion for a resolution tabled under paragraph 5 of Rule 40 of the Rules of Procedure.
As a negative example, I would simply refer you to the case of Brent Spar, where incorrect information resulted in a great loss of credibility.
I know that there is major resistance, but then resistance exists in order to be overcome.
Mr President, I would first like to thank the honourable Members for their comments, regardless of the tone of voice they employed and the criticism they levelled.
The agreement with Canada and Russia clearly adopts the second approach and is for that reason not only compatible with Regulation 3254/91, but in practice supports it by providing for similar internationally agreed standards on humane trapping.
That regulation was adopted by the Commission and published in the Official Journal at the beginning of January 1997.
Mr President, first of all I want to say that I am not trying to protect anybody.
The European Union and almost sixty other countries have banned the use of the leghold trap.
It was noted just now that Sir Leon Brittan was not here for the important debate that we have just had.
So, I repeat, pursuant to Rule 131, I ask for a postponement until 10 March, as the first item on the agenda.
Mr Lannoye, you have the floor.
The 'specific date' is Monday 10 March, as the first item on the agenda for the March part-session.
Mr von Habsburg has the floor to speak against Mr Lannoye's proposal.
Thank you very much, Mr von Habsburg.
The Chair must be absolutely neutral when it comes to a vote, up to the point that, in general, it does not even cast its own vote.
Thank you very much, Mrs Pailler.
