I congratulate the newly elected Member from Scotland on his contribution to the debate on racism and xenophobia.
Madam President, I am referring to the Minutes, pages 11, 12 and 13.
Thank you, Mr Provan.
Madam President, I would like to speak regarding page 12 of the Minutes, where there is a record of the various speeches made on behalf of the groups before the vote on Article 23, that is, on the mechanism for discharge.
As I said to Mr Cot, yesterday we wrote to the President of the European Parliament to ask him to refer this problem to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
Of course, this was not a referral back to committee in the usual sense of Rule 129, but a referral back in accordance with Annex V, which was in fact a side-effect of the negative vote on the Elles report.
You will note that in Item 7 on the discharge, in the second paragraph after The following spoke during the vote: , the Minutes are quite explicit in describing various people's accusations of blackmail and, in one instance, in accusing my Group of blackmail.
If the word 'blackmail' is going to be used in the Minutes, my word 'hypocrisy' must also be used against those who accuse me.
Madam President, on page 12 of the Minutes, a small change should be made to my statement.
Thank you, Mr Martin.
Cot report (A4-0460/98) We object to the conclusions reached in this report regarding EU legislation and, in particular, the subsidiarity principle.
Tempus III The next item is the report (A4-0464/98) by Mr Evans, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, on the proposal for a Council Decision adopting the third phase of the trans-European cooperation scheme for higher education - Tempus III (2000-2006) (COM(98)0454 - C4-0554/98-98/0246(CNS)).
Madam President, on behalf of my Group I welcome this Commission report and hope that it is accepted today with my proposed amendments.
I am, to say the least, surprised that the Council seems either to be ignoring the role of Parliament or not to have been anticipating this debate.
I will, however, in the light of the paper that I got yesterday, withdraw Amendments 10, 11 and 12 as they are now covered.
The individual institutions that are recipients of Tempus grants, acknowledge freely the debt they pay to this programme and to the Union in general.
In a wider frame, education plays a crucial role in developing economies and regenerating industry and whole regions.
Many of the previous recipient countries are no longer eligible as they are now involved in Socrates or Leonardo.
I know and have seen how Tempus has helped other countries develop their educational systems and we must now ensure and do everything we can to make certain that Tempus helps these new and continuing recipients.
I also propose in my amendments that a special effort is made to involve more students from ethnic minority backgrounds, linking people from minority cultural, linguistic and ethnic backgrounds with similar people in other countries.
But the objectives too are different.
That is why I particularly emphasise the importance of this programme.
If nobody knows what we are doing, except one or two in a very vast area and a number of countries, the value of the programme will be lost.
We have not had too much experience of journeys to us as oppposed to our students going to Eastern European countries and that is an area where our education could be considerably improved.
Throughout the 1990s the Tempus programme has been a very important and effective tool for the growth and improvement of university education in the central and eastern European countries, and later the newly independent countries.
From the year 2000 the Tempus III programme now proposed by the Commission will aim to provide support under the PHARE and TACIS programmes for those partnership countries that cannot participate in the other Community programmes.
Firstly, as an old academic of 25 years' standing, I like to see lots of money going to my old friends to keep them in employment, just in case I have to rejoin them next year.
For all these reasons we should support this programme.
We do not want to penalise the universities just because the Council has behaved badly but we should certainly communicate our displeasure to them.
Madam President, the type of cooperation envisaged in Tempus will open up entirely new regions to the European Union.
The Commission must ensure, in the light of the criticism expressed in the evaluation report, that the new programme is implemented far more efficiently.
Precisely because the measures in the realm of tertiary education have a really vital role to play in the integration process, a huge responsibility falls on the Commission and all other players in this field.
The Jean Monnet programme has been successful in achieving some of these objectives within the European Union itself.
The Tempus programme, which concerns the central and eastern European countries, began in 1990 and has since continued uninterrupted.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Tempus is a product of the political will expressed by the Heads of State and Government during their meeting in Paris in November 1989, and later here in Strasbourg in December of the same year.
Thus, most of the associated countries in central and eastern Europe who are taking part in Tempus have progressed, since it started, to a new phase in their relations with the European Union countries, to full and integral participation in the Community programmes Socrates and Leonardo.
Yet, the Commission would like to abide by the text of its proposal, which it formulated in accordance with the proposal on comitology it approved on 24 June 1998.
Furthermore, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 13 on the definition of a degree of flexibility in the management of projects, nor can it accept Amendment No 15 on the addition of conditions whose indirect result would be to restrict both the flexibility called for and the exchange of information about all the initiatives.
The Commission understands the spirit of those amendments - which is quite evident - but we consider that the initial proposal of Amendment No 15 amplifies and clarifies the scope of the text.
Finally, as for Amendment No 18 on the introduction of a series of activities and structural measures, the Commission considers that it is inappropriate to include these additions.
The Commission will shortly submit to the Council an amended proposal on Tempus III, which besides incorporating Parliament's ten amendments that have been accepted, will take serious account of Parliament's other wishes, to an extent of course that enables us to submit our own proposal to the Council.
Thank you, Mr Papoutsis.
The debate is closed.
We shall now proceed to the vote. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should like to thank the rapporteur for his work in preparing this report.
Madam President, the question here is whether or not to include Hungary in our Community MEDIA II programme.
Hungary will participate in all actions forming part of MEDIA II in accordance with the conditions laid down by the programme and applicable in all Member States.
To that end, Hungary will have to establish a 'Media Desk' in cooperation with the Commission.
Nevertheless, we must be aware that the harmonisation of Hungarian legislation with European audiovisual texts and, in particular, the famous 'Television without Frontiers' directive, still poses a problem and will therefore have to be subject to strict coordination between the European Union and Hungary.
In fact, the development of Hungary's audiovisual sector is still fragile and somewhat paradoxical.
Moreover, the 1996 law needs to be amended to conform to European requirements.
In fact, in the spring, when Hungary was already engaged in the pre-accession process and had already expressed its desire to take part in the MEDIA II programme as a full partner, it took the decision to authorise the installation of the HBO broadcasting company, a subsidiary of the American company Time Warner, broadcasting to Poland by satellite.
Unfortunately, I think that there are still some misunderstandings.
This is why, while supporting the association of Hungary to the MEDIA II programme, I have tabled amendments - I am thinking here, in particular, of Amendments Nos 1 and 3 - that place some conditions on that association.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her work and the excellent report she has presented to us this morning.
It is important that it flows on from the previous Tempus report.
It is very important that everything in Hungary and the other countries is brought into line as soon as possible.
Participation of Hungary in a Community programme on media is very important because, as we all know, free media are crucial to a democracy.
Of all the emerging states in Eastern Europe, Hungary is the most advanced and most ready to participate in the MEDIA II programme, because its administrative and technical structures are at a more advanced level.
It is not in interests of building a stronger, more united Europe to suppress the culture, language or identity of applicant or Member States.
This is why I welcome very much, in particular, Amendment No 7 by the rapporteur, which states that Hungarian can be used as a language of communication.
But a successful Europe cannot be built if the language or cultural identity of any country is suppressed.
Of course Hungary's involvement in the MEDIA II programme is important but it will also help the implementation of the Television without Frontiers directive.
A point which our committee has made several times in this and other reports is that the audiovisual industry also plays a huge role in the cultural aspects of life and cultural development.
We all know that Hungary has been seeking membership of the European Union since 1989.
But the point is very strongly made by Hungarian Governments, Hungarian politicians and Hungarian people that Hungary has been part of Europe for ever and what it is seeking now is simply accession to the European Union.
The European Union must do all it can to encourage and promote Hungary's accession to the Union and participation in these programmes in advance of membership is a very important step forward.
The inclusion of Hungary in the MEDIA II programme is something that I certainly support.
I hope the MEDIA II programme will be able to assist in that.
Thank you very much, Mr Perry.
I also wish to take this opportunity to note that the question of resources is very important.
This shows the importance of underlining resources in meeting these programme needs.
The MEDIA II programme has got rather more resources than this.
The development process in Hungary - certainly in this particular domain - has been rather encouraging, especially since 1996, when the new legislation on the media was gradually set in motion.
There is still a great deal of talent in that country which could play a magnificent part in fostering the general development of European culture.
Literally millions of dollars are being invested in bids to seize control of the entire media structure in all these new democracies.
We surely do not want quotas, as has rightly been said here, but we certainly do want to strengthen our people in such a way that they can develop their talents and compete in the marketplace.
In 1997 the European Commission proposed that Hungary should be included in the MEDIA II programme, when we saw how closely the Hungarian regulatory framework for radio and television broadcasting was aligned with the directive on television without frontiers.
Nevertheless, since Hungary undertook to find solutions for those problems in the medium term and more specifically before 2000, the Commission decided not to withdraw the proposal for Hungary's participation in MEDIA II and the first important step in the right direction was achieved on 20 October, when Hungary adopted the European Convention on Cross-border Television.
Hungary's inclusion in the MEDIA II programme will provide an important incentive for Hungary's further alignment with Community laws in the audiovisual sector.
Indeed, as regards in particular the implementation of the MEDIA programme, the Community is co-financing the operation in Hungary of a media desk, in other words a special office whose mission is to help with translations into Hungarian.
In any event, I think the fact that the Commission accepts all the rapporteur's other amendments, confirms that the report presented by Mrs Leperre-Verrier is indeed an excellent one, on which I would like to congratulate her once again.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I am going to present the ideas of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Commission document, the second single market scoreboard, which relates to the progress made in building the single market and - more importantly -the obstacles and challenges that we have to face from now on.
We also need to attack the delay - and even obstruction - on the part of Member States in transposing Community legislation into national law, ignoring Commission views, and even disregarding decisions of the Court of Justice, so that 220 legislative texts, or 15 % of the total, remain to be transposed.
We believe that fiscal policy is a key issue at this point if immediate progress is to be made in completing the single market.
Deferring the implementation of a decision taken in 1991 is a real attack on the single market.
Mr President, this report deals with the implementation of EU directives in the Member States.
Clearly that is necessary for a single market.
I want to stress politically the importance of the free movement of workers and the protection of workers within the single market.
This is not stressed enough in this report.
Every six months stock is taken of the progress achieved in implementing legislation on the single market.
If all Member States have to agree, it may take rather longer before a decision comes.
This also goes for the Commission and the Council, despite paragraph 5 of the resolution which calls for as many objectives as possible to be met by 31 December 1998.
The indiscipline of Member States which do not fulfil their single market obligations must be tackled even more systematically after the introduction of the single currency.
Mr President, Parliament's report on the Commission's establishment of a single market scoreboard reveals a very disciplinary concept of European cooperation.
Only the Court of Justice, under Article 171 of the Treaty, has certain powers to apply penalties, and even those are, in our opinion, excessive, as they are not subject to appeal and cannot be suspended by a democratically and formally expressed national will.
The Council sternly rejected this, and rightly so.
This shift is the result of a double error, which is repeated in the report we are discussing today.
The Council would save itself and preserve its honour by putting an end to this once and for all at the next opportunity.
He highlights the fact that 15 % of the legislation adopted on the single market has not, as yet, been transposed in all the Member States.
I would urge them to read this report; to analyse in detail the Commission scoreboard, and when they clearly see that the single market is still a very long way from being completed, especially in the field of tax harmonisation, they might change their minds, especially in the wake of the decision at the Vienna Summit to carry out an impact study into the effects of abolition.
In conclusion, let me, along with other Members of this House, wish you, all members of Parliament staff, the Commissioner, all members of Commission staff, and all who serve this Parliament a very happy and peaceful Christmas and a prosperous New Year.
The six-monthly scoreboard has two purposes: first of all, to give a picture of the current state of the single market, and secondly, to assess the extent to which the Member States, the Council, Parliament and the Commission are fulfilling the stated objectives about which we are all in agreement, namely the action programme for the single market.
The most striking finding to emerge from the scoreboard concerns the incorporation deficit, in other words the proportion of directives that have not yet been implemented in one or more Member States.
According to the latest figures presented at the Internal Market Council on 7 December, today only 13 % of the directives are not in force throughout the Union, and that must be compared with the much higher proportion of 35 % we had only a year and a half ago, in June 1997.
The Member States must keep up the pace of the last few weeks in relation to the notification of directives implemented at national level.
In fact, the first phase of developing the system will begin in just a few days, next Monday, 21 December.
The single market scoreboard will continue being used to monitor progress towards all the objectives not yet achieved.
Ladies and gentlemen, the action programme for the single market is now in the last few days of its implementation.
The European Commission will draw up a discussion paper in February 1999 to review the situation and present its thoughts about overall strategy for the single market.
However, other discussions must take place in the coming months, so that a definitive proposal can be submitted in good time for approval by the European Council in Cologne at the conclusion of the German Presidency.
Thank you very much, Mr Papoutsis.
Allow me also, on behalf of this Parliament, to offer our best wishes, not only for the festive period but also for the coming year, and to say that we hope that we will continue to work together.
The debate is closed.
We shall now proceed to the vote. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, there is one more wish I should like to express on the single market, namely that we continue in future to fight fraud and crime with the same efficiency as we have done to date, and that we set a good example of security in our own European house.
Thank you, Mr President!
Mr President, I voted in favour of the report on the single market scoreboard, but I would nevertheless like to make a few clarifications.
I insisted on saying all that because I voted in favour of the report, but as the report contains passages that may imply that I am in favour of harmonisation, which I do not want, I had to make these clarifications.
Mr García-Margallo y Marfil's report, unfortunately, is still too heavily based on a technocratic damage-limitation mentality to serve as a means of grasping this key political opportunity; parts of the report even reveal vestiges of the illusions of free-market radicalism regarding the 'self-generation' of the single market.
Adjournment of the session Ladies and gentlemen, this is, in fact, the last sitting of the year and also the last day of this part-session.
It should therefore be said that, despite all the difficulties - as we think we know which way the wind is blowing - we have used this year well: we have worked from day to day, patiently, like good craftsmen, and I think that, overall, we can be pleased with ourselves.
Political continuity is embodied in Parliament, and this will be represented by those that remain in Parliament and those that will arrive.
Bones festes i feliç any nou , as they say in my small country.
